 All mobile phones will automatically identify most incoming phone calls. If you're on a land line (home phone), contact your phone provider to enable caller ID.


Consult your phone manual or contact the manufacturer if you don't know how to check the call log for recent incoming phone numbers on your mobile phone.
There are ways to bypass caller ID or even trick it into displaying the wrong number. If caller ID is unsuccessful, move on to the following options.
 Contact your phone provider and purchase "call return" or "last call return" service. This may require an initial fee and/or a fee each time you use the service.


The call return code varies depending on country and phone provider (and may not be available in all regions). Ask your provider for the code or search the internet for "call return code for ".
In the United States, this service is also called *69 (after the code used in that country).
After the call you want to trace has ended, enter the call return code and you should hear a voice message reading the telephone number of that caller, with the option to return the call.
In some regions, call return is available automatically. Fees may still apply.

Warning: in some regions (such as California), call return will only return the last incoming call without telling you the phone number.
 If you are receiving repeated harassment calls from an unknown number, contact your phone provider and ask if these services are available:


Call trap: After requesting a call trap, write down the dates and times you receive harassing phone calls for the next couple weeks (or for as long as your provider requests). Once you report this information to the phone company they will identify the harassing number and report it to law enforcement.







Call trace: Once this service is enabled, pressing the call trace code immediately following the harassing call will send the phone number to law enforcement. (This code is *57 in the United States; your provider should tell you which code to use if you are in a different country.)






Call traps are usually free, while call traces may cost an additional charge. If call trap is not available, or if the harassment is severe, you may be able to convince your phone provider to give you free call trace service.

