 The alphabet is the bare bones of reading. In order to understand books, stories, sentences, or even words, you must first understand the letters of the alphabet. Teaching your child the alphabet will help her learn to recognize letters and sound them out so that she can later build them together to make words.Use tactile learning tools. Buy a set of three-inch foam letters and/or blocks with letters of the alphabet to play with.
As your child plays, tell her what each letter sounds like. Then ask her to try and reproduce the sound.
You can gradually advance to having your child identify which letter makes a sound that you speak. "Quiz" her by showing her three letters and asking, for example, which one makes the "ah" sound.
In addition to recognizing the appearance of a written letter, teach your child the sound each letter makes.
Work on one letter at a time, or break it into small groups of letters. For example, one day you might work on A through D, the next day E through H, and so on.;
, Vowels are the next step to progress to after learning the basic alphabet. They're a little easier to learn than consonants since there are only A, E, I, O, U, and Y. One easy way to teach vowels is to print out vowel workbook pages from a phonics website, or purchase a similar book at your local bookstore. These workbook pages typically show pictures and words, and often help break down the parts of a word. Matching the word with its corresponding image might help your child better understand the meanings of words.


You can find free vowel workbook pages online at websites like http://www.schoolexpress.com/fws/cat.php?id=2483.
Show your child pictures and say the word each image depicts.
Ask your child which vowel makes the sound for that word.For example, when you show a picture of a cat and say "cat," ask your child to identify which vowel makes the "a" sound., Once your child has gotten the hang of vowels, you're ready to move on to consonants. Consonants can be trickier, in part because there are so many more of them. They also have more complex sounds when paired together, which can be difficult for a child to learn. Start with what's easiest and most frequently encountered, then work your way through the rest of the alphabet's consonants.Start with "m," "r," and "v," as these consonants only make one sound each and may be the easiest to learn first.
Move on to consonants with a high rate of frequency in most basic words: "n," "r," "s," and "t." These letters will be encountered very frequently, so it will be easy to show your child plenty of examples.
Move on to learning the consonants in your child's first name. She'll probably be familiar with how to pronounce her name already (depending on her age), and this can help teach her how to spell her own name as well.
From there, you can tackle the remaining consonants in alphabetical order. Be sure to review the letters you've already taught just to reinforce them from earlier.
 After your child has gotten the hang of vowels and consonants, it's time to put them all together. Forming words can be difficult, even if your child has mastered the component letters. Be patient and help your child along by moving slowly and teaching her each individual sound of a word.Point to a word or give your child an index card with a short, simple word written on it.
Ask her to sound the word out slowly, stressing the vowels and consonants in that word.
Once she's sounded the word out, ask her to say it fast. Then repeat the sounding out and fast spoken word process once or twice to reinforce it.
If your child struggles with a word, break it down into its components and ask her what word rhymes with each part of the problem word. For example, show her how "cat" is composed of a hard "kuh" sound, followed by "æ" (the "a" sound in "bat," "mat," etc.), followed by a hard "t."
Write out the rhymed word below each component of the problem word with the relevant parts underlined. Then ask her to put the sounds together to sound out the new (problem) word.
Start with short, simple words until your child gets the hang of it. As she progresses, you can advance to increasingly long or complex words and sounds.
 Now that your child is learning simple words, you may want to teach her some basic phonics rules as you proceed to more complex words. Your child may be confused why certain letters are silent, for example, or why letters paired together can produce new and unique sounds. Again, be patient, and help your child work through these new and complex words by teaching her the basics of word and sound relationships.The rules don't always work. While they work most of the time there are many exceptions, so it's important to be aware of the fact that a rule may not always apply.
Every syllable in every word needs at least one vowel. Otherwise, words would be unpronounceable.
Some vowels are silent, like the letter "e" in "lake" or "bike."
"C" makes a soft "s" sound when it's followed by "e," "i," or "y." For example, "city" and "center" are both pronounced with a soft "s."
"G" makes a soft "j" sound when it's followed by "e," "i," or "y." For example, "gem" and "gymnastics" both have a soft "j" instead of a hard "g."
Two consonants can be joined together to form a new sound together. For example, "ch," "sh," "th," "ph," and "wh" all have distinct sounds that are different from either component's sound.
 It's important that you push your child to continue learning without making things too difficult for her. Once she's ready to start reading short sentences, you should choose easy books that are engaging and fun for kids.


Find out what your child is interested in, then try looking for books that match that subject area. For example, if your child likes animals, you might look for story books about animals who work together and have educational adventures.
If your child doesn't have very many developed interests yet, you can look for general interest books for kids. Try rhyming books and simple stories about other kids, as these might be easier for your child to relate to.
Don't try to have your child read a book meant for kids in junior high school if she's still in elementary school. Pushing your child to read books that are too advanced will only frustrate and discourage her.
Dr. Seuss books make an excellent introduction to reading for both boys and girls. The stories are easy to follow and the word play makes it fun to rhyme and play with sound.Younger girls (ages three to five years old) might enjoy books like My Name is Not Isabella: Just How Big Can a Little Girl Dream? (by Jennifer Fosberry), Being Bella: Discovering How to be Proud of Your Best (by Cheryl Zuzo), The Princess Knight (by Cornelia Funke), and I Like Myself (by Karen Beaumont).
As she gets older (around elementary school age), your daughter might enjoy books like Sally Jean, Bicycle Queen (by Cari Best), Winners Never Quit (by Mia Hamm), and Not All Princesses Dress in Pink (by Jane Yolen and Heidi E. Y. Stemple).
Boys ages four to eight might enjoy books like Good Night, Good Knight (by Shelley Moore Thomas), Daniel's Mystery Egg (by Alma Flor Ada), and Arthur Writes a Story (by Marc Brown)., Reading out loud is important. Your child may have a hard time grasping the sounds a word makes, or understanding how words relate when strung together. By having your child read out loud, you can help her along the way as much as she needs.Reading out loud can help you correct your child if she makes a mistake or struggles with a word.
By having her read out loud, you can also make your child's reading practice a bonding experience. Ask her to read to you as though you don't know the story, and ask questions along the way.
You might ask questions like, "So where is she going?" or "How did that happen? Why do you think he did that?"

, This is a simple technique that can help your child as she scans the page from one word to the next. Running your finger under the words will help her string words together, and over time she'll be able to do it on her own.Moving your finger under the words while your child sounds them out can help your child visually see that the words connect to carry the story along.
If your child loses her place while sounding out a word, your finger on the page can also help her remember where she left off.
As she advances, you can encourage her to use her own finger along the page instead of having you do it.
 As your child reads out loud, she might get confused by a word in the sentence. Help her work through the word, but don't just pick up after that word. By having her go back and re-read the whole sentence with the new and troublesome word, you'll help reinforce the lesson she just learned and contextualize it within that sentence.Any time your child pauses in mid-sentence and is confused by a word, help her work through the word and then have her re-read the entire sentence.
Ask questions after she completes the sentence to "quiz" her on whether she understood the meanings of the words she just read.
If your child isn't understanding the meanings of words in a sentence, slow down and work back through that sentence until she understands each part. Then have her re-read the whole sentence again and explain in her own words what happened.
 As your child works through short, simple sentences, she may understand the sounds and the appearance of words without fully grasping the meanings of those words. It's important that you teach her the meanings of words so that she can process information quickly and efficiently. Otherwise your child might simply be memorizing familiar words without knowing how to use them or interpret them.Explain what words mean. Don't just do this during reading lessons, but in general conversations or while watching TV/movies as well.
Ask questions about the passages your child reads. Say things like, "What's happening now?" or "What happened when he did that?"
You can also ask questions about characters and places in the passages your child is reading.Talk about the things you and your child see and do everyday. Teach her new words based on things you encounter/experience, and continue to quiz her on the meanings of words she's already familiar with.
 Even if your child is reading simple words, sentences, and short books on her own, it's important that you still read to her when she's not working on her own books. You can read from more complex books that she is not yet capable of reading on her own to show her what the next stages of reading will bring.Reading to your child can help her cultivate an interest in reading and a desire to learn.
Show her how each word has its own sound, and each sound can be put together to make sentences, paragraphs, and whole books.
Start with short, simple books aimed at young children.
As your child develops an interest in reading, you may want to incorporate longer, more complex (but still age-appropriate) texts.
 Flash cards are an excellent learning tool. When your child is learning letters and words, flash cards can help her visualize what she's trying to sound out. You can even draw a picture of the object/animal/etc. that corresponds to the word on the card to help further cement the associations being learned between words and objects.Flash cards can help your child learn the association between a visual letter or word's representation and the corresponding sounds/meanings.
Flash cards let you quiz your child, focus on repetition, and start a pile of words she struggles with.
 Some parents may feel that it's helpful to scold a child who isn't grasping the words she's read. However, psychologists generally agree that support during at-home reading is more important than giving assignments or scolding negative performances. Work to correct any mistakes your child is making, but then celebrate her victory even more once she gets the words right.Praise your child whenever she completes a series of words, sentences, or pages.
Celebrate landmark accomplishments (like her first full paragraph, her first full page, etc.) with something fun and special. You might have an ice cream party with your child, or take a trip to the zoo to reward your child for her achievements.
Remember that it's okay to fail or to not always be the best. It's just as true of reading as it is for sports or athletics.
Reading should ultimately be a fun and exciting learning experience for your child. Don't be hard on your child if she makes mistakes; just help her learn from the experience and become a better reader through continued practice.
 One of the best ways you can encourage your child to become an active reader is by encouraging her to keep reading. Help her find things she's interested in and seek out books that relate to that topic.


Have your child sign up for a library card. It will open up more opportunities for reading and may get your child excited about learning.
Take your child to book stores. Browse the children's section with her and help her find something that she's really excited about, then buy it and read it with her.

