 Do not cause undue stress on yourself as you try for your child by blaming yourself or feeling guilty. Many of the factors that cause miscarriages are unpredictable and unavoidable. Know that these circumstances are not your fault.


Depending upon the criteria used, between ten and thirty percent of pregnancies are thought to end in miscarriage. Miscarrying does not automatically indicate that something is wrong biologically, or that you will never be able to carry a pregnancy to term., Recurrent miscarriages can cause stress and heartache that may bring about some stress-management techniques and lifestyle choices that are not optimal in the long run. Look for a supportive community, instead, to help you deal with the stress and pain in a more healthful way.Ask your doctor about local support groups for mothers dealing with miscarriages or struggling to conceive.
Look at online forums and message boards to get advice from and exchange stories with others going through similar hardships.
If you have the means, consider finding a therapist or a counselor that deals specifically with family planning.
 Some may find it difficult to talk with those closest to them about their miscarriage, but seeking support from friends and family ultimately lets you feel uplifted by those closest to you, and may even provide some information to help you down the road.


Let your friends know that you are going through a difficult time, and ask them to be sensitive to this matter. Try saying, "I'm dealing the emotional aftermath of a miscarriage and I really need your friendship and support right now."
Ask your friends if any of them have dealt with similar situations, and what, if anything, helped them overcome.
Let your family know, and use that as an opportunity to ask about whether any of your female relatives have a history of miscarriages, as well. This may point to something hereditary rather than an individual anomaly or a lifestyle issue.
 There is no evidence that stress levels cause miscarriages in and of themselves, but stress does impact hormone levels, which can contribute to your baby's overall health in utero.Remove stressful influences from your life. If a person tends to cause you undue stress, let them know that you cannot handle that at the moment. If your work causes you excess stress, tell your supervisor, "I fear that the stressful environment here may be impacting my health, and I would like to speak with you about creating a more stress-free environment."
Calm yourself during a stressful situation by taking ten minutes to deep breathe or perform a body scan. Start by relaxing the muscles in your toes, and work your way up one body part at a time until you reach the top of your head.Don't be afraid to walk away. When your main focus is getting yourself ready for your future child, there is no shame in saying that you can't do or take on more in that moment. Walk away from things that seem like too much at the moment.
 Women who experience recurrent miscarriages are at risk for depression and anxiety, two mental health issues that may impact your will to continue trying to build your family. If you notice symptoms of either, consult your doctor immediately to see if referral to a mental health professional is advisable.Symptoms of depression include a feeling of sadness, feeling empty or hopeless, angry outbursts, loss of interest in daily activity, change in appetite, feelings of guilt, trouble concentrating, and more.Symptoms of anxiety include feeling nervous or restless, a sense of impending doom, rapid breathing, increased heart rate, sweating, trembling, fatigue, trouble sleeping, uncontrollable worry, and more.