 Radio ads are recorded and produced into 15, 30, or 60 second segments. When settling on a the length for your ad, you must consider your budget, creative format, and the public's familiarity with your product or service. If you don't have any financial restrictions, you may find it helpful to write a variety 15, 30 and 60 second ads. As you write, read through your ad at a normal pace to make sure you fall within the intended time frame.


If your product or service is well known and/or you have a limited budget, a 15 second ad may suffice.
If your ad is in the form of a creative narrative, you may need 60 seconds tell your tale and sell the product or service.;
, When writing a 15 second radio ad, you only have enough time to share basic information about the product or service. If your target audience is already aware of the product or service, this is an ideal and effective ad length. In this short window of time, you must mention the name of the business/event/individual, the product or service, its cost, and contact information.


The word count of your short radio spot should be between 30 to 40 words., Copywriters do not have to strip down a 30 second ad to basic facts They may include more details in a 30 second ad than in a 15 second ad. This slightly extended time frame allows them to write in a more creative and compelling manner. You could write a dialogue, include testimonials, or even tell a short anecdote.


Your 30 second ad should contain no more than 80 words., The average radio ad lasts for 60 seconds. The one minute slot provides enough time for copywriters to make a complete sales pitch to the intended audience. The writer can grab the listener’s attention, highlight a problem, provide an answer, and guarantee the customer or client’s satisfaction.


A 60 second slot is the ideal length for promoting new products and services.
Your 60 second ad should not contain more than 160 words., This creative format centers around a sole strong voice. This single voice speaks to, not shouts at, the listener, sharing basic information about the service or product. The copy must match this simple format—it should be clear, direct, and focused. When executed properly, it should sound as though this single voice is talking directly to one person.


In addition to sharing basic facts, this straight announcer may pose open ended questions, such as “Do you ever…?” or “Would you like to…?”
This is a great creative format for 15 second ads., People love to listen in on other’s conversations, or dialogs. In this creative format, one character has a problem, which the other character solves by recommending the product or service. The product or service’s benefits are relayed through thoughtfully placed questions and carefully worded answers.


Problem: ”I have a date to the prom, but no suit!” Solution: “I rented my tux from _____. It was fast, easy, and inexpensive.”
Problem: “My child gets so bored in the summer!” Solution: “I heard about this great fine arts camp near our house. They have sessions all summer long.”, A vignette provides listeners a peek into another person’s life. This brief tale allows your listener to identify with the character. Once they see themselves in the add, the hope is that they will seek the same product or service as the individual highlighted in the vignette.Open your ad with a short vignette dramatizing an individual’s specific problem—the goal is to have your listeners identify with the individual in the vignette.

"Oh, no! I've burnt the cake for Harry's birthday to a crisp! What will I do? His surprise party is tonight!"


Once you have established the problem, cut away to an announcer. The announcer will contextualize the problem and offer a solution, i.e. the product or service being advertised. The announcer also provides all of the product or service details.

"Don't let a burnt cake spoil your next party. Surprise your guest of honor with a delicious cake from Manny's Bakery! At Manny's Bakery, we offer a variety of pre-decorated cakes baked fresh for every occasion."


Time permitting, return to the character from the vignette. Provide a glimpse at how the announcer’s solution solved their problem.

Wow, honey, this cake is delicious!"
"Don't thank me, Harry, thank Manny's Bakery!"


Conclude with a call to action from the announcer.

"Visit Manny's Bakery today!", Testimonials are reviews of the product or service given by real people. The power of the testimonial is not derived from clever copy but from the person actually providing the testimonial. Real people give the best possible endorsements—these testimonials are raw, honest, believable, and aspirational. There are several forms of testimonials:


Interview random people on the street about a well-established product or service. Ask these individuals why they like the product or service and how it has impacted their daily life.
Ask real people, celebrities, or experts to praise the product or service, while describing its use and benefits., The content of your copy should be inspired and informed by the research you conducted on the product or service. The intended audience will likely have questions that are similar to your research questions. Good copy anticipates these questions—answering them before the customer even has a chance to wonder.


Always write with your audience in mind. Scrutinize each word, phrase, and sentence of the copy to ensure that it will be well received by your target audience.
Provide your audience with a comprehensive understanding of the product or service.
Explicitly state how the product or service will benefit, improve, or fill the need of your customer or client., Radio ads are frequently tuned out by listeners and extremely short. To compensate for these circumstances, copywriters must capture their audience’s attention quickly and write short, precise, and clear copy that holds their listeners’ attention. Achieving this delicate balance is tricky, but possible.


Do not try to share every detail about the product or service in the copy.
Keep your message simple and the focus on the product or service—don’t let the copy get bogged down by an overworked creative format. The product or service should not be overshadowed by a vignette, dialog, or testimonial.
Revise your copy with an editing eye. Consider every word, phrase, and sentence carefully. Could you shorten a sentence from 15 words to 6 words? Is that joke relevant? Is there a better word?Remember that most people who are listening to radio advertisements are driving a car. When the music or show stops, they are apt to change the station. The copy must stop them from changing that station, or get through the other thoughts they have in their head while driving.
 In addition to presenting the product or service in comprehensive and articulate manner, radio ads must also call its listeners to action. In other words, you must explicitly tell the intended audience what it is you want them to do. Call to actions may include telling your listeners to:


Buy the product or try the service
Go to a sale at a specific store
Contact the manufacturer or business
Attend a concert or club
Watch a specific television show, Radio ads rely heavily on sound effects and music to help listeners visualize a scene. When incorporated into the copy correctly, sound effects and music can elevate and transform an ad. As you write the words of the radio ad, simultaneously envision the accompanying sound effects and music.


Sound effects and music should never be an afterthought.
You may also wish to include unusual voices in your ad.For instance, if you are selling a beverage, hearing the bottle open can be enticing. If you are selling season tickets to a baseball team, the crack of the bat and roar of the crowd can grab someone's attention. Rely on these other elements to enhance your ad.
 Before you can write effective, witty, and articulate copy, you need to learn the ins and outs of the service or product you are trying to sell. As you examine the product or service, try to answer to the following questions:


What is the product used for?
What does the service entail?
Who manufacturers the product?
Which company or individual provides the service?
What makes the product or service unique?
How much does the product or service cost?
Is the service or product only offered for a limited time?
How do interested customers contact the seller or service provider?
Where is the product sold?, The tone and content of your radio ad is completely dependent upon your target audience. An ad directed at children and parents will not sound the same as an ad targeting teens and young adults. You might promote a dance club much differently than you would a life insurance policy. When determining the target audience, use the following demographics:


Gender
Race
Ethnicity
Average age
Socio-economic status
Location
Education
Sexual orientation
Relationship status
Job, Advertisement is the art of convincing people that they need a specific product or service. To do this, the radio ad must provide an answer for the following questions:


How will this product or service benefit, improve, or fill the need of your target audience?
Will it solve a specific problem?
Will it provide them with entertainment?
Will it make them trendy and cool?
Will it save them time and/or money?
Will it provide them with information and valuable skills?
Will it help them to get ahead at work, home, or school?
Will it allow them to meet new people?