 Wear protective gloves if required. Have the client put on a gown and ask them to remove all jewelry.;
, Position a headband on the clients, to avoid getting hair on the face and in the product. Use a cotton ball to remove eye makeup. Perform downward and inward strokes around the eyes.
, Use a spatula and apply to the bottom of the hand. Apply cleansing cream over the neck and face by using both hands. Use the massage technique to rub into the skin. Do not remove your hands until you need more cream, or you have finished.
 Use a cotton pad with warm water or a warm steamed towel. Start from the neck and work your way up to the forehead. Always work upward strokes. Follow process until the crème in all gone.
 Use a piece of cotton or if you have spray. Start at the neck and go upward. If you are using spray, make sure not to spray upward into the client’s nose.
 Place eye pads on the clients eyes. Turn your magnifying lamp on and over the clients face. Observe the clients skin.
,, Apply the exfoliate to the skin using upward motion. Rub into skin using circle motion.Rub into skin for 5 minutes.Turn the steamer on and place over the client. Leave over the client for 5 – 7 minutes.
 Use a warm towel or a cotton pad to remove. Start from the neck and work your way up to the forehead. Always work upward strokes

, Use a piece of cotton or if you have spray. Start at the neck and go upward. If you are using spray, make sure not to spray upward into the client’s nose.
 Obtain massage oil or cream. Use a spatula to apply on the palm or your hand. Apply on the client’s neck and face. Start from the neck and work upward strokes. Perform massage movements.
 Use a steamed towel to remove all of the massage cream.
, Use a spatula and apply to the bottom of the hand. Use a fan brush and use long strokes to apply on the neck and face. Allow mask to set 5-10 minutes. Avoid the mask from dripping down.
 Use a steamed towel to remove the entire mask.Use upward motion.
 Use a piece of cotton or if you have spray. Start at the neck and go upward. If you are using spray, make sure not to spray upward into the client’s nose.
 Around the eye by tapping the formula around the eyes.
 Use upward strokes.

