 There are many possible lines of work you could pursue, some of which you might not even know about. Careers are generally broken down into groups, with each group consisting of many different individual jobs. You can learn potential jobs in a field by doing a keyword search for "careers in ," for career groups like:


Arts and entertainment
Business
Health and medicine
Media
Science and math
Social sciences/services
Sports
Technology
Trade work (like plumbing, electrical work, pipe fitting, etc.), A job fair is also an excellent chance for you to talk with people in different career fields. Ask questions without hesitation so you can get a better idea of what to expect from potential careers, like:


"What course of education or training would you recommend to someone interested in this kind of work?"
"What are the job responsibilities one could expect? Are there any special skills or work experience that will make me a more desirable candidate?"
"What kind of salary and benefits can I expect from working in this field? Are there growth opportunities down the line?", Many job shadowing opportunities are offered through schools and colleges. You might even ask the parent of a friend who works in a career you're interested in if you could shadow them.


Job shadowing allows you to see professionals in action. This will help you have a more complete idea of what might be expected of you in this role.
Job shadowing also gives you an opportunity to network with people in careers of interest. Be on your best behavior. Your job shadowing could lead you to a job, a recommendation, and so on., There may be professional groups online that you can join, like associations, guilds, and unions to name a few. These are great places to rub shoulders with people that share your primary interest.


If you're most suited to a relaxed, quiet atmosphere, you might not want to pursue a fast paced sales job. Networking with same career professionals will help you better determine atmosphere of potential careers.
Networking is another way you can start improving your prospects of getting a job in that career. People you network with may recommend you or inform you of potential openings.
 Most people equate "study" with "going to college." However, in many cases, you can save time and money by going to a technical school, getting a professional certification, or through an apprenticeship. You could also:Take less expensive classes in your area of interest at a community college. If you find the work worthwhile, you might take some university courses to work on your degree.
Do online research. You'll likely be able to find an overview of your primary interest online, or even a blog from a professional in that field.