;
, How you access this dialog depends on which version of Word you have. Word 2002 and 2003 use a menu and toolbar interface, while Word 2007 and later use a ribbon interface.


In Word 2002 and 2003, access the Printed Watermark dialog by selecting Background from the Format menu, then selecting Printed Watermark.
In Word 2007 and later, click the Page Layout tab. Look for the Page Background group, then click the Watermark option button. Select the Custom Watermark option at the bottom of the Watermark gallery.
 You can make a watermark out of either a picture (graphic) or text.


To make a text watermark, select the Text Watermark option. Type the watermark text in the Text box (or select one of the listed options), then select the text font, size and color from the options in the Font, Size and Color boxes. If you want an opaque watermark, uncheck the Semitransparent box; if not, leave it checked and your watermark text will be semitransparent. Choose either the Diagonal or Horizontal Layout option, according to which way you want the watermark text oriented.
To make a picture watermark, select the Picture Watermark option. Click Select Picture to open a window in which you can browse for the picture you want to use. Once you find the picture you want, select it and click Insert. Select one of the options in the Scale box to set the picture size; choose Auto to show the picture at its best size. If you want the picture to appear distinctly, uncheck the Washout box; if not, leave it checked and your watermark picture will appear faded.
 Your watermark now will now appear on your document.
 If the watermark is text, use the Word Art commands. If the watermark is a picture, use the commands for dealing with pictures.


In Word 2002 and 2003, the Word Art and Picture commands are options on the Format menu. In Word 2007, these options are found on the Insert menu ribbon, with Word Art in the Text group, and Picture in the Illustrations group.
 Although it doesn't appear there, the watermark is treated as part of the header. Therefore, if you want to have your watermark appear on only 1 or a few pages in a Word document, you have to insert section breaks in your document and give each section its own header and footer. After you click the top of the first page on which you do not want your watermark to appear, do the following:


In Word 2002 and 2003, select Break from the Insert menu. Choose Next Page as the type of section break and click OK. Click any page in the section you created, then select Header and Footer from the View menu. Select Link to Previous from the Header and Footer toolbar to break the link between the header in the new section and the header in the previous section. Click on the watermark and press the Delete key.
In Word 2007, select Breaks in the Page Setup group on the Page Layout menu ribbon, then select Next Page from the Section Breaks section of the dropdown menu. Click any page in the section you created, then click in the new header and select Link to Previous from the Navigation section of the Design menu ribbon to break the link. Click on the watermark and press the Delete key.
To create watermarks in a version of Word older than Word 2002, see http://support.microsoft.com/kb/211324


