 Chemicals in the detergent or fabric softener you use may be irritating your skin. Even if you haven't had any problems before, when your skin is warm and you're sweating, you may have an increased sensitivity.Switch to detergents and fabric softeners designed for sensitive skin, or that contain no dyes or perfumes. Typically you can find these wherever you normally shop for laundry supplies at the same price as the detergent and fabric softener you usually buy.
Wash your workout clothes in hot water to eliminate any residual irritants left over from previous washings.
If you try this and notice no difference in how much your legs itch, that doesn't necessary mean your old detergent or fabric softener wasn't to blame. The problem also could be a combination of several different causes.;
, Even the softest cotton can irritate your skin once it gets sweaty. Wearing synthetic fabrics that wick sweat away from your body may help stop your legs from itching when you run.You also may be wearing too much clothing. If you're too warm, your skin may respond by itching. When you dress to workout, keep in mind that your body will be several degrees warmer when your heart rate goes up.
If you're running outside and it's cold, wear light layers that you can easily remove after you've warmed up.
You also should be on the lookout for tags or seams. Something you don't even notice normally may be irritating your legs once the skin becomes warm and slightly inflamed from exertion. This is especially important if you're wearing running tights or more form-fitting long pants.
If you're wearing shorts and your bare skin is itching, you can mark this (as well as a potential reaction to detergent or fabric softener) off your list.
 Especially in winter, the air is drier, which makes your skin drier. Particularly if you shower more than once a day, your dry skin may become irritated once you start sweating.This is true regardless of whether you're wearing long pants or shorts when you run, although long pants or running tights may make the itching worse.
Use a moisturizing, non-greasy lotion after your shower. You may want to reapply it about a half hour before you go for your run, if several hours pass between your shower and your exercise session.
Look for an active moisturizer over a more cosmetic, scented body lotion. The latter will often run when you get sweaty, which can make your legs sticky and even itchier than before.
 If you usually shave your legs, you'll need to maintain the habit if you want to stop your legs from itching when you run. Particularly if you're wearing long pants or running tights, the fabric may be rubbing against stubble, irritating your skin.If you've never shaved your legs (or if your legs are itching when you're wearing shorts), this probably isn't the reason your legs are itching. However, running tights or form-fitting running pants can still rub against your leg hair and cause itching, even if you've never shaved before in your life.
Make sure you're adequately moisturizing your legs and using a specially formulated shave gel or lotion when you shave to protect against razor burn.
Once you shave, if that solves your problem, you have to keep with it. Even day-old stubble can cause the itching to start again.
 In many cases, runners report their legs itch if they stop running for months or even weeks and then start up again, or if they are just beginning a running regimen after living a relatively sedentary lifestyle.While medical and fitness experts aren't entirely sure why, your legs may itch when your body is unaccustomed to that level of physical activity. This may be because you have poor circulation in your legs.If you are also experiencing pain along with the itching in your legs, then see a doctor as soon as possible.
If you have recently started (or restarted) running, keep at it for a few weeks and see if the itching subsides. During that time, you can attempt to eliminate any other potential causes through trial and error.
After you've been running for about a month, look at the possibility of a medical condition if your legs are still itching when you run.
 If you normally run outside and your legs start itching, it's worth hitting a treadmill and trying to run inside to see if your legs still itch. This can eliminate the possibility that you're responding to something in the environment.If your legs don't itch when you run on a treadmill, the itching may be a result of an allergic reaction to pollen in the air or other environmental triggers. It also could be a result of the air temperature and humidity, or general air quality outside.
On the other hand, if your legs continue to itch even when you run on a treadmill in a climate-controlled environment, you have at least eliminated environmental causes as the sole reason for your itching. Keep in mind they still may play a part.
 Showering too frequently, for too long, or using very hot water may dry out your skin and cause itching.If you shower more than once per day, try cutting down to just one shower per day, such as after you get back from a run. Keep the water at a warm, but not hot temperature. This simple change may help to prevent dry skin and reduce itchiness during your runs.


If you swim frequently, then the exposure to chlorine may also be a cause of dry skin. Take a shower after swimming to rinse the chlorine off your body.

