 You don't want a man who's just okay, do you? No! You want Mr. Right! Start by making a list of good qualities that you want in a man, differences between you that you can work out, and deal breakers - the things you just can't live with. It's fine if he likes pizza and you don't, or if you think bowling is loads of excitement and he thinks it's a drag - these are activities you can share with other friends, but they aren't fundamental to the relationship. If you are religious and he's an all out atheist, it won't work. Love shouldn't be conditional, and it makes no sense changing who you are for someone else. Guys can be tricky and if you see particular qualities in them that don't add up with your original plan, dump him! It can only lead to heartbreak in the future. Allow yourself to turn back at the first signs of a shipwreck even if you like this guy a whole lot. It will be better for you in the long run if you can be strong enough very early on to realize that the differences you've already seen will mean the relationship is doomed.;
, He can say things like: "If you break up with me, you'll regret it, because no one can make you happier than me." or "If you won't have sex with me, then you don't love me as much as I love you." This person is officially a walking time bomb, and this is also a pretty good indication that he is immature and not ready for a relationship. Again, love should be unconditional. Your desire to spend a little time out with your girls one night of the month does not mean you don't love him enough. A guy who uses this phrase is someone you should run from immediately! Be your own person. "The oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow," said Khalil Gibran and, he was completely right. You have the right to remain the same person you always were, and if your man can't appreciate that, then he is not "Mr. Right." One.
 Likewise, beware of being strung along with no commitment. If you met a guy this weekend in a club, and within a month or so, you guys are "together," it is likely to end just as quickly as it began. On the other hand, if you've been "talking" and going out with a guy for 6 months and he hasn't even brought up getting together, it's probably not going to happen. A guy who can't pull it together to call you his girlfriend after 6 months will probably still not be ready for marriage after 6 years!

, If you're crazy about the man, but for some reason, your alarm bells tell you he isn't as crazy about you, trust your intuition. Be direct and ask him about his feelings. Tell him you are ready to settle down with him and ask if he feels the same way about you. If he can't or won't give you a straight answer, leave. Get out of the relationships and fast! It's a woman's instinct that allows her to tell when something is wrong. It doesn't make sense being in a relationship that isn't built on trust.
 If a guy speaks to you too much about his past relationships and you feel uncomfortable with it, let him know it's bothering you. If he continues to talk about his ex, especially if she dumped him, then break it off. It's obvious to you that he needs time to think about whether he is really ready to move on.
 Dating is the way we decide whether this person is right for us. Women tend to view sex as a very intimate act, while men aren't nearly as warm and fuzzy about it. No matter how gorgeous or perfect he seems to be in the first two to three months, you have to remind yourself that you really haven't had a chance to know him deeply. Wait until you really know this man before you share this very intimate part of yourself with him. If, after a month or two, it turns out that, gorgeous as he is, he's not Mr. Right, it will be much easier to let him go if you haven't been sleeping with him. If he pressures you before you are ready, dump him. You need a mature man who is willing to respect your wishes on this important subject.
 A man who really loves you will never disrespect you in front of others, especially early in the relationship. While gentle teasing is acceptable, ragging on your flat chest, calling attention to the fact that you've gained a few pounds, or making you the butt of his jokes should be a warning to you. A man in love will not only never disrespect you himself, but he won't stand for others saying rude things to you or about you. If you really want that knight in shining armor, don't accept a neanderthal who doesn't know how to treat a woman. This extends to his treatment of your friends> If he's calling your best friend an "ugly ho" or some other nonsense, that is disrespectful. Tell him so, and insist he behave in a respectful manner where you and your loved ones are concerned. The same goes for you - don't take advantage of him by making pointed comments about him, either. Verbal abuse is still abuse, and girls can do it to guys just as easily as guys can do it to girls.
 You can tell a lot about a man by the way he treats his her, and his whole family. If he's too attached, he's a mama's boy and you'll have to deal with his mom as long as you're together. If he's dismissive or rude to her, he's going to be that way with you. If he idolizes her, beware. You will find yourself trying to live up to that goal that was set by his mother, and that is not only stressful, but impossible. It's about finding the perfect medium, a guy who looks after his mother but doesn't worship or depend on her fully - and by fully, that means things like housing, rent money, food money, car and clothes.

