 A lottery system can be used for a variety of reasons; it has gained attention in recent years because of its use in school enrollments, for example. Whatever your reason is for using the lottery, be sure you know the groups to which participants will be assigned.


Treatment and control groups
Teams for a game
Programs for a learning experience
Groups for a project

, As each participant enrolls in your program or study, you will assign him/her a number. These numbers help to keep track of the participants and will be how you identify participants when you pull numbers from the lottery later.


Keep track of the numbers with something like numbered blocks, numbered balls, or simply pieces of paper with the numbers written on them in pen or marker.
Document each participant and his/her assigned number. You can do this by hand on a piece of paper with a list or table on it, or you can do it on the computer in a spreadsheet or word processing program. It would also be helpful to include a column to document to which group each participant has been assigned when the lottery is run later.
 This container will need to hold all of the numbers, however you decide to record those (e.g. numbered blocks, numbered balls, et cetera).


A machine blower, which is what is used in bingo games, could be an option. It is a cage that can hold numbered balls; when you turn it on, it blows the balls around to mix them up.
You could use a box or plastic container. As participants sign up and you assign them numbers, drop their numbered item into the box or container until the lottery. You will just have to mix them up before the lottery.
A bowl is another option. This could work for pieces of paper with the numbers written on them, as the bowl will keep them more confined and less likely to be lost.
 You are drawing the numbers in order to assign participants to some kind of group, so you need a system for doing that.


You can draw numbers by the group. For example, you will declare that you the first 10 numbers you draw will all be assigned to the control group, and the next 10 after that will be assigned to the treatment group.
You can assign by the drawing. In other words, if you have three groups, you might assign each number drawn to one of the three groups as you go and then start over again with the first group. For example, you draw #11, which you assign to Group 1; then you draw #2, which you assign to Group 2; next, you draw #17, which you assign to Group 3. Then, you start back over with Group 1 for the next number.
You could also assign by odds and evens. If you draw an even number, then it is assigned to one group, and if you draw an odd number, then it is assigned to the other group.
 After your period of participant sign-up has ended, be sure to run the lottery on the day that you announced. This will help keep the timeline on track.


If your lottery requires the audience to be in attendance, then set up in a space large enough for the participants to sit and view it, such as an auditorium or gymnasium.
Avoid bias in drawing the numbers by not looking into the container, whatever it may be, as you draw the numbers. You can close your eyes or look away as you reach into it to pull each number.
Document the group assignments as you draw each number. You can use the same document that includes each participant's name and assigned number from the beginning of the process.

