 Mix these ingredients together in a small bowl until you have a smooth, velvety batter with few lumps. You can use as much salt and pepper as you like, but if you're unsure, about 2 teaspoons of salt and 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper ought to do., Add the oil to a steep-sided pan. Use at least enough to cover the fries when they are submerged. This is called "deep frying."


As in the section above, you'll want to use an oil like canola or peanut oil that has a high smoke point here. Avoid olive oil.
You want the oil at about 375 degrees F (177 degrees C) when you start frying. If you have a cooking thermometer, use this. If you don't, heating at medium-high for about 5-10 minutes will usually be enough.
 As with the recipe above, it's best to remove the stems and tips of the beans before you start to cook them. Line the beans up on a cutting board and run a sharp knife down the row to trim off a half inch from either end.

If you want your final product to resemble french fries, don't shop the beans into small pieces. If you don't care, you can still do this.
 If you don't mind getting your fingers dirty, you can do this by hand — otherwise, drop the beans in and stir to coat. Remove the beans, let any excess better drip off, and transfer to a clean plate.
 At this point, the oil should be hot — you can test this by dropping some batter in and seeing if it sizzles. Use a slotted spoon or strainer to transfer the beans to the oil and submerge them. Let them fry, floating and sizzling in the oil. Stir minimally.


Fry the beans in batches, taking care not to crowd the pan or they may stick to each other.
 As soon as the beans have reached a pleasant golden-brown color and are crispy all over, they're ready to eat. Use a strainer or slotted spoon to carefully remove them from the hot oil. Let the excess oil drip off of each back of fries, then transfer them to a cooling rack over a paper towel.


If you don't have a cooling rack, you can simply pile the fries on a paper towel-lined plate, but this can eliminate the crunchy texture of the batter.
 When the beans are cool enough to eat, give them a light sprinkling with salt and pepper. Your fries are ready to eat!


If you want to "spice up" your recipe, this is a good time to dust the fries with your preferred dry seasonings. For example, you might try sprinkling a little Cajun seasoning or cayenne pepper over the fries to give them a little heat.

