 Not all states and situations recognize guardianship letters or temporary caregiver affidavits, requiring that even temporary custody issues be handled through the courts. Some states limit informal arrangements, such as those made by letter or power of attorney, to a six-month or less period of effectiveness. Read your state’s statutes regarding domestic relations and/or child custody to learn if a guardianship letter is effective for what you want to do., The guardian should be someone you know well and trust completely. The child(ren) and the guardian should also be familiar and comfortable with each other. Communicate your expectations to the guardian clearly.Be sure you talk with everyone involved to make sure everyone knows and accepts their rights and responsibilities.
Make a list of the child(ren)’s needs and get the guardian’s agreement to fulfill those needs (guardian’s duties).
Also, make a list of anything the guardian specifically may not do, if anything. Get the guardian’s agreement on this list, as well.
 The letter should follow the below guidelines from top to bottom:Put the permanent address of the parent(s) at the top of the letter.
Skip a line and put the date the letter will be signed.
Put the permanent address of the guardian two lines below the parent(s)’ address.
Two lines below the guardian’s address, enter the subject line. This is normally indented and will say something like: “Re: Guardianship of ”.
State the dates the guardianship will be effective and the things the guardian will be able to do. This should be the first paragraph and should be very specific. This paragraph should also include any particular things the guardian may not do. For instance, if you do not want the guardian to change the school the child(ren) are zoned for, be sure to list that.
State the purpose of the guardianship and contact information for the parent(s) during the term of the guardianship. This is the second paragraph of the guardianship letter. It should tell why the parent(s) are unable to care for the child and how the parent(s) can be contacted in case the child(ren) need something the guardianship letter does not provide. If the parent(s) are going on military deployment or for some other reason does not know an address of their destination, a method of contact should be included along with instructions on how and when the parent(s) will provide that contact information. This could be a family support office for a military unit or a US Embassy or Consulate in a foreign country.
State the names and contact information of any doctors or other professionals the child(ren) should continue seeing as appropriate. This is the third paragraph of the guardianship letter. It should include a list of any professional providers, such as doctors and dentists, along with their telephone numbers and addresses. This should also include any insurance information for the child(ren). These are the providers that the guardian should use, if possible. If the child(ren) have any appointments already scheduled with any of these providers for the duration of the guardianship arrangement, these should be included in this paragraph.
Skip five (5) lines after the body of the letter to give room for the parent(s) to sign. Type the legal name of the parent(s) at the bottom of that space. If both parent(s) will be signing the letter, their signature blocks can either be side by side or one can be above the other.
In many states, a guardianship letter is to be signed in front of a notary. Search the internet for a notary block acceptable for your state, and copy it below your signature block.
Two lines below the parent(s)’ notary type the following statement: I, , accept guardianship of in accordance with the terms in the letter above. Two lines below that, enter the date the guardian signs the acceptance. Then, skip five (5) lines to leave room for the guardian’s signature. On the sixth line, type the guardian’s legal name.
The guardian’s signature will also need to be notarized. Follow the same procedure as in as for the parents.
 The parent(s) and the guardian will need to sign the guardian letter in front of a notary public. Many banks provide notary service free for their customers. You can also find paid notaries in various businesses, such as some check cashing companies. Many courthouses also have a notary service available for a fee.
 Copies of the guardianship letter should be provided to all professionals involved with the child, such as schools and doctors. The parent(s) should retain a copy of the letter. The guardian should retain the original and have sufficient copies to present to any professional or organization that requires proof of the guardian’s authority to act on the child(ren)’s behalf.</ref> http://sacramentopress.com/2010/09/28/everyday-law-caregivers-authorization-affidavit-an-alternative-to-guardianship/</ref>

