 Radio advertisements are a good way to reach local masses. They generally prove to be more cost-effective on a local level than television advertisements, but they also reach more people than fliers and word-of-mouth forms of communication.Identify your target audience, then figure out which radio stations reach that audience most effectively. Contact those stations asking for advertising proposals.
Evaluate each proposal to determine which will work best considering the potential reach of the advertisement and the restraints of your budget.
Select the best stations and buy advertising space during multiple time slots.;
, Pay for an advertisement or send a press release to local newspapers. Many newspapers also have websites, so you can easily connect to large groups of people in both the real world and digital world.


Small community newspapers will have the lowest costs, but they will also have the smallest spread. Newspapers with a higher readership will reach the masses more effectively.
Consider your target demographic. For instance, many young adults do not subscribe to print newspapers, so you would be better off advertising with an online news website instead of a print publication.
Alternatively, you can write an actual press release and release it using websites like PRweb, PRblog, PRnewswire, and onlineprnews. Most of these websites have both free and premium packages, so choose one that works for your budget.
 Most students at colleges and universities are just beginning to define themselves, so they might be more interested in learning about new ideas and events than older, working adults who are set in their ways.


Find out if you can set up a booth on campus advertising your cause or promotion. Ask about possible opportunities to speak on campus. Post notices on campus bulletin boards.
If you are selling tickets to an event, talk directly with whoever is in charge of the educational department most closely related to your topic. Depending on the specific circumstances, you might be able to sell tickets in bulk if you offer an appropriate discount.
 When applicable, print coupons or deals on any promotional material you intend to hand out. People tend to gloss over plain fliers, but by directly offering some type of guaranteed deal, you can encourage those reading your flier to take another look.


Alternatively, you can create and print QR codes to include on promotional materials. Create the QR code using a free service like Kaywa QR Code Generator or GoQR, and make sure that it links to a related blog or webpage. Print the created code on all promotional materials you post and pass out., Before trying to reach a larger number of people, inform those already in your social and professional spheres by sending out an e-mail.


If you already have a contact list specifically set up for this subject, send the e-mail out to everyone on that list.
Even if you don't have a special contact list set aside, it might still be worth your time to send an e-mail out to anyone you know who might be interested.
Provide all relevant information in the e-mail. You should also include a note in the body of the e-mail encouraging your contacts to forward the e-mail to others who might be interested.
 Facebook is still one of the most popular social media websites. Plenty of people successfully use it to reach the masses, and plenty of others try to do so and fail. Knowing how to use Facebook effectively is crucial.If you haven't done so already, start an official fan page on Facebook and build your fan base. Update the page often and keep it active.
Target your posts your specific target audience based on age, gender, relationship status, and similar criteria.
Make your posts more interesting by using original images.
Post during different time slots to determine which reaches your target audience most effectively.
Cross-promote with other pages who share a similar target audience.
Consider buying actual ad space on Facebook.
 Your cause, event, or company should have its own Twitter account. At minimum, you should tweet frequent updates from this official account and aim to get as many followers as possible.


It's also a good idea to start an official Twitter hash tag. Create a term that is easy to remember and relevant to the topic, then tag all of your related posts with this hash tag. Print this tag on every other piece of promotional material, as well, so that more people will know to use it., Set up an official Pinterest account to promote your cause, event, or business. Post information related to your topic and try to get followers who share your interest in the topic at hand.


You can pin articles on related subjects, tutorials on related DIY projects, or advertisements for your newest events or products.
Encourage those who connect with you to send or post their own photos, then pin those photographs to a special board dedicated to your supporters.
 Network with popular blogs related to your subject matter. Get to know the person who runs the blog and ask to write a guest post about your chosen topic.


This might be even more beneficial if you have your own blog. You can link back to your blog in each guest post and offer guest space on your own blog to those you network with.
Stick with something educational. If you want to direct readers to your own blog or website for more information, include the plug toward the end of the post and keep it brief.
 Roughly one-quarter of Americans listen to podcasts, so converting the information you want to spread into digital audio can make a big impact.If you have an existing blog, you can simply convert your existing posts into podcast form.
Another option is to record a regular podcast show. Make each episode readily available for download or streaming audio.
 Consider writing a short, concise book on your cause or on a topic related to your business or event. Self-publish your eBook and make it available for free or cheap on as many major platforms as possible.


The material you publish must be relevant and the eBook itself should look professional.
Design an eye-catching cover to accompany your eBook, too. The right cover can be the factor that convinces a potential reader to find out what your eBook is all about.
Make your eBook available on your blog, if you have one. It should also be available for download to the Amazon Kindle and Barnes and Noble Nook.
 No matter what you hope to spread to the masses, you need to know as much about it as possible before you start telling others about it.This is true of any cause, event, business, or other activity.
When you're dealing with an external cause, gather all the facts and figures you'll need to persuade others to care about it as much as you do.
If you're spreading the word about a business or event you started, prepare to answer questions about why your work warrants attention.
 In many cases, there are already related communities and resources in existence. Find out if you can use these resources to spread your own specific message to the masses.


For example, join communities made up of other people who fight for your cause or work in a similar trade.
Even if you cannot use these resources to spread your message to the general masses, you might at least be able to spread the word to those within these related communities.
 People are more likely to pay attention when they'll get something from it. Similarly, people are also more likely to spread the word to others if they'll benefit from doing so.


Encourage people to act quickly by offering an incentive limited by time or quantity. For example, the cost of your product, service, or event tickets might be cut to 50% for anyone who purchases by the end of the week or for the first 25 customers.
Encourage your current contacts to help you reach more people by offer referral incentives. Tell your contacts that they have the opportunity to win a prize if they share your link on Facebook or Twitter. Alternatively, offer a 15% discount on an existing customer's next purchase for every successful referral.
 You might have more success reaching the masses if you focus your efforts during a period of time when the masses are most likely to listen.


Consider community events and activities. If your city hosts a popular event, consider advertising during that event.
Try pitching your business or cause during different holidays. For instance, people might be more interested in purchasing a novelty gift around a major gift-giving holiday than they would be during the rest of the year.

