 Whether it be your great sense of humor, your stylish fashion sense, your amazing drawings, the way you can write/tell a story... Whatever YOU are truly good at. Use this and flaunt it. So tell those jokes, write for the school paper, get that trendy new purse, and post Facebook pictures of that new drawing.;
, When you smile, you automatically attract people. Smile all the time, but know when to stop. Never smile so much that it looks fake.
 You don't have to buy Hollister or Abercrombie to dress nicely. Actually, it will make you look like a big wannabe. It's best to stay away from shirts with huge logos on them. People will only think you are trying to be cool, which you don't want. Instead, wear clean and well fitting clothes. Go to secondhand shops and pick out unique pieces like leather belts or pretty rings, but stay away from anything TOO out there. Dress clean, fresh and well put together until you make new friends. THEN you can experiment with crazy fashion.
 Aside from making sure your clothes are washed and not wrinkled, you need to make sure your hygiene is up to par too. Have a shower every 1-2 days depending on if your hair gets greasy or oily often. Scrub with soap or body wash everywhere, even behind your ears. Make sure you shampoo and condition your hair as well. Make sure you also wash and moisturize your face once in the morning and once at night every day with a cleanser that will not hurt sensitive skin. I would try Cetaphil. Cut your nails so they are not too long and make sure you get rid of all the gross dirt underneath them. Paint them a pretty pink or coral if you are a girl. Put on a body lotion that smells like the perfume or cologne that you are going to apply after so that it will smell nice like that all day. Girls should curl their eyelashes and apply mascara and a bit of lip balm and blush and cover up if you have zits, but NO MORE. You want to look pretty and presentable but still natural and pretty. No heavy black make-up. This will scare the popular kids off! However, do not wear any make-up unless you know how to. Ask your mom or an aunt or simply go to the make-up counter at a drugstore and ask them to show you how. They will be happy to help. :)

, Do not go up to people telling them how great you are at whatever. People will think you are arrogant and will not like being around you. Instead, just join clubs and submit pieces to newspapers or enter talent shows to discreetly show off your talent.
 Post flattering pictures of you and delete ugly ones, but do not make a big deal about it. Post a picture of your new painting. "Like" that funny comedian. Post a status update about your shopping trip to New York. But don't get obsessed. Only update once every 2 days, otherwise you will look super weird.
 People love to talk about themselves. Ask them their favorite hobbies, colors, music, sports, and stores. Practice on less popular people and then work your way up

, He or she is most likely not a queen bee or football captain but is one of the main popular people. Slowly befriend them and flatter them. Compliment them on their cool cell phone or pretty eyeshadow. If they ask about you, tell them about what your hobby is. If it is humor, LET IT SHINE. After you have known him/her for a while and they seem to like you, invite them to the movies or mall or even over to your house as long as it will not be boring. Keep up with this friendship, but do not seem like a stalker! If things get awkward, back out of it slowly. You should only ask to hang out with him/her after knowing them for a week and talking to them at least 5 times.
 One day ask your new friend to invite some of his friends to the pool or bowling or even a movie. They will surely bring them along. This is your time to show what a unique and great person you are. Make another new friend at this group outing by finding the next nicest person and joking around and complimenting them a few times. But don't cling to them. Just make sure that you've complimented them or joked with them once or twice. Make sure it's natural. Make friends with this new friend over time just like you did with the first friend. Eventually you will be accepted into this new popular group!

, Keep up with this new group by sitting with them at lunch, texting occasionally and inviting them over. Don't lose touch.
 When the popular kids have practices for sports, work on your talent at the same time they are practicing. It will give you something to do and your friends will love to see your progress.
 Come to their games occasionally but maybe ask if you can before just showing up. It might make them nervous. But if they say you can go, go! Watch the game and cheer for them. Don't get too excited or you may be kicked out or embarrass your friend. After the game ask if they want to go for ice cream to celebrate the big win. Compliment their great spike or shot or goal or touchdown or whatever. If they lost, say that the other team must have cheated in a joking way.
 Just a little. Smile at the opposite sex. For girls: Say things like "Oh Bobby, football has really done something good for you. Take a look at those biceps!". Giggle at their jokes. Gently touch them. For boys: Say that the girl has pretty hair or that the color of her shirt brings out her eyes. Laugh at their jokes. If the person you are gently flirting with looks uncomfortable or walks away, do not flirt with them again.

