 If you want to lose some weight at or after the age of 60, first speak with your doctor about whether or not it’s safe to continue your activities or add to them. There may be some circumstances where it may be unsafe for you to do certain activities.Exercise is generally good for you. Your doctor might suggest you not exercise if you have heart and lung problems or high blood pressure.Talk to your doctor about the types of exercise you want to do to make sure they’re safe. Your doctor may suggest meeting with a fitness professional to help you find the best and safest exercises for you.
Loneliness and depression can have an affect on your appetite and diet. If you are suffering from symptoms of either, speak to your doctor about how best to treat both conditions and lose weight.Certain medications may alter your sense of taste, making you more likely to consume more sugar or salt, which can make you gain weight.Talk to your doctor if you suspect your medication is causing you to gain weight.
 Even if you don’t have special dietary needs, you will need to adjust your diet to lose weight and stay healthy because of slowed digestion and metabolism that comes with age.Consult a registered dietician to discuss your specific dietary needs and how you can best get all of the vitamins and nutrients necessary to maintain your health and fitness.Your metabolism slows every year after the age of 40.Because of this, you may gain weight if you continue to eat the same amount.Your digestion also slows down as you age and may make it difficult for you to process vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients such as folic acid.If you are retired, you may find it difficult to eat healthy on a decreased budget. A dietician can help you make sensible and healthy choices on the cheap.Your doctor or local hospital can suggest a registered dietician to help you meet your dietary needs and fitness goals., If you are exercise regularly and want to continue this activity to lose weight, consult a certified fitness professional once you have your doctor’s stamp of approval. She may be able to help you tailor an exercise regimen to help you drop excess pounds.


Falls are a common reason for injury after 60.Working out will make your bones and muscles stronger, and help protect you from falls and from muscle tears or bone breaks.Even moderate exercise can help you prevent and control chronic health issues that are prevalent in aging persons, including diabetes.Studies have shown that exercise can also help maintain or improve brain function, which decreased as we age.A certified fitness professional can help you get fit and lose weight even if you haven’t been working out. Getting or increasing fitness as you age can help you stay healthy and ward off aging and age-related diseases such as osteoporosis or diabetes.A certified fitness professional may tell you it’s safe to continue whatever exercises you do as long as you feel well and comfortable and have the ok from your doctor.