 Breaking up with someone by sending an email, text, or even a voicemail is all the rage, but it will not satisfy him, it is ineffective, and it is inconsiderate. If he is a great guy, he deserves an explanation.Talking to him face-to-face will allow you to clearly explain your reasons for breaking up. Doing so will benefit you and him.People can experience long-lasting negative psychological effects if they don’t receive enough information about why a significant other left them. Nonverbal signals like touching him or smiling can let him know that you value him as a person, which would not come across electronically., This can not be an afterthought. Environment affects mood, ability to focus, and how we interpret what is said. Find a place where you both feel comfortable.


A lakefront park, for instance, might be a good idea since the waves can provide a calming distraction.
Going to a cozy café might be a poor choice since strangers will sit within earshot and the romantic vibe might make you both uncomfortable.
 During the actual interaction, keep the importance of the situation in mind. This person is someone that you value, and you have something that you need to say, so convey the message clearly and fully.


Don’t allow your mind to wander. Thinking about getting the conversation over with will just distract you and disrupt the flow of the conversation.
Don’t pull out your phone. Keep it in your pocket or purse and make sure that it's silent. Checking Instagram or your email can wait.
 Your nice guy doesn’t deserve false explanations. Take the high road. If he simply isn’t the one for you, tell him that, but be tactful.Don’t be like Chandler from the show Friends who told Janice that he was moving to a foreign country. It would certainly be awkward running into him later on!
Using the cliche that you’re just not in the right place for a relationship will come off as insincere, so avoid that one, too.
 Couples usually aren’t in alignment when it comes to whose fault it is that a certain argument got started. Rehashing previous disagreements or negative experiences won’t do you any good.At this point, it doesn't matter if he never wanted to go hiking or that he didn't like seeing concerts.
It also doesn't matter if you were sometimes short with him or ignored him. Don't let the conversation take an unproductive turn.
 Let him know that you enjoyed the time that you spent with him overall. Highlight some things about him that you might miss. You can even express regret about ending things, but only if doing so is sincere.Did you appreciate that he always responded to your texts or calls in a timely manner and that he sent you cute cat pictures because you like them? If so, tell him!
Was he good in bed? Definitely emphasize it to keep his ego intact!

