 Know what you will do with the animal when it is caught. It is safe to transport and hold an animal inside the covered Havahart trap for a few hours, as long as you continue to feed and water it. However, you should be prepared to transport the animal immediately to a vet or wildlife center upon trapping, or release the animal in a new area where food it eats and water are readily available (see Warnings about feral cats). Contact your local animal control agency beforehand if you're unsure of what to do after trapping. Ask them what will become of the animal after you trap it. (Generally, wild animals such as squirrels or raccoons can be relocated to a wildlife management area, but feral cats are often euthanized.) Make as many phone calls as you need so that you will have a plan for where to take the animal once it is caught. Also, never make plans to trap a mother animal, which will only guarantee a miserable and agonizing death for the babies.;
, Many traps exist on the market that treat animals with varying degrees of kindness. Experts generally agree that Havahart models are the most successful at catching animals and are regarded as the most humane traps available. They are well crafted, strong, and feature blunt trapping arms so they do not harm the creature. They are also regarded as inexpensive and low maintenance.
 You probably have a spot in mind as to where you would like to place your trap--where you have seen the animals. Consider the following when placing your trap:


Human traffic. Place the trap away from human traffic. Animals usually have certain areas in which they travel regularly, and they generally stay away from humans and locations they have recently been.

Pets. Place the trap away from pets. Keep your own pets inside and tell your neighbors to keep theirs inside over the time you have the trap set out. A family cat or dog is an animal too, and they probably will be attracted to a baited trap. This trap could be set off, perhaps capturing or injuring pets instead of the intended target. It's also possible that trapped animals could be injured or tortured by family cats or dogs.
Houses. It is not a good idea to place the trap underneath a house or deck. You may forget about the trap, or it may be hard to retrieve a trap with an animal inside of it from underneath a house.
Water. Often, animals stay close to water sources like springs, streams, rivers, and lakes. If you are having a hard time catching any animals, try locating a spot close to a water source. Watch for footprints in soft soil, and place traps along these routes in shaded, dark areas.
Animal hot spots. Place a trap where you have seen animals congregate. If many squirrels regularly congregate in your backyard, then that is a good place to locate the trap.
 Peanut butter is a good choice for an unknown mammal. Try some of these bait suggestions if you are trying to trap one of these common pests:Squirrels - Cereal, grains, nuts (especially peanuts), sunflower seeds, shelled corn, apples, mixed peanut butter and oatmeal, popcorn
Skunks - Canned fish (sardines), crisp bacon, cat food, bread crust coated with peanut butter
Raccoons - Fresh or canned fish, honey or sugar covered vegetables, watermelon, sweet corn, cooked fatty meat, crisp bacon, Marshmallows


, Cock the arming bar and fill the collection plate with a tablespoon of bait. Follow the instructions that came with your purchase. Keep in mind that the trap needs to be placed on fairly level ground for it to arm properly.
 This covering will calm the trapped animal by providing a sense of protection from predators and thus prevent crying out and struggling, actions which could attract predators or cause it injury.
 It is unwise and inhumane to leave the animal trapped without attention for more than a short period of time. Do not leave the vicinity of the trap until the animal is caught - it may be the wrong animal or it may struggle despite the cover and hurt itself.
