 Human beings come in all shapes and sizes. All of them are equally beautiful. The fact that only certain body types are featured on billboards and magazines is because the magazine editors can make more money that way. The reason clothing designers want skinny models is because they don't have to spend as much money on the cloth to make a new dress. It's all about money. Don't sell yourself short on account of greedy people.;
, Women develop curves in puberty. Only a certain amount of body fat enables your body to produce sex hormones while you grow into a woman. These hormones make you fertile. Overly skinny girls and women either never begin having their period (and that means they are unable to have children) or their period stops if they under-nourish their body. This is very dangerous and very sad, because the physical damage, once done, is permanent.
 Heterosexual men are attracted to women because of their curvy bodies. Curves equal estrogen, which is the female sex hormone. Subconsciously, men are drawn to women who are their ideal partners to reproduce, even if they don't consciously want to have children with that woman.
 Look at yourself in the mirror without clothes. Don't look at yourself like you are your own worst enemy. Pretend that you are standing next to yourself as your best friend. Find the aspects of your body that you like. Flaunt them by wearing clothes and accessories that draw attention to the body parts you are proud of.
 A lot more people are attracted to nice round butts than you would believe. You might think it's too big or sticks out too far, while the people behind you on the stairs or on the street might think you're so hot! Some girls with more boyish figures are envying YOU, you shouldn't envy them.
 Love yourself and treat your body well.

Eat healthily, this will make feel better on the inside and outside!






Exercise. Every little bit helps. Walk more, do star jumps before you go bed and when you wake up, or even go on the Wii! You don't need the gym if you don't have a lot of money. Loads of things are for free! Lift weights for 30 minutes a week. You can lift anything, two big soup cans, a gallon of milk, anything. There are many good exercises on the Internet. A very good beginner's workout is Dr. Oz's 20-minute workout. Google it. The exercises can be done by anyone. The more often you do it, the easier it becomes.
 Give yourself a day where you can do the little things to make you feel stunning, like doing your eyebrows, painting your nails and shopping for that nice body of yours! Use lotion to develop a better relationship to your body. Touch your skin while you apply the lotion and nurture yourself. You deserve to feel good.

