 Don't just give your boyfriend a six pack of his favorite beer and take him out to Pizza Hut. Put in an effort to figuring out what he really likes and cares about, and what gift would actually mean something to him, and what would surprise him and make him see that you've put an effort into the gift. When it comes to gifts, one size does not fit all, so try to get your boyfriend something personalized, special, and something he wouldn't think to get on his own. Remember that the best gifts are often given "just because," not for a birthday or another special occasion. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Does he love hiking or camping? Get him the latest camping or hiking gear, something he's been wanting for a while.
Does he love fine ales or wines? Get him a subscription to a beer or wine of the month club.
Is he a video game junkie? Get him a new game that's all the rage, or update his gaming equipment.
Is he a concert fanatic? Find out when his favorite band is coming to town before he does and get him some tickets.
 Not every not-in-person communication has to come through a computer or a phone. If you're going to be apart for a day or two, or even for a few hours, write him a sweet note telling him how much he means to you or how much you'll miss him while you're apart. Just telling him to have a nice day and to let him know that you're thinking of him can make all the difference.


You can write your note on a post-it and put it on his mirror, put the note it in his lunch bag, school bag, or work bag, or leave the note on his windshield. Part of the romance will come from the surprise.
 Though you and your boyfriend can probably have fun no matter where you go, you should make an effort to plan some dates that are special and feel really romantic. This depends on what you and your boyfriend like and the kinds of things that make you happy together. If you suggest a date that would be perfect for your boyfriend, then he'll be impressed by how much thought and effort you're putting into the relationship. Here are some ideas:


Does your boyfriend love baseball? Take a trip to the batting cages together.
Is it snowing just a little bit? You're never too old to go ice skating.
If you both want to hang out but don't feel like going anywhere, cook your favorite meal together.
Spend a day out on the beach or near a lake. Being near or in a body of water will make you feel more romantic.
Think of the thing your boyfriend has always talked about doing. Make it happen.
 You may not think that doing your boyfriend's laundry on the week when he has a big exam coming up is very romantic, but he'll appreciate the gesture. Romance isn't all about the grand gestures, but about the little things that show your boyfriend that you really care about him and want to make him happy. Ideally, of course, you should both be doing each other favors; you should not turn in to his errand girl to win him over.


If he's having a really busy day, make him lunch or pick it up for him.
Step out in the morning to bring him back some coffee and muffins if you know he doesn't have anything to eat for breakfast.
If you're going to the store anyway, pick him up the few items he needs so you can save him the trip.
If he tends to be forgetful and has a big deadline coming up, remind him when it is to show him that you're paying attention.
 This doesn't mean you have to tag along with him and his buddies to watch Monday night football. But it does mean that you should make an effort to see why he cares about football or whatever other interests mean nothing to you. See what's behind his love for soccer, fishing, historical non-fiction, comics, or whatever else makes him tick.


Ask him questions about these things, and see if you can come along as he explores his interests if they intrigue you. Now that's romantic.

