 Some of the fees most commonly incurred by credit card users are late payment fees. Avoid fees by always making payments before the day they are due. Technically, payments are due at the end of the business day on the bill’s due date.You can likely make payments online. Contact your credit company for the specifics on how to do so.
If you choose to mail in your payments, send in your check a few days before the payment is due to ensure it gets to the credit card company on time.
Aside from late payment penalties, the interest rate you will be charged on the money you borrowed will be higher if your payment is late.
Set a delivery date earlier than the due date for checks sent by your financial institution to avoid late charges resulting from delayed processing by the credit card company.
 Exceeding your credit limit will also lead to an increase in your interest rate. It is important to recognize that the amount you already owe the credit company counts against your credit limit. If, for instance, your credit limit is $10,000, but you already owe $5,000. This means that your “available balance” is $5,000, and you will exceed your credit limit if you charge more than $5,000 more to the card., You statement will include a minimum payment amount. Paying this amount would allow you to pay off your current account balance, plus interest, in three years. This amount assumes that no more charges others than interest are added to the account balance. However, the longer a balance is outstanding, the more you will pay in interest on the money you borrowed. Accordingly, pay more than the minimum amount whenever you are able.Paying $10 more than your minimum payment each month can save you thousands of dollars and shorten the amount of time it takes to pay of your loan by several years.Aim to pay twice the monthly minimum payment each month. This will drastically diminish the amount you pay in total interest.
 Some people are tempted to borrow money on credit and make investments with it. Almost always, however, the interest you’re paying on your credit card balance will negate any potential gains. This is partly because you’re likely paying a relatively high interest on your credit card debt. Investing money instead of using it to pay off your credit card balance is considered to be an almost guaranteed loss of money overall.For example, you might be paying 18 percent on credit card balances, but earning 2 percent on a savings account. This means your credit card balance would drastically offset any gains you make by placing money in savings.
Similarly, don’t try to grow a saving account when you have outstanding credit card balance. Pay off your credit card debt and then start building your savings!
If it helps, think of paying off your debt as an guaranteed investment! Since you’re being charged interest, you can immediately eliminate an increase in the amount of money you owe by paying it off now!

, You know better than paying your minimum balance every month. Even just a bit more than you minimum will help immensely. Of course, it’s best to minimize the amount you borrow and plan ahead to avoid incurring debt altogether.Lots of people maintain financially responsible credit card accounts. The most important thing to remember is that you can minimize the cost of borrowing money by paying it back as quickly as possible.

