 It may take longer for you or your partner to become aroused now than when you were younger, so take more time to set the stage for romance. Let foreplay last all evening by having a romantic dinner or an evening of dancing. Hold hands in public, sit next to each other at a restaurant, and try to be physically contacting each other as much as possible.Kiss often and in different ways, as kissing helps you bond with your partner., You will increase your energy and sex drive just by increasing your level of activity and staying as healthy as you can.Eat a healthy diet, don't drink too much alcohol, and don't smoke or use illegal drugs.You can even make daily exercise a part of your romantic routine. Hold hands and go for a walk every evening, swim together, or ride bikes. Exercise time can also be quality time together.
Cooking healthy meals together can also be romantic and a way to show someone you care about them. Couples can plan a weekly menu together and visit the local market to buy fresh ingredients, or you can wow a new date by preparing a nutritious and tasty meal for him or her. Make healthy eating fun!

, Your doctor can help you manage chronic conditions and medications that affect your sex life.Medications such as blood pressure pills, antihistamines, antidepressants and acid-blocking drugs can affect sexual function.Illnesses that involve the cardiovascular system, high blood pressure, diabetes, hormonal problems, depression, or anxiety can affect sex drive and function. Talk to your doctor about ways to work with these problems safely.


For example, you can tell your doctor, "I'm having a hard time keeping an erection since I started taking that new blood pressure pill, is there anything I can do about that?" They may be able to change your medication, or suggest other ways of coping with its side effects.
 Many older adults who have suffered a heart attack are nervous about engaging in sex. However, it’s still possible to enjoy sex safely, and studies show that the risk of dying during sex is very low. Check with your doctor beforehand, but once your condition is controlled you should be safe to resume sexual activity.Complete a cardiac rehabilitation program to improve your fitness.
If you can work out enough to break a sweat without having chest pain, sex is probably safe.
Abstain from sex if you have heart failure, severe valve disease, unstable angina, or an uncontrolled arrhythmia until you speak with your cardiologist., Postmenopausal women have lower levels of the hormone estrogen, which in turn decreases vaginal lubrication and elasticity (stretchiness). This can make arousal more challenging and the friction of sex uncomfortable. Often dryness can be conquered with a water-based lubricant. If needed, your doctor can prescribe estrogen creams or hormone replacement. Men may experience impotence or have more difficulty getting and keeping erections. If non-medical methods fail, there are numerous products like Viagra that can assist.Impotence is more common in men who have a history of heart disease, high blood pressure, or diabetes, which affect circulation.Some studies suggest that the supplement ginkgo biloba can improve impotence because it increases circulation, but others show no such effect. Check with your doctor before taking any herbal supplements.