 Find out what information needs to be in your child’s IEP. Many states also have separate, more comprehensive requirements that will also need to be followed. Check to see if you can get a sample IEP from your child’s school or from a state education website. This may help you as you work on getting an IEP for your child. The requirements for a standard IEP are:Your child’s present academic achievement level;
Yearly goals for your child and how to measure them and a time schedule for these goals;
Any modifications or accommodations that your child will need at school;
An explanation of the implementation of any special education courses;
Any modifications your child will need taking a state or district-wide test
The date, frequency, and location of all services to be provided;
When and how you will be notified of your child’s progress;
Postsecondary and transition goals if your child is age 16;
, The school is required to meet with you within thirty days of your child being found eligible for special needs education services. Your child may need to undergo testing, assessment, or get a diagnosis depending on the school’s requirements. After you get the results, you will need to contact the school to report your child’s eligibility and set up a meeting. You can invite in experts who are familiar with your child’s history, as well. Remember that an IEP is not just a document, it is a meeting as well. The document cannot be created without first having a meeting with any and all pertinent staff and yourself.The IEP process can be quite long, with some taking full days to complete. If at all possible, clear your schedule for the day so that you do not have to worry about work or meetings.
The school is required to set up a time that works for your schedule; if you cannot attend in person, you can call or video in.
The creation of the IEP is the longest part of the process. Revising it each year typically goes more quickly.
 By law, certain professionals are required to attend your child’s IEP meeting. You might want to meet with some of these people beforehand to assess how your child is doing and to get on the same page before you start. The list of IEP participants include:Special Education Teacher
General Education Teacher
You and any other parent or guardian
Your Child
The Administrator

, Research the IDEA more thoroughly, particularly as it relates to your state, before your meeting. You may also want to bring this document with you so that you can refer to it during the meeting. Know that by law, the school has certain provisions they must abide by as it relates to your and your child. They must schedule the meeting to accommodate you, inform you of your rights, and provide an interpreter if needed., Gather all past records of your child, academic or medical, so you can review their history before your meeting. You may even consider distributing copies of this information to all people who will be in attendance at the meeting, if you feel comfortable doing so. You may also want to consider whether or not you believe this information shows the full picture of your child’s history as it relates to their visual impairment and academics in particular.You may find that you are missing some information. This will give you some time to gather it before the IEP meeting.
Gather records from doctors, teachers, therapists, or tutors. Consider other more informal information you may have gathered as well from family or friends.
 Before the meeting, be sure to come with a list of items that you would like to discuss with the IEP team. This will help ensure that nothing is forgotten during the meeting. As the parent, you have the most personal and longstanding knowledge of your child and you know their needs perhaps better than anyone. Be mindful of that and come prepared.For instance, you might make a note to not forget to discuss providing large print or Braille text for your child.
 Your child’s teacher will be spending a considerable amount of time with your child. Help them to make this relationship as positive as possible by sharing with them any need to know info about your child. This list could include allergies, issues your child may be having with other students, or just general information about their personality., During the meeting, you will be asked to discuss a few topics, one of those being your child’s strengths. Think carefully and thoughtfully about those beforehand so that you can use them to your child’s advantage. Discussing strengths helps the IEP process’ focus be more positive and can also be a confidence booster if your child is in the room., Think very carefully about what accommodations your child might benefit from most in school. Keep in mind that accommodations are different from modifications, which might include changes to the curriculum based on your child’s strengths and limitations. Be prepared to discuss your child's needs in the meeting and to back it up with your reasoning. Some accommodations might include:Large print or braille
Adjustment of lighting
Magnifying glasses
Having a test or assignment verbally read to them
Being allowed to provide answers orally
Being provided with an assistant to help guide them to classes
Additional time on tests or assignments

, Though you have a very comprehensive picture of your child and their medical and academic history, it can be helpful to also work with others so that you can create the best questions to ask and modifications to discuss in the IEP meeting. Talk to people who know your child or who have gone through the IEP process before. Your spouse or the child’s other parent can be of great assistance during this time., Whether or not your child participates in the meeting will depend on a number of factors, such as their age, emotional stability, anxiety level, and how this meeting might affect your child’s self-esteem. If your child will be attending this IEP meeting, go over with them the information that will be discussed. Find out if they have any requests that they would like to make during the meeting and empower them to make those requests. Though you can definitely speak for your child if they don’t feel comfortable, you do want to help them to begin standing up for themselves, as well.You might say something like “Honey, so you know we have the IEP meeting coming up. I wanted to talk to you about the process a little and see what thoughts you have. Also, you should know that you can speak at any time in the meeting.”
Decide on a way that your child can let you know that they would like to say something, such as by touching you on the arm. Before the meeting, you may also want to help them rehearse a question that they want to ask.
Even if your child is not participating in the meeting, you can still tell them about the IEP and see if they have any questions, comments, or suggestions.
 During the meeting, do not shy away from asking any questions that you might have. Also, make sure to find out who you can contact if you have questions that arise after the meeting or after the IEP is in effect. Though the professionals in the room are likely more familiar with the IEP process than you are, they are not more familiar with your child. Recognize and use the expertise that you bring to the table.You might say something like “I’m confused as to how we have set a goal that Vanessa will be able to find her classes on her own but have not identified how she will be able to do this.”
You could also make suggestions like “Perhaps a guide could ensure Vanessa gets to class for the first week on her own and then afterwards she could try alone.”

, Though you may be tempted to speak for them often, allow your child some autonomy in this process. If they are present and want to speak, do not interrupt them or explain away their concerns or feelings. This IEP is about them exclusively and you must all work together to ensure that your child is comfortable with the outcome., If your child's impairments are visual and not cognitive, general education is better for them. Special education classes should only be applied when absolutely necessary, such as if your child has a severe learning disability or cognitive impairment., In discussing accommodations or services, do not move on to another issue or topic until you are comfortable with the decisions being made. You can also decide to table a discussion if an agreement cannot be reached. You can address the issue again once other matters have been taken care of.Discuss whether your child will need services beyond the school year.
 If you feel completely comfortable with the provisions made for your child in their IEP, you can now sign off on it. However, even if you feel completely comfortable with the document, you may want to take 24 to hours to think it over before signing it. Do not feel pressured to sign right away. Also, keep in mind that the school is not allowed to implement any IEP until the child’s parents sign the document., If you cannot reach a decision on the day of the IEP meeting, there are options available to you. You can seek mediation, during which time both you and a representative from the school will meet with a third party mediator. You can also file a due process complaint., During the meeting, you and the IEP team will discuss how you will be given updates on your child’s progress. Typically, these updates are disseminated quarterly. You can choose to receive them by email, phone, in person, or through any other avenue that you might deem appropriate.Keep these progress reports so that you can discuss them in the next IEP meeting for your child.
You can also submit in writing that you do not want to be involved in the IEP process. If you choose this, the school will make all academic decisions about your child for you.
 The IEP is revised yearly. If you would like to remain involved in the process, be prepared to attend these meetings. During this time, you will revisit the goals for your child, determine if they have been met, and then make new goals. You can also discuss new accommodations or modifications that your child may need.