 The pregnancy announcement is a good place to take a family photo with you, your partner, and your future child. There are many creative poses that you can do with your partner to emphasize your love and commitment to the new baby.You may want to be kissing your partner in the photograph.
Your partner could stand behind you with their arms around your pregnant belly.
You and your partner could both be holding balloons or wooden letters that spell out “baby,” “girl,” or “boy.”;
, A pregnancy announcement can also include other members of your family. Consider who might want to be involved in the announcement.


You can put an older child in a “Big Sister” or “Big Brother” shirt to announce the news.
You can also involve your parents. Have them hold a sign stating that they are “Future Grandparents.”You may want to include your pets in the announcement. Hang a sign around their neck to announce the new addition to the family., If you do not want people in your picture, you can send a short and sweet message by photographing your positive pregnancy test. Direct some light onto the test so that the positive result is clearly visible. Snap a picture of it on your phone or with a camera., Baby clothes are a clever way of telling your friends what’s about to come. Set up a pair of baby shoes next to two pairs of adult shoes. You can also hang some onesies up on a laundry line next to your own shirts., A photograph of your pregnant belly is a touching and intimate way of sharing your news. Most women start showing a pregnant belly at around 12 weeks.


Decide whether you want to show your naked belly or if you would prefer to be fully clothed.
Try sitting or standing with your hands folded on your belly. You may even want to form a heart with your fingers over your womb.
If you want to create a silhouette of your belly, stand in front of a window with natural light or a bright lamp. Turn off other lighting in the room. This will shadow your features but emphasize your pregnant form., Usually you will get your first ultrasound photograph between 18 and 22 weeks of pregnancy. This ultrasound will give you a photograph of your baby in the womb. Uploading this ultrasound is a great way to give people a sneak peek of your baby., Think about where you want to take your maternity photograph. Outdoor environments are always beautiful, but you may decide that you want a more intimate portrait inside your own home. You can even come up with a list of potential locales, and take multiple photos. Some places you might take the picture include:


A local park.
Your living room.
The baby's future nursery.
Your backyard.
 A high-quality photograph requires plenty of lighting. Take the picture in a room with good overhead lighting or outside with plenty of sunlight.


If you’re taking the photos outside, make sure the sun is behind you or to the side to prevent the light from washing you out. The best time of day to go is a couple of hours before sunset.For the best results, turn off the flash of the camera, and use natural lighting. The flash might wash out your pregnant shape., If you are taking the pictures of yourself, prop the camera up on a tripod. Set the timer so that you have time to get into the frame before the picture is taken. This is a cheap and easy way to get pictures of you and your partner without hiring a professional.You can also ask friends and family members if they would be willing to act as photographer for the day.
 If you’re showing, you may want to make the belly a focus of the shot. Your stomach does not have to fill up the photograph, but you may to point out the baby developing inside. You can face towards the side to emphasize the shape of your pregnant belly. Even if you take the photograph earlier in your pregnancy, you may still be showing a slight curve., Baby announcement photos are a fun place to use props, signs, and other visual clues about your new baby. Think about ways that you could incorporate baby-related objects or cute props that get your message across.Some props you can hold onto include:


Balloons.
Ribbons.
Baby carriage.
Chalkboard sign.
An ultrasound.
 If you’re uncertain about taking nice photographs yourself, you might consider hiring a professional photographer for a maternity shoot. Many photographers will provide props, themes, decorations, and professional photographs for pregnancy announcements.
 Not everyone appreciates hearing important news on social media. Before you post a public announcement, tell your family and friends over the phone or in person.You can write, “I have really exciting news to share. I’m going to have a baby.”

, You do not have to announce the pregnancy as soon as you find out. Some people like to wait until the second trimester while others appreciate having the support of their friends during the difficult first trimester. Wait until you are ready for everyone to know.The risk of miscarriage is higher in the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, and many women choose to wait until they are twelve weeks along to announce just in case. Other women do not mind announcing earlier, and some may like to have public support if they do have a miscarriage.
You may also decide to wait until the twenty week mark so that they can announce the gender and the pregnancy in the same post.
Remember that any coworkers you are friends with online may tell your boss about your pregnancy. You may want to wait to post the announcement until you have notified your employers.
 You can post a status update instead of a photograph or attach an additional comment to the picture to announce your pregnancy. Add a short statement expressing how you feel and when the baby is due.


You might post a song verse, lyric, or poem.You can say something like, “Our family is getting biggerǃ We’re expecting a new baby.”
You can include the due date, gender, and name of the baby if you know that information already. For example, you can say, “It’s a girlǃ Marie will join the family in September.”

, When you discover the baby’s gender, you may want to post an announcement to tell your friends if the baby will be a boy or a girl. Typically people learn the baby’s gender when between 18 and 26 weeks of pregnancy., While you may be excited about your pregnancy, you should consider the feelings of your friends and family when you post announcements. For people struggling with infertility, constant pregnancy updates can be difficult to read. Limit yourself to pregnancy, gender, and birth announcements on social media.