 If your child can’t keep a job or complete a degree, you’re right to be concerned. On the other hand, it’s normal for a young adult to return home temporarily to save money or get their bearings after college. If your child seems to be putting the pieces of adulthood together, there is probably nothing wrong.However, if your child seems to struggle in many areas of development, such as school, work, finances, and relationships, you may want to carefully consider whether they are experiencing a "failure to launch."
Try talking with friends who also have young adult children to get a better idea of normal versus abnormal behavior. What is normal for young adults now may be very different from what you experienced as a young adult.;
, Ask yourself if your child is working, saving money, and contributing to household expenses. If not, consider the reasons why. Are they spending money recklessly? Or are they acquiring unnecessary debt? Even motivated young adults sometimes struggle to land their first job after finishing school. If your child shows no interest in applying for jobs, though, it may be time to have a talk with them., A common feature of failure to launch syndrome is a poor work ethic and unwillingness to help out around the house. Consider whether your child has – or is actively searching for – a job or internship, and whether they pitch in with household chores., A young adult with failure to launch syndrome will avoid making plans to move out and become independent. They may have only vague goals or they may have big goals with little or no idea how to achieve them. If your child sets goals and takes an active role in planning their future, however, their stay with you will probably be temporary.Instead of putting your child in a corner with an intimidating question like "What are you gonna do with your life?" raise the subject gently. You might say, "I noticed some pamphlets came in the mail for different universities. Did any of them interest you? What major are you considering?"

