 Communication between you and your partner should be completely open while remaining respectful. This is crucial for a healthy relationship. If your partner respects you, s/he should be able to listen to your concerns and come to an agreement that is fair to both parties. Remember: you'll usually regret staying silent more than you'll regret speaking up and making a mistake.


For example, if you are concerned that your partner is uncomfortable around your family, it's important to discuss this, rather than hoping the problem goes away. If you don't, future interactions may get tense and awkward since you'll be forced to simply guess what's wrong.
 Letting issues between you and your partner fester is never a good idea. If you sense tension, bring it up. Similarly, if your partner brings up a problem with you, give it the attention you deserve. Be willing to work towards a quick, mutually-satisfying solution — even if it means setting aside your ego and apologizing for something you don't think is a big deal.


Some couples enjoy using the "One Day Rule." With this system, when you and your partner have an argument, you swear to fight it out and solve the problem together within the same day. This avoids long, drawn-out emotional battles.
 Trust is the cornerstone of all great relationships. Always remember that your significant other is an equal partner, not someone you can control. You need to be comfortable letting your partner out of your supervision for your relationship to thrive. Trust him or her to make wise decisions and stay faithful even when you're not around. This can be difficult for people who are naturally a little jealous, but being able to do this is a sign of maturity and respect that relationships can't grow without.


Similarly, do your best to deserve your partner's trust. Act with respect for him or her, even when you're apart. For instance, don't talk rudely about your partner to your friends, even if you're angry. Definitely don't do anything that would call the foundations of your relationship into question.
 Partners in a committed relationship won't always agree on everything (nor should they). Because the occasional disagreement is inevitable, both partners need to be comfortable not getting what they want sometimes. If you can reach "middle ground" with your partner during an argument, take this route so that both partners get some of what they want. If this is impossible, realize that you may need to simply give in sometimes. Your relationship should be worth more to you than a petty argument.


Ideally, both you and your partner should share this responsibility equally. Unequal sharing of burdens can lead to resentment.

