 When trying to get to know someone else's cat, do not approach it. To appear as less of a threat, kneel or sit at the cat's level. Stay relatively still and avoid any jarring movements., While kneeling or sitting, slowly extend your finger or hand towards the cat, making sure that you are a safe enough distance from it that your gesture will not seem threatening. Leave your hand extended and wait for the cat to approach on its own., If the cat does not warm up to you, back off from it and leave it alone. Make sure that the cat understands that it has control of the situation. Pushing an unwanted interaction can result in negative behaviour such as:Scratching
Hissing
Running away
Swatting

, Once someone else's cat is comfortable around you and demonstrates signs of affection (e.g. rubbing up against your leg), try petting it gently. A good place to start is under its chin, which most cats love. Let the cat sniff your finger and move its head upwards to allow you to pet it.Gently rub the spot where the jawbone connects to the skull. This should elicit a purring noise from the cat, if it enjoys it.
 Pet and scratch the cat at the base of its ears, which it is guaranteed to enjoy. Cats like being petted on areas where their scent glands are secreted so that it feels like they are marking you while you pet them. Cats are inclined to spread their scent to make their surroundings more familiar to them.This is the same aim that cats have in mind when they bump you with their heads or rub up against you.
 A back rub for a cat can feel just as good and beneficial as it does to humans. Pet down the cat's back generously, being gentle and cautious. Watch and listen for signs that the cat is enjoying the massage (e.g. purring)., Cats tend to be sensitive about their tails, which are an important part of their anatomy. Petting a cat's tail could result in it lashing out defensively (e.g. scratching, clawing). Avoid touching, petting, or grabbing a cat's tail, particularly when you are trying to win its trust. , As simple as it seems, food is an excellent way to win the favor of someone else's cat. If the cat is apprehensive around you, place a treat close to you, but far enough away that it will eat it without feeling threatened. Ignore the cat while it eats the treat, and continue this process over your next few visits with the cat., To get someone else's cat to warm up to you, initiate a game with it. Toss a toy for the cat to chase, making sure that you throw it away from the cat as well as away from you. The neutral, non-threatening nature of this gesture and the curious nature of cats will make the cat likely to participate., To get positive attention from a cat, bring it a gift it will enjoy. Visit your local pet store and purchase a deluxe toy such as a puzzle feeder, which you or its owner can fill with treats that the cat will slowly draw out (usually over the course of several hours). Introduce the toy to the cat and watch it have fun with your gift.