 Surround yourself with people that make you feel safe and cared for; hang out with friends that make you laugh and feel good. Find those individuals who can be your cheerleaders when you need them to be. In general, being around other people who make you happy can have a positive effect on how you feel about yourself and how you cope with your situation.Research has consistently shown a positive relationship between perceived social support and self-esteem.At first you may find it difficult to tell your close friends or family about what has happened to you. You might think that you're burdening them by telling them or that they'll judge or blame you. While these are totally normal feelings to have, you'll find actually find most people jump to help and support you however they can and that they will be glad you confided in them. and in fact, preparing to tell people about your chronic illness is usually harder than actually telling them.
Be sure to set boundaries and tell your friends and family what you need and don't need as you rebuild yourself and your life. Having a concrete support system that is clear and organized will help aid in the process of healing.
Allow your support group to care for you and love you. Remember that you are worthy of their support, kindness, and love, so let all those good things in.;
, Consider joining a support group made up of people who have also experienced abusive situations. Talking to people who have or are currently facing similar challenges can help you cope with your own struggles. Support groups can ease loneliness and feelings of isolation, provide perspective, help you manage your healing journey with advice and support offered by other people who can relate to your situation.If you feel anxiety about having to talk to someone face-to-face, you can also stay connected with family and friends or meet new people via social media, video chats, and email., Embarking on the healing journey from abuse to self-confidence can be very challenging and bring up difficult memories and emotions. If the abuse you have experienced has left you feeling like you cannot cope effectively, it is a good idea to seek professional help. Therapy has been shown to have a significant effect on raising self-esteem and quality of life. Allowing yourself to let someone else help you is another way to become your own protector and showing yourself that you will care for and protect yourself. A therapist can help you develop useful strategies to improve your self-image.If your find yourself using alcohol or drugs to cope with and escape from your pain or you notice yourself having thoughts about hurting yourself, you should consult a doctor or mental health professional immediately. Give yourself the chance to get the help you deserve.
Be aware as well that Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is also common for people who have survived abuse. PTSD is the body’s heightened response to trauma that doesn’t stop even after the trauma is over. Symptoms of PTSD include nightmares, sleeping problems, hypervigilance, feelings of being disconnected or disassociated, and flashbacks or experiences of reliving the trauma. If you notice any of these symptoms, make sure to get help sooner, rather than later.