 Sometimes we get hungry because we need food and sometimes we get hungry because we just have a psychological compulsion to eat. Time often helps us tell which is which. When you feel a craving coming on, wait ten minutes to see if it passes., Imagining food—including visualizing it in our head—spurs many of our cravings. Taking your mind off food can help eliminate these cravings. Studies have shown, for example, that college students who vividly imagined their favorite activity, were able to suppress their cravings and eat less.Anything that keeps your mind occupied should have a similar effect.Short, intense exercise might also help you distract your mind from cravings.Watching an exciting movie could help take your mind off of hunger. A scary movie in particular will probably distract you.
Try calling or texting someone. Starting up a conversation could also help distract you.
 If you are craving a food, you can eat a small amount of it to get rid of the craving. This will let you keep a low-calorie diet while satisfying your craving. Moderate your consumption of junk food with fruits and vegetables, or food heavy in protein and fiber.


If you are craving chocolate, for example, break off a single square of dark chocolate or eat a single Hershey's Kiss.
Mix some healthy food with the bad. For example, if you want chips, try eating them with something healthy, like salsa or hummus.If you want pizza, try to have a single slice with a healthy salad.
Sometimes you might crave healthy foods as well. If this happens, go ahead and give into your cravings. This can help you learn to desire healthier options in the future.
 Foods heavy in carbohydrates and protein can simulate the sense of fullness that we crave from junk food. Fiber and protein are the two nutrients that are most effective at making us feel full.Greek yogurt mixed with granola is great at taming your appetite and is healthier than ice cream.Foods high in lean protein include Greek yogurt, cottage cheese, swiss cheese, eggs, milk, steak, ground beef, chicken breast, tuna, sardines, lentils, jerky, peanut butter, nuts.High fiber foods include avocados, berries, figs, artichokes, peas, okra, Brussel sprouts, black beans, chickpeas, lentils, nuts, and quinoa.