 A snail can live in a variety of enclosures — look for a translucent container with plenty of ventilation and enough space for your pet to roam and explore. Make sure the lid fits or locks tightly in place — a snail can lift 10-50 times its own weight and may lift a loose lid and escape.If you're not sure how big your tank should be, use this calculator to find the sized based on the species and number of snails you plan to keep.
A large "pet pal" or "critter carrier" makes a good home for land snails, as the sides are clear plastic and the lid provides great ventilation.Glass tanks and aquariums are suitable homes for snails as well, though the heavy glass makes them more difficult to clean and transport.A clear, translucent plastic container from a storage or craft store can work just as well as a tank. Just be certain you drill holes in the lid or top of the sides sides so your snails can breathe.Wash your container before building the habitat inside. Use boiling water and a gentle detergent, then thoroughly rinse the container with more water. Be absolutely certain you wash out all the detergent or you may poison your snail.Avoid wooden or cardboard containers, as they will rot. The snail may even eat through the cardboard., Popular substrates include peat, coir, potting soil, and humus. Look for sterilized substrates with no pesticides or fertilizer, as this will harm your snail.Avoid using sand, pebbles, rocks, shells, or anything brittle that the snail cannot burrow in.Peat, coir, and potting soil are great substrates for snails to burrow. These may be found at pet or garden supply stores.Spray the substrate in the morning and evening to keep it moist. Do not make it so wet that water is pooling in the substrate —it should be just moist enough that it sticks to your hand.Add a little sphagnum moss to keep the substrate moist.Be aware that soil from your yard may have pests or pesticides and could harm your snail., Avoid hard items like rocks, brick, or ceramic — the snail may fall from the side of the habitat and if its shell strikes a hard surface, it may crack the shell and seriously injure your pet.Find plant pot made of plastic or polythene. Place it in the habitat on its side or cut it in half to make a cave. You could also turn the pot upside-down and cut a little opening for the snail to enter and hide inside.Look for organic materials that won't rot quickly, like cork bark or dried tree branches. Check the reptile section at a pet store for a good selection of obstacles for your snail to play on.A shallow water dish will give your snail a place to drink and play and also increase the moisture in the tank. Look for one with low sides and don't fill it too deep or your snail might drown. Try a resin reptile dish., The temperature should be somewhere between 64-86 °F, or around room temperature. Check the soil daily to make sure it hasn't dried out.If your house gets very cold in the winter, you may want to buy a heating mat to keep the heat and humidity up in the habitat. Fix the mat to the side of the tank, covering all but 1/3 of the side. That way if the snail becomes too warm, it can move to the cooler part of the habitat.