 If you are a self-employed individual and work out of your home office on a regular basis, then you can deduct certain qualifying home-office expenses. This can include even a fraction of your home utility bills and home maintenance costs. This is if you itemize. However, you can also claim a general dollar amount deduction per square foot of space used.Self-employed persons are also eligible for many other tax deductions. You can itemize deductions such as website preparation and maintenance fees, the cost of professional publications, and office supplies., Make sure to hold onto all receipts related to the medical care of yourself and others in your family. You can deduct the costs of lodging when seeking out medical care, the expenses of making medically necessary modifications to your home, and even certain medicines., All of your mortgage interest payments can count as tax deductions. So, that is another reason to keep paying on your mortgage as planned, instead of finishing it out early. You can maximize these savings by making an extra mortgage payment before the end of the tax year. Paying your mortgage just a few days early can result in substantial savings.Be aware that you can also deduct the interest paid on other debts as well, such as student loans. You should receive the necessary paperwork from your loan servicer.
 Check out the yearly Energy Policy Act for details on how you can enroll in certain energy efficient programs and make particular changes to your home to result in tax savings. These deductions change often, so make sure to do your homework. For example, you can often deduct the cost of installing solar panels or energy efficient windows.
 Children can provide a great tax break in multiple ways. The funds that you use to pay for child-care are considered pre-tax monies if organized into an employer-based savings account. So, if your employer offers a child-care reimbursement account, especially with matching, make sure to take advantage of it.You can also count your children as additional dependents. And, you can claim a child tax credit if they are under 17 years of age. Be aware that any alimony payments that you make are also tax deductible., If you’ve searched for a new job in the past year and if you looked for a position in the same general line of work as you had before, then you are eligible to deduct these expenses. Make sure to keep the receipts and you can deduct the cost of food or lodging when travelling for interviews., This deduction does not apply for all moves. You must be moving to pursue a new job that is at least 50 miles from your current location. You can deduct the total cost of moving both you, your family, and any belongings that you own. You can even deduct mileage costs and tolls.