 There's a difference between going outside of your means to provide gifts because you think that's what is expected, and doing kind things because you want to make your girlfriend happy. Doing nice things for your girlfriend doesn't always entail buying things either. It could be something as simple as taking out the trash for her, cleaning the dishes, or picking a flower on the side of the street to bring home for her. Keep her in mind as you go about your day and think of ways to make her have a happier and easier day.


If you have limited money, don't make purchases for her and stress yourself out. Instead, think of free ways that you can show your appreciation.
Some things you can do include, buying her flowers, cleaning her house, getting her tickets to a show she wanted to see, or sending her a nice text message.
 While you don't need to constantly shower her with compliments, giving her at least one a day can make her feel better throughout the day. Make sure that the compliment is genuine and that you really mean it. Take time to notice different things like the outfit she picked out, the way she does her makeup or an accessory that she's picked out. Compliments also don't have to be purely physical. You can also compliment her on progress at her job, getting good grades at school, or if you've noticed personal growth.


You can say something like, "I really like the way you did your hair today."
To compliment her growth you can say something like, "I noticed that physics doesn't seem hard for you anymore. It's really awesome you've been able to improve this much."

, It's okay to want to win. However, relationships are more about working with one another on a team rather than competing against one another. Think of your success as joint success and use it to motivate one another to reach your true potential. Instead of thinking of how you will personally benefit, think about how it will affect both of your lives as a whole.While self-preservation and advancement are important to many people, realize that you're uncaring and unkind when you do things that will hurt the other person and benefit yourself.
Motivate your girlfriend to do great things. Do not try to stifle her or prevent her from achieving her goals.
Working as a team takes two people. If your girlfriend is unable to care about your dreams and aspirations, it may be time to find a new girlfriend.
 Before you can be in a strong and meaningful relationship with your girlfriend, you need to make sure that you are taking care of yourself. Get enough sleep, eat correctly, and take time for yourself. If you find yourself feeling resentful, overextended, or defensive, there's a good chance that you aren't taking care of yourself as much as you should. Take a step back and don't be afraid to say no to your girlfriend. If she truly cares about you, then she will understand that you are overwhelmed and need time to take care of yourself.


If you routinely take care of other people's needs above your own, you may be exhibiting codependent behavior.You can say something like, "I really like you and think you're wonderful, but I need time to get my business straight. It's been a while since I've taken time out for myself so I just need to get some things done for myself right now."

, Do not agree to things that you know won't happen or don't have a good likelihood of happening. Broken promises can severely hurt a relationship. More severe actions like being unfaithful can end a relationship, while other things like white lies could severely strain one. To avoid this, be honest and upfront, even if you think it will make you look bad.For instance, if you are going to be late, give her a call and let her know what is holding you up.
If you did something you aren't proud of or feel a certain way, it's best to let your girlfriend know sooner rather than later.
If she doesn't trust you for previous actions, make a concerted effort to show her that it was a mistake and that you've changed.

