 It emphasizes the uniqueness of being black, as no other race has it. It takes a lot of work to keep wild hair happy at first, but once you've done the first things it should be easy.;
, When washing, it's best to use two layers of conditioner that is designed for black hair, as it is manufactured to lock in moisture more than products aimed at other hair types. Don't use hair grease, though, as the chemicals in it aren't good for hair shine and can thin the hair.


Oiling your hair is especially important as the kinks in black people hair make the natural moisture stay at your roots, which is why black people's hair is always dry. Shampoos for straighter hair are designed to get rid of the natural greases, which black hair needs to grow. Using the wrong shampoos and not enough moisturizers is the main reason why black hair cuts/breaks off. Castor Oil, Black Castor Oil or Coconut Oil is a good product to keep on hand. Coconut Oil is good for your skin as well.
 Using the hair dryer extension is okay if your hair has been moisturised properly for a while, though using hair oils afterwards is essential.



Weaves should be taken out from 1-2 months, depending on how messy it gets, how tight it is and what type of weave you have.
 This will help prevent hair loss and a chipping hairline. It also stops thinning hair and some bold patches. However, remember; full hair loss is very rare with weaves. It only tends to happen to people with dryer and shorter hair or people with much shorter hairline hair than their central hair.
 Perms/relaxers are quite extreme. If you don't have one and are thinking of getting one, watch a documentary such as Good Hair, which explains the chemicals and side-effects of perms.


On the positive side, perms don't require as much combing attention as natural hair and can be styled into styles that white people tend to have. As having a perm/relaxer can cut about half of your hair length off at a time, some people use black hair extensions to attach to the hair, though the glue can cut it further.
 Have a specialist do your hair as they have done it many times before. Perms can burn. A lot.
 Look around a market or in areas where the majority of the area is black. Makeup designed for darker skin can often be found in areas where hair products for African Americans can be found, so it shouldn't be too hard to find if you know where to look.
 For blush, if you are daring, try a dark purple. This doesn't look good on everyone, but if your skin is dark enough you can pull it off.
 It can sometimes turn out wrong, and it's also very hard to get off then.
 It's like when white people put on too much fake tan. You look orange, and your eyes will just look dark so you'd look like a panda.


Buying darker foundation can be okay when they match your darker areas.
 The stereotype is that black people love cocoa butter. So long as you're not allergic to them, coconuts are not only great for black hair, but also black skin. They are full of nutrients and cocoa butter even lightens/darkens your scars to make them less visible.


Cocoa butter is very good for moisturizing skin and it helps keep dry patches looking less dry. Also, the moisture can last even after a bath (though it's best to apply at least once a day, preferably in the morning).
Other great moisturizers are Shea butter and Aloe butter. When choosing products, look for ones with few chemicals and not a lot of fragrance. Remember: the further down the ingredient list, the less it contains.
 Hair dye can damage black hair, and most of the time won't make a difference or only dye thinner parts of the hair.
, Giving in to try to look 'white' is one of the last things a black girl should even be thinking. Black is beautiful, you are beautiful. Embrace this. If people tell you your hair looks nasty because it's curly or says something about your weave, ignore it, violence is never the right answer, don't let them get to you.


When people say racist things regarding your skin color right to your face, it can be annoying. If these people are your 'friends' tell them that what they said was not right and provide a bit of evidence of why it was if wanted. If they do it again, it's highly suggested you ditch them.
 Act how you know you should act with dignity and respect. Saying 'yo' in sentences and enjoying reggae or rap music isn't what all black females prefer to do. Act the way you feel comfortable acting even if it is portrayed as ghetto or white.
 There are people of color out there who don't care about whether their friends are a different shade to them or not. Look for those kinds of people rather than hanging with people who degrade you for being black who more often than not are white.

