 The best way to find Pivot is to search "download pivot stick figure animation" on Google.;
, You will see a stick figure by the name of "Stickman." Moving the dot on the neck moves the stick figure down, as if is bowing down to something. Moving the dot on the "kneecap" moves the entire leg. The dot on the "toe" moves the lower part of the arm. If you move the orange center dot, you move the entire stick figure. If you move the dot on the "fingers" you move the lower part of the arm in an angle. if you move the center dot in the arm, you move the entire arm.
 Click on the 'Edit' button to show the stick figure. If you hit the delete, you delete a part. You can add many things such as weaponry to the stick figures. When you are done, click on the 'Add to Animation' button. It will tell you to add a name, such as 'The Chosen One.' You will see your new figure(s) in the scroll underneath 'Stickman.'

, Obviously, you have to make a movie before you post one. Play it and check out the 'Repeat' checkbox under 'Play' and 'Stop.' If your movie doesn't look right, edit it again. If you are having a hard time, don't quit. Just ask professionals for help. This article has some help in the 'Tips' section. If you like your movie, show it to a few family members or friends that like stick figure movies. If they tell you to spice it up a little, follow their instructions and tips. If they like it, read the rest of the article.
 Scroll down to the 'gif' file. On the last box, on the 'Delay' part, turn it from 6/100. Only leave 'Crop' checked on one of the check-boxes. Then click 'OK.' Let the movie download. Put 1/2 on the third box.
 When you open it, click on 'Import Pictures' and find your 'gif' movie. It will appear on the Collections screen. Drag it to the 'Video' strip. Don't forget the titles and credits. If you need music, put some on there in the 'Audio/Music' strip. Look at the small video screen to the right, and play your video. if it is good, save the video. It will download to your computer on your Desktop.
 Create an account from Google or YouTube itself. Upload your video to YouTube by typing a title, have a caption, and find the movie. It will upload. Let the video process, and after a day or two, watch it. If it is good, people will comment. Good luck, and have FUN making movies!

