 You might think that a 32 inch (81 cm) TV is 32 inches wide, from bottom left to bottom right. Not so. A 32 inch TV is 32 inches (81 cm) from bottom left to top right, or bottom right to top left.;
, Some people make the mistake of running their tape measures from the outside corner of the TV bezel, or frame, to the opposite corner of the bezel. This will give you a wrong number. Instead, measure diagonally from the corner where the screen ends to the opposite corner where the screen ends. Because the bezel of the TV is almost ways bigger than the screen, measuring from bezel to bezel will end up giving you wrong number.
 Measure the full size of the whole TV (including bezel), and not just the screen. These measurements will come in handy when you try to fit your new TV into an existing space or entertainment center.
 Say you're thinking about buying a 46 inch (117 cm) TV. It is approximately 44.5 inches (113 cm) wide and 25 inches (63.5 cm) tall. It might technically fit into your entertainment center, which is 45 inches wide and 45 inches tall, but it would probably make too snug of a fit to look aesthetically pleasing. Opt for a 40 inch (102 cm) TV instead if you intend on fitting it inside your entertainment center.
 Aspect ratio is the ratio of the display image’s width to its height. There's a difference in aspect ratio between older, standard TV models and newer, widescreen models. Most standard TVs use an aspect ratio of 4:3 for their screens. That means for every 4 inches of width of screen, you will have 3 inches of height. The newer widescreen TVs normally use an aspect ratio of 16:9. This means for 16 inches of width, you have 9 inches of height.


Even though a standard (4:3) TV and a widescreen (16:9) TV could have the same diagonal measurement, such as a 32-inch screen for both, the total area of the screen would be different. The standard TV will have a bigger screen area and the image will be more square, while the widescreen TV will have a more horizontal image.
Widescreen TVs came about after TV producers started tinkering with the aspect ratio in an effort to attract more viewers to movies.Widescreen (16:9) aspect ratios show a bigger picture with the opportunity for bolder backdrops.
 If you currently have a 4:3 TV and you want to continue watching 4:3 on a widescreen TV, multiply the diagonal length of the older TV model by 1.22. The result would be the diagonal screen size that the widescreen TV would have to be to match the old model.


Say you have a 40 inch (102 cm) TV with a 4:3 aspect ratio, but you're thinking about upgrading and you don't want your screen size to get smaller. You'd need to get at least a 50 inch (127 cm) screen to view in 4:3 without your picture getting smaller. That's because 1.22 x 40 = 49. Since 49 inch TVs are generally not made, you'd need to go up to 50 inches (127 cm).
 Once you've got the size of the TV squared away, the final piece of the puzzle is choosing how far away to place seating. Follow this guidewhen placing seating:

