 Nearly all modern printers can be connected to a computer without needing a disk. Simply plug the printer into the computer via USB and wait for the drivers to be installed automatically.


You will need to be connected to the internet in order to install the drivers from the operating system.






Make sure that the printer is turned on. Many printers need to be plugged into a power outlet as well in order to turn on.
If the printer does not connect via USB, you will need to download the drivers from the manufacturer. Older printers do not install automatically. See Step 3 for details.;
, If you plug the printer in and the drivers don't start installing automatically, you can manually search for the printer and start the installation.

In Windows, open the Control Panel and click "Devices and Printers". Click the "Add a printer" button and Windows will begin searching for the printer. Select your printer from the list to begin the installation process.






In Mac OS X, click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences". Click "Print & Fax" and then click the "+" button at the bottom of the printer list. Select your new printer on the list to begin the installation process.






If you are not able to manually install the printer using this step, you will need to download and install the printer-specific drivers from the manufacturer.
 While the operating system drivers will generally provide you with your printer's basic functionality, advanced functionality such as scanning may only be possible with the printer-specific drivers. Every manufacturer makes these drivers available on their website.


Note the printer make and model. The printer model is typically visible on the front of the printer. This will help you find the correct driver.
Visit the Support section of the manufacturer's website. Search for your printer model.
Make sure to download the correct drivers for your operating system. There will often be additional software, such as scanning software, that you can download and install as well.
 If the computer you are installing the printer on does not have internet, you will need to download the drivers on another computer and copy them onto a USB flash drive. Most drivers are less than 200 MB, meaning most flash drives will work.

