 Ecotourism can range from staying in green lodges to camping to volunteering for a service project. Decide what activities you would like to do, including sightseeing, hiking, train travel, bike travel, local farm visits, snorkeling, swimming and more.


Most eco-friendly honeymoons embrace the natural environment. Ecolodges and resorts are often near wildlife preserves or in places where you do not need to travel by car, boat or plane to see the sights. Consider whether a trip to a beautiful, but wild place is something that you and your fiancé would like.;
, The most eco-friendly travel decision is to avoid getting on a plane. Choose a resort or spa with a commitment to green practices within a day's drive from your house or wedding.
 There are currently ecotourism lodges and resorts in many countries. However, the following are some popular choices for green honeymoon travel:


Consider registering for a service project at the Maya Biosphere Reserve in the Petén Region in Guatemala, in the Upper Guinean Forest in Ghana Madidi, at a rain forest research project in Costa Rica or Belize or in a National Park in Bolivia.
Visit an ecoresort in the Caribbean. Good choices include the Maho Bay Camp, St. John, Virgin Islands or the Jungle Bay Resort in Dominica.
Travel to an eco-lodge in South America. The Yacutinga Lodge in Argentina and Jicaro Island Ecolodge in Granada Isletas, Nicaragua are popular choices.
Choose a Six Senses Spa location in Southeast Asia or Europe. There are 35 choices of locations that are committed to sustainable lodging.
Choose a hiking or camping adventure in a national park in the United States or Central America. Backpacking or camping allow you to spend plenty of time secluded with your new spouse, but most activities are based on hiking, biking and camp cooking. Visit Glacier, Yellowstone, Yosemite or another National Park.
 Planes burn as much carbon per person per flight as it takes 1 full grown tree to process in a year.
 Go to artemisair.com/emptylegs to see if a charter flight company is planning on flying home from a destination without passengers. Perhaps you can catch a private, relatively cheap charter to a honeymoon worthy destination.
 Go to carbonfootprint.com/shopweddinglist or sendusoff.com/ecofriendly and ask for people to plant trees or contribute money to make up for plane flights or boat rides. Go to planetgreen.discovery.com to learn how carbon offset services work.
 Consider booking with responsibletravel.com, gogreentravelgreen.com or realexperiencethailand.com. Read the company's mission statement and commit a little extra money to a company that researches and books only environmentally conscious services.
 These sites provide an aggregate of hotels, lodges and resorts that provide green services.
 Book these cars ahead of time, because they can be harder to find. If your honeymoon is within driving distance, then book a rental car that is more fuel efficient than the 1 you own.
 Either book a room with a kitchenette and shop at local markets or choose restaurants that serve local food. Eating local fare supports local farmers and it uses less carbon to transport.
 Many marketplace souvenirs are made in faraway countries and shipped to tourist destinations. Travel a short distance to pick up art personally.

