 As with any type of therapy, pet therapy works best if you have regular sessions. Once you find a pet therapist, look over your schedule and see what times you can meet with a therapist regularly. Make sure you get in regular sessions with a pet therapist to gain benefits from pet therapy.Your therapist should be able to guide you here. Depending on your level of homesickness, they will recommend how often you should come in and how long your sessions should be.
Many people start therapy and then stop attending when they feel better. Make sure to keep up with attendance until your therapist decides you have successfully completed a therapy program. The duration of pet therapy programs vary, but some may last as long as six to eight weeks., Pet therapy is not just playing with a dog or cat for a set period of time. The therapist will want you to interact with the animal in specific ways to combat homesickness. Make sure to listen to the therapist and follow their rules regarding having contact with the animal.This is also important because you want to strive for positive interactions with an animal. If you interact with an animal poorly, it may reject you. If you're rejected by a therapy animal, this can worsen homesickness.
Never touch the animal without their consent. The pet therapist will explain how to communicate with the animal and gain their consent to pet them.
 Family members and friends often report they feel better when participating in pet therapy with a loved one. This is usually something that occurs if you're homesick due to a hospital stay. Have friends and family members join you on the days you interact with a therapy pet. This may help them deal with their own anxiety and loneliness about you staying in a hospital.Make sure you check with the therapist. Some therapists may have rules about other people attending pet therapy sessions.
Also, keep in mind that you and your family can likely get the same benefit of a shared pet therapy experience by telling them about your experience.

