 You can use a blank sheet of cardstock, and decorate it later, or you can print out a pretty image instead. If you are printing an image on your sheet of cardstock, feed the paper one sheet at a time through your printer, or it will get stuck.
 You can cut out any shape you want, such as a heart, circle, or square. You can cut these shapes out by hand, or use a fancy-shaped scrapbook hole puncher.


To make a standard gift tag shape, cut a rectangle out first. Then, snip the corners off of one of the narrow ends to form a point.
To make a folded tag from a sheet of cardstock, cut out a rectangle first, then fold the rectangle in half.
Consider printing out images on cardstock and cutting them out. Be sure to feed the cardstock through your printer one sheet at a time.
 You can decorate it however you want, but consider matching it to the gift bag, the holiday or event, or to the recipient's personal tastes. For example, if you know the gift recipient really likes cats, consider drawing a cat on the tag. Here are some more decorating ideas to get you started:


Draw designs with metallic pens or glitter glue.
Glue on small rhinestones or sequins.
Stick on some washi tape around the edges of a square or rectangular card to give it a fancy border.
Attach stickers that match the holiday, season, or event. For example, if the tag is for a birthday gift, you can use candle- or balloon-shaped stickers.
 Once you have decorated your tag, cut a smaller shape out of cardstock, and decorate it as well. Attach it to the tag using a small piece of foam mounting tape; this will help give it that 3D or layered effect.


You can match the smaller shape to the larger one, or use a contrasting shape. For example, if your tag is square-shaped, you can make the smaller shape a heart.
 You can use the usual "To... From..." greeting, or create your own. For example, you can use personalized names, such as: "Beloved Wife," "Doting Dad," "Sweet Daughter," or "Wonderful Son." If it is near a holiday, consider writing the holiday greeting, such as "Happy Holidays" or "Happy Valentine's Day."


If you made a folded card, then write your message inside the card instead.
 Be careful not to punch through your message. If you made a folded card, be sure to punch through both layers of the cardstock.


You can also use double-sided adhesive or tape to affix your tag to the gift.
 You can use just about any sort of string for this, such as twine, yarn, ribbon, or metallic thread.
 Fold the string in half first, then poke the folded end through the hole in the tag. Slip the two loose ends of the string through the loop, then tug on them gently to tighten the knot.
 Wrap the two loose ends of the string around the handle of a gift bag or ribbon that is around a wrapped present, and tie them into a tight knot.

