 Changing the settings on someone's cellphone can be an excellent prank. You'll have to wait until someone leaves their phone out, and take the opportunity to alter the settings. If you know where a family keeps his or her phone at night, you may be able to pull this prank then. You can also quickly grab a cell phone that's been left out on the table. You'll have to work fast in order to make the changes before your family member notices.Change the phone's language settings. You can change the default language to French or Spanish, so the cellphone user won't know how to read his or her phone.
Find a contact that the user hears from frequently, like a girlfriend or friend. Change that contact's name to "Low Battery."

, The Blue Screen of Death is the colloquial term for an error message that appears on Windows devices indicating the computer is seriously malfunctioning. Online, you can find websites that allow you to download a screensaver that shows up as the blue screen error message.Wait until no one is near the computer. You may have to get up early, or stay up late, to do so. Once the computer is unoccupied, download the screensaver. Follow the instructions to download on the website.
It's a good idea to fix it so that the blue screen screensaver is the first thing a parent or family member sees in the morning. Therefore, you may want to get up early and turn the computer on. Then, leave it alone until the screensaver appears. Walk away, and wait for the first unsuspecting computer user to panic.
 If your family computer has an optical mouse, there will be a small red light on the bottom. This is a light source that detects movement, allowing you to move the cursor. Taping a piece of paper over this light will prevent the mouse from working, frustrating a family member.Wait until the computer is unoccupied to pull this prank. It does not take a lot of time, but you want to work fast to avoid getting caught. You can also get up before anyone is awake to pull this prank.
Any kind of paper works, whether it's from a notebook or a post-it note. You only need to rip off a piece big enough to cover the red light on the bottom of the mouse.
Tape this piece of paper to the bottom of the mouse. You may want to write something like, "April fools!" on the paper, so when your trick is discovered the family member will know they've been pranked.
 You can try messing with the clocks in your house. If you set them back an hour, your family members will be scrambling to get to work or school only to realize they're an hour early. You'll have to get up in the middle of the night and move from clock to clock. This prank is best to play on older relatives, as younger people may primarily rely on their cellphones to tell time. The time on a cellphone is generally connected to a cellphone tower, and cannot be set manually.Set an alarm to get you up in the middle of the night. When it goes off, get up and get to work.
Move from room to room, setting the clocks back an hour. Target clocks on the wall, digital clocks, and clocks on ovens and microwaves.
You may have to reach a clock in your parents' room. Be very careful here. You'll have to open the door slowly, as not to be overheard, and tiptoe through the room to the clock. It may be a good idea to do a test run earlier in the week. While your parents are out, sneak into their room and examine the clock and figure out how to change its settings. You'll need to work fast when you're actually playing the prank, as stumbling with the clock too much can wake your parents.
 While this prank is not subtle, it is annoying. You can place a heavy amount of duct tape over the remotes in your home, rendering them temporarily useless. When a family member wants to watch TV in the morning, they'll have to take the time to remove all the duct tape.


As with many pranks, it's best to do this early in the morning or late at night. Find a time to work when no one is awake.
Take a large roll of duct tape. Wrap the tape around TV remotes, DVD remotes, remotes to stereos, and basically any remote you can find. Wrap the remotes in several layers, so the duct tape will be hard to remove.
Leave the remotes where they usually are. When your family members wake up, they'll be irritated to discover they can't use the remotes.
Keep in mind you may get in trouble for this. If your family doesn't have a great sense of humor, you may end up having to remove the duct tape yourself. Only use this prank if you think your family would laugh it off rather than respond with anger.

