 Think about about your specific needs. Depending on the kind of learning you want your dog to experience, you will have very different needs for a trainer. Some trainers specialize in improving the behavior of adult fear aggressive dogs, whereas others are better with open minded puppies.


For instance, perhaps you need to tame a fearful or aggressive dog, or your dog has ongoing difficulty with separation anxiety. These issues require a professional with specialized training in these areas that can give your dog one-on-one attention.
You may need to train a new dog or a puppy, which should inform the type of trainer you choose. A dog training facility that holds group puppy classes would be a good place to start.;
, Consider which of your friends or family members has the most experience with dog training. Ask them to have coffee with you and share their dog training experiences. Perhaps they will have general tips or specific recommendations on good dog trainers for your needs.You can say, "Bob, your dog is a pleasure to be around. Did you work with a trainer that you would recommend?"

, Go to the dog park and observe interactions between dogs and their owners. When the owner makes a request or issues a command to their dog, look at how the dog responds. First, see whether the dog obeys the command or not. Second, consider how the dog obeys the command. Look for signs that the dog has been trained with punitive or positive methods:If the dog responds to the request with their tail between their legs and their eyes averted, they may have been trained with punitive methods. This is not a sign of good dog training.
If the dog responds with their tail and their ears pointed up and with a cheerful demeanor, it is a sign that positive reward training was used. This is a sign of good dog training.
 Look around at the dogs in your life or in your neighborhood. If a friend comes over with their dog and it looks well behaved, ask who trained it. And if you are at the park and see an especially well behaved dog, ask the individual where they went for dog training.If they look like they would be open for conversation, try asking: “Excuse me, sir, I notice that your dog is especially well behaved. I am actually looking for a dog trainer right now, so I was wondering if you could share with me which trainer you used. Thanks so much for your time.”

, Although veterinarians are not necessarily specialists in dog training, they are often well connected to dog behaviorists and trainers. They may be able to give you a good recommendation for a trainer that meets your needs., Compile the list of dog trainers you have found by talking to friends, family members, your veterinarian and observing well behaved dogs. Now that you have a shortlist of possible candidates in your area, you can begin figuring out which trainers would be most appropriate for you.
 There is no universally acknowledged standardization for dog trainers. However, there are a variety of certifications for behaviorists of various kinds as well as independent dog trainer certifications, which require varying levels of education and experience. Requirements range from a doctoral degree and five years of clinical experience to trainers who have passed exams and a minimum of three hundred hours of training experience. Ask potential trainers about their training and experience:Veterinary behaviorists are vets themselves who have finished a two-year residency with a board-certified veterinarian. They are certified with the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists (ACVB).
Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists have a PhD and five years of clinical experience.
Associate Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists have a Master’s degree and clinical experience.
Applied Animal Behaviorists have graduate level education in a field related to animal behavior.
Trainers certified with the Certification Council for Pet Dog Trainers have 300 hours of experience, passed a 250 question exam, and must undergo recertification every three years.
Trainers certified by the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants (IAABC) have finished three years and 1,500 hours of consulting work as well as 500 hours of dog training related education.
Many titles are used such as dog psychologist or behavior specialist but these do not necessarily mean anything if there is no related certification., You should ask the potential dog trainers whether they use humane training methods that rely on positive reinforcement. Also, ask whether punitive techniques like shock collars, choking, shaking, tugging, yelling or alpha rolling are used. If the trainer uses punitive techniques, you may want to look elsewhere because these are no longer considered humane., You should find out their previous experience working with your specific breed and size of dog. Also, you should inquire into whether they have worked with dogs with similar behavioral issues and personality. Consider asking:“Have you ever trained large mixed breed dogs like mine?”
“Have you ever trained fear aggressive dogs that are very difficult like mine?”
“Do you know much about small, shy dogs?”
“Do you prior experience with English cocker spaniels?”
“What is your background when it comes to training labradoodles?”

, You should inquire into the type of training equipment that they use such as collars, leashes, harnesses, toys, clickers and other tools. You may want to ask whether they use a slip or choke collar, especially since these are controversial tools and, if not used properly, can injure a dog. See if they use newer, safety collars or even classic collars which tend to be safe.Safety collars eliminate the risk of choking, since they release if there is too much pressure.
Buckle collars are great for everyday use. They connect with a buckle.
Head halters are used when a dog has a hard time with obedient walking with a regular collar.
E-collars are used to control a dog in an enclosed area.
If your dog tends to pull you when you walk, you might ask whether they front-clip harnesses which can help solve this problem., Food treats can be used very effectively to train dogs, since they are a reward that dogs are born to love. However, food treats can also be used as bribery during the training process, which will initiate a pattern that can be difficult to break once established. Ask the trainer how they get dogs to do the work prior to seeing the reward, since the key is for the food treat to be invisible until the reward is offered.


“How do you use food treats to train dogs?”
“Do you ever use bribes?”
“How do you use food as a reward in the training process? Can you give an example?”

, You want to find out if they rely solely on food treats or if other rewards are used such as toys, snuggle time or praise. A good trainer will use different types of rewards, so find out what the trainer has up their sleeve for reward based training., Once you have had a good conversation with the trainer and determine that they use positive reinforcement, appropriate rewards and have a solid level of education and experience, you may want to observe their work. Ask if you can observe one of their dog training classes or individual sessions. When observing the trainer with the dogs, consider whether the trainer uses solid teaching techniques, shows care and attention to the dogs and seems knowledgeable., Inquire into the cost of individual training sessions for your dog as well as kennel school programs. Depending on the education and experience level of the trainer, the price will vary significantly. Based on this inquiry, determine which trainer you can afford.


Individual training costs in the range of $30-$100 per hour.
Dogs with behavioral issues will cost at least $100 per hour.
You can purchase packages of dog training sessions, with prices ranging from #240-$600 for six sessions.
Kennel schools for four to six weeks cost in the range of $1000-$2500.Try not to choose a dog trainer on cost alone. An expensive trainer may be well-worth the cost when it comes to results and potentially save you money in the long run.
 See how your dog responds to the trainer. If you notice your dog is scared, they may not be the right trainer for your dog. However, if your dog looks excited, cheerful, wags their tail or shows other positive signs, you may have found the right trainer for your dog.
 Review your list of potential dog trainers and consider which candidates are best suited for training your dog. You should consider their education, experience, background with your breed, humane training methods and use of food and training equipment. You may also want to consider convenience or, in other words, whether they can train your dog at your home or whether you have to drive to a distant location. Then, consider the list of candidates based on affordability. Choose the best suited dog trainer that you can afford.
 You should consider whether the trainer is actually teaching your dog what you want your dog to learn. If the dog trainer is teaching your dog appropriate content that relates to your goals for them, it is likely a good fit. If they are not teaching your dog the skills and behavior changes you are looking for, you may need to find a new trainer., You should consider the quality and amount of attention that your dog trainer gives you and your dog. If the dog trainer is very talented but too busy to give quality attention to training your dog, misses or reschedules appointments, perhaps it is time to change trainers. However, if the trainer is busy but still manages to devote quality attention to your dog, you may want to stick with them., You should assess whether the trainer is using the positive training methods and tools they advertised. Watch them train your dog and see if they are using appropriate rewards, quality training tools like leashes and dog toys or clickers. Consider the following factors in your decision:If they are using choke collars or prongs to punish your dog, you should find a new trainer.
If they are describing your dog as being “dominant,” you should inquire further to find out whether the trainer is using punitive techniques. The word “dominant” to describe your dog may indicate a misdiagnosis and could be associated with punitive, old school training approaches.
If they use the term “pack leader,” they may be an old school trainer using punitive techniques. You may want to look elsewhere.
If they are using any kind of physical punishment to train your dog, you may want to look for a new trainer.
 You should track the development of your dog’s new skills and behaviors. Consider whether or not you are happy with your dog’s overall development and specifically in relation to the skills being taught by the trainer.If your dog is learning to sit with the dog trainer, you should practice this behavior at home. See if your dog has learned to comply with the request to sit. If they have been practicing this behavior for months with the trainer and still won’t do it at home, perhaps you should find a new trainer.

