 You need a black and white image because the black will block out the light allowing your design to show up on your silk screen.


This printing method can only print black images onto the shirt. If you have a color image in mind, convert it into black and white using Microsoft Word, Photoshop, or another photo editing application.
 You can purchase acetate paper from specialized screen printing supply stores, but clear transparency sheets from office supply stores work fine. Print the image onto the transparency sheet. Low-quality printers may not make the image completely opaque, which can lead to a messy image on the shirt. If necessary, take the transparencies to a copy store instead.
Some transparency sheets will shrink or warp when they go through the printer. Buy a small pack to start with, so you can switch to a different brand if the first attempt doesn't work out.
 These materials are available online or at large craft stores, often as part of a single screen printing kit. Paint both sides of the screen with the photo emulsion, using a squeegee to spread it a thin, even layer across the whole surface.


Wear gloves while handling the photo emulsion.
You also may want to lay a garbage bag down so that you don’t get any paint on your table or another surface.
Cover an area slightly larger than your photo and spread the emulsion out evenly. You shouldn’t be able to see through the screen.
 Leave the screen in a dark, cool area. Allow several hours for the photo emulsion to dry.


Optionally, point a fan over the screen to speed up the drying process.
 The photo emulsion allows you to "burn" an image onto your screen when exposed to light. Clear a space for the screen under a bright source of light. Direct outdoor sunlight can work in the late morning or early afternoon.


Place a black garbage bag or cloth under your screen for best results.
Alternatively use a 150-watt incandescent bulb, or a specialized "photo flood" bulb for a shorter exposure time. You can purchase a specialized image burning machine for faster results.
 Set this up before you remove the screen from the dark room. Place these items on top of each other in the following order:A large piece of cardboard or a large tray.
A piece of black fabric, to reduce reflection.
The prepared screen with the flat side of the screen face up.
The transparency image, face down and attached to the screen with tape.
A sheet of clear glass, Lucite, or Plexiglass.
 The timing of this step is tricky to get right on your first try since it varies based on the intensity of the light. Typically, the image is ready once the photo emulsion has changed to a dull grey-green.


Check your photo emulsion product for instructions, since the timing can vary from 2 to 90 minutes depending on light intensity.
 Remove the glass and transparency and quickly bring the screen to the sink or a hose. Apply a powerful spray of cold water for several minutes to the recessed side of your screen. The ink on the transparency paper blocked light from reaching the photo emulsion, preventing it from hardening. Keep spraying until all of this wet emulsion has washed away, leaving an outline of your image.


If all of the emulsion washes away, try again with a longer light exposure.
If none of the emulsion washes away after several minutes, use a photo emulsion remover on the screen and try again with a shorter exposure.
 The screen is now a reusable printing device. Transfer the image onto your shirt by:


Placing a piece of cardboard or another barrier inside the shirt, to prevent bleeding through to the other side.
Add a small dollop of screen printing ink to the top of the screen, and pull it across with a squeegee to form a thin layer. Go over this several times to ensure an even layer.
Lift the screen without moving it against the shirt.
 Most screen printing inks need to be ironed onto the shirt at a hot, dry setting. Others may only require an hour in sunlight, or a quick run through an ultraviolet drying machine.


Check your ink label for specific instructions before you heat set.
Once the image has dried, your shirt is ready to wear!

