 Wireless key finders are compact tracking devices that can be attached directly to your keychain. These key finders are often no bigger than a standard keychain and send out a tracking signal that can be seen via Bluetooth on your smartphone. They are wireless and easy to use, making them a top choice if you are looking for a technological option for keeping track of your keys.Many wireless key finders are also affordable and come with a rechargeable battery or batteries that can be replaced. The technology for key finders is also continuing to evolve and often new versions of a key finder will come out with even better functionality.;
, There are many wireless key finders currently on the market, at varying price points and offering different levels of functionality. You should compare at least one to two key finders before you buy to find the right one for you. Some of the more popular wireless key finders include:


Tile: This wireless key finder attaches to your keychain and can find your keys up to 80 feet away. It has a sleek, white design and a two way finding feature, where you can locate your keys with your phone and locate your phone with your keys through the key finder. It is also one of the more affordable wireless key finders at around $25USD and is compatible with Android and IOS smartphones. The downside of this wireless key finder is the batteries are non-replaceable, though they should last at least a year.Duet by Protag: This wireless key finder can track your keys up to 80 feet away and lets out a buzz when it locates your keys. It is compatible with Android and IOS smartphones, and the battery is replaceable. It also has a two way finding feature and a geofencing feature, where you can see the location of your keys on a map and get alerts when you walk out of range of your keys. Finally, this device is not very expensive, at around $30 USD.Pally Smart Find: Though this wireless key finder is on the larger end, about the size of a keychain fob, it can track your keys up to 90 feet. It also lets out a very loud alarm when you wander out of the range of your keys and it works on both Android and IOS smartphones. The device runs on two AAA batteries and boasts a two year battery life. It is also affordable, at $30 USD., Most wireless key finders can be used on a variety of smartphones, from Androids to iPhones. The smartphone must have Bluetooth capabilities and you will need to download an app that connects to the key finder to start tracking your keys.You will then need to attach the key finder to your keychain and set up the finder through an app on your phone. You can then easily locate your keys by checking the location of the key finder on your phone.
Many wireless key finders now have a two way finding feature, where you can locate your phone through the finder as well as your keys. You can locate your phone by pressing a button on the key finder. This option may come in handy if you tend to misplace your phone.
If somehow you lose track of both your keys and your phone, you can log into your account (made through the wireless key finder program) on a computer and locate both items that way.

