 FHA loans are available to some first time home buyers who are purchasing single family homes or homes in small multifamily units. A buyer with a credit score above 580 will typically be eligible for a loan with only 3.5% of the purchase price as a down payment on the mortgage. Borrowers with scores between 579-500 are eligible for 90% financing (or a 10% down payment), and borrowers with credit scores below 500 are ineligible., Just as you would if you were buying a car, you should start by checking your credit. That way, you maximize your information and minimize the surprises. Therefore, check your credit score and get a copy of your credit report before you even start to visit with lenders. You can get a copy of your credit report at https://www.annualcreditreport.com/index.action. You can get your credit score directly from the credit bureaus, or from sites like creditkarma.com or credit.com.


As with applying for any loan, the more you can tweak your credit score to adjust it higher, the better. Try and establish a year's worth of on-time payments, reducing your credit utilization to 30% or less than your credit limit, and minimizing your applications for large lines of credit, like car loans.
 Now that you have your credit report, check the items in your credit report against the standard disqualifiers. The standard disqualifiers are: bankruptcy within 2 years, a mortgage foreclosure within 3 years, late mortgage payments or a credit to debt ratio that is too high.While FHA lenders will review any of these items for extenuating circumstances, these usually disqualify a buyer from loan eligibility. If you have any of these items on your credit report, you should consider postponing your application for an FHA loan, If you are turned down for an FHA loan, then you can make adjustments to your financial situation that will increase your chances of approval down the road. For instance, if you have cash reserves equal to at least three months of mortgage payments, a reduced debt-to-credit utilization ratio, or apply for a loan for a home that has a payment that is no more than $100 greater than your current payment, the lender may approve you for the loan where you were denied before.As always, lenders look more favorably upon borrowers who have larger down payments than borrowers with small down payments, as it is indicative of financial stability.

