 Make sure the area you are shaving is clean to prevent infection. Wash the area you want to shave with soap as you normally would. Try to use a high-quality soap for a deep clean.If you are shaving a particularly hairy area, like your head or your beard, trim off as much hair as possible beforehand using clippers.;
, Applying a hot towel will open your pores and allow for a smoother shave. Alternatively, you can take a warm shower., Extra virgin olive oil is best for your skin. It is the least processed form of olive oil, and therefore contains more anti-inflammatory and antioxidant compounds than other types, including pure and light olive oils.Consider buying a bottle solely for shaving purposes to avoid cross-contamination.
 Pour some olive oil into a cup for easy access. Then, dip your fingers into the oil and massage a thin layer into the area you want to shave. Use extra oil for areas with thicker hair growth., Shave with the direction of hair growth, as you normally would. One perk of olive oil compared to shaving cream is that it allows you to see the area you are shaving clearly. Use a damp cloth to keep the area moist. You can use any type of razor.You should discard disposable razors after one use, and clean electric razors after each use to prevent bacterial growth.
If you want a cleaner shave, apply more oil and shave against the grain of the hair.
 Wash the area again with soap, either in the shower or at the sink. This will remove dirt and excess oil.If you don’t want to smell like olive oil, be sure not to skip this step! Washing the area thoroughly is important for removing the scent of the olive oil.
 Instead of using a store-bought lotion to moisturize post-shave, try massaging a teaspoon of olive oil into your skin. It’s cheap, and you already have it on hand!Try to apply the oil while your skin is still damp--it’ll absorb better.
 Olive oil is a lubricant, and can prevent your blade from rusting. Coating the blade with olive oil after shaving will help it last longer. You can leave your blade in the oil until the next use, or store it in its usual spot.If you store your razor in a drawer or on your counter, you may want to place a towel under the blade to prevent the oil from spreading.

