 Every time your puppy bites, say "NO!" in a firm voice. Then just walk away and ignore the puppy. Social isolation and time outs can be an effective form of punishment for a pack animal.You can also yelp when your puppy bites too hard. It might seem silly but puppies in a litter will cry out if a sibling accidentally bites too hard. Yelping when your puppy lays teeth on your will give feedback to very young puppies about what is acceptable playing and what isn't.Teach children not to shriek, run or flap their hands because this will engage the puppy’s natural prey instincts and add to the problem. Children should remain calm and keep their hands closed and close to their bodies.;
, Before you start playing with your puppy, spray a taste deterrent on areas of your body and clothes that your puppy likes to play rough with. When your puppy starts biting you, stop moving and wait for him to react to the taste deterrent. Once your puppy stops biting, praise him and continue playing. Make sure you wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water to get the material off your hands.Taste deterrents include: “Bitter Apple,” “Vick’s Vapor Rub,” or white vinegar. Use these on your hands to make them taste unpleasant. Contrary to a previous post, please note that tea tree oil can cause temporary paralysis in dogs; use products that are tested as safe for dogs/animals. , When he has calmed down, gently talk to him and stroke him. Keep your hand away from his mouth. Start playing again and avoid getting the puppy excited. This time, use toys instead of your hands to get your puppy engaged. Start playing fetch, so that you are tossing toys away from you and using the puppy’s prey drive for positive fun. Playing with toys can be used as a training reward or break and keeps your hands away from the puppy's teeth.Some trainers suggest playing tug-of-war with your puppy. The puppy learns that the game is fun, but is also controlled by you, the human at the other end of the toy. The fun will stop if the rules of the game aren't honored, keeping everyone safe., Never play roughly with a puppy that bites. Rough play will only encourage this behavior and strongly establish it in the puppy's mind. Never use your hands as toys. You should also closely watch children playing around or with the puppy. Kids are not equipped to train a puppy and injuries can happen.Don't let children play tug with the puppy unless an adult is present, the puppy fully understands the rules, and only if the puppy’s size does not pose a risk to the child during the game.
 In cases where biting is exceptionally strong or persistent, keep a water spray bottle handy. Accompany your firm "NO!" with a squirt of water in puppy's face to interrupt the behavior. Take care to set the nozzle to spray and not jet. You just want to startle the puppy, not harm him.Be aware that the puppy will associate the water spray with you, and this could make him wary of you at other times.


Never threaten the puppy with the squirt bottle or create fear. You also don’t want to create a situation where the puppy only behaves if the squirt bottle is in your hand.
 Always praise good behavior with lots of gentle love and cuddles. Use rewards effectively to reinforce good behavior. For example, if your dog successfully responds to your request to drop a toy, say, "yes!," or "good boy!" Verbal rewards work well when you're playing and may have your hands full of toys.Remember, you are now the puppy's parent. It's your responsibility to encourage him to become a happy, healthy, well-adjusted family member.
 It's normal for puppies to bite as they develop and grow. Usually, they learn about not biting from other members of their pack, including adult dogs. Puppies learn by playing with other pack mates about when to avoid causing serious damaging through biting. If puppies don't learn to control or stop biting, the other dogs will punish the puppy more severely, possibly by biting the puppy to cause injury.If the puppy does learn easily from his pack mates, they'll become more forceful and clear about biting behavior until the puppy behaves in a manner acceptable to other members of its pack.
 If you allow puppy biting, it may get out of control and your puppy will not learn to control his bite. This can lead to serious behavioral issues when your puppy reaches adulthood. If you suspect your puppy is biting out of fear or anger, talk with an animal behavioral therapist, who may be able to help.It is not acceptable for puppies to bite people, or other animals, unless they are in true physical danger and need to defend themselves.
 If you're starting a training program with the help of a qualified trainer, consider muzzling your puppy with a basket muzzle. Your puppy will quickly learn to stop nipping or biting with the help of the muzzle, but muzzling is not recommended if you don't have a clear understanding of the training approach and goals. If the muzzle isn't introduced and used properly, your puppy can actually become more dangerous to people, especially those trying to put the muzzle on the puppy.


Rewarding the puppy by giving it a treat after wearing the muzzle can help the dog associate the muzzle with something good. This makes it less likely to be wary of you or aggressive, and it makes the whole process easier for both you and the dog.
Never leave children unattended and unsupervised with dogs, even ones that seem “safe”. You may need to isolate the dog and/or crate him when a knowledgeable adult cannot be present.

