 Young children do not yet understand that money is earned and then spent or saved. If you don't teach them that they can earn money, then they may develop a perception of scarcity. This is especially true if you focus on frugality and saving without first showing them that the money can be replenished.

Discuss how you earn your money and help them brainstorm creative ways in which they can earn some. For example, talk to them about running a lemonade stand or selling handmade friendship bracelets.
Teach your children that, while they should respect money, they still have the power to gain more if they choose to put forth the effort.
 If you have not already developed a household budget, you can use such an exercise to teach your children lessons on frugality. Take an afternoon when you don’t have plans and sit down at the kitchen table with your bills and expense documents handy. Children often struggle to comprehend the true costs of living because no one has told them that someone is paying for them to live in their home or that the food that appears in their refrigerator each week has been purchased.Tally up the total cost of the necessities first: housing, transportation, utilities, groceries, supplies, childcare and insurance. Then, include additional budget items such as clothing, travel, or entertainment. Show your children how much you require each month to cover all expenses. Then, each month, you might go back and produce receipts of all money spent that month to make sure you are on the right track.
Show your child how they can track their own expenses so that they can see how things add up.
When money gets tight talk with your family about what you can sacrifice in order to stay within the budget. For example, during a strained month, you may have to eat mostly all dinners at home or skip the usual weekend cinema trip., It’s hard to help your kids develop frugal living skills if they see you being careless with your own spending. If you truly want to teach your kids how to be strict with their finances, you need to be a good role model. This means skipping the overpriced lattes, new sports car, or weekly mani-pedis.


Being a frugal role model also translates to smart spending. Some people believe as long as they purchased an item at a discounted price, then they are practicing frugality. However, if you are buying something that is excessive or that you don’t actually need simply because it’s on sale, you are being frivolous, not frugal., Being a positive example of frugal living requires being strict about household consumption. Food, personal care products, and even energy must be monitored to ensure you are not wasting money. What classifies as waste may look differently between households. In general, this may mean being more energy efficient with electrical appliances and usage, eating leftovers, or using old food as compost.


Explaining why you need to cut down on spending can be hard. So, find a way to add incentive to minimizing waste. For instance, you might say, "If we are careful with out electricity use this month and remember to turn off lights in vacant rooms, we may have extra money to go on a special outing. Can you kids help me make sure we are using electricity wisely?"

