 Prior to making egg ravioli, you will need to make the pasta dough. Using a stand-up mixer fitted with the hook attachment, combine the following ingredients: 2 ½ cups of flour, three eggs, and ½ teaspoon of salt. Mix together until the ingredients are combined. Then, remove from the mixer and knead the dough by hand for 3 to 5 minutes.Alternatively, you may be able to purchase fresh pasta dough from your local grocery store.;
, To make the ricotta cheese filling, you will need to dry five ounces (142 g) of ricotta cheese. This can be done by spreading the cheese over a towel and then placing another towel on top. Let is stand for approximately five minutes or until the moisture has been absorbed., Transfer the dried ricotta cheese to a medium-sized mixing bowl. Add 1 ounce (28 g) of freshly grated parmesan cheese and ½ a teaspoon of lemon juice to the ricotta cheese. Mix together and then add salt and pepper to taste.You can also add fresh basil, sage, nutmeg, red pepper flakes, or garlic depending on the flavour you want to create., Using a spoon, transfer the ricotta filling into a pastry bag. The pastry bag should be fit with a ¼ inch (2.5 cm) round tip for piping. If you do not have a pastry bag, you can place the filling in a ziplock bag and cut a ¼ inch (2.5 cm) hole in the bottom corner of the bag.Place the pastry bag and filling in the refrigerator.
 Divide the dough in half. Then using a pasta roller, roll out one half of dough into a ⅙ inch (0.5 cm) sheet of pasta. Sprinkle the dough with flour if it begins to dry out. You may need to put the dough through the roller a few times before you reach your desired thickness.Repeat this process with both halves of the dough.
In order to get the desired thickness, you will typically want to use the second to last setting on the pastry roller., Lay out one of the sheets of dough on a lightly floured surface. Then, using a cookie cutter, cut the dough into 4 ⅛ inch (10.4 cm) circles. You should be able to get about 10 circles from the two sheets of dough.Place five of the circles to the side and cover with a towel to keep them moist.
 Remove the ricotta filling from the refrigerator. Then, pipe the filling in the shape of a circle onto the dough. The circle of filling should be approximately 1 ½ inches (3.8 cm) in diameter. You do not have to be too exact with this measurement. It just needs to be big enough to hold an egg yolk.Once you have finished the first circle, pipe another circle directly on top. This will give the filling some height and will help keep the egg yolk in place.
Repeat this step with all five pasta circles.
 Crack an egg and then separate the egg whites from the yolk. Place the egg whites in a medium sized bowl. Then, using your hand or the egg shell, gently place the egg yolk in the center of the circle created by the filling.It is very important that you do this carefully so that you do not break the yolk.
Repeat this process with all five of the pasta circles.
 Using a pastry brush, gently brush the exposed edges of the pasta circles with water. This will help the ravioli seal once you add the top piece of pasta., Remove the five remaining dough circles from under the towel. Brush one side of each with water and then gently drape them over top of each piece of ravioli. Use your fingers to gently press down the edges so that they meet with the pasta on the bottom.You should also press down on the filling and egg yolk in order to remove any air pockets. This needs to be done with extreme caution so that you do not break the yolks.
 Place a large pot of salted water on the stove on medium to high heat. Wait until the water is at a gentle boil. Cover the pot with a lid to allow the water to boil faster., Drop the ravioli into the boiling water and cook until they begin to float and the cheese is warm. This will take approximately two and a half to three minutes. Avoid overcooking the pasta. This could lead to an overcooked egg, which will take away from the flavour and texture of the dish.Once cooked, remove the ravioli using a slotted spoon. Dab any excess water from the bottom of the ravioli with a paper towel.
 Serve the ravioli immediately. Place two to three pieces of ravioli on each plate. Then drizzle with a simple oil and garlic or tomato sauce.