 Mainly the ones you should try to remember are grabs, specials, aerials, and tilts. Make it your first priority to familiarize yourself with them if you haven't already done so.;
, Which moves can lead you to a follow-up attack? Can that attack lead you to another follow up attack? And maybe another? This is where Training mode comes into play. Grabs are always a pretty good approach. For example, most Marth users down throw opponents into a forward air. If you're not able to put in the time to piece together combos, watch a Marth combo video to give you a good idea of which work best for you.
 Techniques like pivot walking and dash dancing are great for playing mind games and confusing opponents. Other techniques which are quite general and can be used with a number of other characters are glide tossing (Marth doesn't have any projectiles for this to come into play, so you may not need it.) and SHFF (Short hop fast fall - essential for using Marth's aerials, most of which you can quickly cancel out of into another attack.) also work with this character.
 Basically, hitting opponent with the tip of the sword, lands you a critical. Spacing is commonly associated with smash attacks, mainly forward/back smash attacks or Marth's D-air. His D-air, if spaced correctly, will spike your opponents downward with no chance of successful vertical recovery. If it's used off stage, of course. (Although his d-air used from the back has a higher hit box than if used in the front.)

, (Or ledge hogging) It's a good technique to know if you don't already have it down. Once your character connects with the ledge, they get a half a second invincibility advantage. Say, for example, a wolf is trying to make a safe vertical recovery. At the second you see him start his up-special, you grab the ledge. Because of that half second invincibility, you won't be harmed by his special, and he'll descend off-screen. See how useful it is? You must time it right. If you edge hug too early, you'll have to time it right so you don't take any additional damage, and safely make it back on the stage. Edge hug too late, and you'll be unable to recover to the ledge, as your opponent has already grabbed it. Be wary of your timing.

