 Discover what you want from life, and what makes you tick. There is no point in trying to discover how to get on with woman if you are passionate about cars and machinery. Do what makes you feel genuinely happy. Since you read this article, you are probably interested in finding harmony with woman. Here are main guidelines;
, After all, they deserve it. If you manage to learn about the reasoning, dreams, hopes and emotional reactions of females, you will discover a whole new world of joy and happiness. Women are able to offer a lot more than the majority of men are aware of. Discover it and make this world a better and happier place.
 The eyes are a direct window to a person's soul, and so, looking into her eyes is a good way to find out about her character, her dreams, her fears and her attitude toward life. Learn to 'converse' silently with a single glance. Women are naturally good in 'silent eye talk', and they are happy to find someone who is on the same wavelength. This is an excellent start, usually more honest and better than all "those" conversation starters that include cheesy pickup lines and such. Women are deep and emotional, and so, many women would rather a different approach.
 If you really love women and show it, nothing bad can come of it. Even if you are not her type, she will treat you with respect and appreciation for treating her the way she deserves to be treated. This is a win-win situation

, It doesn't mean you need to be a 'wussy'. Show her that you have character enough to be truthful. (Hint: you need not overuse this, she may see it as a weakness. Be honest but don't tell her everything that is on your mind. Best approach is to think in terms of trying to seduce her, filter your honesty a bit to help you toward this goal and to let her know how valuable and rare you are. There is nothing bad in this behavior. For some extra help, watch the Don Juan genre of movies and try to understand the way they talk and how they behave; they had a genuine and honest passion for women.)

, Try to not involve your person in those conversations, rather position yourself on the sideline. (e.g., Right: 'Your eyes are so deep, they could make someone a very happy person'. Wrong: 'I really like your eyes and I am in love with them'.).
 Women are emotional creatures and they cannot resist emotional impulses. Talk to her in an emotionally attached way, gently touch her eyebrows, her hand. If you are genuine, you will feel the urge to do so, and not because you know you need to do it. However, understand that if the woman isn't interested in you in that way, this can and probably will make her uncomfortable. Don't be too touchy, but just touchy enough.
 Dress well, stay in good shape, etc. Love women, but be a man. They will love it.
 If your only intention is to seduce and leave, you are not fall under the category of "genuine", but "womanizer". Women are feeling, emotional people, not toys, so treat them like people and they will learn respect for you. If your intentions are not genuine it will degrade your status, even in your own eyes.


If you manage to act and behave as described above, chances are, the majority of women will like you very much. At the same time, you will be able to make them and yourself genuinely happy. But like men, there are some women with lower emotional/intellectual potential, who may not give off the reaction you want. You cannot be everything to everyone, and you don't need to be.

