 The ingredients list and associated informative language will help you to work out which brands or styles of chocolate are milk-free. Look for such words as "dairy-free", "milk-free", "suitable for vegans", or similar. Equally, look for "made in a place that uses milk", "processed on the same machinery where milk is used", etc.; if you are highly allergic to milk (meaning that you have an extremely low tolerance to milk proteins), these phrases provide an indicator to avoid that brand or type of chocolate altogether because there is a real risk of some milk protein being transferred to the chocolate during manufacturing.;
, Some of the more common ingredients to be concerned about include:Whey
Milk solids (curds)
Casein, often written as sodium caseinate
Lactose, galactose (and most ingredients beginning with "lact"-)
Caramel coloring; unless indicated otherwise, this is often derived from milk.
 Fortunately, there are a few possibilities here, including:


Dark chocolate varieties. Many dark chocolate varieties do not add milk because it reduces the bitterness or strong and delectable taste of dark chocolate. You do need to be able to handle the more bitter and stronger flavor that comes with dark chocolate varieties. (Also be aware that not all dark chocolate is milk-free; quite a few dark chocolate brands will still contain milk or milk derivatives, or will include milk in the filling or additives.)
Vegan chocolate. Any chocolate marketed to vegans must not contain dairy milk.
Soy, rice, coconut or other plant milk chocolate. Plant milk chocolates are on the increase and are even found in some supermarkets. This type of chocolate will taste different from dairy milk chocolate but you may find the flavor is even nicer, or at least comparable. Rice milk chocolate tends to be quite smooth and does not overpower the chocolate flavor.
Kosher pareve chocolate is milk-free.
 Check the labels, as explained above, for all of the brands that it stocks. You never know which ones might be milk-free. If there are none, consider asking the store manager to get some milk-free chocolate in, at least on a trial basis.
 These stores may stock dairy-free chocolate, especially if they have vegan clientele or they already cater to allergy-free customers. As well as walk-in stores, you may be able to find these stores online, either via their own websites or through an intermediary website such as an auction site.


Don't forget boutique chocolate makers. Many such makers pride themselves on using the very best chocolate from some of the renowned chocolate growing areas of the world, and they are less likely to adulterate fine quality chocolate with milk.
Check which manufacturers are happy to send their dairy-free chocolate products overseas to you if you don't find local stores (either real shopfronts or online stores) in your area or country. Be sure to check with customs about any charges on such foods coming in to your country.

