 "Bad" cholesterol, also known as low-density lipoprotein or LDL, is responsible for plaque formation. "Good" cholesterol may carry cholesterol away from the arteries to the liver for elimination from the body, reducing heart attack risk. The relationship between the two, known as "total cholesterol," is also a significant indicator of heart of health. In general, total cholesterol and LDL levels should be lower, while HDL cholesterol levels should be higher.


To raise HDL levels, increase your intake of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, which are found in peanut, canola and olive oils. Omega-3 fatty acids from walnuts, flaxseed and salmon, may also improve the ratio between HDL and LDL in the blood.
One of the best food substances for healthy LDL and total cholesterol levels is oat bran, found in oatmeal and other breakfast cereals. Foods with added plant sterols, such as some orange juice and yogurt products, may also be effective in maintaining healthier LDL levels. Read labels at the grocery store to discover which foods include this important substance.;
, While all types of exercise are healthy for the body, some workouts are more beneficial to the heart and cardiovascular system than others.


Aerobic activity is typically considered the best for maintaining healthy cholesterol levels. This might include brisk walking, jogging, swimming, dancing or bike riding. To get the full benefit, commit to at least 30 minutes of aerobic activity each day. This type of exercise has been shown to raise HDL cholesterol levels, although it does not impact LDL levels to a significant degree. Still, HDL levels are important to a healthy heart and can reduce the risk of medical conditions related to cholesterol.
 Supplements can be a natural, safe solution to medication, and are particularly helpful to those who have healthy cholesterol levels and want to take proper steps to maintain them.


Supplements that have been proven effective in maintaining normal blood cholesterol include fenugreek, garlic and niacin. Clinical trials dating back decades have shown niacin to be an effective ingredient for lowering LDL levels and raising HDL cholesterol. Fenugreek may lower total cholesterol and LDL, while garlic has a similar effect to Fenugreek, but for a shorter amount of time.
 Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the body. Higher levels of this substance may indicate a higher risk for diabetes. Many people who have an elevated triglyceride level may have higher total cholesterol and LDL levels as well.

