 Constipation is extremely bad for hemorrhoids. It is one of the leading causes of hemorrhoids, which means that being constipated just makes your hemorrhoids worse. The straining increases the pressure against the veins, which causes them to grow, become irritated, and potentially bleed., Keeping your body moving will also help keep your digestion moving. To prevent constipation, exercise daily. Exercise will move the food through your intestines in a timely and natural way. Find something fun like to do, such as yoga, Pilates, or jogging, to make it easier to work out every day.


Talk to your doctor about how strenuous your physical activities can be so soon after your pregnancy., When you feel the urge for a bowel movement, go the bathroom as soon as can. Don’t suppress the urge. The longer the stool is in your large intestine and colon, the more water is removed. This makes it harder to pass and increases the strain on you.


Even if you feel uncomfortable doing this while you are out shopping or at work, it is a natural process and waiting can be bad for your health., The more water your system has, the looser your stools will be. Drink enough water every day that your urine is light yellow in color. This will vary person to person. If your urine is nearly clear, you are over hydrated. If it is dark yellow, you need to hydrate much more. Dehydrated causes your body to take water from your waste products and stool to increase the amount available to your heart and brain., Foods rich in fiber help your stool retain more moisture. This will make them easier to pass, which will help you avoid constipation. Avoid processed foods, which are low in fiber and can cause constipation, such as French fries, donuts, white breads, foods made with white flour, and potato chips. Eat foods high in fiber such as:Vegetables
Fruits
Dried fruits, such as figs and raisins
Beans
Nuts
Seeds

, Probiotic supplements can help ease constipation. The probiotic re-populates your stomach with good bacteria necessary for digestion and proper stool formation. Probiotics should be taken with meals and most often are recommended to be taken with breakfast.


Although some yogurt contains probiotics, there is typically so much sugar that it encourages bad bacteria growth instead. Check the label of your yogurt brand for sugar levels. Even plain Greek yogurt can be high in sugar.
Probiotic supplements are not regulated by the FDA. Ensure your supplement comes from a company you trust and which advertises their testing procedures. Always ask your doctor before using these, especially when pregnant or nursing.