 The ease of paying with credit cards can quickly lead to overextending yourself and getting into too much debt. If you have a habit of purchasing things with credit when you don’t have the cash to pay for them, your credit card debt will continue to grow. Soon, your monthly minimum payments may be more than you can afford.Controlling impulse spending will help you to use credit cards more wisely.
Learning how to manage credit, how to strategically pay down balances and how to maximize rewards can reduce your monthly expenses.
 Your total monthly debt payments, including car payments, student loans and credit cards, should equal no more than 20 percent of your monthly income. If you are close to that limit, then hold off on new credit purchases until you can pay down some of those other loans. Failure to manage your level of debt can not only hurt your credit, but it can also hinder your ability to save for things like retirement., For example, if you pay $300 per month on your car payments, $200 per month on student loans and $200 per month on credit card balances, then our total debt payments per month equal $700.


In this example, if you make $3,500 per month, then your debt-to-income ratio equals 20 percent ($3,500 x .2 = $700). If you make less than this per month, then your debt is too high, and you need to reduce your debt before making any more debt purchases.
 You can get your credit report for free once per year from annualcreditreport.com. Your total debt and your payment history appears on your credit report. The way you manage your credit affects your credit score. Also, errors on your credit report can hurt your credit. Review your credit report often and know whether you need to work on improving your credit score and/or if you need to address errors on your credit report., Familiarize yourself with all of the fees they charge. Credit card fees include annual fees, charges for balance transfers, cash advance fees and late fees. Choose a credit card with a fee structure that matches your needs. For example, if you want to transfer balances from a high-rate card to a card with a lower rate, look for a card that doesn’t charge fees for balance transfers., Your credit card statement tells you how long it will take to pay off your credit card just by paying the minimum monthly balance. If you have a high balance, this can take many years and cost you thousands in interest expense. Make a plan to pay as much as possible towards your credit card debt. Don’t sacrifice other long-term financial goals, such as saving for retirement. But definitely pay more than the minimum balance each month. While you are paying down your balance, don’t make any purchases on your credit card.