 Place the warm water in a large bowl and sprinkle the yeast on top of it. Allow it to stand for 10 minutes, or until the mixture becomes somewhat foamy.


If the mixture does not become foamy, it could mean that the yeast has died. Dead yeast will not be able to provide any lift for the dough, so you should discard it and start over with a new packet.;
, Add the sugar, milk, beaten egg, salt, and flour to the bowl. Mix well to combine into a soft dough.


Add the flour gradually for best results. Once you have added enough flour to form the dough, stop and do not add any more, even if you have not yet used the full amount called for in the ingredient list.
 Lightly flour a clean kitchen counter or working surface. Turn the dough out into the flour and knead, by hand, for 6 to 8 minutes or until it becomes smooth and elastic.


You may also need to dust your hands with flour while kneading the dough to prevent it from sticking to your skin.
 Lightly oil the sides of a large mixing bowl with vegetable oil or nonstick cooking spray. Place the dough inside this bowl, and cover the whole thing with a clean, damp dish towel. Set it in a warm location and let it rise until doubled in volume.
 Punch the dough down using your hands. Scatter the minced garlic over it, then knead firmly to distribute the garlic throughout the dough.


The garlic is only optional. If you do not wish to add it, simply punch down the dough and do not worry about any additional kneading.
 Break off a small ball of dough roughly 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) in diameter. Roll it between your hands until the ball becomes rounder and smoother, and place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Repeat with the rest of the dough.


Note that you should keep at least 4 inches (10 cm) of space in between the dough when you arrange the portions on the baking sheet. The dough should have enough room to expand without the individual portions brushing into each other in the process.
 Cover the dough with a damp dish towel and allow it to rise for another 30 minutes, or until doubled in size again. Once risen, use a floured rolling pin to flatten each ball of dough into a circle less than 1-inch (2.5-cm) thick.
 Lightly oil the grill before putting the naan on it.


Place a circle of naan on the prepared grill and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. It should become puffy, and the bottom should turn light brown in color.
Brush the uncooked side of the naan with melted butter and flip the portion over. Brush the cooked side with butter, as well.
Cook this second side for another 2 to 4 minutes, or until it also begins to brown.
Remove the finished naan from the grill.
Continue cooking the naan in this manner until all the dough has been used.
 Keep a baking stone or baking sheet in the oven as it preheats, so the stone is just as hot as the oven when you place the uncooked naan on it.


Dip your hands in water and lightly wet each piece of dough.
Place a few rounds of uncooked naan onto your preheated baking stone in a single layer. Do not let them touch or overlap.
Bake for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the naan turns golden brown.
Remove the finished naan from the oven and immediately brush with melted butter.
Repeat until all the naan is cooked. Wait 3 to 4 minutes in between batches so that the baking stone has time to heat up again.
 At this point, the naan is ready to eat. Serve it while still warm.

