 When you see your brothers friends in the hallway, don't stare at them. If they're alone and you are the only two there, then you can smile or say "Hi_____", but don't be too forward or they will back off.;
, When you're at your house and they are over, with your brother there of course, make an excuse to go wherever they are. Boys actually like it when you confront them, and some find it attractive. Also don't just go over there and sit down and chat. Your brother will get annoyed, and know something is up. You could casually say something like "Hey guys, I'm gonna make myself a cup of coffee and just wanted to know if you would like some." If your brothers friends are into a sport then go to the games and "bump" into him. Don't be shy and make it awkward.
 Gain their interests, and don't just talk about yourself to them, talk about them. If it's one thing that almost all guys like loads is when they have attention. The shy guys usually need you to be open but don't get too pushy or involved in their business, it can come off as annoying.
 You know that if you saw him in the hallway with another girl you would get jealous. Well reverse it. Don't try to make him jealous by flirting with another guy, but casually meet a boy and talk to him in front of your brothers friend. He will go nuts wanting to get the same attention. He will want you!

, Don't like what he likes, unless you naturally do, but try to learn more about it. For example, he likes bowling. Next time you see him casually mention something about a bowling party. Who knows what he will say when he knows you like the same things as him.
 You don't want to go too far without his consent. But that doesn't mean you have to tell him that you like his friend, especially if you know he would get mad/angry.
 You will definitely know if he comes over more and always is talking to you.
 Boys understand what its like to have some flaws, but don't be unhealthy about it. They will like you even more if they like you physically. That means stay active!

, Don't burp and be rude because you're not a guy.
 Try to show him that you are good the way you are and that you're not going to change for him. Don't let him. If you want to get energized and change the way you look, or you want to change the way you do some things that's fine but don't do drugs, smoke, or drink just to get his attention or to be with him.

