 You high school counselor is a general resource, who can help not only with selecting classes and getting into college, but also with saving for college. Speak to the counselor at your school for information about savings plans that may be available and about scholarships for which you or your child may qualify. Guidance offices often sponsor workshops and lectures about college savings., Banks are not only in the business of earning money but also helping you save money. To get some help saving for college, visit an adviser at your local bank. You will be able to get information about investment programs that the bank offers for its customers, as well as information about federal and state-sponsored programs. As a local resource, the bank is also likely to be more familiar with scholarship programs in your area or contacts with local colleges and universities., Many investment programs for college savings will require the assistance of a professional financial adviser or stock broker. Many people think that financial advisers are only for wealthy investors, but that is not true. Even people with modest incomes who wish to make the most of their savings should be consulting with a professional adviser. Here are some suggestions for finding a reliable and helpful financial adviser:Ask friends, relatives or colleagues for recommendations. If people you know have used a particular individual or company, and have been satisfied, then you may as well. This is a good way to get started.
Consider whether you want to hire someone who is fee-based or commission-based. A fee-based adviser will collect a retainer or hourly fee, but then may be more likely to work with a wider range of products. A commission-based adviser does not collect a fee from you but earns a commission on the investments that you make.
Visit reliable websites. The Garrett Planning Network offers a nationwide search tool that helps you locate financial advisers across the U.S., particularly who service middle class customers. MyFinancialAdvice.com is another tool that offers financial advice for modest investors.

