 Boils are bump-like manifestations on the skin. When it is advanced, a boil can disappear on its own or increase in size. When they increase in size they become abscesses and are of significant concern, both medically and cosmetically. If it increases in size, it will eventually form a head, which means that underneath the top surface, the skin becomes filled with pus. It can break open, draining and oozing pus, which is a mixture of blood cells, bacteria and fluids. The symptoms include:


A firm, typically red bump on the skin
Tenderness at the sight of the bump, which is sometimes extreme
Swelling;
, When you notice the symptoms of a boil, you may need to figure out which boil you have. A boil is a common form of a medical condition called an abscess which is a collection of pus underneath the dermis (the layer of skin under the epidermis). There are a number of different types of boils that may appear. These include:


Furuncles, which occur in hair follicles. They are associated with a fever and chills and can become chronic.
Carbuncles, which are generally larger than furuncles and can also become chronic. They can also form hardened lumps under the skin.
Cystic acne, which is both a type of acne and a type of boil associated with more severe forms of acne.
Hidradenitis suppurativa, which is an inflammatory condition of the sweat glands. It occurs when there are multiple boils cropping up under the arms and along the groin area. It is also resistant to antibiotics and may require surgery to remove the affected sweat glands.
Pilonidal cysts, which result from inflamed hair follicles at the top of the buttock crease. Pilonidal cysts are uncommon, can occur after long periods of sitting, and occurs more in men than women., There are multiple things that can cause boils. They are the result of an infection from the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus most commonly, though other fungi and bacteria can be found in the boils. Boils can be found anywhere on the body; however, they are most commonly found on the face, armpit, neck, inner thighs, and buttocks., Boils can happen to anyone at any time. The bacteria that causes boils is very common on nearly everyone’s skin, so it is possible for almost anyone to get it from that. There are also some other factors that can increase your risk. These include:


Coming into close contact with someone close who has a boil or a Staph infection. If you are around someone with Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), take extra precautions, as this can colonize on your body and increase your risk of serious infection.
Diabetes, which can suppress the immune system and lead to more infections. Due to the increase in blood sugar, microbes are more likely to colonize and infect a person with diabetes. If you have a boil and are diabetic, seek out medical attention immediately.
Any condition resulting in a suppressed immune system, such as HIV or cancer.
Other skin conditions that weaken the barrier capabilities of the skin, such as psoriasis, eczema, acne, or other condition in which the skin is dried or broken., Boils diagnosed in most cases by their appearance. There are a few different ways to treat them. Once they are diagnosed by your doctor, you can have them lanced, which is when the doctor pokes a hole in the head, or pus-filled head, of the boil and drains the pus.


In some cases, your doctor may also prescribe antibiotics, which can be topical or oral. This is usually reserved for large boils or those that last longer than two or three weeks.
If the boils are on your face or spine, are particularly painful, and/or are associated with a fever, more treatment may be necessary. , In rare occasions, the infection from a boil can spread, causing infections in the brain, heart, bones, blood, and spinal cord. Because of this, any suspected boils should not be ignored, especially if they are recurring. See your doctor if any remedies or treatments recommended do not help within two weeks. Also call your doctor if:You are running a fever
The boil is very painful or limits movement or sitting
The boil is on your face
You feel over-fatigued
You see reddish streaks coming from the boil
It gets worse or another boil develops

