 Your first weeks should be about getting started, establishing a routine, and familiarizing yourself with your equipment. A sample schedule for your first weeks, which are suitable for 12 weeks of training for an Olympic distance race, may be:


Monday: Rest day
Tuesday: Bike 30 minutes
Wednesday: Swim 750 yards

Increase to 1000 yards in week 3


Thursday: Run 30 minutes
Friday: Do yoga for 30 minutes
Saturday: Bike 15 miles and swim (brick training)
Sunday: Run 3 miles and swim (brick training)

, After you begin to be comfortable in your workout routine, you should push yourself by increasing the distance gradually. A sample schedule for weeks 4-7 could be:


Monday: Rest day
Tuesday: Bike 30 minutes

Increase to 45 minutes in weeks 6 and 7


Wednesday: Swim 1500 yards

Increase to 2000 yards in week 7


Thursday: Run 30 minutes
Friday: Do yoga for 30 minutes

Increase to 60 minutes in weeks 6 and 7


Saturday: Bike 20 miles and swim (brick training)

Increase to 25 miles in week 6 and 30 miles in week 7


Sunday: Run 4 miles and swim (brick training)

Increase to 5 miles in weeks 6 and 7



, Now is the time to step up your training by trying to make your swimming, biking, and running faster while you continue to increase distance. In the case of timed workouts, this will mean that you’re covering more distance. For the distance workouts, you will get done faster as you increase your speed. A sample schedule for weeks 8-12 might look like this:


Monday: Rest day
Tuesday: Bike 60 minutes
Wednesday: Swim 2000 yards

Increase to 2500 yards in weeks 10-12


Thursday: Run 30 minutes
Friday: Do yoga for 60 minutes
Saturday: Bike 35-40 miles and swim (brick training)
Sunday: Run 6 miles and swim (brick training)

Increase to 7 miles in weeks 10 and 11 and 8 miles in week 12



, It is good for your body to rest, so even when you’re in intense training mode, try to give yourself one day every week to rest. It may be easiest to have it be the same day every week.
 The one to two weeks before your race, you should work on tapering your training. This means that you will continue to train with the LESS intensity AND for shorter distances or times. If you do a 2-week taper, you should aim for about 20% less workout volume the first week and 25% less volume the second week.You should take the day before the race totally off from any training and stay off of your feet as much as possible.
 When you are training for such an intensive competition, you need to listen to what your body is telling you. This will help ensure that you stay in good health and train safely. Monitor your heart rate. As you get into better shape, your resting heart rate slows down. It should be its slowest in the morning right when you wake up. Try counting your heart rate for 10 seconds first thing in the morning. Keep track every day so that you know your normal rate. If your heart rate is higher than normal, you may be getting sick or your body may not have recovered from the previous day’s training. If your rate is too high, skip training for the day.
Don’t exercise if you have a fever or other symptoms of illness such as muscle aches or chills.
Pay attention to symptoms such as shortness of breath, fainting, lightheadedness or chest pain. These can be indicative of heart issues. Stop exercising right away and see a doctor if you are concerned.
If you’ve been sick, make sure you return to training with patience and reasonable expectations until you are fully well.

