 The official name of a statute isn't strictly necessary, but should be included if the statute is commonly called that, or if it makes it easier for your readers to identify. If you do include the name of the act, it should be listed first in your statutory citation.If you do include the title of the law, there is no special formatting such as italics required.
If the law you're referencing is spread out over several sections of the code, you should cite to the session law instead of a code section if you intend to cite the entire law. The session law is the law itself as it was enacted by the legislative body, before it was recorded into the legislative code.
This situation may occur if you are referencing a law such as The Patriot Act, which amended many other laws already on the books.
 A statutory code is a compilation of laws enacted by a particular legislative body, such as a state legislature or the U.S. Congress. These volumes are similar to case reporters that contain court decisions.For example, you would cite a federal law by writing "28 U.S.C.," which indicates the volume (28) of the U.S. Code (U.S.C.) where the law is located.
Table 1 of the Bluebook lists the approved code compilations for state laws and their abbreviations.
While there are official code compilations, there also are code compilations published by the legal publishers LexisNexis and West. If you are using one of these code compilations, this should be indicated accordingly.
 After you've written the name or abbreviation of the code compilation in which the statute appears, put a space and indicate the particular section with the information you're citing.Use a "§" before the number to stand for "Section."
If you are referencing multiple sections, this should be indicated by "§§." If you intend to reference several sections together in a series, connect the first and last section with a hyphen. To indicate a reference to two or more separate sections, put the section numbers separated by a comma and a space.
An example of multiple sections in a series would be "28 U.S.C. §§ 402-407." In contrast, multiple sections not in series would look like this: "28 U.S.C. §§ 402, 409." You also can combine the two methods, for example: "28 U.S.C. §§ 402-407, 409."

, At the end of your statutory citation, put the date the code volume was published – not the date the statute itself was enacted – in parentheses.The purpose of this date is to allow your readers to find the same edition of the law that you used in your work.
You can find the date you need by looking at the spine of the volume, the volume's title page, or the volume's copyright information. You should check these places for the year in that order. In other words, if the date isn't on the spine, check the title page. If you can't find the date on the title page, check the copyright information.
Keep in mind that even if you're looking at a statute online, you technically should check the bound volume to find the information necessary for your citation. Compare the online text to the text in the volume to make sure you have the correct volume and the two versions are identical before citing.

