 And, since this is an ode to the ads, remind your football-loving friends that the commercials come first and the game a distant second (unless of course you are a die-hard fan of one of the teams playing). If it’s a small party with close friends, a simple phone call will do. For larger parties, or if you really want to set the commercial-watching mood, consider filming your own faux-commercial/invitation (don’t worry about high-quality production techniques, the low-brow effect adds to the charm). Then upload it to YouTube or another online video sharing service, and send a link of the video to your friends via an e-mail invitation. Set an RSVP date that allows you enough time to prepare for food, drink and other requirements.


If you have friends whose favorite football team is actually playing the Super Bowl, give them plenty of warning that this is a commercial-watching party. If their team starts winning the game, they’ll be in good spirits, but if their team starts losing, you might have a mood dampener on your hands. In other words, invite these types of people only at your own risk.;
, Instead of footballs and team colors, consider displaying the logos of this year’s Super Bowl advertisers.
 With all those commercials for snack foods, soda and beer, your guests are bound to get hungry. Have fun with the menu, and consider stocking the snack table with products that have bought airtime in recent Super Bowls. Don’t forget to stock plenty of alcoholic drink options, as these are generally advertised during the Big Game.
 Of course you do. Since most sheet cakes are conveniently shaped like a TV, consider having your local cake decorator create an ode to the ads with a semi-high definition rendering of a TV displaying your favorite Super Bowl commercial (with or without the cool photo-converted-into-icing technique).



Ad Checklist - See the video below.
Ad Trivia - Do an Internet search for "super bowl commercials trivia" and quiz your guests!
Ad Bingo - Make a list of 25-30 things you're likely to see in a Super Bowl commercial. Print several copies of a blank Super Bowl ad bingo card (PDF) and fill them in randomly with items from your list. To save time, you can visit this website which will automatically generate bingo cards that you can print.

Example Super Bowl Advertisement Bingo Game Card


