 Once you've developed an understanding of the types of writing and the skills necessary to write online, start looking for some freelance opportunities and open calls for content. Most big cities that update regularly don't have a paid staff of writers. Rather, they contract out the content to freelancers, who are paid by the article, or as per some other arrangement. Whatever your niche interest, there are probably venues within that niche that hire freelance writers regularly. There are lots of databases of freelance job listings, one of which can be found here.


If you're searching around on Craigslist, try looking for telecommuting opportunities in major metropolitan areas. Lots of online writing gigs are listed in the Bay Area, though lots of content will have no connection to that geography. You can do the job just as well from Iowa or Indonesia as from Brooklyn or SF.
There are also freelance agencies that serve small businesses, hiring out content and finding work for you. Digital Sherpa, Content Launch, and Zerys are examples of agencies that will hire you to write content for other sites on a rolling basis.Many jobs that involve lots of writing online aren't necessarily titled "Writing Position." Look for subtler buzzwords, like "content" and "copy." Lots of Internet start-ups will use the jargon of the start-up, but the job will essentially revolve around writing tasks.
 Content farms will offer a small amount of money for a huge amount of writing expected from you in a very short amount of time. These kinds of jobs won't provide you any good copy to use on a resume, because content farms are completely devoted to producing exponentially increasing numbers of low-quality content, basically as a way of having something to slap ads on to. If you've ever wound up on a page with more ads than writing, or on a mis-spelled domain page, you've seen one of these sites. These sites pay writers next to nothing, have no content standards, and lower the standards of online discourse considerably. Avoid them.
 After you've secured a few assignments and published some work online, keep track of the very best content you produce for use in your portfolio. While many future jobs will be interested in your experience and in your resume, online jobs–for the most part–will come down to one thing: whether or not you can write.


try to aim for a diversity of content. If you've written a review of a sci-fi novel for Kirkus Reviews, that might pair well with some product copy you wrote for LL Bean.Only include material you've written online in a job portfolio. Prospective employers probably don't need to see the senior thesis you wrote about Aristotle, regardless of how great it is. Depending on the job, your own personal blog, or guest posts you've made on other sites may be appropriate, and they may not.
 Promote your self and your skills on social networking sites like LinkedIn as a writer available for a variety of tasks. If you're a great copy editor, a talented banjo player, and a heck of a good cook, let your online presence reflect the diversity of your skills to apply to attract as many different sorts of employment out there. What if a pioneer-revival website needs a copyeditor, or needs someone to embed as a period-minstrel to do research at Civil War re-enactments? You just can't miss out on that because you played your resume too conservatively.


Employment sites like Monster and JobFinder are also good places to start, though they cater less to online employment for writing than you might be able to find your own on places like Craigslist.
 You don't have to wait for an assignment from an agency, or for a freelance contract to get paid for your writing. Research venues that publish the kind of work you're already writing, and try to tailor you submissions to their guidelines. Often, online magazines and journals will have open submissions, or reading periods, in which they'll consider unsolicited work.


In general, these kinds of publications are highly selective, publishing as little as 1% of the manuscripts they receive and peer review. While this would be a next-to-impossible way to make a living, publishing work in respected journals is an important way of building credibility as a writer and giving yourself a good-looking resume. Think of it less as a money-making venture and more as a reputation-building step.
 If you've been freelancing for a while, you may be ready to settle in to a more traditional employment arrangement. There's a diversity of sites that will hire on full or part-time employees in editorial and content-creation capacities, allowing you to pursue your love of writing in a paid capacity.


These jobs typically require that you have some measure of experience writing online, which your freelance experience should provide, a sample of your writing, a resume, and probably a Bachelor's Degree.
If you've freelanced for long enough, you've likely learned more about the kinds of venues that you might be interested in working for, or how to get hired on full-time at one of the businesses you've done freelance work for. Keep your head down and inquire about full-time opportunities until you find something.

