 Think of a username that is Webkinz or animal related.;
, Use a cute icon of a Webkinz. A bunch of things will work and a lot of KinzTubers will make icons for you. Don't use site models though. The most popular things to use are pictures of cute Puppy's or Kittens.
 Make sure you use a Webkinz in it. Or that isn't considered KinzTubing. Make sure to make a couple before you make any videos without Webkinz in them. Your video's can be about almost anything, you could go outside, for instance, or show the world your Christmas tree. That's the best part of KT, you can make as many video as you want, you could make 4 a day, or 4 a month, and nobody will judge you for it. Do what you want, because that's what makes KinzTube what it is.



Create original content to ensure it's not a channel full of things viewers have seen before. Be creative!

, The Kinztuber who does their own thing is far more interesting than the copycat. Maybe everyone is collecting the Brown Dog, well, that doesn't mean you should.
 That means getting more than one of a certain webkinz, but only do that if you really like a certain kind.
 Edit out the boring and unnecessary. Add short funny pop-outs and clips to those talking videos to make them more fun., Make a lot outside. Do lots of interesting things. The best part of KinzTube is that you can do almost anything.
 Except for the mean ones, because if you get popular you might get some of those. If you're younger than it would be better for you to have your parents monitor what you do on there, because whenever you're on the internet, you might get into some sticky situations.
 Webkinz Newz has a movie showcase where they show Kinztube videos. Tell them about your channel, and you might be featured on Webkinz Newz and it will give you a good jump start!, At least once a week is good. Channels are more fun when you can often get a brand new video.

Make a series. Series are a good reason for your viewers to come right back to your channel.
 Those kinztuber's subscribers will see you on that Kinztuber's channel and come to yours!