 Identify anything that's causing you to procrastinate, then get rid of it. Sell it or put it in a storage locker. Move away from it. Throw it away. You can't become motivated if you're squandering all of your time.


If you're spending too much time aimlessly browsing the internet, install a "productivity" extension in your browser. These free extensions allow you to block certain sites and/or set time limits for recreational browsing.
 Hold yourself accountable in your own eyes and the eyes of others. Set personal penalties for yourself if you don't act - throw out some delicious cookies you've been saving or make a donation to charity. Tell your friends and family about things you plan on doing. If you don't do these things, they'll know, and you'll be embarrassed - now you have a great reason to get started!

, Only you know where to draw the line in terms of dosage - one person's typical morning brew might make another jittery and unfocused all day. A moderate dose can make you feel alert, oriented, and focused.


Write yourself little notes to keep you motivated or set a reminder on your phone that reminds you every 20 minutes, this might get annoying enough to make you actually do it.
If you've already got a caffeine addiction - that is, you need caffeine just to function normally - you might be out of luck!
Stay away from more powerful stimulants unless a doctor has prescribed them for a specific condition. They can be extremely habit-forming if used carelessly.
 Go for a short run, do some jumping jacks, or shadowbox. Even light physical exercise can affect our moods, making us feel more active and dynamic. Exercise has even been shown to thwart depression and low self-image - both hurdles to personal motivation efforts., If you're having serious motivation problems, breaking one large task into many small tasks can make it much easier to approach psychologically. Because we get a feeling of accomplishment from completing each step of the task, this trick can increase motivation substantially. Sometimes, all that's needed to gain the momentum to tackle the whole project is to complete the first simple step.
 Even tremendously motivated people can be driven to lethargy and inaction if they have to perform tedious, repetitive tasks for weeks or months on end. Break up the monotony with spontaneous and out-of-the-ordinary activities. Try to create an internal sense of unpredictability - even you don't know exactly what you'll do tomorrow. This can ease the psychological tedium of work that is the same day after day. Here are just a few ideas you might want to experiment with:


Spend a lunch break at a scenic place outdoors.
Have an impromptu soccer game with friends or coworkers.
Surprise your workplace with some home cooking.
Take a friend or significant other out for a night on the town, even if there's no special occasion.
Change your personal style. Cultivate a drastically different look, then wait for reactions from your friends and coworkers.

