 Communication is the key to any relationship, and it's no different during the summer. Talk to him or her about once a day (maybe more, maybe less, depending on your regular routine) to make sure that you stay as close as possible.


Call, email, or instant message; just stay in touch. It doesn't really matter what method you use as long as you consistently share things and stay on the same page.






Talk about what's going on your life. This will help the other person feel like they're a part of your life, even if you don't get to see them every day. Talk about what you did that day and what you are going to do the next time you see each other. Talk about friends, family, the past and upcoming school year, and be sure to ask a lot of questions if you want to keep the conversation going.






If you're feeling romantic, write a letter. A letter takes more time and energy to write than an email or text, so it's a sign that you're willing to put in that extra energy for that person. Letters don't have to be long to be effective. Share an interesting thing that happened to you, or just talk about how the other person makes you feel. You'll be sure to get a lot of points for a well-written letter.





;
, It's important to maintain a physical relationship with one another if possible, so decide on what you want to do together and do it. The more you see each other in the flesh, the better.


Beach or water activities scream summer. When you think about long, hot summer days, you think about...the beach! Share the beach or the pool with your boyfriend or girlfriend. If you're not comfortable being completely alone yet, invite your friends along for the ride. Anytime you can see that special someone in a bathing suit, that's a plus.






Movies are also popular during the summer, so take advantage of them. Go see a matinee on the cheap, and be choosy about the movie you watch: action, comedy, and horror are the best date movies, but decide on a movie you both want to watch so that neither of you falls asleep or has a bad time. If your city has an outdoor movie theatre or drive-in, definitely take advantage of it!






If you plan on going over to his or her house, be respectful of the house rules, and most importantly, the parents. Remember, if the parents like you, you'll probably get invited over more often. If the parents dislike you, you probably won't get invited over, and there might even be pressure to end the relationship. If you're a guy, say "ma'am" and "sir," even if it sounds weird, clean up after yourself, offer to help with any chores, and be nice to any siblings. Getting the parents on your side will help you see your boyfriend or girlfriend that much more during the summer.
 You're in this relationship for a reason: the other person makes you feel good, makes you want to be a better person, makes you happy to be alive. Well, act like it! Be happy when you're with your significant other, and take advantage of every second you have.


Tell your significant other how they make you feel. It doesn't need to be cheesy. Just be honest, and listen to your emotions. Something as simple as "I'm lucky to have you," or "I wouldn't want to be anywhere else but with you" gives them a little bit of feedback about how you feel and opens the door to being more intimate with one another.






Celebrate important dates or anniversaries. If you've been together for a while, celebrate that three-month anniversary when it comes up. It'll tell the other person you paid attention, and will signal that you're happy to still be together. It doesn't need to be anything fancy, as long as the other person knows why you're doing it.






Don't be afraid to go out on a limb. So she's never gone to a concert before, or he's never been to the zoo. Well, the summer is the perfect opportunity to go out on a limb and do things you've never done before. Doing fun, exciting, adventurous things will help strengthen your bond together. If you need a parent to go along with you, don't worry about it; it can still be fun if you have the right mindset.







