 Peppermint oils can provide the mouth with a fresh and clean feeling. You can either chew on a mint or use the oils to make a tea. To make a tea mixture from fresh or dried peppermint:


Add a heaped teaspoon of the dried or fresh peppermint to a cup of boiling water. Allow it to steep for a few minutes. Strain and drink.If you don't like it unsweetened, add a little lemon to improve the taste. However, many people love the refreshing taste of peppermint on its own, so try it first to see if you will enjoy the taste.;
, By using a small teaspoon of myrrh and mixing it with two cups of boiling water, the drink could help you alleviate the effects of bad breath. To see great results, try taking 5-6 teaspoons a day., Clover leaves contain helpful oils that aid you in the fight against bad breath. They have anti-microbial effects and antiseptic properties, which help to decrease foul odors in the mouth. You can chew on a few pieces or try boiling the leaves and drinking it as a tea.Boil two cups of water and add 4 leaves of clover, let this seep for 20 minutes, strain tea and drink.
This could also be used as a mouth rinse that can be used a couple times a day., Chewing on a piece of parsley can help freshen your breath. Oftentimes found on your plate with your meal, try chewing on it after you’ve finished eating. Parsley has high levels of chlorophyll found in it, which is a compound known to have anti-bacterial properties, which help fight bacteria that contributes to bad breath.Try this quick process to get rid of bad breath:


Dip a handful of fresh parsley leaves in vinegar and then chew them thoroughly for a minute or two. You can repeat this as often as necessary to freshen your breath., Baking soda has the ability to balance the pH levels in your mouth, which makes it hard for bacteria to fester and grow in your mouth. It can also remove strains on your teeth. While it’s a powerful tool to alleviate the effects of bad breath, use sparingly as it can cause corrosion of your teeth.You can brush your teeth with baking soda after you first brush using your normal toothpaste. You can also try using toothpaste with baking soda as an ingredient so you won’t have to deal with the direct harsh effects of the baking soda.
You can also use it as a mouth rinse by dissolving it in a glass of warm water and gargling. Try using it several times a day., Apple cider vinegar has acidic and antiseptic properties which break down plaque and can fight the bacteria in your mouth that causes bad breath.Stir a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water and drink before each meal. Alternatively, you could drink a diluted tablespoon of diluted vinegar after each meal.
To use as a rinse, stir a teaspoon of the vinegar in cup of warm water and gargle., Lemons and other citrus fruits contain high acidic and citrus properties which stimulate your saliva and aids in the prevention of bacteria growth on your tongue and gums.Mix a teaspoon of fresh lemon juice in a cup of water with a pinch of salt. Use as a gargle before bed., Cinnamon sticks can release essential oils that kill bacteria that cause bad breath odors. It also has a good taste!To use cinnamon as a rinse, add a teaspoon of it to a cup of water and boil for five to ten minutes. Strain the solution and rinse your mouth. Repeat twice a day., Brushing and flossing your teeth at least twice a day could improve your symptoms of having bad breath. You should aim to brush your teeth in the morning once you get up, right before bed, and after each meal if you can.Going to the dentist regularly can help keep you on a good dental hygiene routine.
Scraping your tongue with a tongue scraper can help remove any leftover bacteria that may not be picked up from the toothbrush., A poor diet can contribute to having bad breath. Avoiding fried foods, foods high in trans fat, sugar, sticky foods, soda, and foods that give off strong odors can improve your overall bad breath.Implementing a healthy diet that includes eating foods high in fiber, citrus fruits and vegetables, and foods high in probiotics are types of food that could help combat your bad breath.


Onions and garlic are foods that give off the strongest odor. Eat them in moderation and try to brush your teeth or chew gum after a meal with them.
 Drinking plenty of water throughout the day prevents your mouth from becoming dry, which is a one of the causes of poor hygiene. Try drinking at least eight ounces a day., Excessive alcohol and smoking leads to not only serious health illnesses, it can also contribute to bad breath. These activities lead to an increased risk of gum disease which is another cause of bad breath.