 Artificial flower wreaths last much longer than fresh flower leaves. You can keep artificial wreaths for several years if you take care of them properly. Artificial flowers can be bought at most craft stores. There are several types of artificial flowers to choose form. You can buy silk, fabric, wax, latex, and foam flowers.If you don’t want to use artificial flowers, you can also buy preserved flowers. They can last as long as artificial flowers if taken care of properly.
 You can purchase a ready-to-use foam base from a craft store. Choose one that looks close to the size you desire the wreathe to be. Remember, that is will appear a bit larger once the wreath is completed.Measure the base or look for the dimensions on the price sticker while still in the store to make sure it is the size you are looking for.
 If you are using artificial flowers without stems, you can make stems with floral tape and wire. Add a piece of flower wire to the bottom of the flower and attach it with tape. Tape the entire length of the wire to create a stem.You can multiply how many flowers you have by taking apart an artificial bouquet and creating stems for each flower.
It is easier to buy artificial flowers that already have stems attached.
 Place single flower heads or bundles of flowers around the wreath to form the design. Check that you find it pleasing before attaching the flowers permanently. You can remove the design completely before attaching, or keep the design in place as you begin attaching them to the base.If attaching single flowers, go through one type of flower at a time. For example, attach all of the roses first. Then, move on to the lilies.
 You can insert the flower stems directly into the foam base. Or, you can glue the flowers to the base. Use hot or white glue to attach the flowers all the way around the wreath. Floral pins can also help to keep flowers in place. Hot glue works better than white glue for a longer lasting attachment. , You can make your own hanger by cutting off the top of a wire clothes hanger, gluing it on the back of the wreath, and hanging it on a nail. You can also purchase wreath hangers from a florist or craft store. Hang the wreath on the door, wall, or wherever it will appear decorative for the occasion.You can buy hangers in plastic, wire, and as suction cups.