 A scary event can make you wonder what happened, why it happened, and what the future will be like. Don’t ignore your feelings, as this can slow your recovery and ability to cope. There’s no “right” way to cope, and each person will have different thoughts, feelings, and actions. Find an outlet for your feelings that feels safe to you. You may want to listen to music, draw, paint, or sketch, go on a walk, or play with your dog.Your emotions exist whether you want to acknowledge them or not. Even intense emotions will pass if you allow yourself to feel them.
 Social support is important, especially during periods of stress. Talk with other parents when you’re feeling fearful as a way to gather information, garner support, and be there for one another. Parents tend to want what is best for their children, so meeting with other parents can be supportive and help with problem-solving.For example, hearing about a school shooting may make you feel fearful about sending your kids to school. Lean on other parents for support and strength and to voice your fears and feelings.
 Therapy can help you work through problems in a supportive environment. While there are different therapeutic approaches, you should feel supported and able to talk freely without judgment. If you’re struggling to express your emotions or cope with difficult feelings, a therapist can help you through your challenges.Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider, local mental health clinic, or getting a referral from your physician. You can also ask for a recommendation from family and friends.
Connect with a social work case manager if possible, depending on the severity of the crisis. Social workers are trained at helping people work through crisis situations. They are able to look at and support the entire family system, rather than focusing in on just one particular family member or issue. Social workers are fully qualified individuals to provide therapeutic interventions to address mental health concerns, issues related to medical concerns, substance abuse concerns, and any other dynamic family changes and concerns.
 Connecting to others with similar concerns, fears, and questions can be helpful during difficult times. A support group can help you connect with others, share your experiences, and listen to others’ experiences. It’s a place for giving and receiving advice, meeting people similar to you, and feeling less isolated and alone.Find a local support group by calling a local mental health clinic. You can also join an online support group.

