 Good posture is an easy and very important way to maintain a healthy mind and body and it is a non-verbal communication element.


When you are sitting try to stay straight like if you had a stick running down your spine that keeps you in position. If your chair has arms put your arms there to help it.
Always have shoulders back, use the stick trick to maintain a straight posture and if you can't lean your back on a wall, like if you were measuring yourself and then slowly detach yourself.
 You are fierce, strong and powerful you don't fear anyone.
Always look people in the eyes, if you don't it seems like you are hiding something and people won't trust you

, Queens don't have to be hostile, bad or rude


Don't overdo it though, otherwise you'll look kind of weird.
Try to smile many many times at the mirror, than take many many pictures so that you can perfection your smile each time.



Be a good listener. Gracious people are other-driven, not self-driven, and they care more about other people than they care about themselves
Be courteous, polite, and pleasant
Thank people for their efforts.
A gracious person understands that other people are just as important as he or she is. That’s why it’s so important to pay attention to them.
Put others first. This doesn’t mean you should let people walk all over you, though. It does mean that you should put others first when it is reasonable to do so.;
, "It's hard to be humble," says an old country song, "when you're perfect in every way." Of course, few people actually think they're perfect in every way. But it can still be pretty hard to be humble, especially if you live in a society that encourages competition and individuality.
 At its heart, being respectful means showing that you value other people's perspectives, time and space.



Offer people food, water, or something else when you see a need that could be met.
 The concept of etiquette and good manners seems pointless when you're a kid, but when you grow up you realize that these customs function as a way to keep society running smoothly.Enter one step here and then  "Add Step"


Don't talk on your cell phone in a coffee shop, store, restaurant, or any other public place where it could bother other people.
Don't cut in line.
Don't cut people off in traffic.
Say please and thank you!
Follow rules intended to make life more pleasant for everyone, like limiting your time using a public computer so someone else can have a turn.
Don't eat or drink in places where there's a rule against eating or drinking.
Stop talking when the lights go down in a movie theater.
Throw away or recycle your trash instead of leaving it for someone else to clean up.



Be kind to people you encounter throughout the day who aren't always treated with respect. For example, homeless people are often overlooked or treated rudely, but they deserve the same respect and courtesy as anyone else. Isn't it nice to be "grace

, When it's your turn to talk, try to formulate a respectful response. Take into account what the person was saying and voice your opinion without undermining theirs. Avoid insulting the other person by saying something rude or callous.
 You can respect someone's view even if you wholeheartedly disagree

, It's a common form of disrespect that people usually get away with, but gossiping is a bad habit.
, To really understand how to respect other people, put yourself in their shoes and attempt to truly understand where they're coming from.
 You are a leader

, Really listen to what others have to say and reflect their interests in your conversation. Pay attention to what people say to you and show them that you empathize with them.
 Simply having a positive attitude at all times will inspire those around you to make an effort to be positive.
 Queens need to be confident in order to win the love of their subjects and help govern properly

, Make sure to dress in clothing that suits you (and that you like) or else people will see that you are uncomfortable with yourself (and may question your confidence.) So dress the way you want to, but keep in mind that none of your clothes should be too revealing, rumpled, or have stains. Keep your clothes well pressed.
 Stick with the basics and allow your inner beauty to shine through.
 Daily hygiene is really important--always brush your teeth and hair before leaving the house. Shower regularly and invest in a delicious perfume that reflects your personality.
 Just because you do not actually live in a palace does not mean that home should not be beautiful. Whether you live in a tiny studio apartment, or in a room at home, make it as beautiful as possible. Paint your walls a bright, cheery color. Decorate your house with a keen eye--pick a theme and fill your house accordingly.


A great way to bring happiness and beauty to a room is by adding a flower display. Buy a nice vase and fill it with beautiful flowers. Make sure to replace them when they begin to fade. If you don’t want to buy flowers all the time, you could invest in some house plants. Just don’t forget to water them!

, Everybody likes a well-hosted dinner party with a kind and gracious host.  There are plenty at the french court. There is something incredibly classy about being able to pull off a really fabulous dinner. Create a great menu, select the right wines and cocktails, and decorate for the occasion (this means bringing out those silver candlesticks.)


Alternatively, you could host a tea. High tea is a wonderful tradition in the United Kingdom that involves tiny petite fours, scones, really delicious sandwiches, and a whole lot of tea.

