 Honey is a popular home remedy for inflammatory skin conditions because of its well-researched anti-inflammatory properties.It's accessible, scientifically-backed, relatively cheap, and you probably have some in your kitchen. Here's how to use it on your skin:


Take a tablespoon of pure honey and dilute it in a quarter cup of water.
Mix it up until it's homogenous and apply it to the affected areas.
Leave it on for 15 minutes and wash it off under cool running water.
Do this regularly for a month; you should notice a reduction in the redness and scaling of your dermatitis.;
, Aloe vera is used commonly for inflammatory skin conditions like dermatitis and sunburns. It helps in restoring the pH of your skin and hence relieves the symptoms of itching and skin irritation.Try applying fresh aloe vera gel or juice on the affected area many times a day for few months to get rid of dermatitis.


Aloe is widely available in lotions and creams, but you can also find gels or even use the flesh of the plant if you have access to it. The purer the aloe vera, the more effective it'll be.
 Most of us know that oatmeal works wonders for the heart and cholesterol, but fewer know of its use for skin benefits. It turns out oatmeal (specifically colloidal oatmeal) helps to stop skin irritation and rashes. Itchy, dry skin has a high pH level, but oatmeal helps to normalize your skin’s pH, removing the itch. Oatmeal baths soften and moisturize your skin, which helps to lock in moisture and protect skin from exterior irritants.Here's how to utilize its benefits:


Take one cup of colloidal oatmeal in fine powder form and add it to lukewarm bathwater. You can find this oatmeal in the health and beauty section of most pharmacies.
Soak yourself in this bathwater for about 15-20 minutes daily. Repeat this procedure daily for a month and you may see an improvement in your skin condition.

Studies have suggested oatmeal as a potentially effective agent in restoring the protective barrier function of inflamed skin and reducing symptoms related to atopic dermatitis, i.e. eczema, owing to its fraction called avenanthramides., It is thought that chamomile can help reduce inflammation and itching. It can promote healing of the skin and prevent bacterial infections, too. In addition to the flower itself, chamomile is available as lotion or oil (to be added to a cool bath). In fact, studies comparing chamomile cream compared to standard steroid creams and plain moisturizers showed chamomile cream to be superior to both local applications.This is due largely in part to its most potent ingredient apigenin, the most bioactive constituent of the plant.


If you aren't looking to use a cream or lotion, here's how to use whole chamomile flowers to improve your skin:

Take a large bowl of water, add a few chamomile flowers, and boil it for a few minutes.
Let the water cool and then add some ice cubes.
Soak the affected body part in this cold water for 10-15 minutes or soak a napkin in this and use as a compress over the affected region.


Use this remedy at least once a day until you are free from eczema. This treatment will have a soothing effect on the itchy body part and will give you relief from the symptoms immediately.
 Coconut oil is a deep moisturizer believed to have many antimicrobial properties. These peculiar properties can help a lot in dealing with conditions like dermatitis where the skin becomes dry and very itchy.Here's how to use it effectively:


Take a tablespoon of coconut oil (preferably virgin coconut oil) and apply it on the affected region gently so as to soften the skin. Do not rub or massage, just apply gently. Do this twice a day.
To get better results, apply oil before going to bed and let it moisturize the skin deeply all night. Within a few days of using coconut oil, you will see a significant reduction in redness, scaling and dryness of the affected area. All this will reduce the itching and help the eczema settle down faster.
 Bilberries contain a potent type of flavonoid antioxidant called anthocyanoside. Antioxidants are generally good for the skin as they reduce inflammatory free radicals, and hence help in the treatment of dermatitis. To use bilberries:


Take 50 grams of bilberries in a steel container and add around 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of water to it. Warm the mixture and let it sit for an hour. This process will allow the mixture to become homogenous.
Boil the mixture for 20 minutes and let it cool to room temperature. Afterward, it will be ready to be used as a cleanser.
Using a cloth or cotton swab, clean the affected area with this mixture twice or thrice a day. You may use it for as long as your eczema persists as it works like a natural cleanser.

In a study conducted using bilberry extract (Bilberon 25), it was found that the cream outdid even steroid cream application in relieving itching owing to its high anthocyanin content., Some believe that almond leaves are very effective in the treatment of dermatitis and in preventing it from recurring. To reap its benefits, you'll need an almond paste. Here's how to make it:


Take 5-10 new almond leaves and crush them with water to prepare a smooth paste.
Apply this paste on the affected skin and let it remain for 5-10 minutes.
Clean the area with lukewarm water and apply some moisturizing lotion. Repeat the same process twice or three times a day.
 Here's how:


Make an herbal paste from dried, powdered elm leaf and a little water. Apply and leave on the paste for one hour on the affected parts. Rinse and gently pat dry three times a day.
Make a powerful and effective skin wash by mixing 1 teaspoon of slippery elm bark, 1 teaspoon of comfrey root and one teaspoon of white oak bark in 2 cups of water. Let this mixture boil for half an hour. When the solution comes down to room temperature, you can use it to wash the affected area. Repeat this process 3-4 times a day for faster results.
 Strengthening the immune system is one of the cornerstones to healing eczema. Apple cider vinegar is beneficial for eczema because of its immune boosting abilities due to the host of vitamins and minerals it contains. The anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties are especially beneficial for combating dry skin and skin infections, relieving the skin from inflammation, itchiness, and dryness.If you have this all-purpose agent in your kitchen cupboards, here's how to try it:


Douse a clean cotton ball with some apple cider vinegar and apply it directly on the affected area.
Let it remain for 5-10 minutes and then clean that area with a damp cloth. This will give you relief from itching and inflammation.
Repeat this process daily for a few weeks to get relief from itching.
 Olive oil can be a very effective remedy for treating eczema. It contains high levels of Vitamin C that act as a good anti-oxidant.However, it's best to use refined olive oil for curing eczema. Look for "refined" or "extra-virgin refined" labels on the bottle.


Apply the oil directly on the skin before taking a bath. Spread it on until no more can soak into your skin. This way the oil will penetrate the now open pores and remain there all day, keeping inflammation under check and keeping water from drying them out.
 A paste of camphor tablets and sandalwood also works as an effective natural remedy for eczema, providing relief from burning and inflammation.Take some sandalwood oil or powder and mix it with 3-4 camphor tablets and apply it directly on the eczema. Leave it on for 15 minutes and wipe off gently with a wet cloth. You can use this treatment as often as you'd like.


Sandalwood is available mainly in powder form, though you may also find it as an oil. It's available in skincare stores, vitamin and herbal supplement stores, in addition to certain specialty grocery stores.
Camphor tablets are widely available at most pharmacies, big-box stores, and on online.
 These two herbs are both well-known for their anti-inflammatory properties that may potentially reduce dermatitis and improve the general condition of your skin.The main downside is that turmeric might stain your skin and clothes. If you'd like to use this remedy, throw on an old t-shirt, first. Once that's done, here's how to make this anti-inflammatory paste:


Add 5ml water to a tablespoonful of turmeric powder. Mix it together well to form a paste.
Take 5-10 leaves of neem and grind them. Add them to your turmeric paste.
Apply this paste on the affected area. You should feel instant relief from eczematous itching and redness.
Remove the paste with a soft sponge or wash off under running water after 15 minutes. You may redo this as often as you wish for as long as the eczema persists.
 Magnesium is believed to have detoxifying qualities where it removes the harmful waste products from the body. This ensures that the skin is left with essential nutrients that are required for the healing process to take place.Here's how to prepare a magnesium bath:


Fill a bathtub 3/4 of the way up with warm water.
Add 1 cup of Epsom salt, ½ cup of sea salt, ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract and 15 drops of lavender mint to the bathing water.Mix the salts and extracts into the water to emulsify your magnesium bath. Do this regularly to cleanse your skin and help it heal.
 Some herbal soaps can also be used in the treatment of dermatitis. This includes lye soap that helps to ease itchy skin, dryness and acne when used daily. Also consider soaps that contain any of the above ingredients, like aloe or vitamin E.


Always use a mild cleanser, regardless of whatever soap you're using. And keep in mind that overwashing your skin can dry it out, too. Always balance washing with using moisturizing creams and lotions as well.
 What's more, when vitamin E oil is applied on the affected area it can provide instant relief from itching and inflammation, too.You can also try lotions and creams containing vitamin E that help in promoting the healing of inflamed skin.


Regular intake of vitamin E enriched foodstuffs like almonds can also help in preventing dermatitis from worsening. You can safely apply a vitamin E cream twice a day over the affected skin, consume 5 almonds, or have a supplement containing 15mg vitamin E each day for the same effect., Foods that are rich in gelatin are important for the skin and may help in the healing of dermatitis. Gelatin can help tighten loose skin, make it glow, and help it rebuild thanks to its protein content and amino acids. Examples are pure gelatin, of course, but also head cheese, bone broth, and ox tail.Bone broth can be prepared at home by boiling bones. This broth should be made from bones that are of high quality, like grass fed cows or pastured poultry. These could be the left over bones after roasting chicken, turkey and duck, or gotten from a butchery where you are assured of fresh meat or from local farmers who butcher animals in their farm.
Unfortunately, this doesn't mean Jell-O. Though Jell-O does have gelatin, it's mostly sugar. Instead, opt for pure powdered gelatin that you can add to any smoothie or dish without greatly changing the flavor.
 Fermented liver oil and cod liver oil can be used in treating dermatitis. They both help to reduce inflammation and enhance formation of healthy cells in the body. Cod liver oils, in particular, provide the body with fat-soluble vitamins A, E, D and K that help in rejuvenating the skin. This helps in dermatitis by clearing the inflammation on the skin.


However, be wary of taking too much. Studies have shown that the high vitamin A and retinol content of liver oil can lead to bone damage and osteoporosis.Before taking this supplement, talk to your doctor about an appropriate dosage.
 Dermatitis can also be healed by consuming foods that are rich in essential fatty acids. Essential fatty acids help the body in boosting the immune system, fighting inflammation, moisturizing and strengthening the cells in the skin.


Fish is the go-to example for most people when it comes to essential fatty acids. But for vegetarians, there are plenty of sources, too. Walnuts, soybeans, flaxseed, blackcurrant seed oil and hemp oil are full of these healthy fats, too.