 Anorexia can result in dangerous weight loss and seriously damage your health. You will need to seek help from a professional no matter what. However, if your anorexia is controlling your daily life or if you are severely underweight or malnourished, then you may want to consider seeking help from an in-patient facility., Emotional problems are typically at the root of disordered eating. You may try to restrict your eating to feel more in control of other stressors in life. A mental health therapist can help you learn to acknowledge and cope with these emotional problems so that you can return to healthier eating habits.

See a therapist who has experience treating individuals with eating disorders. Common treatments include talk therapy, which may include family therapy or individual therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy has proven effective at helping individuals with anorexia modify negative thought patterns that contribute to their disorder., Treatment for anorexia generally involves an interdisciplinary approach in which you count on the advice of various professionals. A registered dietitian can help you figure out what calories and nutrients your body needs to restore health and return to an appropriate body weight. A dietitian will also work with you to improve your relationship with food., You will need to meet with your doctor regularly for medical monitoring. These visits may consist of weigh-ins and tests to check important health indicators. Medical monitoring is especially important if anorexia led to malnourishment., In addition to medical monitoring, your doctor may also prescribe you medications to cope with any underlying symptoms affecting your condition. People with anorexia may struggle with other conditions, such as anxiety and depression that require pharmacological intervention.

Your doctor may prescribe antidepressants to relieve depressive symptoms and promote weight gain. In addition, you might benefit from taking anxiolytic medications that reduce anxiety associated with eating.Be sure to take your medications as prescribed by your doctor. It may take several weeks for medications to produce effects. Never stop taking your medications without consulting with your doctor first.
 Being in a support group can help you to see that you are viewing yourself in an unrealistic way. Support groups for eating disorders are often facilitated by mental health counselors or therapists. However, some support groups are run by trained volunteers who have overcome their own battles with eating disorders.

In these groups, you can seek out the company and support of those who understand your recovery journey, and who can offer you valuable tips for coping.
Ask your treatment team for recommendations about eating disorder support groups in your area.