 Youtube's specialty is, of course, short videos uploaded by users. But there are now a number of full-length movies available to stream on Youtube as well. While Youtube has been expanding into the online rental realm (which requires a fee), there are still some movies (that have been legally uploaded) which you can watch for free on the website.The number of films available may change from time to time, but you can search for a current list of free movies streaming on Youtube. Classics like Night of the Living Dead, Nosferatu, and House on Haunted Hill tend to be consistently available to watch in their entirety for free.;
, There is no shortage of subscription-based websites (like Netflix), but these services charge a monthly fee that can still put a strain on a tight budget. Fortunately there are a number of free services, which generate a profit by selling ad time during online viewings. Two of the most popular ad-supported movie sites are Hulu (which is free to use unless you upgrade to Hulu Plus) and Crackle.These sites are free to use, and often have paid subscription options to cut out commercials or expand the available viewing options.
 If ad-supported websites don't have the movies you're looking for, try getting a free trial to a subscription-based site. Many of the biggest subscription services, like Netflix and Amazon Prime, offer free trial periods (usually lasting around 30 days). It's not a permanent solution, but it can get you a free month of commercial-free access to some of the biggest online movie streaming services. Just be sure to cancel before the trial period is up, or you will get billed for a subscription.Amazon Prime's free 30 day trial includes access to over 1,500 movies on Prime Instant Video, as well as other Prime perks like free one-day shipping on all purchases through Amazon.
Be aware that in order to enroll in a free trial subscription, you will need to have a credit card to put on file so that the website can begin billing you once your free trial ends.
Take note of the subscription site's method of cancellation . You may be able to cancel your subscription through the site or you might have to contact someone from customer service, depending on the site. You may want to cancel it a couple days before your free trial is up just to avoid getting billed.

