 Older family members can be great sources of inspiration for retro clothing. Even if the sizing of their clothing isn’t right for you, you can still get a lot of ideas about outfit combinations by looking through their wardrobes.


As you go through their items, pay attention to details, like patterns and cuts, that appear often and seem to represent certain eras.
This knowledge can be helpful as you search thrift stores and vintage shops for retro clothing.;
, Ask to see old pictures of your parents or grandparents and evaluate the styles you see. Even better, look through their school yearbooks. These will give you accurate examples of what young people of that particular era really wore.


Look for archived fashion photography online for additional inspiration.
Explore a variety of eras and get a feel for how to capture them accurately.
 For example, you could pair a retro 50s top with jeans you already own and a pair of 60s-era ballet flats or vintage sneakers from the 70s. Experiment with different combinations, but try to choose an element that will unify the ensemble in some way. For instance, the repetition of a particular color or pattern can make an outfit look cohesive.


Sometimes an outfit that doesn’t seem like it would make sense at all can end up looking fantastic once you have it on.
Head-to-toe retro or wearing too much of a particular decade can sometimes make you look like you’re wearing a costume. Mixing and matching eras can help you avoid that.
 When choosing staple pieces, pick items that you fit you well and look natural on you. Since you’ll be wearing them often, choose quality garments that can withstand a bit of extra wear.


Good examples of classic staple pieces are a 50s beaded cardigan, a 60s little black dress, 70s polyester trousers, vintage sneakers from the 80s and so on.
Select timeless pieces that reflect your own personal style.
 Look for retro or retro-inspired jewelry to accent your outfits. As with the clothing, don’t be afraid to mix and match accessories. Look for colorful bangles, headbands, pearls, vintage looking necklaces and dangly earrings. Depending on what era you want to reflect, you could also try feather boas, anything with fringe, lace shawls, cat-eye sunglasses, faux fur, gloves, beaded jewelry, large rings, gypsy scarves and a lot more.


Thrift shops will offer many options to choose from. Experiment with different combinations and find what suits you.
If you’re trying to ease your way into the retro style, accessories are a great place to start.
 Unfortunately, wearing head-to-toe vintage and topping that off with a retro haircut and makeup can sometimes make you look like you're wearing a Halloween costume. If you're concerned about your retro outfits looking too much like costumes, you can prevent this by keeping your hairstyle and makeup modern.


Your unique style is also better preserved when you keep these elements up-to-date.

