 Acknowledge and affirm your friend’s heartache. Don’t say anything that trivializes your friend’s pain, and don’t try to make them feel better – you can’t. It’s better to be sad with your friend right now than to try to cheer them up.For instance, you could say something like, “This is really terrible. I’m so sorry that you’re going through this.”
Don’t ever say, “At least you’re young enough to have more kids,” or anything like that. Even if you mean well, you’re still minimizing your friend’s grief, and that will make them feel worse.
 When you talk to your friend, don’t shy away from bringing up their child’s name in conversation. Tiptoeing around their name won’t save your friend’s feelings, and it will make your conversations awkward. Using the child’s name will make your friend feel like their child mattered and will be remembered.For example, instead of saying "Would you like to talk about it?," say "Would you like to tell me about Randy?"

, Your friend may want to share stories and memories about their child with whoever will listen. They might also not be ready to talk about their child yet. Ask, and if your friend does want to talk, listen patiently for as long as they need you to.For many bereaved parents, talking about their child and their own feelings is a necessary part of the healing process.
 If you knew your friend’s child, share some stories about them. Reminisce about their good qualities and any times you spent with them. Let your friend know that their child is, and will continue to be, fondly remembered.For instance, you could say something like, “I’ll never forget how much Michael made us all laugh when our families went to the zoo together last year.”

, Trite comments like, “He’s in a better place now,” or, “It’s all part of God’s plan,” aren’t comforting or helpful to a grieving person. If your friend isn’t religious, comments about God or heaven may even be painful to hear right now. It can be tempting to fall back on clichés when you don’t know what to say, but don’t do it.It’s better to stay quiet than to accidentally make your friend feel worse.

