 This means two or more completed terms at a reputable college, university, or technical institute. You must have at least one year (but not more than 2 1/2 years) of college credit under your belt.


It's highly recommended to take calculus and physics classes before applying. Core graduation requirements for all majors at MIT are two semesters of college calculus and calculus-based physics, and one semester each of chemistry and biology. , Unlike high school students, you've had one or two years in the adult world to take charge. The extra-curricular activities don't stop with high school.


Make your job something to brag about. Seek out specialized duties or a managerial position to make up for the time (and money) you don't have to spend organizing bake sales for away football games.
Don't lose your passions. Were you great at an instrument in high school? A star track runner? Keep it up. MIT is about contributing to the global community--not just about good grades.
 This consists of a biographical information form, evaluation letters, essays, transcripts, activities form and tests form. The application packet can be downloaded on their website.


The biographical information form is the first step to applying and includes the initial $75 application fee.
Evaluation letters (3): one from a math or science instructor and two from an instructor of any topic
Essays (3): two short-answer response questions (250 word limit) and one longer essay (+/-500 words) Activities form: Use the form on their website. It's similar to a resume but a slightly different format.
Standardized tests: self-reported scores and scores from the agency
Both high school and college transcripts

, These are obviously different for spring and fall semesters.


November 15th is the spring application deadline. It is also the last month to take any necessary standardized tests.
January is the last month to take standardized tests and February 15th is the fall application deadline.
Applicants will be notified in mid-December and early April, respectively.

