 If you’re a painter, chances are you use scrap paper to remove excess paint from your brush while painting. Instead of throwing out these scraps of paper, save them and use them as decoration for your greeting cards.


Use cardstock to clean your brush in between paint colors.
Cut the cardstock paint designs into squares and paste them onto your greeting card base.
Use a Sharpie marker to write your message across the design (try “Thank You” or “Happy Birthday”).
Use the Sharpie Marker to create a scalloped edge for your design.
 If you have a beautiful bouquet of flowers in your home that are going to waste, try pressing them and using them to decorate your greeting card. Place your flowers facedown in a telephone book lined with parchment paper and allow them to press for a week before removing them.Attach the flowers to your card using dry adhesive dots.
Make sure your flowers are completely dry before using them in your project.
 Most people have stickers lying around their art supply area. Take your card base and use the stickers to create a grid by laying them out in three rows of three stickers each. Attach the stickers and decorate the rest of the card however you please.Use a ruler to find the center of your card before attaching the stickers.
Place an unusual material like a flower in the center of the grid to give the card some additional visual interest.
 If you have a sewing kit, the contents of that kit are perfect for decorating your greeting card. Create a flower out of safety pins by stringing beads onto your safety pins, then gluing the safety pins on the card base in a circular formation to create the flower’s petals.Glue a button in the center of the safety pin circle to create the flower’s pistil.
Glue a piece of ribbon along the bottom of the card to add some more texture.
 If you’ve recently painted your home, you probably have some paint chip samples lying around. Cut the paint chips into interesting shapes and glue them onto your card for a unique design.Try cutting a green paint chip card into a triangle to make an ombre Christmas tree for the holidays.
Cut small triangles out of a variety of different paint chip colors and use the triangles to create a banner to glue on your greeting card.
If you don’t have paint chip samples lying around, you can go to your neighborhood paint store to request some.

