 If you cannot obtain your W-2 from your employer or their payroll provider, you can order a copy from the IRS by using the IRS’s “Get Transcript” tool, form 4506 “Request for Copy of Tax Return,” or form 4506-T “Request for Transcript of Tax Return.”Use the IRS’s “Get Transcript” tool if you only need the information contained in the W-2 and the W-2 you need is less than 10 years old. This service is free of charge.
Use form 4506 if you need your W-2 form and you need other information from that year’s completed taxes. Each copy that you request costs $50.00 with this option.Use form 4506-T if you only need the information that was on the W-2 and not the actual completed W-2. This option is free of charge.For additional assistance, call the IRS at 1-800-908-0046.
 If you have chosen to fill out a 4506 or 4506-T, lines 1-5 of forms are the same, so the following guidelines apply to both.


For line 1a, enter your name the same way that you did on the tax return for that year. If you filed a joint return, enter the name that was listed first on the return.
For line 1b, enter the Social Security number of the person named in line 1a. If the first filer on the tax return used an individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) or an employer identification number (EIN), enter that number.
Only fill in lines 2a and 2b if you filed a joint return for the year you are requesting. For lines 2a and 2b, enter the second name and Social Security (or other tax ID) number listed on the tax return for that year.
For line 3, enter your current name and mailing address. Make sure to include the city, state, ZIP code, and country (if you are living outside of the US).
For line 4, enter the address that was listed on the tax return for the year you are requesting only if it is different than the address listed on line 3.
Only complete line 5 if you want the tax return copy or transcript sent to someone other than you. If you do, you will need to enter the name, address, and telephone number (with area code) of the person or business to whom you want it sent.

Be aware that the IRS has no control over how this third party will use your information. You may want to consider having a written agreement regarding use and disclosure of your information with this person or entity.
 Whether you are using 4506 or 4506-T, you will need to enter the form you filed for your taxes in the year requested (most commonly 1040, 1040A, or 1040EZ) on line 6.


Form 4506 has a small box in the corner of line 6 that you can check if you will be using these copies in court, administrative hearings, or for some other reason that requires the copies to be certified. Check the box at the bottom right of line 6 if you need your tax return copy to be certified.
Keep in mind that you do not have the option to certify your transcript if you use form 4506-T. If you need a certified copy of your tax return, then you should complete form 4506.
For form 4506-T, you can select the type of return transcript that you are requesting by selecting one of the options below line 6. Read through the options to see which one best suits your needs.
 Enter the year or period you are requesting on line 7. This must be in MM/DD/YYYY format (example 04/15/2013 for April 15, 2013). You can request up to 8 W-2 forms on each form 4506. If you need to request more, you must attach another Form 4506. Keep in mind that each copy that you request costs $50.00.
 This information will be included with the tax return transcript you are requesting.


Keep in mind that these transcripts are only summaries of the earnings information, not actual copies of your W-2s.
 Enter the number of returns you are ordering in line 8b. Multiply line 8b by 50, and enter the result in line 8c. This is the total cost of ordering copies of your tax returns with all attachments, including W-2s.
 Make the check payable to the Internal Revenue Service for the amount you entered on line 8c. The IRS will refund your money if they cannot locate your return.


Check the box on line 9 if you want that refund to be sent to the other person or entity you entered in line 5.
 If line 1a is an entity instead of an individual, you must enter your title in the line below your signature.


If this is a joint return, you must get your spouse’s signature.
Make sure that you provide a phone number so that the IRS can reach you if necessary.
 Make a copy of the application and check for your records. Mail the original application and check to the IRS at the address indicated for your state. This address is listed in the instructions that are attached to the form.


Keep in mind that it can take two months or longer to process your request. If you have not received a response and it has been more than 2 months, you can call the IRS at 1-800-908-0046.

