 Pour 3 envelopes of gelatin into the bowl of an electric mixer. Add ½ cup (120 milliliters) of cold water. Set the mixer aside so that the gelatin can "bloom."


It will take about 10 minutes for the gelatin to bloom. Prepare the rest of your ingredients during this time.
You can also use a food processor fitted with whisks instead. Don't insert the whisks just yet, however.;
, The gelatin will “bloom” during this time.
 Pour the remaining ½ cup of water into a small saucepan. Stir in the granulated sugar, salt, and corn syrup. Let the mixture cook, covered, over medium-high heat for 3 to 4 minutes.

Don't add the powdered sugar just yet.
 Remove the lid from the saucepan and clip a candy thermometer to the side. Allow the sugar water to cook until it reaches to 240°F (115°C). This will take about 7 to 8 minutes. As soon as it reaches to 240°F (115°C), remove the saucepan from the stove.
 Fit the whisks into your mixer or food processor. Turn the speed on to low, then slowly pour the sugar water down the sides.
 Once you have used up all of the sugar water, switch the speed on your mixer to high. Let it continue whipping until the mixture is thick, fluffy, and lukewarm. This will take about 12 to 15 minutes., Be sure to mix everything together well. If you don't like vanilla, you can omit it, or you can use a different extract, such as peppermint.
 Mix together ¼ cup (30 grams) of powdered sugar and ¼ cup (30 grams) of cornstarch. Spread the mixture across the bottom and sides of a greased, 9 by 9-inch (22.86 by 22.86-centimeter) square baking pan.Save any leftover cornstarch/sugar for later.
 Use a rubber spatula to help spread the mixture from corner to corner. Dust the top of the marshmallows with more cornstarch/sugar, then save the rest for later.


Coat the spatula with cooking oil first. This will prevent the marshmallows from sticking to it.
 It would be even better if you let them sit overnight. Once the marshmallows are firm, turn them onto a cutting board, then cut them into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) squares.


Cut the marshmallows using a sharp knife or a pizza cutter. If the marshmallows are too sticky, coat the blade with cooking oil.
 Fill a rimmed baking sheet with the rest of your cornstarch and sugar mixture. Roll the marshmallows around in the mixture to coat them. Dust off any excess cornstarch/sugar, then serve them.

