 Yogurt contains many natural ingredients that are good for the skin. It also contains lactic acid which contains bleaching properties. Simply rub yogurt onto your skin, leave it on for a few minutes, then rinse it off with lukewarm water. To notice a change in your skin's complexion apply this technique once a day for several weeks.


Use plain yogurt.;
, Oranges contain vitamin C, which is one of the most important ingredients for your skin. They also contain citric acid, a natural bleaching property. For an effective solution mix two tablespoons of orange juice with a pinch of ground turmeric powder.


Apply to your skin and let it set in for 20-30 minutes, then wash it off. Do this daily for increased results.
 Papayas are regularly used in beauty products and can naturally lighten your skin. Simply eating papayas will release the powerful cleansing properties to your skin. For a stronger cream:


Mash a ripe papaya and mix it with a teaspoon of lemon juice. Massage the ointment to your skin and leave it settle for 20-30 minutes. Wash it off with cold water. Do this at least once a week for noticeable results.
 Cucumbers contain collagen, which makes your skin supple and firm. These features are said to enhance a lighter skin tone. A popular treatment at spas is to place cucumber slices onto your eyes to lighten and cleanse the pores around your eyes.


Mix one tablespoon of lemon juice and a 1/2 cup of cucumber juice together to create topical ointment to lighten your skin. Apply to your skin 10-15 minutes on a daily basis.
 Exfoliating your skin encourages the growth of new skin cells by scrubbing it with an abrasive cleanser. This will improve your skin tone by renewing the old skin cells. Create the following mixture:


Mix 1/2 cup of plain oatmeal with 1/2 cup of tomato juice. Apply to your skin and let it soak for 20 minutes, and then wash it off using cold water. When scrubbing the mixture off, be sure to scrub gently so the oatmeal can properly exfoliate your skin.

