 Before you begin to prepare the cupcakes, first turn the oven on to preheat at 350 degrees F (121.11 degrees C). By the time that you have finished making the cupcake batter, the oven should be ready to use., Begin preparing the cupcake batter by combining the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined., Inside a separate large bowl or in the bowl of a standing mixer, turn on a handheld or standing mixer on high, then add the vegetable oil, granulated sugar, two eggs and vanilla while continually mixing. Stir until the mixture is completely combined and there aren’t any sugar lumps, about twenty seconds.Once you have finished mixing the sugar mixture, remove the mixer from the bowl and scrape down the sides with a large spoon so that the mixture is sitting in the middle of the bowl.
 Once you have scraped the mixture into the middle of the bowl, turn the handheld or standing mixer back on low and add the sour cream and half the flour mixture (½ cup or 60 ml), pausing a few seconds to let it integrate. Then add half the buttermilk (1/3 cup or 78.8 ml) and mix until it is combined. Scrape down the bowl as you did before so that the mixture is sitting in the middle., After scraping, turn the mixer on low again and add the last of the flour mixture, mixing until it is smooth, then add the rest of the buttermilk. Make sure that the batter is completely smooth, then turn off the mixer., Once you finish the batter, you can begin the process of baking the cupcakes. Prepare two 12- cavity muffin tins by lining the insets with cupcake liners., Spoon the cupcake batter that you just prepared into the cupcake liners of the muffin tins. Fill each liner about ½ to 2/3 full with batter.Cupcakes expand when they bake, so don’t fill the insets to the top with batter.
 Place the trays of cupcakes into the preheated oven and bake the cupcakes for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes, insert a toothpick into a cupcake. If it comes out clean, take the cupcakes out of the oven.If the toothpick comes out with crumbs sticking to it, bake the cupcakes for two more minutes, then take them out of the oven.
 Once you remove the cupcakes from the oven, place them on the counter to cool. Let them sit in the muffin tin for at least 10 minutes so that they have time to solidify., After the cupcakes have cooled for 10 minutes in the tins, carefully lift each cupcake up by its liner and place them on a wire rack to cool. If you don’t have a wire rack, place them on the counter.Taking the cupcakes out of the hot muffin tins helps them to cool faster, which means that you will be able to frost them sooner.
 After setting the cupcakes out to cool, you can begin to make the peppermint frosting. Start by beating room temperature butter on medium speed with an electric handheld or standing mixer until it is fluffy and a slightly lighter color than when it was in stick form., Once the butter is fluffy, turn the speed of the mixer to low and add the ½ cup (120 ml) of confectioners sugar. Mix until integrated, about ten seconds, then keep adding sugar by the ½ cup and mixing until you have added 3 ½ cups (840 ml) of the confectioners sugar., Once you have added 3 ½ cups (840 ml) of confectioners sugar, turn the mixer to high and beat the mixture for about 10 seconds. Then add the rest of the confectioners sugar and mix until combined., Add 1 tablespoon (14.78 ml) of whipping cream to the frosting, then beat on medium until it is integrated. Repeat adding whipping cream by the teaspoon and mixing until you have added all the whipping cream (4 tablespoons or 60 ml)., Once the whipping cream has been added and the mixture has a frosting-like texture, add in the mint extract ½ teaspoon (2.46 ml) at a time, mixing on medium speed. You can add anywhere from 1-2 teaspoons (4.9- 9.8 ml), depending on your preference. Also add a few drops of green food coloring and mix in if you want the frosting to be green.Do a taste test after integrating 1 teaspoon (4.9 ml) of mint extract into the frosting if you aren’t sure how much mint you want to use. Then decide if you want to add more or keep the frosting as is.
 If you want a professional-looking application of frosting, add the freshly made frosting to a piping bag by spooning the frosting inside the bag and pushing the frosting to the tip of the piper.If you don’t have a piping bag, you can simply apply the frosting to the cupcakes with a knife.
 If the cupcakes have reached room temperature or close to it, you can apply the frosting. Pipe the frosting on the cupcake by holding the tip of the piping bag over the cupcake, then squeezing the bag to release the frosting. Frost in a traditional swirl design by working in circles until your reach a peak at the top of the cupcake.Alternatively, you can also simply apply the frosting with a flat knife. Make sure to cover the entire top of the cupcake with frosting, and run the flat of the knife over the top after applying to smooth out the frosting.
Add mini chocolate chips for extra flavor and crunch!

