 Type 'solipsism' and 'mereological nihilism' into Google. Pore in an obstinate, absorbed and relentless manner for days, months, or even years over relevant Wikipedia articles. Frantically scribble important notes in a specially disguised notebook that you hide under some other books under some dirty clothes under an old and decrepit lamp under a some bits of old tin that once was a part of the fence under some rusting bathroom pipes you found by the side of the road on a lonely trip north under a generous plate of tuna bake topped with bacon bits that you didn't eat for dinner one night three months ago and have left there decomposing under your bed ever since. Under a secret platform made of 3 centimeter (1.2 in) thick reinforced iron linked to state of the art voice recognition software. Ponder in a concentrated state of intense, dogged, passionately meditative silence for extended periods of time. Learn.;
, Scrutinize their separate parts in a highly suspicious manner befitting of a superpower's top level secret spy. Think- how can it be certain that individual parts of an object unify to create a whole if our very senses are defective due to our biologically imperfect state as flawed human beings which can at best provide us with a nebulous idea of them? Consequently, how can we be sure that any aspect of reality is comprised of any whole items with perfectly contiguous parts? Therefore, how is anything a properly fused part of anything? The fact is, nothing is. Just think along those lines for while and you should be fine.
 Relocate to a long, pitch black and isolated cave away from all possible lifeforms, including small marsupials and plant matter. This will allow you to get into the head space of believing nothing, not even your arms, eyebrows or toenails exist.
 This works well with the mereological nihilism thing because you've already concluded that the existence of whole objects is a complete and utter lie. Think - how can we trust our defective senses to shape and guide our thoughts into an honest construction of reality if they are naturally imperfect (a fact that has been proven through humans' inability to perceive the smallest parts of a whole)? How can we have complete confidence in thought if our senses are imperfect which give boundaries to and shape thought, which must lead to the fact that although our thoughts are sure to exist they lead an existence that is inextricably intertwined in the inadvertent fabrication of truths? How can our thoughts be whole if nothing is (the answer to which is supported by humans' inability to perceive them at all), and if they are not whole does this have further implications for our skepticism regarding the reliability of thought? Need a specific topic to tear apart? Here is an example- 'how can I consume food and liquid materials to provide nutrition, energy and strength for my body if food and liquid materials are not certain in their existence in reality? Are nutrition, energy and strength mere social constructions that have psychosomatic effects on my body (which in fact is uncertain in it's own existence) and further, is reality a social construction that I need to painfully extricate myself from to reach true freedom? What is true freedom and how can it exist if nothing else exists to free itself from and are my thoughts a mere construction of quarks and leptons which are not certain to exist and therefore my thoughts do not exist I only think they do? Is everything I've ever seen, touched, felt and experienced mere psychosomatic effects of the plethora of social constructions that effectively create the world as we know it and therefore even my thoughts are based on nothing but the polluted notions my mind harbours due to what it has seen prior to my incredible epiphany and ensuing isolation? Am I really isolated if there is nothing to isolate myself from? How am I thinking in English if the language English is not sure to exist?

