 Unlike exemptions, objections typically are based on the failure of the creditor to follow the correct legal process to have your wages garnished.


Your garnishment order may include instructions on how you can object to the garnishment and the time frame you have to do so.Objections typically must be filed before the garnishment begins. If the creditor has already started garnishing your wages, you may have to look at other options to change the wage garnishment., Most courts have a form you can fill out to object to wage garnishment, available from the clerk's office that issued the garnishment order.In some jurisdictions you'll receive a form to fill out for an objection along with the garnishment order., If you have an objection to the wage garnishment, typically you must present documentation that supports your argument that the creditor did not garnish your wages properly.


For example, federal law only allows garnishment of 25 percent of your paycheck, or the amount of your paycheck that exceeds 30 times the federal minimum wage – whichever amount is less. If the creditor is garnishing too much money, you can file an objection.Keep in mind that certain types of garnishments, such as for child support, alimony, or unpaid IRS taxes, can exceed those limits under some circumstances.Another reason to object to a wage garnishment is that the creditor didn't follow proper garnishment procedures. To object for this reason you'll have to review your state law to find out what procedure is required, then compare the actions of the creditor in your case.For example, your state may require the creditor to give you at least two weeks notice before the garnishment begins. If you received your notice yesterday and the order states garnishment will begin at the end of the week, you could file an objection because you didn't receive proper notice., Once you've completed your forms, take them to the clerk's office that issued the garnishment order.


There typically won't be any fee required to file your objection. If your court charges a fee, you may be eligible for a fee waiver if you meet certain income requirements.
You may want to contact the clerk's office before you file your form to see how many copies you need to make. You'll need at least one copy for your records, plus copies to have served on the creditor who filed the garnishment.Depending on the jurisdiction, you also may be required to have the creditor served with your objection. The clerk will tell you if you need to take care of this or if it will be done for you. If you have to do it yourself, the easiest thing to do is mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested., The court may have a hearing so a judge can hear both sides and decide whether to sustain your objection.Keep in mind that if you don't attend the hearing, the judge will overrule your objection and the garnishment will begin under the terms outlined in the order.Even if the judge does not sustain your objection, you still have the opportunity to meet with the creditor (or a representative of the creditor) and negotiate payment arrangements to potentially stop the wage garnishment.