 The water bottle becomes a chamber for the smoke while a pitcher filled with water provides suction to draw the smoke in.
 Use scissors to remove the bottom of the water bottle. The bottle should be able to sit flat, so make sure you cut in a straight line., Use a small square of aluminum foil to create a bowl on the top of the water bottle. Gently push the aluminum foil down into the drinking hole of the bottle, and then wrap the extra foil around the sides of the lid. Use the tip of a thumbtack or an earring to poke small holes into the bottom of the aluminum foil bowl.Make sure the foil does not wrap too far around the inside of the lid because you’ll need to be able to lift it off to smoke.
 Put enough water in the pitcher to cover 2/3 of the height of the water bottle. When placed in the pitcher, the top of the bottle should extend about 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) above the water level in the pitcher.


With the foil on top of the bottle, slowly lower the open bottom of the water bottle into the pitcher.
 Place your smoking material in the foil bowl on top of the bottle.


If you lower the bowl and bottle into the water filled pitcher after filling the bowl, you risk the air pressure created blowing your smoking material out of the bowl.
 Use a lighter to light the smoking material and start it burning. As it burns, slowly lift the bottle in the water. As you pull it up, the negative air pressure will pull smoke into the bottle. Stop before the bottom of the bottle comes completely out of the water and carefully remove the foil bowl.
 Put your mouth on the top of the bottle to breathe in the smoke. Slowly push the bottle back down in the water to force the smoke into your mouth.


The slower you pull up, the more the bottle will fill with smoke.
Don’t let the bottle come completely out of the water or the smoke will dissipate in the room and you won’t be able to smoke it.
When the bottle reaches the bottom, inhale to clear all the smoke. As you inhale, the water will rise up into the bottle. Stop inhaling before the water gets to the top of the bottle so you don’t end up inhaling the water.

