 The chargeback process begins when either a cardholder or issuer disputes a transaction on a specific MasterCard. This must usually be done within 120 days of the transaction taking place.The issuer will review the disputed transaction and determine if the chargeback request is valid or not. If the request is invalid, the chargeback will be declined. However, if the issuer finds that the chargeback request is valid, they will reverse the transaction, debit your merchant account, and send a letter to your bank. Your bank will review the refund request and either resolve the issue on their own or forward it to you.When you receive information from your bank, it will be in the form of a chargeback advice letter. This letter from your bank will contain the chargeback reason code, the chargeback amount, any actions taken by your bank, deadlines for submitting representation documents, case numbers, and credit card numbers.;
, Once you hear about the chargeback, you need to obtain a copy of MasterCard's chargeback guide, which can be found online by visiting MasterCard's website.You can also find it by conducting an online search for "MasterCard chargeback guide." This guide is over 500 pages and contains all the information you will ever need to know about MasterCard's chargeback process.Instead of reading the whole guide, look through the table of contents and find the sections that are applicable to your situation.
For example, if you want to know about MasterCard's arbitration procedures, you would look at Chapter 5 of the guide.
 When the issuer sends a chargeback to your bank, they will assign a "reason code" to the chargeback. Reason codes are meant to help you understand the cause for the chargeback and how to proceed through the chargeback process for that specific type of dispute. When you receive information from your bank about a chargeback, it will include a reason code. Look that reason code up so you understand why the dispute is occurring. MasterCard has their own numeric reason code system they use. Reason code explanations can be found on MasterCard's website. Some of the most common MasterCard reason codes include:4802, which occurs when required information is absent or illegible
4831, which occurs when the transaction amount differs
4834, which occurs when there have been duplicate transactions
4837, which occurs when the cardholder did not authorize the transaction
4855, which occurs when the goods or services were not provided to the customer
4863, which occurs when the customer does not recognize the transaction

, When you receive notice of a chargeback from your bank, you will have the option of accepting the chargeback or disputing it. Before you make this decision, gather the facts surrounding the transaction in question so you can determine what went wrong. For example, pull the transaction list from your records, look at the receipt, and review security footage to determine what happened. If you determine that something went wrong with the transaction, and the error matches the reason code, you might consider accepting the chargeback.


However, if the facts do not support the issuer's chargeback claim, you will want to dispute the chargeback.This will be the most likely result and you should dispute every chargeback possible.
 When you decide to dispute a chargeback, you will need to move quickly. MasterCard only allows you and your bank 45 days to respond from the date the chargeback was processed. In reality, because your bank will have to review the chargeback before it is sent to you, and will have to review your rebuttal paperwork, you will usually only have five to ten days to gather evidence and draft a letter.The evidence you need to fight a chargeback will depend on the reason code you were supplied with. In general, the evidence you provide should indicate your use of best practices and provide proof that the cardholder's claim is not true. Common examples of compelling evidence includes:A copy of the sales receipt
Order forms
Tracking numbers
Communications with the customer (e.g., emails or social media interactions)
Proof that the customer received, owns, or is using the product in question
Proof that the product was received undamaged

, Once you find the compelling evidence you need to dispute the chargeback, you need to draft a convincing rebuttal letter.The letter should be addressed "To Whom It May Concern" and it should clearly state that you are disputing the chargeback. Describe the transaction in your letter and reference the evidence that you will attach and send with the letter itself. Provide as much detail as possible when you are writing the letter and make sure to include the customer's name, the date of the transaction, and what the customer paid for.


When referencing the evidence you have, make sure you describe what that evidence shows. For example, if a chargeback was issued with the MasterCard reason code 4837 (i.e., no cardholder authorization), you might present the receipt with a legible customer signature on it. Explain that the signature authorizes you to complete the transaction and charge the credit card.
At the end of the letter, make sure you sign and date it.
 After you complete your letter and gather all the evidence you can find, you will submit all of that information to your bank. Your bank will forward the information along to MasterCard., MasterCard will review your representation of the transaction and they will forward your documentation to the issuer. The issuer will review the information and decide whether to agree with you or the cardholder.If the issuer rules in your favor, the transaction amount will be charged to the cardholder a second time and your account will receive a deposit.
If the issuer rules in the cardholder's favor, the chargeback will stick and your review will be denied. This decision is final unless you choose to file for arbitration.
In some cases, the issuer might rule in your favor but choose to file a second chargeback (i.e., an arbitration chargeback) on the same transaction. This chargeback will generally involve a different reason code., The issuer must submit an arbitration chargeback within 45 days of receiving your transaction representment.At this point, you will submit other compelling evidence to your bank to counter the second chargeback claim. You will follow generally the same process as if you were disputing an initial chargeback.


If the issuer agrees with you again, the chargeback will be repealed and you will be credited for the amount of the transaction.
If the issuer disagrees, they will keep the chargeback and you will have to submit to arbitration in order to get it reversed., When you file for arbitration, you will need to do so within 45 days of the arbitration chargeback being presented to you or your bank. When you file for arbitration, you will do so directly with MasterCard and you will have to follow the procedures laid out in the MasterCard chargeback guide., MasterCard will review your initial filing to make sure it abides by all the rules. MasterCard can deny your arbitration request if, for example, you do not supply enough evidence to warrant arbitration, the case was filed beyond the time limits allowed, or the case was not submitted in English. If your case is accepted, MasterCard will notify the issuer. The issuer will generally have 8 days to supply their evidence to MasterCard. The issuer will also be allowed to respond to any new evidence you submit throughout the arbitration process.


When ruling on your case, MasterCard will look at the merits of your case (e.g., whether the procedures were followed), the substance of your case (e.g., whether your evidence is compelling), previous case rulings (e.g., how the issuer ruled during previous presentments), and how a ruling will affect the MasterCard brand., After reviewing all of the evidence, MasterCard will submit their decision and inform all interested parties. This decision is generally binding, which means you will usually have to abide by whatever the ruling is. If you win, the chargeback will be reversed. If you lose, the chargeback will remain.
 There are different types of arbitration fees associated with the MasterCard process and each fee might have to be paid by either party, depending on the circumstances.


Whoever is responsible for the arbitration (i.e., whoever files) will have to pay the $150 filing fee and the $250 administrative fee. However, these fees may shift throughout the arbitration process.
For example, if you or the issuer withdraws from arbitration before a decision is made, the party that withdraws will be responsible for paying the $150 filing fee and the $150 withdrawal fee.
Technical fees can be assessed by MasterCard, in the amount of $100, for each violation of dispute processing rules. For example, the issuer may be assessed separate technical fees if they persisted with an invalid chargeback or if they processed a chargeback past the time limit., Chargebacks often occur because customers feel it is easier to call the issuer than it is to return the product. Therefore, if you can create an easy and positive return policy, customers will be more likely to return products and not initiate chargebacks. While you will lose the amount of the transaction when a customer returns a good, you will not be charged fees that are associated with chargebacks.


If your return policy is too restrictive, customers will not use it.
Good return policies include clear language, easy directions, multiple return options, and covered shipping costs., Every time you accept a chargeback, your bank and others hold that against you. When you damage your reputation by accepting a large number of chargebacks, issuers will do less due diligence when future chargebacks are filed. This will end up costing you precious time and money over time.Therefore, it is important that you dispute chargebacks whenever you have a viable case. This will help deter others from taking chargeback actions against you in the future.
 Chargeback procedures involve a large number of humans. Therefore, it is considered a very subjective process. Get to know the common issuers, as well as employees at your bank, and be considerate to them. When issuers know you are kind, considerate, and on top of your game, they will only file chargebacks if they are certain they are valid. Building these relationships will help you avoid chargebacks in the future.