 This may sound like something Captain Obvious would say, but the truth is you can't really call yourself a bookworm when all you read is a couple of books per year. Make a habit of reading at least one book per week. Just be sure you read the classics (and generally every very well-known book, even if you may not like it; you may find this useful when a whole group talks about a book you wouldn't have read otherwise).;
, Then use it to display a long-ish list of favorite books. It may catch their attention and ask you about it next time you meet.
 Obviously, none of them would know what you're talking about. Then talk a little about the book, describe the plot, the characters, the writing style, everything you think will appeal to them. If that's the case, mention the fact that the book is short and the author has an informal writing style. Teens usually like that. Don't sound too much like a commercial, though, and neither like a literary analysis. Focus on the things you liked about it.
 When people point it out to you that "you are writing look wi3rd l0lz", tell them it's a consequence of reading books. Make proper writing seem cool to the people you talk to (not that it wouldn't be in any case, but that was not the point). Do the same when you use a word whose meaning is unknown to your friends.
 Along with other little things, of course.
 It's annoying and people feel insulted when someone, even a friend, tells them in an aggressive way that they are do something stupidly.
 often that starts in their home. You want to open a door to reading for them where they feel appreciated and safe, which they might not be at home, especially if their parents are not very literate. Don't make fun of people who never read in front of your friends, because they will get the feeling you're subtly trying to make fun of their lack of literary culture.
 Unlike other people, I'd like to read something this afternoon.". You might get told something like "What's wrong with you dude, you used to be a cool guy, now all you do is sit in the library all day like a frigging' bookworm!". Which you don't need to care about, as it's your life and you are choosing to take responsibility as to how you want to live it. But you don't have to bring books with you every time you meet them if you're using the books as a shield, although it might work once. But only once. Try asking the person what she/he loves to do and offering to find a good book for them about it, or read it yourself and comment next time you meet.
 Especially if you can apply it to a current situation they're facing or you both know about. "You know this reminds me of Mr. ----- when he was talking the other day. What do you think?" Then you can begin to talk about what you found interesting in the book together, and get their curiosity , and self esteem going..!