 Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut the fresh corn cobs into 1-inch (2.5-cm) slices.


This can be somewhat difficult, and you will need to use a heavy, sharp knife in order to accomplish the task. When cutting, lean over the knife to put more of your weight and more pressure into the cut. Just be careful not to accidentally cut yourself in the process.
The corn flavor is only optional. Store-bought corn syrup does not taste like corn, so if you want something closer to the store-bought kind, skip the steps dealing with corn and use 1.25 (310 ml) of water instead of the full amount. The rest of the ingredients and steps will remain the same.
 Add the corn and cold water to a medium-size saucepan. Bring it to a boil.


Begin with cold water for best results.
 As soon as the water starts to boil, drop the heat down to medium and allow the water to calm to a simmer. Let boil for roughly 30 minutes.


Leave the lid off the saucepan.
When finished, the water level should drop to half its original amount.
 Pour the water and corn through a colander. Save the corn-flavored water and return it to the saucepan.


You can use the corn in other recipes or discard it.
 Stir the sugar and salt into the water until dissolved.
 Scrape the vanilla seeds out of the bean and add them to the saucepan.


For an even stronger vanilla taste, add the pod to the syrup mixture, as well.
If you do not have any vanilla beans, you can substitute 1 tsp (5 ml) of vanilla extract, instead.
 Let the mixture simmer over medium to medium-low heat until all the sugar is dissolved and the mixture thickens.


The mixture should be thick enough to stick to the back of your mixing spoon when done.
 Let the corn syrup sit out at room temperature until the temperature of the corn syrup itself drops to room temperature.


Do not cool the corn syrup in your refrigerator at this stage.
 You can use the corn syrup immediately, or you can refrigerate it in a sealed container for several months.


Store the corn syrup with the vanilla bean.
If sugar crystals start to develop over time, you can microwave the syrup with a splash of water until warm. Stir to dissolve the crystals, then use as normal.

