 When trying to get out of your physical education class, you might try asking your parents to write an excuse. Schools and physical education teachers will often accept parent's notes as valid excuses. Try asking your parents to help you skip the occasional gym class by getting them to write you a note.


You might have your parents write a note saying that you are sick and unable to participate.
Your parent might write a note saying that you sprained an ankle or wrist and need time to heal.;
, A classic method you can use to get out of a physical education class is to pretend your ankle was injured. You wouldn't be required to participate if your ankle were actually injured. For this reason, successfully faking an ankle injury can get you out of a physical education class.You might try limping when you walk to help make the injury look real.
Don't get caught running or jumping as this will make it clear that you aren't injured.
 Headaches and migraines are often very painful, preventing you from engaging in physical activity. Normally, you would avoid the exertion that physical education classes demand, waiting for your headache to pass. Faking a headache can get you the same break and let you skip a class due to your “migraine”. Rubbing your forehead with your palm can help express the idea that your head hurts.
Don't move around too much while you are having your “headache”.
Remember to make your face look as if you were actually having a headache. You don't want to overact though.
 Often times you will be required to wear athletic clothes or shoes in order to participate in your class's activities. If you forget your clothes or equipment, you might not be allowed to play. Conveniently “forgetting” your clothes can be a simple way to get out of a physical education class.This excuse may not always work, depending on the instructor and the class activity. Some schools supply spare clothes for physical education classes, so use this excuse only if you are sure that your school doesn't do this.
Swimming classes are the most likely activity where this tactic will work.
 The more often you use excuses, the less likely they are to work. You may also fail your physical education course if you miss too many classes. Only skip gym class once in a while to avoid hurting your grades and to keep your excuses effective.


Keep an eye on your grades. Don't skip physical education classes if it will cause you to fail.
Using the same excuses every gym class will cause your instructor to question if you really are unable to participate.

