 These are simple exercises you can do with a towel on the floor. Just make sure your feet are firmly planted on the floor. You can hold on to something for balance if you need it.Stand at the edge of the towel with your feet hip-width apart.
Use the toes on one foot to gather the edge of your towel and pull it toward you.
Push the towel back into position.
Repeat with your other foot.
 This exercise uses an exercise band to help pull your toes toward you. This action strengthens the shin muscle. You can also use a towel in place of the band if you don’t have one.Sit on the floor with your legs straight out in front of you.
Loop the exercise band around the bottom of your feet, near the arch.
Gently pull the band back into dorsiflexion, that is raising your toes upward toward your shins as far as possible, and hold that position for 10–15 seconds.
Repeat two to three times on the same foot, then switch to the other leg. You can switch legs between reps, but it will probably be quicker not to keep swapping the band around each foot.
The exercise band you use for this and other shin exercises should be a strip design, which will wrap around your foot and ankles. When purchasing your band, consider the resistance based on your current fitness level. If you are already active, and working on your shins to improve your current workout, you’ll want to consider bands with heavy resistance, for average untrained men or active women, or extra-heavy resistance, for active men and strong women., This exercise uses the band and a fixed object to help extend your lower leg. Your foot will use the band as resistance to pull against when flexing. All you need is the exercise band and something solid you can wrap it around.Sit on the floor with your legs stretched out in front of you. Make sure your toes are pointed up toward the ceiling.Loop the exercise band around the top of your foot and a stationary object. This can be a table leg, or anything else that will stay securely in place.
Dorsiflex your foot against the resistance, pulling your toes back against the band.
Repeat for 10–15 reps, then switch legs. For increase the resistance, you can build to using a heavier band, or doubling your reps to 20–30 per leg.
 If you have a little bit more space to do some walking, you can use the resistance band to stretch by taking steps. This will help stretch your shins and hip abductor muscles.Stand up, placing your feet shoulder-width apart.
Wrap the resistance band around your ankles or thighs.
Step forward and to the right with your right leg. Then bring your left leg forward so that it is even with the right.
Take a step backward toward your original position, then bring your other leg back to even.
If you have the space, you can take several steps forward before going backward. Just remember to alternate your lead foot for each forward step.

