 No seats are assigned on Southwest Airlines, but boarding positions are assigned at check-in. The earlier you check in, the better position you will secure for yourself. Check-In begins 24 hours prior to your departure time.The earlier you board the plane, the more seating options will be available to you.
Set an alarm on your phone to alert you before you want to check in.
Depending on your departure time this can be inconvenient. You may need to wake up early, stay up late, or leave a meeting. Consider this when you are booking your flight.;
, EarlyBird Check-In gives you a head start of half a day on the average passenger. Southwest will automatically check you in 36 hours prior to your flight, giving you a better chance at an A or B boarding position.Since the system checks you in automatically, you don’t have to worry about remembering to check in on time or waking up in the middle of the night to do it yourself.
After being automatically checked in, you can download your boarding pass to your phone, or print it at a kiosk when you arrive at the airport.
 The only way to ensure that you are in Group A 1-15 is to purchase a Business Select ticket. While Southwest Airlines does not have a First Class or Business section, they do offer this perk for the extra cost of $30-$40 depending on your trip.Purchase your ticket early to ensure that the Business Select fare is still available on your flight.
Additional bonuses include a coupon for a free alcoholic beverage, earning bonus reward miles, and access to the Fly By lane at security to ensure you make it through the airport and to your plane on time.
 Once you have flown 25 legs of flights on Southwest Airlines, you will reach the level of an A-List Member. This will earn you preferred status and one of the A position boarding passes reserved for advanced reward program members.After flying 50 legs, you will reach A-List Preferred status and you will be in the front of the line even above A-List Members.
 If you are traveling with a child who is six years old or younger, you can board the plane during family boarding. Southwest allows Group A to board first to accommodate passengers who have paid for early boarding or earned status in their rewards program. After Group A boards, they take a break to allow people with young children to board.


Even if you aren’t able to find seats together, you are likely to find someone who will trade seats in order to allow children to sit with their parents. Ask around and get a flight attendant to assist you., Once everyone has boarded the plane, the flight attendant will take a head count of all the passengers. Once they have completed their count, you are allowed to change seats before the plane moves away from the gate. If you are seated next to someone, but there is a row with two empty seats, ask the flight attendant if you can move.


Don’t worry about offending the other passengers in the row, they will be happy to have an empty seat as well.

