 Sprouts aren't always featured in light side dishes — sometimes, they're part of the main course. For this hearty stir fry-style dish, we'll be preparing all of our ingredients in the same hot pan. To start, heat a teaspoon or so of sesame oil in a pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers or smokes ever-so-gently.
 Crack four eggs into a small bowl, beat or whisk them together, then add them to your hot pan. Turn the egg mixture frequently with a spoon or spatula to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Cook eggs until firm and omelet-like, but broken into pieces (not in one single piece like an actual omelet.)


To be clear, you don't want a soft, smooth texture like you might use for scrambled eggs. You want your eggs cooked a little more solid — ideally, they should still be soft, but should have a bit of firm chewiness to them.
 When your eggs are cooked, remove them to a plate and wipe the pan down with a paper towel or a clean rag. Toss in your ginger and garlic and allow them to sauté on their own for just a minute or two. When they're fragrant and lightly seared, continue to the next step. Don't wait too long — both ginger and garlic can burn if cooked on their own for more than a few minutes.
 Once you add these vegetables and liquid ingredients to the pan, stir them to combine, then cover the pan. Let the vegetables simmer under the lid for about three minutes, stirring once or twice. Cook until the vegetables begin to soften before proceeding to the next step.


Covering with a lid keeps the moisture of your ingredients contained in the pan, preventing them from drying out or searing while they soften (and helping them cook evenly.) If you're having a hard time getting your vegetables to soften or cook evenly, try adding a splash of water to the pan to create additional hot steam under the lid.
 When your vegetables are softened, add all of the remaining ingredients to the pan. Your goal is now simply to warm the ingredients, not cook them any more. Once the ingredients are uniformly hot, you're done!


Adding half of the scallions at the end of the cooking process keeps them crispy, which creates a pleasing contrast with the soft texture of the scallions you added earlier.
 Congratulations! You're ready to enjoy this filling, nutritious sprout-centric meal. Serve hot from the pan on a plate or serving platter (if feeding multiple people) and dig in!

