 Most people want to keep their New Era hats looking fresh off the rack. If that's you, you'll need to use gentle cleaning methods and proper storage to keep it safe. If you don't really care how new your hat looks, but just want to keep it from looking sweat-soaked and gross, you can disregard a lot of the more particular details, and just wash it as you would other clothing items.


Don't soak new hats you want to keep looking fresh for as long as possible. Wait until it gets really soiled and already starts looking old.
If you're not trying to keep your hat looking brand new, just toss it in the water to soak. Better yet, just toss it in the washing machine. Easy and done.;
, Every time you take off a New Era cap, it's a good idea to clean it up gently to make sure dust doesn't accumulate. This is especially true if you've got a white one. It doesn't need to take more than a minute or two.









If you can't dust your hat every single time, try to do it at least once or twice a week. Dust can work its way into the fibers of the cap, staining it over time, which will result in the need for deeper cleaning methods.
 The best way to keep your hat looking fresh every day is to run a lint roller over it, to remove the dust and the grime of wearing it. These are usually only a few bucks at most clothes retailers.


Some lint rollers have sticky sheets on the outside, which you can peel off after they get too nasty and hairy. Others will have thick bristles that go one way, but not the other. These are the best lint rollers, because they'll last a longer time and won't leave sticky residue on your hat.
Some hat places will even furnish hat brushes, specifically for this purpose. If they're really expensive, opt for the lint roller, which is basically the same thing.
DIY lint roller: Use the sticky side of tape, then toss it.
 Plain wet naps or wet hand wipes are excellent for doing little spot treatments on your New Era cap to keep it from developing stains before they become worse. Use one wet wipe to thoroughly wipe out the inside and go over the outside of your hat, about once a week, or more if you wear it every day.


Focus especially on the end of the brim on the side of your hand that you use most often, and the inside where you sweat. Fingerprint stains will tend to form on the brim where you grip the hat to take it off, and sweat stains can penetrate the fabric and be really difficult to get out.
 If you're just tossing your New Era on the dresser, or on the floor, it's going to pick up more dirt there than on your head. Plus, hat racks are dust traps, especially if you've got one right by the front door. If you want to be really protective of your New Eras, keep them in a box, with some tissue paper wrapped around them to keep them from getting too dusty. Fresh and clean every time, no cleaning required.
 If you sweat in your cap, you can keep the band from getting sweat-stained and requiring cleaning by creating a barrier underneath with a do-rag that fits tightly around you scalp, helping to hold your hair in place, keeping its oils from staining the hat, as well as keeping the sweat from penetrating the hat, at least as deeply.

