 When you want to change a paragraph’s spacing, left-click within that paragraph. A blinking cursor will be left behind. The blinking cursor will allow the entire paragraph to be changed. The text can also be selected by highlighting. To highlight, left-click and run the cursor over the text you wish to double-space.If you need to select several consecutive paragraphs, simply highlight all the paragraphs at a time.;
, The “Style” button will be the first header on the left of the “Format Inspector” box., The disclosure triangle is the small, downwards facing arrow head that will display a drop-down menu once clicked. Once the drop-down menu has opened, read over the options carefully to determine which you would like to edit.When selecting “Lines,” know that the original, pre-selected space between typed lines is proportional to font size. Select lines when you would like to change the spacing between the lines, while maintaining the relative distance between ascenders and descenders. Ascenders are letters that reach to the top of the line, such as a “t,” and descenders are letters that reach to the bottom of the line, such as a “j”.When selecting “At least,” the distance from one line to the next will never go below your chosen value. Increase “At least” when you wish for the space between lines to remained fix, but you want to avoid overlap if the text becomes large.The “Exactly” header is the distance between the baselines. Increase or decrease the values within to alter the distance.”Between” is the value set to increase the overall space between the lines. This differs from “Lines,” as “Lines” will increase the overall height of the lines, whereas “Between” will give the options of 1.5 space, 2.0 space, etc. If you wish to give an amount of empty space between your lines, select “Between.”, To change the spacing between lines, alter the “Between” option. To insert double spacing, you simply need to click the arrows until you increase to “2.0,” or click the box and type in “2.0.”


Caution is not needed when altering lines. If you wish to see how your document looks with a certain alteration, simply do it. If you are changing the spacing because of curiosity, or you don’t quite understand the process, you can hit “command” and “z” together to undo the change you made.