 Many people force their bodies to hold gas in to avoid embarrassment, but passing gas is a necessary bodily function that occurs to help the release of a by-product of digestion. Preventing yourself from passing gas just leads to more pain and discomfort. Instead of holding it in, find a comfortable place to release it.


If you are in public when a bout of gas or bloating strikes, find a bathroom where you can stay until the pain has subsided.
If you find it difficult to pass gas, try adjusting your body positioning to allow the gas to be released. Lie down and relax your muscles until the pressure in your stomach and intestines is gone.
Moving around can help, too. Take a brisk walk around the block or walk up and down a set of stairs to help the gas make its way out. ;
, For quick relief of abdominal pressure caused by gas and bloating, lie down and lay a hot water bottle or warm compress across your stomach. Allow its heat and weight to help the gas leave your body and the pressure subside.
 Both mint and chamomile have properties that aid in digestion and help relieve stomach pains.Buy mint or chamomile teabags, or use fresh mint leaves or dried chamomile flowers. Steep the ingredients in hot water and enjoy for immediate bloating and gas relief.
 Garlic also has properties that stimulate the gastric system and help relieve gas and bloating. Garlic supplements are available at health food stores, but fresh garlic may provide faster relief.


Eat garlic soup, since the warm water helps deliver the garlic to your system quickly. Mince a few cloves of garlic and sauté them in olive oil on the stove. Add vegetable or chicken broth, let it simmer for a few minutes, and enjoy hot.
Avoid eating garlic with other foods that may cause more gas and bloating. For best results, consume it plain or in a soup.
 If you are already feeling gas and bloating pressure, medicines meant to prevent gas and bloating will not work. Choose a medicine meant to break up gas bubbles and reduce the pressure in your intestines and stomach.


Over-the-counter medicines that contain simethicone are meant to ease gas buildup.Activated charcoal is also said to help relieve gas. Activated charcoal is sold at health food stores and drugstores.