 Melt a pat of butter in a small skillet. When it gets hot, add the chopped onion. Cook the onion until it's translucent, then remove the pan from heat and set it aside.






;
, Place it in a heavy stockpot or Dutch oven, then place the pot on the stove and turn on the burner to medium heat. Let the pot heat until the butter melts and begins to sizzle.
 Use a whisk to stir the flour into the butter, allowing it to thicken the butter and turn slightly brown. Be sure to stir the mixture constantly so it doesn't get too dark. It's finished when it reaches a golden brown color. This should take 3 to 5 minutes.
 After the roux is ready, whisk in the half-and-half and chicken stock, whisking continually. Stir until the mixture is thoroughly combined.
 Let the liquid come to a low simmer. Cook it at this level for 20 minutes while you prepare the remaining ingredients.









Don't let the soup base come to a boil; if it gets too hot, turn down the heat.
If you like your soup spicy, add black pepper and a few shakes of cayenne pepper to the base.
 Stir them into the soup base and mix well. Cook the vegetables over low heat until they are tender, about 25 minutes.









Again, watch to make sure the soup doesn't come to a boil.
Taste the soup to determine whether you want to add more spices.
 Over the course of 25 minutes it should become thicker; remove it from heat when it reaches the texture you desire.
 At this point add salt and pepper to taste, as well as nutmeg and additional spices if you desire. Stir the spices well.
 Working in batches, transfer the soup to a blender and puree it until smooth. When the soup has been blended, transfer it back to the large stock pot and turn the heat to medium.









If you wish to keep whole pieces of broccoli and vegetables in the soup, you can either skip the pureeing stage or just puree half the batch.
Use an immersion blender if you have one, so you don't have to transfer the soup out of the pot.
 Add the grated cheese to the hot soup. Use a spoon to stir it in and allow it to completely melt. Taste the soup for flavor. The soup is finished when the cheese has melted and the flavors have melded.
 Ladle it into bowls and serve with slices of crusty bread, a side of rice, or a fresh green salad.








