 Compact fluorescents save more than 2/3rds the amount of energy of regular light bulbs. You can reduce the carbon footprint of your home by switching to these energy saving bulbs. However, it is important to remember that some fluorescent bulbs contain mercury—when you are buying your bulbs, look for ones with a label that says low-mercury., Another great way to save energy is to minimize the amount of air leaking out of your home. Make sure that your walls are insulated. You could also consider double paneling your windows—this can be rather costly, but it will save you money in the long run when you do end up heating or cooling your home.


You should also add some caulking or weather stripping around windows and doors. This will help you to eliminate drafts, thus making your heating and cooling systems more energy efficient.
 This means both buying electronics with a good energy rating, and making sure that you unplug your electronics when you are not using them. Look for an Energy Star label on any appliance you consider buying. Energy Star is a certification given to appliance companies by the United States government. It signifies that the appliance is highly energy efficient. Regardless of how energy efficient your appliance might be, however, it is always good to unplug your appliances when you are not using them.If you have a hard time remembering to unplug your electronics, consider buying a power strip. You can plug your electronics into it, and shut them all off just by hitting the ‘off’ button on the power strip.
 Solar, hydro, and wind power are all excellent forms of alternative energy. Some utilities companies will give you the option of choosing green energy through the use of solar or wind power. If your utilities company doesn’t offer a green option, don’t give up! You can set up your own solar panels, and even build your own turbines.
 Instead of running the dryer every time you do a load of laundry, hang your clothes to dry in the sun instead. Set up your own clothesline. You can also air dry clothes on a rack indoors.
 One of the greenhouse gas contributors is the food industry. If you really want to lower your carbon footprint, prefer products that don’t have to be transported very far. Shop at farmer’s markets and natural food stores that carry products by local growers.


You should also make a point of only buying products that are in season. If you find that you are craving blueberries in the middle of winter, think about the fact that the only blueberries available to you will have been shipped from Chile. Instead, try to purchase seasonal items.
 Its hard to get more local than your own backyard. If you have the time and space to do so, you should really consider planting a garden. Think about planting things you know you will eat. If you use basil a lot, why not grow it? Any extra food that you grow but can’t eat can be donated to a local food charity.
 You should particularly avoid beef that has been shipped from far away. As crazy as this may sound, the livestock industry is actually accountable for 18% of greenhouse gas emissions. In particular, methane is a big problem when it comes to cattle raising. You don't have to stop eating beef entirely, but consider saving it for special occasions. When you do eat beef, make sure that it is free-range and grass-fed, as this has both lower emissions and is better for the animal., Doing this will help you to reduce the amount of waste you are left with after your meal. If you have an option between several apples on a tray, wrapped in plastic wrap, and simply selecting unwrapped apples that you can put in your reusable bag--choose the unwrapped apples., When you can, take public transit or carpool with your coworkers. If you are traveling close enough to home, ride your bike (you’ll get in shape too!) or walk.


Learn to Get Back on a Bicycle As an Adult if it has been awhile.
You can carry a lot of cargo by bicycle, too.
 Whether you get there some other way, or skip trips by doing business online or by phone, you can probably figure out ways to put fewer miles on your vehicle than you do., You may not know this, but some of your driving habits actually affect how much CO2 your car emits. Accelerating smoothly and slowly, maintaining a steady, moderate speed while you drive, and anticipating your stops and starts will actually help you to save one ton of CO2 in a year.If you know you are going to be driving a lot, and have the funds to do so, you should consider purchasing a hybrid or all-electric car. Remember, though, that much electricity also has a carbon cost, and that electric cars don't cut down on traffic congestion.
 This means making sure your fuel, air, and oil filters are replaced when they need to be. When your car is running efficiently, your emission control systems should be working at the top of their game.To maximize your gas mileage, make sure that your tires are properly inflated.
 If you are traveling a relatively long distance, and have the time to do so, go by a train or bus, rather than by airplane. Airplanes pump out a lot of CO2 emissions. You can reduce your carbon footprint by trying other means of long-distance transportation.


If you do have to take a plane, look for a nonstop flight, rather than switching planes during a layover. This will not only reduce your air travel footprint, it will also be much more convenient for you.
 This goes for clothing, food products, household items--anything. Energy is consumed every time a new cotton shirt is made, or a bundle of bananas gets shipped.

For durable items, look around at garage sales and thrift stores, or check your local classified or Freecycle listing. Many people discard or sell serviceable items they were no longer using.
When you do have to buy new items, try to buy locally. Shipping products increases your carbon footprint. A five pound package shipped via air across the United States will produce 12 pounds of CO2 emissions. Try finding that item locally next time you hover your mouse over purchase while online shopping.
 How long will this item last you? Will it be obsolete in two years? Five? Will it be out of fashion? Will it break?, Instead of throwing things out that could end up in a landfill creating methane gas, reuse everything you can. Reupholster old chairs, rather than sending them to the dump. You can also reuse old clothes or sell them.
 It’s important to know what can and cannot be recycled. This varies from county to county, so run an online search to find out what rules govern your individual recycling system. Always remember to wash recyclables before putting them in the recycling bin. Remember to recycle your glass, aluminium, and paper.
 Food waste can be used to feed your garden. Compost enriches soil and cleans up contaminated soil. It also reduces the need for fertilizers, pesticides, and even water., Your town or county should have a hazardous waste facility located near you. Search online to find out where yours is located. These facilities will have drop off days or locations for single-use batteries. Rechargeable batteries can be dropped off at many different locations, including Staples and Radio Shack, which will properly dispose of them for you.You can also drop your old cell phones off along with your rechargeable batteries. Many electronics stores have partnered with Call2Recycle, a rechargeable battery and cell phone collection organization that recycles your old cells and batteries for you.
 Sadly, old electronics can’t just be placed in the recycle bin with your other recyclables. You can, however, take your electronics to a recycling center near you. Run an online search for recycling centers in your area., Not only do short showers save water, they also save the energy that it takes to heat that water up. You should also keep in mind that baths consume a lot more water than short showers do.


Choose water-conserving shower heads. According to National Geographic, if you use a low-flow showerhead, you can actually save 15 gallons (56.8 L) of water if you take a ten minute shower., Roughly 22% of home water consumption comes from laundry. Always make sure to put them on the right setting too. If you do wash a smaller load of laundry, make sure to activate the ‘small’ or ‘medium’ load setting. (Some washers, especially front-loading machines, automatically adjust the water level.)

, A lot of the water we consume is actually wasted because of leaks we may have in our systems. Do regular maintenance on your pipes, checking to make sure that you don’t have any leaks. If you do--repair them immediately so that less water gets wasted.
 It’s important to remember that not all climates are meant to have green grass in them. To really conserve water, fill your yard with plants that naturally thrive in your climate. You will find that you have relatively little landscaping work to do, which means you will be saving both water and energy., Washing a standard-sized vehicle generally takes about 150 gallons (567.8 L) of water. That is a lot of water. Try to reduce the number of times you wash your car. Consider bringing your car to a professional car wash. They generally use less water than a person washing their car at home. Commercial car washes are also required to drain their used water into the sewage system (rather than storm drains) so they have less of an impact on the marine environment.