 These methods will also work with similar free software, like Google Slides or OpenOffice Impress, but the button locations and options may vary.;
, You click on text or images to animate.


To select a whole text box, click on the border of the text box. Powerpoint automatically distinguishes text separated by a paragraph or bullet break.
If your Powerpoint has no objects to animate, you will need to .
 This is located in the top menu bar and will display a variety of animation options and controls.
 These are split into 4 categories: entrances, exits, emphasis, and paths. The most recently selected animation will be set to that object and added to the animation pane.


You can click through the animations to see a demonstration and view more animations by scrolling with the arrows on the right of the animations box.
Entrance animations will change how an object enters the page.
Exit animations will change how an object leaves the page.
Emphasis animations will add movement or highlights to bring attention to an object.
Paths determine a course of movement for an object on the page.
 Select an animation effect from the dropdown. If you attempt to add an animation without first clicking “Add Animation” it will replace the existing animation instead of adding to it.This step can be repeated multiple times to add as many animations to an object as you like.
 This button is located in the “Advanced Animation” section of the “Animation” toolbar and will bring up a panel displaying your selected animations on the right.


This can be a useful tool for staying organized when working with multiple animations.
 Select one of the options from the “Start” dropdown in the “Timing” section on the right of the Animations toolbar: "On mouse click", "After previous" or "With previous".


“On Mouse Click” will hold the animation until you click the mouse.
“After Previous” will automatically start the animation after any previous animation (or when the slide appears if there are no other animations)
“With Previous” will play the animation at the same time as the previous animation on that slide.
 Click the up or down arrows next to “Delay” in the “Timing” section to change the amount of time delay that occurs before an animation takes place.


The delay begins after the selected animation action. That is if “On Click” is selected, the delay will start after the click.
 Click the up or down arrows next to “Duration” in the “Timing section to change the speed of the animation. A higher duration means the animation will move at a slower speed.
 Use the arrows in the “Timing” section under the “Reorder Animation” header to move an animation earlier or later in the queue.


You can also click and drag animation listings in the animation pane.
 In the Animation Pane, click the down arrow next to an animation and select “Effect Options” from the context menu. Go to the “Effect” tab in the window that appears and choose from the menu under “Enhancements” to select a sound effect from a list or add one manually.Choosing to add a sound manually will open up a window to browse for sound files on your computer, so you will need to have one handy.
 This button is on the left side of the Animations tab and will run through the animations on the selected slide.

