 Cheap fish, invertebrates, corals and macroalgae are better for an aquarium and for the environment. They're cheap because they reproduce well in captivity or are plentiful in the wild and tend not to die on the way to the pet store. Also, get little fish that stay fairly little. They're as pretty and usually as interesting as big ones, but metabolize much less. Half the length means one-eighth the volume and mass--and while smaller animals are usually more active for their size, they're still much less of a handful to care for. They'll also have room to swim and stake out little territories comfortably.;
, High-powered light consumes more energy than anything else in the aquarium. It encourages the growth of hair and other microalgae, and coralline algae which, while colorful, requires hard scraping with a metal tool, generally by reaching inside the aquarium, to remove. It produces heat which can require a chiller to remove from the aquarium and more air conditioning to remove from the house.


The light should still be brighter than a typical freshwater aquarium. One to two watts per gallon (one of the two ballasts for U-tube lights).
Read reviews online about this product there has been some problems experienced.
 (Some hermit crabs and snails are worthwhile for eating microalgae and stirring the sand.) If it doesn't move, it doesn't produce much waste. Algae actually cleans the water.
 Arrange the rocks into a loose open pattern. Directing one water jet such as the filter exhaust along one side of the tank and slightly inward so that the water spins in a slow vortex and another toward the otherwise stagnant center is a good start. Add a power head as necessary.


Saltwater fish, unlike freshwater fish, are generally used to keeping position in waves and are not upset by vigorous water movement.
 It is a good idea to change some of the water from time to time - perhaps 20% every other week, or 10% every week.


Replacing a mechanical-filter cartridge more often might be a good idea. But a big protein skimmer is perhaps even more effective in removing organic sludge.
Always top off (i.e., when no saltwater is removed) with fresh water. Salt water would over-concentrate, like the Dead Sea! Dechlorinate it first. In some areas with high levels of other impurities, or especially sensitive aquarium residents, reverse osmosis, deionized, distilled or otherwise purified water can best avoid adding copper and other harmful minerals to the tank.
 This removes undesirable material, including suspended algae, from the water so it does not dirty the water as it rots. Hang it on the front if you have to, such as for a nano-reef tank. A length of air line tubing from the air intake can muffle it greatly; ideally the opening should be above the water level so no malfunction can start siphoning water out of the aquarium.


Adding the air line will change the water level in the skimmer; be prepared to adjust the skimmer so the water doesn't rise too high and spill out of the aquarium. The author has had success with a big coral life 60 gallon (227.1 L) skimmer on a 29 gallon (109.8 L) nano-reef.
A large amount of macroalgae, live rock, and live sand is a great bio-chemical filter.
 Filter-feeders let their morsels come to them - slowly. If a mechanical filter (like many micro-reef rear compartments) will stay wet, keeping its bacteria alive, when it is turned off, you can put it on the lighting timer so it only comes on at night. In any event put the protein skimmer, whose recirculating area doesn't have room for bacteria to build up and die, on the timer to come on at night only. But always there should be something moving the tank's water, such as a powerhead. This keeps the food (and tiny particles into which the pumps shred it) moving enticingly so the fish will have several minutes to hunt it, the corals and other stationary inverts will have all day to filter-feed and dangle at it, and the crabs and snails will have all day to pick up the particles that do manage to settle to the bottom. It also keeps the live rock and sand biologically filtering the water. Then the protein skimmer will remove it at night before it rots very much and the filters will make the water very clean at night.

Some wet-dry filters do not include (or can be used without) a mechanical filter such as a sponge. They can constantly aerate and bio-chemically filter water well without removing particulates too efficiently. Their constant operation might be more important for big fish.
 This works best if the lights are not extremely bright so the glass will have little coralline algae on it.


Small basically-toothless carnivorous fish such as clownfish will tend to eat little nuisance bugs that can damage coral.
 Heater capacity should be on the low side because the lights and pumps create some heat and low temperatures from a cold house or insufficient heater capacity are less likely to kill the fish than excessive temperatures from a powerful heater stuck on.

