 One easy way to increase the intensity of your aerobic dance workout is to go faster now and then. Even a short burst of speed once every few minutes can raise your heart rate and help you burn more calories.








For example, you can try to pump your arms a little faster for 30 seconds out of every three minutes. Or, try lifting your knees a bit faster while you do side knee crunches.
 Another good way to up the intensity is to add some jumping to your dance aerobic workout. Jumping is a high impact exercise and it burns more calories than low impact exercises. For example, jumping rope burns over 1,000 calories per hour for someone who weight 200 pounds!If you want to add some jumping to your dance aerobic routine, then try adding a jump at the end of a move sequence.


For example, you could do a jumping jack in between each side knee crunch, or hop in the air after you pump your arms downwards three times.
 Instead of just using your legs, get your arms involved too. Adding an arm movement to a move will add some intensity so that you burn more calories. For example, you can raise your arms above your head while you are doing body rolls and wave them around. Or, add a punch as you bring your leg down after a leg lift.
 Trying a different pattern can also help to up the intensity of your dance aerobic workout. For example, instead of doing 10 repetitions on one side of your body, try alternating back and forth. Or, follow a single-single-double pattern by doing one rep on each side and then two reps on one side.









Just make sure that you work both sides of your body evenly.
 Contracting your core muscles while you dance will help you to tone your core muscles more effectively.You may be contracting your abdominal muscles without realizing it, but it is a good idea to check.









To engage your core muscles, try to tighten your abdominal muscles as if you are using them to pull your body upwards or to brace yourself against someone trying to push you over.
Engaging your core muscles might be easier to do when you are using them, such as when you do a side knee crunch or while you are rolling your body.

