 You’re going to enjoy the game much more if you are comfortable. Start by wearing comfortable shoes. Don’t worry about dressing up, games are casual affairs. Check the weather. Decide to layer if it is going to get cold and wear sunscreen if your going to be exposed to the sun all day.Sport a team shirt if you really want to get into the game, but avoid the visiting team’s jersey if you don’t want to be picked on by drunk strangers.
 Baseball stadiums are unique and offer many different forms of entertainment from historic landmarks to wild clubs. Find out what is special about the stadium you are visiting. Take a walk to take a break from the game and see what you can find.


The Cleveland at Marlins Park in Miami is not just a club, it’s a party, complete with a bar and a swimming pool. Bring your trunks.In Chicago, you can have a view of the stadium and the game when you buy tickets to one of the rooftops of the surrounding apartment buildings., One of the great things about being at a baseball game is being outside with a group of friends. You could be sitting at home on your own, but instead you are out in what is hopefully a beautiful afternoon or a nice evening.
 Games generally take about three hours. Throw in the time it took you to get there and the time it will take to get out and you’re looking at a good chunk of your day. Have fun and get some snacks to keep you going.Be a kid again and grab some cotton candy from the nearest vendor.
Eat out of a baseball hat. You can order plastic baseball hats filled with nachos or ice cream. As a bonus, it’s a fun souvenir to take home.
Try the stadium special you won’t find anywhere else. The D-Bat Dog is an 18 inch corndog served at Chase Field. Target field serves up the Brat Dog, which is a brat stuffed with a hot dog and wrapped in bacon. Miller Park Inside the Park Nachos are actually beef and beans rolled in crushed Doritos and deep-fried.
Feel free to throw your peanut shells on the floor. This is one place where you are allowed to make a huge mess, so go for it.
 There is a lot of superstition in baseball. Some you may not see, like a player wearing their underwear inside out, or, in Jason Giambi’s case, a magic golden thong with a flaming waistband. On the other hand, if you are watching closely, some players have rituals and little quirks that can be entertaining and fun once you catch on to them.Wade Boggs of the Boston red Sox would write “chai” in the batters box every time he approached the plate.
Kevin Rhomberg of the Cleveland Indians always tagged the player back who tagged him out.
Luis Valbuena of the Chicago Cubs flips his bat instead of throwing it when he gets a hit.Koji Uehara is a fan favorite spreading unabashed joy through hard-hitting high fives every time he returns to the dugout. Get out of the way or put your hand in the air!, It doesn’t matter who or why. Maybe you think he has a funny name. Maybe all the fans do a weird chant when it’s his turn to bat. If you choose player to follow, it will help draw you back into the game when he bats or makes a play.
 A large part of going to the game is being a part of the crowd. Fans all work together to create the sport wave, sing the National Anthem, and stretch during the seventh inning. Get in the game with the rest of the fans. Cheer, wave, sing and stretch it out!

