 One way to end a friendship is to let it fade instead of cutting it off in a dramatic showdown. Maybe the friendship just seems like it has run its course.


Slowly contact the person less. For example, if you were talking four times a week, reduce it to one time per week. Sometimes people using the fade out method will keep the person on their social media friend lists, but just contact them less. This is basically a way to downgrade a friendship but avoid dramatic confrontation. You could suggest a cooling-off period in the hopes that the person will start forging other friendships and start fading away from you when it ends.
Don’t be available when she (or he) wants to meet. After enough such excuses, the friend may just move on to asking other people to go, naturally reducing the friendship. , It’s normal for people to change friends over the course of a lifetime and to go through different life cycles, in which their interests change.


If the former friend has really done something grievous to you, such as a clear betrayal, you are actually doing something empowering by ending the relationship. You shouldn’t feel guilty about standing up for yourself or weeding out negative influences.
For example, the people you had things in common with in college might not make the best of friends anymore if your life goes in a different direction from theirs both in terms of family or career.
 Passive rejection is the term given to friendships you just allow to fade out. It means you avoid direct confrontation with the person you are rejecting.


One benefit of this kind of rejection is that it can minimize angry feelings because the person being rejected might not realize it, and there is not a showdown with negative words shared. One negative of this kind of rejection is that it can take a long time and requires a certain dishonesty. You’re not leveling with the person about what you’re really doing.
If you’re extremely close to the friend and have known them for a very long time, the fade out approach may not work. They will perceive the change too dramatically, and they will probably call you out on it.
 “Ghosting” is a term that recently became popular when Charlize Theron broke up with Sean Penn. Whether applied to a romantic relationship or a friendship, it means you just vanish on the other person completely and stop talking to them all at once without telling them why.


This method is cruel to the person who used to be your friend. They will spend weeks wondering what they did wrong, and they will probably contact you again to seek answers. Thus, this method of ending a friendship won’t cause the other person to stop contact; it will make them try to contact you more.
Ghosting removes the possibility of closure for the other person. It’s never a good idea to end a friendship by causing hurt in another person. Furthermore, without the possibility of closure, the other person won’t feel like the friendship is completely over.
Ghosting has been called the “ultimate silent treatment.” It is not an honest reckoning of what went wrong in the friendship, which prevents growth in the person whose friend you don’t want to be anymore. If the other person has done something to harm your friendship, telling them will allow them to work on those things to better themselves for future friendships. 