 Before signing, you should ask if you need to sign. Some activities might require that you sign the waiver before you can participate. In a school setting, you might have to sign a waiver of liability as a parent in order for the school to let your child participate in an activity, such as sports or a field trip.


If you don’t have to sign, then there is no reason to sign a waiver.Maybe the organization has made the waiver optional. In this situation, you don’t need to sign.
Ask whoever is in charge if you have to sign the waiver and why.
 Since a waiver is a contract, you shouldn’t sign if you don’t understand the document.You don’t want to agree to a document unless you understand its terms.


Take your time reading the waiver and don’t feel rushed. It is illegal for the organization to try and coerce you into signing the waiver of liability.
If you don’t understand something, then ask for clarification.If the organization does not clarify what the language means, then don’t sign the waiver.
Also don’t assume that all waivers are the same. The fact that you signed a waiver last year when your daughter joined the swim club does not mean that the skiing club’s waiver is the same. Always read the waiver.
 If you or your child is injured, then you should not sign any kind of waiver or document. A company or insurer might shove a bunch of papers in front of you and ask for your signature. Among these papers could be a release from liability.Waivers should only be signed before participating in an activity, not after you are hurt. Do not sign any company or insurance documents after the injury.If you are injured and given papers to sign, immediately call a personal injury attorney. An attorney can advise you about your rights.
You can find a personal injury lawyer by contacting your state or local bar association. These organizations of attorneys should have referral programs.
 You might be gently told not to worry about the waiver or that you should sign it because “everything will be okay.” You should politely resist these efforts to pressure you.


For example, you could say, “I’m sure it’ll be okay, but I don’t think I need to sign it right now.”
Or you could say, “My lawyer will probably agree everything is fine. But I want to show her the document before signing it.”

