 When ice skating, wear clothes that are easy to move around in and will not get heavy when wet. Skating is exercise, so your body will get warmer once you move around, preventing you from getting cold on the ice. Go for a fitted top with leotards, tights, or leggings.If you're skating in an outdoor rink, wear similar attire. However, you may want to choose slightly thicker fabrics or add laters. For example, wear a light tank top over a form fitted sweater.;
, As you won't be moving around as vigorously during beginner moves, go for a light jacket or coat. This should be an outfit easy to take on and off, in case you get sweaty, and light and moveable enough that it does not get in the way of your motions on the ice.For example, a fitted sweater is a great choice for an ice skating outfit.
 Skates should be fitted for comfort and are available in most shoe sizes. When you first start ice skating, you can rent ice skates. This allows you to explore different brands and sizes to figure out what works for you. Go to a pro shop and get a fitted there., To keep your feet warm, wear ether skating tights or microfiber socks. It's important your feet are exposed to as little moisture as possible to keep you warm. Use either tights or microfiber cloths when skating.Never use cotton socks. These socks do not soak up moisture well and will leave your feet cold.
 For your safety, wear a helmet. This will prevent injuries to your head if you fall on the ice.
 Falling is part of the sport so it's natural that this will happen. Falling with the right technique will keep you from getting injured. The first thing you should do is practice falling. To fall properly, do the following when you feel yourself losing your balance:If you anticipate needing to fall, bend your knees and squat into a dip position.
Fall sideways, leaning forward, and place your hands on your lap. As soon as you fall, roll over onto your hands and knees.
One at a time, place your feet between your hands. Then, gently push yourself back up.
 Once you're comfortable skating around the rink doing swizzles, gliding, and stroking, you need to know how to stop. Stand together with your feet together. Push your feet apart while skating and stick one skate out sideways. This will push some frost off of the ice and cause your body to come to a stop. The motion is similar to skiing., Gliding is a form of marching on the ice that will help you transition into skating. March forward two steps and let your body glide forward slightly. Do this until you feel comfortable with it. Then, begin picking up one foot as you glide.In figure skating, you alternate between lifting one foot and another. Gliding helps you become comfortable with that feeling.
 Stroking is the same as gliding except you extend the motion longer. After marching, lift one foot as you glide, set that foot down, and lift the other. This is the foundation for basic skating. Repeat the process until you feel comfortable., After getting yourself gliding, place your heels together. Then, slide your feet apart. After this, point your toes together. Repeat this motion, leaving a trail in the ice that resembles an hourglass.Swizzles help you go through the general motions of skating but keep your feet on the ice.
Keep practicing swizzles until you feel completely comfortable with the move. Eventually, you can start lifting your skates off the ice in alternating patterns as you skate.
 You should do a quick warm up before skating. This will help prevent you from becoming sore while on the ice and, as your body may not be used to the cold. At first, cramps may be more frequent due to the weather. Simply stretch each leg over the barriers at the rink to warm up before skating., At first, you may be inclined to look down at your legs to make sure you're going through the right motions. This will not actually help you skate better and can actually cause accidents. Make sure to keep your head up so you do not collide with anyone on the ice., Always lean forward slightly when skating. Bend your knees and keep your weight forward. Leaning back can cause you to fall backward onto the ice., Ice skating is difficult and takes years of practice. While you may feel overwhelmed at first, practice a few times a week. You'll eventually get the hang of figure skating.


It's hard to judge your own technique as you cannot observe yourself. See if you can find professional lessons in your area in your price range. You can look online or look for flyers in your local rink.