 Find a unit near you (you don't want to have to travel miles every week) and speak to their leader about you joining. If they have space, come along for a couple of trial sessions before you decide whether or not you really want to join properly.;
, Then you can just continue coming as you have been already. However, there is a termly fee, usually £15-£25. If you will struggle to pay this though, most units could help you out.
 If you are going to get your promise badge, you need to have uniform. The easiest way is online but check with your leader first as they might have spare stuff in your size just lying about.
 Join a patrol and go regularly to Guides for at least one month before making your promise.
 This will let them know they need to acquire a badge for the event.
 This is a very special time in your journey through guiding so treat it with respect. However do remember to have some fun. Some ideas for places to make your promise are:


In the dark with torches/glowsticks
In a tree in a nearby green space
On a trip (ice-skating, trampolining, etc.)
At camp, around the fire
At camp, on one of the activities (e.g. zipline, top of a sailing tower, etc.)
Be creative with ideas!

, This is possibly the most important step. The promise goes:


I promise that I will do my best: To be true to myself and develop my beliefs, to serve the Queen and my community, to help other people and to keep the Guide Law.
 What is the point of making your promise if you don't understand what you are saying? Go through, line by line, and make sure you understand what it is that you are saying.
 Once at your chosen place, make your promise. The ceremony will probably go something like this:


Your leader will announce to everyone that you are going to make your promise
Either your patrol leader or patrol seconder will lead you over to your leader
Your patrol leader or patrol seconder will say something like "This is and she would like to join .
They will sit down and you will do the Guides salute (with your right hand, hold up your middle three fingers)
You will recite your promise to the leader
They will salute too and shake your hand, saying something like "I trust you to keep this promise. Welcome to the worldwide community of Girl Guides"
They will pin your badge onto your uniform and award you with a certificate.
 You have made your girl guides promise and earned your badge.

