 Dipping may not seem as dangerous as cigarettes are to some people because no smoke is involved. However, dipping can cause cancers of the mouth, throat, and esophagus, as well as shrinking of the gums around your teeth, cracked lips, white spots, sores, bleeding in the mouth, tooth loss, bad breath, and increased risk for heart disease and stroke.;
, Make the decision to quit about you, not about someone else in your life. If you quit for someone else when you don't want to, you may resent them during the withdrawal process.


That being said, family members and friends can be a great support and inspiration for quitting dipping. Accept support from your loved ones.
Dipping can greatly impact not only your life but the lives of your family and friends.
 Realize that you are spending money to harm yourself. If you are chewing as often as one can per day, your addiction can get expensive very quickly. Try to view your addiction as an intense waste of money if that helps you recognize that you have a problem.


Your health insurance costs will also go up as a result of your chewing habit.
If you do contract a disease or cancer as a result of dipping, the cost of treatment will be enormous.
 You may not be able to remember when you chose to start dipping. In fact, it may not have been a conscious decision at all. Chances are, you did not plan to become a dipper, but somehow it happened and now you need to fix it.


Maybe your friends and/or family introduced you to dipping one day and you gradually accepted, eventually becoming comfortable with the substance and ultimately becoming addicted.
Maybe a certain behavior triggers a tobacco craving, such as playing in a baseball league with other dippers. Identify and avoid trigger behaviors and settings.
 Evaluate the facts of your situation, not how you feel about them. Your feelings are important, but they sometimes lead you to a false sense of reality.


When your mind tries to tell you that you cannot withhold a dip any longer, recognize that the truth is you will not die if you withhold a dip.
When your mind starts to make excuses, try to bring yourself back to the reality of the situation., Your primary choice consists of your long-term goal, which is that you are going to quit dipping. Your continuous choice is an immediate choice that you can revisit each day, such as "I am not going to dip right now."