 One method that may be helpful for potty training children with special needs is for the parent to set up a fairly precise daily potty schedule. Creating something visual or even rewarding for the child to view helps them organize and keep track of what they are working on. Create a schedule based around what times of day the child tends to go to the bathroom in their diaper.Observe your child's schedule. Most people’s bodies have their own internal schedule and by observing when the child does these things, the parent can try to get the child to the toilet before they use their diaper.
If the child uses the toilet successfully, the parent should praise them and reward them so that they can begin to form connections. Connections such as being able to complete a task successfully, as well as the connection between how their body feels when it needs to go and the toilet, will help them continue to be successful.
 If there are no paralysis or nerve damage disabilities present, and the child is capable of understanding the parent, it is possible to teach them to recognize when their bladder is full.If there are paralysis or nerve damage disabilities present, help the child develop a schedule for toileting. Help the child by paying attention with them to when they drink a lot and then when they go to the bathroom. This will aid them in making connections to any sensations they may be having.


Place a nonabsorbent cloth in your child's diaper so they may begin to be aware of feeling wet.
Talk to your child about how their stomach feels when they are full and how it feels after they use the bathroom. Help them make the connection between those sensations.
Develop a regular schedule with your child if paralysis or nerve damage makes sensation difficult or impossible. Prompt and help the child get used to the schedule.
 This may sound like a strange suggestion, but it can help to allow your child to watch you model the behavior of using the toilet.Children copy other children and adults all the time; it's part of a natural process for mimicking behavior. Let that work for you. Some children with mental disabilities pick up on toilet training simply by watching a parent of the same sex do it repeatedly.


You might not feel comfortable having your child watch while you use the toilet, but it is worth the slight feeling of embarrassment if it works to get the child to use the toilet on their own.

