 Use mascara to immediately widen your eyes and make them look bigger, brighter and more well-rested. Make sure your eyelashes are clean and free of residue, as applying more mascara on top of that could lead to a lumpy mess.









Curl your eyelashes with a curler for an even wider awake look.
 Sometimes dark circles are impossible to get rid of and are the most obvious sign of fatigue. Often, dark circles are genetic and around even on your most well-rested days. To help disguise them, simply purchase an under eye concealer that matches the skin tone of your cheeks.








Use your finger to pat the concealer on very gently starting from the outside of your eye and working your way in. Do not rub it on.
Continue to reapply throughout the day as needed.
 By physically adding a light, shimmery color near your eyes, you will brighten your face and add sparkle to your eye. It will help to enhance the color of your eyes and the white in your eyes.









Start at the lash line, just above your iris. Lightly apply a sheer, white color across your lid.
 To cover any redness that won't seem to go away, cover your complexion with concealer. First, cleanse and moisturize your face. Then, apply the foundation using your finger tips and circular motions. This will give your face a natural looking color and even out your skin tone.
 Apply the blush with a round brush and build the color gradually. Use a powder blush as it lasts longer than a cream or gel blush.









Choose brighter shades because they will make your skin glow and will freshen your face.
 Choose a pink or peach lipstick to keep your look on the lighter side.Use a brush to apply the color evenly. Remove the excess with a tissue and your are good to go.









Continue to reapply throughout the day to keep your lips looking bright.
Stay away from darker lip colors like plums and browns.
 If you are feeling like you need an extra lift for the day, don’t reach for neutrals. Black also won’t help your face look more awake and it will cast dark shadows on your face. The wrong shade of white could possibly make you look washed out. It's key to know what your skin tone is so you can choose a color that will flatter you. Certain colors can give your skin a natural, healthy flush. The wrong colors can make you look even more tired than you feel. There are generally two types of skin tones. Here is the general guideline to follow:If you’re cool-toned, choose jewel tones like blue, pink, purple, blue-green, magenta, blue-based red, or pure white.
If you’re warm-toned, choose earth tones like yellow, orange, brown, chartreuse, army green, orange-based red, or ivory.

