 Along with your creativity you also need to be sensitive to the psychological needs and the mindset of your target consumers so that you can publicize your product just the way that will attract them to it. You also need to have effective marketing skills that will ensure that you are pushy enough to promote your product in an efficient way.;
, If you are looking for employment in advertising design, then one criterion that you must fulfill is having an artistic bent of mind. Your outlook must be unique and your approach must be different from others. It is not only about being creative but also about presenting your creativity in a compact and artistic manner that will attract your target audience towards your ad.
 Another important skill is communication. It is essential to be able to interact and understand the expectations and thought line of your target audience, it is only then that you can give them what they want and package your product accordingly!

, After all ads are a way in which different products try to communicate with the consumers and persevere them to buy the products of their choice!

, If you fall back in the race to be the best then so will your ad. You need to always be aware of what is happening around you and be quick in understanding and responding to changing consumption patterns and demands! Without this kind of promptness and efficiency you cannot make a mark in your design advertising job!

, You may be working as a Graphic Designer and prepare design elements or layouts making use of various mediums. You may also be required to work as an Art Director whereby your main task will be the supervision of the work of different Graphic Designers and other related staff. You must be efficient in coordinating the work of those who are working with you in order to ensure the best results! If you are working as a Creative Designer then you have to manage the different creative work that is going on and ensure quality control by editing the work of the various employees to get the best end result for your client!

