 This is a common mistake. However, the Internet is flooded with ways for teens to unnaturally heat up their foreheads- even wikiHow has them! Try the neck or stomach. That'll catch them off guard.;
, Teens usually won't complain about skipping school if they're sick, although they might grumble a bit. If they really are sick, they'll be feeling awful. All they want to do is stay home and rest, even if they do actually love school. Their reaction should be a kind of "meh- okay" response. They shouldn't fight insistently- that probably means they're faking.
 Are they faking illness just so that they can skip school and finish homework? Most teens will have already finished their homework because they don't expect to skip school the next day. You have to be careful though- some students develop their sicknesses from staying up too late (which might lead to them not finishing homework), and so that might be the very reason they are sick the next morning.
 If you answered "laughing along to an online video", "jumping up and down hysterically while watching TV", or "practicing their dance routine", you probably have a faker on your hands. A sick teen should be sleeping, reading, drawing, watching TV on the couch, or doing something similar. Anything physical is out of the question. In fact, if you don't sometimes find them asleep when you return, they might be faking. A sick body needs more rest than a normal one.
 When did they start complaining? Although young people sometimes get sick overnight, it usually takes a while for a real ailment to develop. Some time over the weekend or a day or two before your teen skips school, they should complain of typical cold symptoms like stuffy nose, itchy throat, nausea, etc. That can develop into a fever or strep throat, or another skip-school-abling sickness. They might still get the sickness overnight, but that is unlikely.
 Do they normally get sick often? This doesn't necessarily mean they are diseased- unless they're getting sick something like three/four times a month (either take them to ER, or they are definitely faking)- sometimes they are just more vulnerable to small illnesses, or they are around a lot more people. Maybe they don't wash their hands, or ignore other common hygiene practices. Keep in mind that viruses don't follow routines, so it's completely believable if your teen doesn't pick anything up for a year, and suddenly they get sick two months in a row. It's called flu season for a reason.
 Look for little hints. If half of your teen's English class was out sick last week, chances are the stuffy-nosed child you see in front of you isn't faking. Did your fever-ridden uncle come to visit the family over the weekend? There's your answer. However it's important to be careful with this. You don't where or how your teen got the virus, so this just raises the probability.
 If they don't confess to a faked illness, and they don't complain the whole ride there, then you should be worried. If the doctor finds that there is no fever, you have the best faker in the world on your hands. If he does, you made the right decision by consulting the doctor. Either way, don't take this lightly. If your teen shows no sign of getting better, it's dangerous.

