 You'll want to use an oil with a high smoke point, like peanut, canola or coconut. If using coconut oil, allow all of the solid oil to melt before adding kernels.Make sure your pan or pot has a lid that goes with it.
The best popping temperature is between 400 and 460 degrees Fahrenheit. Oil burns at 500 degrees. If your oil starts to smoke, it's too hot.You can also add salt to the oil to help season the popcorn from within, instead of adding it on top after the popcorn is fully popped.;
, When the kernels pop, add the rest of popcorn kernels in an even layer. Cover, remove from heat, and count 30 seconds.








This method first heats the oil to the right temperature, then waiting 30 seconds brings all of the other kernels to a near-popping temperature so that when they are put back on the heat, they all pop at roughly the same time.
 The popcorn should begin popping soon and all at once. Once the popping starts in earnest, gently shake the pan by moving it back and forth over the burner.








Try to keep the lid slightly ajar to let the steam from the popcorn release (the popcorn will be drier and crisper this way, rather than chewy)., Remove the lid, and dump the popcorn immediately into a wide bowl..









With this technique, nearly all of the kernels pop, and nothing burns.
 Drizzle over popcorn and toss to distribute evenly.









Note that if you let the butter get just a little bit brown, it will add an even more intense, buttery flavor to the butter and to your popcorn.
 Sea salt is a great alternative to traditional table salt.









You can also add other flavorings and seasonings, like smoked paprika, cayenne powder, chili pepper, curry powder, cumin, grated Parmesan or cheddar cheese, and fresh herbs like rosemary.If you want to make your own sweet and salty popcorn, sprinkle some sugar over the top and mix thoroughly while the popcorn is still hot. Alternatively, you can also add the sugar to the kernels once you've placed them in the oil and they begin to sizzle.