 Start your smoothie with a liquid base. It should be added to your blender first before the fruits, vegetables, or other ingredients. This helps protect the blades as well as helping things blend well.The ratio of the liquid base to the fruits and vegetables should be for every 2 cups of liquid base, add about ¾ cup of fruit, vegetables, or other ingredients. You can add more fruits and vegetables if you want, especially if they are juicier.
For a low-calorie smoothie, instead of piling in a lot of high calorie fruits, choose one or two fruits, a green, a protein, and some spices.
Balance high calorie fruits, like bananas and pineapple, with lower calorie fruits, like berries. Instead of one cup of nut milk, consider using ½ cup of skim milk and ½ cup of water to reduce calories.
Add ice at the end if you want to cool your drink, give it a frozen treat consistency, and thin it out.;
, Smoothies are thick, so you should start with a thin liquid base. This can be anything liquid, such as dairy milk, soy milk, herbal teas, or nut milk. If you want to use dairy milk, make sure to use a lower calorie version, like 2% or 1%. Use unsweetened nut milks instead of sweetened nut milks or dairy milks to save calories.For low-calorie smoothies, choose low-calorie bases including:


Water
Unflavored, unsweetened almond milk
No sugar added coconut water or coconut milk
Rice milk
Green tea

, The produce is the main ingredient for your low-calorie smoothie. You can use frozen fruit or vegetables, but, of course, fresher is better. You can add just about any fruit or vegetable you want. For lower calorie smoothies, load up on veggies and limit fruits.


Some good ideas for vegetables include any dark leafy greens, like kale or spinach, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, avocados, or beets. Almost any fruit makes a good smoothie. Try berries, melons, bananas, pineapple, pears, peaches, mangos, and kiwis.You can buy prepackaged smoothie packs in the freezer section of your grocery store. You can also freeze your own produce. Bananas, mango, berries, kale, spinach, and even melons can be frozen. Since you are just throwing them in a blender for a smoothie, you don’t have to worry about freezing them perfectly.
 To make a low-calorie, all around healthy smoothie, add some protein. This doesn’t mean tossing in some protein powder. There are natural, tastier ways to get protein in your smoothie. Try:Low fat cottage cheese
Low fat plain Greek yogurt
Tahini, almond butter, or low-calorie, no sugar added peanut butter
Nuts, such as almonds or walnuts
Hemp, chia, flax, or pumpkin seeds
Silken tofu

, You can add a lot of flavor into your smoothie without adding in extra calories. Smoothies don’t have to be just strawberry and banana or tropical. You can make any kind of smoothie you want with any flavor. Try adding spices and herbs to vary the flavor. Try:Cinnamon
Nutmeg
Basil
Mint
Turmeric
Cardamom
Cilantro
Thyme
Cloves
Ginger
Cayenne

