 When you open a pack of baseball cards, you might find an Albert Pujols and you might find a John Maine. If you want to get a deep understanding of the players behind the cards, do some research.;
, Do you want to collect the 2007 Topps set, a set of your favorite player or team, a rookie set? You may just want to buy random cards.
 Look onto the company's website (some are listed below) for card designs, special inserts, and checklists to see if that set appeals to you.
 When you are an avid collector or have trading with friends in mind, this can be a useful tool for building your collection. If you can't afford it, borrow it from your local library.
 Look online for your nearest baseball card shop and go to your local card dealer. Check out certain cards you would like to invest, or simply just collect for the joy of collecting. Seeing them and handling them for real is part of the purchasing experience.
 Often you can find cheaper cards. Try marketing websites such as Craigslist as well.


Only buy eBay cards from reliable sellers. Topps has an eBay store called the Topps Vault which has some older cards for sale. If it is not a major company selling the cards, check the comments for that seller. If you read comments like "took 3 months to deliver" or "card was different then pictured card" be wary of the seller. Good comments would include "card was received in 1 week" or " (name of seller) gave me the pictured card".
 Buy a 3-ring binder and plastic card-holding sheets to protect them. Use card-holding sheets that are recently made, in order to take advantage of the latest technology for keeping stored cards in great condition.
, Unless you are an avid collector who would take a bullet for his cards, you should enjoy them. Make up lineups from your cards. Another fun idea is to take those lineups and assemble and play as them by making trades in a video game such as MLB 2K7 or Baseball Mogul 2008.
 The baseball card hobby is a luck of the draw hobby.
 If you are investing, remember to always hold on to your collection, and save it for years upon years. Vintage cards are worth more than new. If just collecting because you just like the smell of a new card, or you are a crazy sports fan, simply have fun!