 Before you file a lawsuit, you should gather whatever information you have about the incident so you can properly complete your complaint.The elements for civil assault or battery vary from state to state. Generally speaking, though, you ultimately must prove that the player acted intentionally in a way that would cause you a reasonable fear of being hurt, or that the player intentionally touched you in a harmful or offensive way, and that you suffered damages or injury as a result.
You also must be able to prove your monetary losses, so you will need to gather medical bills or any other documents that show losses you suffered due to the injury.;
, Personal injury attorneys typically give free initial consultations, and may be able to provide you with helpful advice on the relative strengths and weaknesses of your case.Although attorneys typically aren't allowed in small claims court, there's nothing wrong with consulting an attorney and getting his or her opinion on your case.
An attorney also may be able to clue you in on some important defenses the player might try to argue against you, and how to combat them.
 Before you file a lawsuit, send a demand letter to the player you want to sue demanding payment of your medical bills for the injuries you sustained as a result of his or her actions.Many small claims courts require you to send a demand letter before you file a lawsuit. When you fill out your claim form, you must describe the efforts you've made to get the other party to pay your bills.
Keep the tone of your letter professional, but collegial. Give the player a run-down of the incident and why you think he or she should cover your medical bills.
Let the player know how much your monetary damages are as a result of the injuries you sustained.
Give him or her a deadline to respond – a week or two typically is sufficient – and state that if the dispute is not resolved you will be filing a lawsuit in small claims court.
You may want to mail your letter using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you know when the player receives it.
 Find the correct small claims court with jurisdiction over your claim and contact the clerk to get a complaint form and information on the process of filing a claim.Typically you should sue in the small claims court in the county where you live. That court should have jurisdiction if you and the player live in the same county and the incident also happened in the same county.
Jurisdiction may be more complex if the player lives in a neighboring county, or the incident took place in a faraway location. In this situation, you may want to consult an attorney about where you should file your suit.
Once you've found the correct court, look for a small claims complaint form. You may be able to download a form and instructions from the court's website, but if you live in a more rural area you may have to make a trip down to the courthouse and get a paper form from the clerk.
The form requires specific information about the incident that caused your injuries, as well as a specific amount of damages you believe you are owed.
Include as many details as possible, including the date, time, location, and context of the incident. You also may want to include names of possible witnesses.
Once you've finished filling out your complaint form, sign it and make at least two copies: one for your records and one to deliver to the player.
 You must take your completed complaint form, along with any other documents you want to file along with it, to the clerk of the court that you want to hear your case.You may want to make a quick phone call to the clerk's office before you go, just to make sure you have everything you need and to find out how much the filing fee will be.
The filing fee for small claims cases is relatively low compared to other courts – typically under a hundred dollars.
If you believe you can't afford the fee, you may be able to fill out an application for a waiver. You'll have to provide information about your income and assets, but if you fall below a certain threshold, you won't have to pay any court costs.
Typically you automatically qualify for a waiver if you are receiving public benefits.
After you've paid the filing fee, the clerk will stamp "filed" on your documents and copies, then give your copies back to you.
The clerk may ask you questions about your claim, then he or she will schedule your hearing. The date, time, and location of your hearing will be on your court documents.
 You must have a summons and copy of the complaint delivered to the player you're suing using the proper legal process so you can prove to the court that he or she had notice of your lawsuit.Technically, anyone over 18 who isn't involved in the lawsuit can deliver the documents to the defendant. However, you may want to pay for a sheriff's deputy or private process serving company to do it so you can be sure everything is done correctly.
Many courts also give you the option of delivering the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get back in the mail after the documents have been delivered serves as your proof of service.
 After the defendant is served, he or she only has a limited period of time to file a response with the court or you may be eligible to win a default judgment.When the player responds, he or she will file an answer with the court, which also will be served on you.
Typically the player will deny most, if not all, of your allegations. Everything he or she has denied is something you must prove at the hearing. Your burden of proof is more relaxed for a civil case than the "beyond a reasonable doubt" standard you may be familiar with from criminal cases.
In a civil assault or battery case, you only need to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the things you alleged happened. This means you need evidence to prove those things were more likely than not to have happened.
In some situations, the player also may attempt to contact you and offer to settle the case. While he or she may not have responded favorably to your demand letter, the situation changes once you've filed a lawsuit.
 Some small claims courts allow the parties to engage in a limited discovery process in which they exchange written documents and information.Since discovery typically is conducted by attorneys, the discovery process in small claims court is a simplified process. In most cases, if you or the other party want to conduct discovery, you must first ask the court for permission.
When discovery is allowed, it typically is limited to written discovery, in which each party asks the other written questions called interrogatories that must be answered in writing under oath.
You also may be allowed to send requests for production, which ask the other party to provide you with copies of documents or other evidence that is related to the dispute.
Since you are the injured party, it is unlikely that you will be requesting any documents from the player. However, he or she may request documents from you such as medical records to prove the expenses you incurred as a result of your injuries.
 Particularly if you want to preserve or rebuild a positive relationship with the player, you might consider using a mediator to facilitate a compromise between the two of you that resolves the dispute.Through mediation, a neutral third party assists you and the player in finding a mutually agreeable settlement. The process itself is non-adversarial, and more relaxed than a court setting.
Mediation also is more collegial in the sense that the mediator works with both parties to find common ground and resolve differences. As a result, both of you may be more satisfied with the outcome of mediation.
You also have more control over that outcome in mediation than you would at trial. Keep in mind that the judge may award you nothing. Mediation, on the other hand, is completely voluntary, and you and the player can work together to find a solution to the dispute that works for both of you.
If you are able to reach a settlement with the player, make sure you get the terms of the agreement in writing. Once both of you have signed that agreement, it becomes a legally enforceable contract.
If you're interested in mediation, talk to the court clerk. Some courts have mediation programs available for litigants at little to no cost. Additionally, the clerk likely will have a list of mediation programs from which you can choose one that works for you and the player.
 If you're unable to reach a settlement through mediation, you must prepare your statements and argument so you'll be prepared when you go before the judge to present your case.You will want to write out what you plan to say when you present your case. Practice your speech in front of the mirror, or with friends and family who can give you pointers.
If you took photos of your injuries, make copies of those photos so you can display them at the hearing. For example, if the player shoved you to the ground, causing contusions on your arms and legs, photos of those injuries prove the extent of your injuries.
You also will want to make copies of any medical bills or other receipts or documents that prove the expenses you incurred as a result of the injuries.
Talk to other players who observed the altercation and find out if any of them are willing to testify on your behalf.
Keep in mind that players may be reluctant to testify against their teammate. Other coaches or spectators, on the other hand, may be more willing to speak out on your behalf.
 Try to arrive at the courthouse at least a half-hour before the time listed for your hearing, so you have time to go through courthouse security and find the courtroom where your hearing will be held.If you've never been to a small claims court before, you may want to visit before your hearing date just to observe. That way you'll get a better understanding of court procedures and what is expected from litigants.
On the day of your hearing, dress in neat, clean attire without any large logos, images, or statements. You don't necessarily have to wear a suit or professional clothing, but dress respectfully. When in doubt, dress as you would for a business meeting or job interview.
Small claims courts typically hear many claims in one day, so take a seat in the gallery and wait until the judge or court officer calls your case.
Stand when your name is called, and move to the tables at the front of the courtroom when the judge indicates that he's ready to hear your case.
 Since it's your case and you bear the burden of proof, the judge will expect you to describe the incident and explain why you believe the player should be liable for the medical bills and other losses you suffered as a result of your injuries.Using your notes, tell the judge about the incident and why you believe the player should cover your medical bills and other expenses you incurred for your injuries.
Generally, the easiest way to present your case is in chronological order. Use as many specific facts as you can, including the date, time, and context of the incident.
Be careful not to insult the player or make derisive comments about him or her. You also should refrain from arguing with the player. Instead, speak directly to the judge. If the player interrupts you, stop talking and wait for the judge to re-establish order before you continue.
If the judge asks you a question, stop talking and listen to the question. Answer the judge's question and wait. The judge either will indicate that you can continue, or you may ask "May I proceed, your honor?" Don't continue with your presentation until you have the go-ahead.
If you've brought witnesses, you can call them to testify. You must ask them questions, and they will respond. The player also will have the opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses when you are done.
 After you've finished presenting your case, the player will get a chance to tell his or her side of the story as well as call witnesses who may support his or her arguments.Avoid shouting or interrupting the player. You had your turn to present your case, now the player must have the same opportunity to defend his or her actions.
The player may call witnesses, such as other players, to testify on his or her behalf. Pay close attention to what is asked and answered, and take notes if there's anything you want to ask or clarify. You will have the opportunity to cross-examine any witnesses the player calls.
 Once both sides of the dispute have been heard, the judge will either issue his or her decision from the bench, or take the case "under advisement" and review the evidence and information presented before entering a written order.In most small claims courts, particularly when the case is relatively straightforward, the judge will issue his or her ruling from the bench. However, you may have to wait a few days or weeks before the written order is formally entered.
If the judge rules in your favor, you must get the written order so you can enforce the judgment. The court won't do this for you, but the clerk will give you information on the procedure you can use.
If the judge rules in favor of the player, you typically will have limited options to appeal a small claims ruling. The judge or clerk will provide you with a summary of your options and the procedures you can take if you want a second opinion.

