 Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a disorder that affects the large intestine (colon). It commonly causes abdominal pain, bloating gas, cramping, constipation and diarrhea.For IBS patients, an increase in the sensitivity of the nerves in the GI tract (visceral hypersensitivity) can occur. This can develop after a gastrointestinal infection or after an operation that causes injury or damage to the nerves in the intestine.
This results in a lower threshold for feeling intestinal sensations, therefore leading to abdominal discomfort or pain. Eating even small amounts of food may create discomfort as the stretch puts on the intestines.
Fortunately, unlike more-serious intestinal diseases, irritable bowel syndrome does not cause inflammation or changes in bowel tissue. In many cases, a person with IBS can control the disorder by managing the diet, lifestyle and stress.
 While the most common symptom of IBS is diarrhea, there are a variety of symptoms that characterize this disorder. The symptoms vary widely from person to person. In addition, the symptoms may go away altogether for a time, before recurring with greater severity.Abdominal pain: Pain or discomfort in the abdominal region is one of the main clinical features of IBS. The intensity of the pain can be quite variable, from mild enough to be ignored, to being debilitating enough to interfere with daily activities. It is frequently episodic and can be experienced as cramping or as a persistent ache.

Altered bowel habits: This is the most consistent clinical presentation in patients with IBS. The most common pattern is constipation alternating with diarrhea.

Distention and Flatulence: Patients frequently complain of these unpleasant symptoms, which can attributed to increased gas.

Upper GI symptoms: Heartburn, nausea, vomiting, and dyspepsia (indigestion) are symptoms that have been reported in 25-50% of patients with IBS.

Diarrhea: Usually, diarrhea in IBS patients appears in between episodes of constipation (that may last from weeks to even a few months), but it can also be a predominant symptom. The stool may contain large amount of mucus, but never traces of blood (unless hemorrhoids are present). In addition, nocturnal diarrhea does not occur in patients suffering from this condition.
 Diarrhea can be a symptom of many conditions besides IBS. Consider alternative diagnosis before IBS is claimed to be the cause of diarrhea. Proper diagnosis is required for appropriate treatment.Most commonly, an infectious agent is responsible for diarrhea. Salmonella or shigella are forms of food poisoning that result in diarrhea; however, these infections are usually accompanied by fever.
Hyperthyroidism, malabsorption, lactose deficiency, celiac disease are other conditions which may cause chronic diarrhea.

