 Scientific studies have shown that one of the strongest traits of physical attractiveness is a healthy BMI (Body Mass Index).Your BMI is the amount of fat on your body in relation to your height and weight.You can maintain a healthy BMI by making sure you get regular exercise. Good exercise can include aerobic training, strength training, sports, or outdoor activities. Anything that gets your heart rate elevated.
A good rule of thumb is to exercise for at least a half-hour a day, five days a week. If you want to pump up the intensity, then exercise at least a half hour a day more rigorously, three days a week.;
, Being healthy requires more than just exercise. A well-balanced diet is a crucial part of being healthy. Eating healthy keeps you fit and makes it easier for you to feel good.


Drinking a lot of water will do great things for your skin.
Cut out as much processed food and high-fructose corn syrup as you can.Eat foods high in carotenoids. One study showed that people who eat high- carotenoid diets are more attractive. Some foods that are high in carotenoids are sweet potatoes, carrots, butternut squash, and sweet red peppers., To be physically attractive, you should make a daily effort to keep your hygiene in good health.


Brushing your teeth will help keep them white. One study showed that whiter teeth can make people look 20% more attractive. Teeth whitening procedures can help keep those pearls white if brushing does not do the trick.Wash your face. Clear skin is a universal sign of attractiveness.Keeping your skin clean shows you care about your health. It also reduces the chances that you’ll have blemishes like blackheads or pimples.
Keep your hair clean and conditioned. Shiny hair is a sign of health and fertility., which is the driving force of attraction.
 Getting at least six to eight hours of sleep every night will bring a variety of benefits to your life, many of which result in your attractiveness.


It’s good for your health, in general. Your body repairs and heals itself while you sleep. This is especially important if you exercise. Getting enough sleep also decreases obesity and illness.You’ll have better emotional health. Getting more sleep leads to less stress and better mood regulation.Nobody finds stress attractive. In general, happy people are more attractive.Sleeping more leads to a better memory and clearer thinking. Looks aren’t everything, and you want to be able to keep up in conversation. To be the best version of yourself and have a clear mind, it’s best to catch those Zs the night before.
 Studies have shown that people who are tan are more attractive. Tanning also raises your risk of skin cancer (especially indoor tanning), so exercise caution.A theory for this phenomenon is that the vitamin D you get from tanning represents health.A tan body shows off muscle better than a fairer body because you can see the shadows cast by the muscles.

