 Peel 2 medium white onions, chop them and set them aside. Wash and peel 2 medium carrots and use a sharp knife to carefully dice them. You should also wash 1 green or red bell pepper. Cut away the stem and remove the core. Wash out any seeds in the center of the pepper and chop it.Keep the chopped onions in a separate prep bowl since they'll need to cook before you add the carrots and pepper.
 Heat 1/4 cup (60 ml) of olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add the chopped onions and cook them for a few minutes so they soften. Add the diced carrots, chopped pepper, 1 large clove of minced garlic, and 1 tablespoon of Hungarian paprika. Continue to cook the vegetables for another minute.The vegetables won't become completely tender. They'll finish cooking as they simmer in the water and chicken stock.
 Add 1 1/2 pounds (190 g) of fresh sliced mushrooms, 1/2 ounce (14 g) of dried mushrooms, 1/2 teaspoon of dried thyme, 1/2 cup (100 g) of pearl barley, 6 cups (1.4 liters) of chicken stock and 4 cups (945 ml) of water.Try using crimini mushrooms for the fresh mushrooms and cèpes or porcini for the dried mushrooms.
 Turn the heat up to high so the soup comes to a boil. Stir the soup and reduce the heat down to medium-low so that it bubbles gently. Simmer the soup with the lid uncovered for 50 to 60 minutes. The barley should be tender. Add salt and pepper to taste.If you're worried that too much of the soup is evaporating as it simmers, reduce the temperature so that the soup doesn't bubble as much or place the lid on the pot as it simmers.
 Measure out 2 teaspoons of cornstarch and place it in a small prep bowl. Stir in 1/4 cup (60 ml) of lemon juice until the cornstarch dissolves. Slowly pour the cornstarch slurry into the soup as you stir.The cornstarch will help the soup thicken as it finishes cooking.
You can substitute cold water for the lemon juice. Just avoid using hot water which could make the slurry lumpy.
 Turn the heat up so the soup returns to a boil. Stir the soup well so the cornstarch slurry is incorporated. Let the soup boil for a couple of minutes as you stir. It should thicken a little once it's ready to serve.Serve the Hungarian mushroom barley soup with 1/4 cup (5 g) of snipped fresh dill for garnish.

