 Cut long triangles from a piece of white printing paper. The base of the triangle will be the width of the bead and the longer the triangle is, the fatter the bead will become. 1-inch by 4-inch (2.5cm x 10cm) triangles will make slender 1-inch (2.5cm) beads, whereas 1/2-inch by 8-inch (1.27cm x 20cm) triangles would create fat 1/2-inch (1.27cm) beads. Cut accordingly.
 Draw on each cut-out with markers, pencils, or pens. Since the triangle will eventually be rolled onto itself, only the outermost edges and the last inch or two of the tip of the paper will be visible; these are the areas where you should focus your design. Play around with a few colors and design combinations as you go to see what looks best.


Color the tip of the triangle red and then alternate 1-inch (2.5cm) strips of orange and red marker down the outside edges; this would create a bead with a red center surrounded by orange and red stripes.
Color the tip of the triangle black, move down an inch, draw 1-inch (2.5cm) black strips on either outside edge, move down an inch, and repeat; this would create a zebra-striped bead with a black center.
Do not use washable markers, especially if you plan to glaze your beads; the colors will run.
 Turn each triangle design-side down and apply a bit of glue to the pointy end. A glue stick or a tiny bit of liquid glue will do.
 Starting at the wide end, roll the triangle around itself using a dowel or other slender cylinder. A rounded toothpick or bamboo skewer would work nicely as well. Keep the triangle centered as you roll, otherwise, your designs won’t display correctly.Roll tightly, especially if you want the beads to last. Try to avoid having space between the layers.
 Glue the tip of the triangle to the rolled paper. If the bead doesn’t stay tightly rolled up, apply another dab of glue.
 Use a finish like Marvin Medium, ModPodge, or Diamond Glaze. Let it dry thoroughly, making sure it doesn't stick to anything. Try putting your toothpick into a pincushion or a piece of Styrofoam to keep it from coming into contact with anything.
 When the finish has had time to dry completely, slide the bead off the end of the dowel. If it is well wrapped and glued, it will hold.
 For earrings or a bracelet, you might make only a few beads. For a necklace or other larger project, you'll need more.

