 Under tension, strings can whip out at you, and so could your tuners. Check for damage not only on your guitar but also on you, basically because the broken metal can act just like a knife or a wild game trap. Once you look for any damage proceed to unwind the rest of your strings and take all of them off the tuners.;
, For most guitars, use a Phillips head screwdriver to take out all of your tuners. Keep the machines that did not break for anything that could happen as you play more.
 It is best to replace all of your machine heads at once rather than just the broken ones, to minimize the chance of something happening in the future. Obtain the correct tuners of your choice that would fit your guitar best. Do some research on-line or talk to an expert for help choosing the best tuners for your guitar.


Some guitars, such as older Les Paul's, have pressed on metal jackets or bushings inside the drilled holes to protect the tuner and help it keep clean. You can leave these in the headstock or take them out.
 To take these out, you will need a hammer and some other kind of striking tool, such as a punch, or something that will fit inside the hole and the jacket. For best results, hold down the neck and gently tap out the jacket. All guitars are different and will have different ways their parts are assembled. If you are still unsure about your guitar, research more about it.
 To replace the correct machine heads, reverse your actions from when you took them out. Be cautious so as not to destroy anything on your guitar or replace a tuner wrong. If you have questions or are unsure about the process, research your specific guitar or talk to an expert before trying to do it yourself, as you could potentially damage your guitar.
 A tuner is not going to break just from you normally handling and playing your guitar. The reason why a tuner would break is because it was defective or faulty or somebody had not assembled it properly and/or the guitar had been dropped there and left a small fracture. If you were hurt by the fragments of the broken tuner, it might be a good idea to take legal action. If you were not hurt, save the broken tuner and notify the manufacturer, as they might compensate you for any damage to your guitar.

