 Turn the oven to 350°F (177°C). Coat the bottom and sides of a 9-inch (23 cm) cake pan in a nonstick spray. Put a round parchment paper at the bottom of the pan., Put flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg in a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together. Set aside the bowl for a moment., Turn an electric mixer on to medium speed. Blend the ingredients until the mixture becomes thick and pale. It will take about 4 minutes for the mixture to become thick and pale., Add in orange juice and whey and blend until the mixture turns frothy. Last, turn the speed to low and mix in the dry ingredients until the mix becomes thin like pancake batter.It should take about 2 more minutes for the mixture to froth up.
 Pour the ingredients from the first bowl with ingredients like baking soda, nutmeg, and cinnamon into the pan that you’ve oiled and covered in parchment paper. Then, spread the contents of the second bowl with ingredients such as brown sugar and honey into the pan. Spread the mix until it becomes smooth on top., Put the pan into the oven. Bake until the cake turns a golden brown. The center should still be soft and able to spring back when gently pressed., Loosen the cake by running a knife around the edges of the pan. Turn the pan over and gently dump it onto a rack. Allow the cake to cool., Pour cream cheese and butter into a bowl, and beat it on medium-high with an electric mixer until it becomes smooth. Then, pour the seeds from a vanilla bean, powdered sugar, lemon zest, in salt into the bowl. Beat the mixture on low for two minutes until it thickens. Last, add the coconut cream and mix until soft peaks form in the frosting., Once the cake has cooled down, use a knife or spatula to spread the frosting on the cake. You can cover just the top or all of the cake. Spread the frosting until you are happy with the look and amount of frosting on the cake., You can leave the cake as is or choose to decorate it. You can decorate the cake with things like flowers, berries, bee pollen, and fronds. It is better not to decorate the cake until you’re ready to eat it so that the berries and flowers stay fresh., The cake will stay good on its own for two or three days. If you can’t eat it before then, store it in the freezer. Try to eat it within a week if you decide to freeze it.