;
, Never wear make-up, although if you have freckles, you might want to use some foundation to cover them up.
 Gold has a wealthy aura. Owning one decent piece is better than a box full of junk pieces. Earrings should be little gold or silver studs, or maybe precious gems. Use real pearls; these are the only acceptable sort for the wealthy look.
 Just because you got some clothes from an upper class store doesn't mean they are preppy. Buy clothes that are classic, and clean-cut. Don't be afraid to splurge on these a little, as preps tend to hold onto clothes for a long time. Remember to make sure your clothes are always clean, and always match. Good fabrics are very important. Get rid of any polyester. Buy mostly 100%cotton, wool and cashmere. Wear preppy colors. Bright and happy, like green, pink, light blue, nautical red, white and navy blue and preppy patterns such as plaid, stripes, gingham, polka dots, argyle, floral, paisley, nova checks, and tartan.


Here are some suggestions for that type of clothing:






Polo shirts






Oxford shirts (unlike polos, oxford shirts should always be long-sleeved if it is warm outside simply roll up the sleeves)






Rugby shirt






Cable-knit vests and sweaters (traditional cricket sweaters)






A jacket or blazer (navy blue is a staple; try seersucker or madras plaid in summer, tweed in winter)






Chino pants-could have cuffs






Khaki pants. The prep equivalent to jeans






Bermuda shorts (khaki, madras plaid, seersucker, linen or preppy prints and patterns)






Skirts (khaki, madras plaid, seersucker, linen, preppy prints and patterns)






Tea dresses and summer dresses (in madras plaid, preppy colors, seersucker, or linen). A-line dresses, halters, and flowy dresses are acceptable.






Tennis- and golf-inspired shirts, skirts, and dresses








Know the right stores and the right things to buy. Go to outlet malls where clothing is a bit cheaper than at the retail stores. Tommy Hilfiger, Abercrombie and Fitch, Armani Exchange and even Dolce and Gabbana clothing can be purchased for a lower price. Also, check wholesale stores that sell gently used clothing for a much cheaper price then at the actually store(check tips for a minor addition to this section).
 If you're unsure about how to put together outfits, Google "preppy outfits".
 Remember to always be clean: run a comb through your hair, keep your nails dirt-free and neat, brush your teeth and bathe/shower. When spraying perfume, be sure to use just enough, but not too much. Excessive use of perfume isn't attractive and does not improve your hygiene, despite popular belief. Being clean is important; being grubby isn't classy and isn't pleasing.
 It will make you look, annoying, and is sometime insulting to real Brits.
, If you want to be like the one from "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" the 2005 film, don't worry too much about it.
 Did someone use the last napkin? Did someone forget to put the toothpaste cap back on? Remember that you're only pretending; there's no reason to flip a table over a pretend grudge

, Otherwise, your bad reputation (see warnings) may make people accuse them of being "drunk."

,, Always have it on you.
, Most people will be jealous if you have money and no worries in life. Get good grades, look nice, act nice, and always enjoy yourself when you're out. Never tell people about "bad things" in your life, this will make people think they are better than you if they have something you don't. If someone has something you don't have or is going somewhere nice, than don't act like it is a big deal, just stay cool, make it seem like it is something normal in your life.
 Post adds on a neighborhood website offering babysitting and pet sitting. If you have a lawnmower, offer to mow peoples lawns or rake leaves. Do something to get money whether that is simply asking your granny or you having to work for it.
, Work really hard at your schoolwork and make sure you get grades no lower than 'B+'. If you do, pout and kick up a fuss (but not to the teacher!) A 'C' is unacceptable!

, It is a must. Use big words. Rich people are often well-educated and thus have good vocabularies. Learn a new word every day like "aberrant," "culpable," or "capricious." Having a vocabulary like this increases charm and wit, which can be considered a MUST in higher circles.
 Aside from good hygiene, you have to dress classy/posh. T shirts and sweatpants will not cut it. A golf shirt and plaid shorts will work at the least, or some designer. If you cannot afford a lot of designer clothes, get some "minor designer" clothing. Some examples are Isaac Mizrahi, Mossimo, etc. A bit cheap sometimes, but some will work.
 Some good wardrobe basics would be a Louis Vuitton handbag, a Burberry scarf and a pair of pearls or diamonds. Also, convince your dad to dress well. Some good choices would be Lacoste/Tommy Hilfiger/Nautica polo's and 2 or 3 Pierre Cardin jackets. An Armani suit would also be good. If you can't afford all these, just convince them to look elegant.
 When friends come over, make your ordinary house look 'rich' by printing poster sized pictures of famous paintings, or you and your family dressed in beautiful clothes, or your parents' wedding and frame them. Then hang them up. On your desk keep all your things neat and tidy. Have a pink or white bedspread, and for your computer, put a cover, (pink or white), over it. The house should be tidy.
 As cliched as it sounds, learn about wines and cheeses. Learn how to pronounce words like Béchamel and Beaujolais. And learn good table manners. Otherwise you will look like a complete fool at dinnertime. Read etiquette books(American Girl is good).
 Having a coffee or tea at hand also makes you look rich.
