 Goat milk is a simple and popular item that people use to make catsicles. In addition, goat milk is both nutritious and freezes easily.

Consider products like Pro Bloom or Cat Sure. Both are formulated for cats.
Think about other powdered goat milk products. By using a powdered product, you can keep it on hand so you can make catsicles whenever you want.;
, While you may think that cat food is only good served straight out of the can, your cat will likely get very excited over a wet food catsicle. Use different flavors of your cat’s wet food. Remember, smooth cat food, rather than chunky cat food, works best.

Purchase new wet foods that your cat has never eaten before., Perhaps one of the most alluring catsicles is the tuna catsicle. Tuna works great as a catsicle because of its texture and the fact that it can be used with other ingredients.

Light chunk tuna may work better than solid white albacore because the pieces are smaller and juicier., Take a large bowl and pour your main ingredients into it. Stir the ingredients so they are well mixed. You may need to add milk or water to create a smooth consistency. Some mixtures might include:

Some chunks of tuna, the liquid from a can of tuna, and a few tablespoons of goat milk.
Goat milk and other cat-friendly liquids.
Wet cat food and a couple tablespoons of goat milk., Once you’ve mixed your main ingredients, you can decide whether you want to mix in some extra treats. Make sure to spread the treats out evenly. Stir the mix once you’re done sprinkling treats in.

Try to use soft treats. For example, consider sprinkling some traditional soft treats or catnip into the catsicles., Once you’ve mixed your ingredients and sprinkled treats into the mixture, pour it into individual containers. Containers should be small enough to serve to your cat as a snack. You’ll want to fill your containers with between a quarter to a half of an inch of mixture (6.35 ml to 12.7 ml).

You can use a variety of containers, including: Dixie cups, ice cube trays, store-bought popsicle molds., Before you place the catsicles in the freezer, make sure they’re completely covered. Consider using plastic wrap or Tupperware. By covering them, you’ll limit the chance of them spilling. In addition, you’ll lower the risk of them getting freezer burn., When placing the catsicles in the freezer, make sure they’re on a level surface. If they’re not on a level surface, they will spill or freeze unevenly.

You may want to clear out part of a shelf or even an entire shelf to place your catsicles., While you may be able to take some catsicles out of the freezer earlier, you should leave them in for at least one day. Allowing them to sit in the freezer for a day will help ensure that they are completely frozen.

The quicker you use the catsicles after the first day, the better. The longer they remain in the freezer, the higher the chances of them becoming freezer burned.
Properly stored, catsicles may be good for up to several months., When you’re ready to serve your cat a catsicle, run a little warm water on the underside of the container. This will make it easier for you to pop the catsicle out of the container and serve it.

After you’ve warmed the bottom of the container, place the catsicle into your cat’s bowl. Make sure the bowl is somewhat deep, so your cat doesn’t make a mess everywhere.