 No matter where you live or work, you will encounter people who seem like they are out to hurt others. The key is to learn how to deal with these sorts of people. Because they are impossible to avoid, it may help you to identify some of the different types of difficult people so you can decide the best way to interact with them. They include:“Hostile” people tend to react violently. They can be cynical, argumentative, and have trouble being in the wrong. These people thrive in power roles or as cyber bullies.
“Rejection-Sensitive” folk look for insults. In other words, it’s very easy to offend them. They often use textual means (email, texting) to express their dismay.
“Neurotic” types are yet another breed. They might be anxious or pessimistic and often are very critical of others.
“Egoists” prize their own interests first. They loathe compromise and also are hyper-sensitive to personal affronts.
 The other person's behavior is beyond your control, but you get to decide how you will react and whether or not to engage them. One way to do this is by increasing your frustration tolerance, which involves challenging irrational beliefs that may lead you to become stressed, angry, or lose your cool.


When interacting with someone difficult, you may be thinking, "I can't deal with this person anymore!" Before you react based on this irrational thought, take a deep breath and question it's validity.
The reality is that you can deal with it. You won't die or go insane because your mother-in-law is trying to micromanage Thanksgiving, or your boss is going on a rant. You are strong and you can take it. Your choice lies in how you take it: will you stress until your blood pressure begins to soar, or will you take some deep breaths and hand your mother-in-law some carrots to chop so she's occupied?
When you find yourself using words like "must," "can't," "should," "have to," "always," or "never," take a moment to reassess that thought.
 If people continually attack you, it could be that you are attracting the wrong types of people. For example, if you are overly negative, other pessimistic people might flock to you. Try to find friends who are engaged in positive behaviors.


When you had negative experiences in the past, what was your role? What were your actions in response to the behavior. For example, let’s say your friend Liz constantly picks on you. Do you respond to her? Do you stand up for yourself?
It’s helpful to recognize your own strengths and weaknesses. This way, when you confront difficult people in the future, you will be better equipped to handle them.
 One of your friends might seem difficult but she could be going through a rough time. Instead of judging others’ behaviors immediately, practice empathy by stepping back and reflecting on how you would feel in his or her place. If you are sensitive to personality differences, you will be better able to hand diverse conflicts.


Practice acceptance by taking a deep breath and looking at the person with as much compassion as possible. Say to yourself: "I see that you are suffering. I accept that you are anxious and scared, even if I don’t understand why. I accept that you are making me anxious, too."When you accept that something "just is," acknowledging and accepting that the person is difficult, you release some of the tension created by resistance or trying to fight.Imagine a sympathetic reason for their behavior.You may not understand why a customer just blew up at you for no apparent reason. Instead of becoming angry yourself, consider that she might suffer from severe, chronic pain, which gives her an extremely short fuse. It doesn't matter if the reason is true or even very realistic – it helps you stay calm and not feed into the negativity.