 An infused oil (also known as a macerated oil) is a basic vegetable oil (such as, sweet almond oil, olive oil, grape seed oil) that has been infused with the flavor of a different plant. This is usually done by steeping leaves, flowers, stems, roots, or other parts of a plant, either with heat or for a long period of time.Common infused oils include arnica, comfrey, mullein, and St. Johns Wort.
 The most popular types of infused oils include Calendula oil (made from marigold flowers) and St. Johns Wort. Calendula is known for its soothing properties and is used in a variety of beauty products. St. Johns Wort infused oil can be used to treat an array of ailments, including sunburn, nerve pain, varicose veins, and hemorrhoids.Oil infusions are often made from a mix of herbs and flowers.
 One benefit of infused oils is that, unlike essential oils, they can be created at home. Doing so is easy. All you need is a “carrier oil” (olive oil, coconut oil, or jojoba oil are all good choices), dried herbs, spices, or flowers, and a clean, transparent, airtight container (ideally glass). Simply chop your plant matter as finely as possible. Then place your carrier oil and plant mater in your airtight jar, and place the jar in a sunny location for 2-3 weeks.Adding a few drops of either Vitamin E oil or Wheat Germ oil to your infusion can help prevent any bacteria from growing in your oil.
You can speed up the process by infusing your oil in a slow cooker on low heat overnight.
 Hydrosols are not technically “oil infusions,” but hydrosols, essential oils, and infused oils are often grouped together, and all can be used for aromatherapy. Hydrosols are substances like rose water or lavender water. They are created as a byproduct of distillation. These fragrances can be used as perfumes, as air fresheners, in cooking (as with orange essence), or in cosmetics., One popular way to use infused oils is for cooking. These oils can be purchased at specialty grocery stores or created at home. Using olive, grapeseed, or avocado oil as your base, you can add a variety of herbs, spices, citrus, and/or nuts to create any flavor you desire. Infused cooking oils also make excellent gifts.Select your flavoring (whole or ground spices are fine). You will need approximately 2 Tbs. of flavorings for every 1 cup of oil.
Heat your oil and flavorings in a saucepan over medium heat for about 5 minutes (until the liquid is bubbling).
Remove from heat and allow to cool.
Strain your oil using cheesecloth or a fine sieve.
Bottle your oil in a glass, airtight container.
Store your infused oil in the refrigerator for up to one month.

