 Cleanses work best as a way to jumpstart good eating habits. Cleanses do not detox your body. Weight loss resulting from cleanses is usually temporary. Cleanses can help you to be more conscious of your food choices, your eating habits, and help you start eating fresh, healthy foods. If that’s what you’re after, go for it!, Cleanses take effort since you will be radically changing how you prepare your meals and how you eat. You might also notice changes in your energy level. Make sure your schedule is flexible enough to accommodate unforeseen effects of the diet., Before you start your cleanse, slowly cut back on foods that don’t fit into your cleanse such as coffee, fatty foods, alcohol, salt, sugar, and sweeteners. Tapering off ahead of time will help make the adjustment easier and will reduce unpleasant feelings associated with withdrawal.If you are choosing to cut out meat and/or animal products (dairy, eggs, beef, chicken, etc.) then do so slowly, and ensure you are replacing the proteins and other nutrients you lose when cutting out animal products.
 Along with lovely, colorful fruits and vegetables, make sure to purchase whole, minimally-processed foods that will supply your body with energy. Choose foods that contain protein and healthy fat such as eggs (or egg whites), poultry, fish, legumes or tofu., In the morning, eat any raw, ripe fruits you like. You might blend them into a smoothie or eat them as-is. Be sure to include in your meal carbs in the form of vegetables, whole grains, and legumes. You can also add an avocado to your breakfast for a protein-boost and to make your meal more filling., In the afternoon, eat a large salad with as many different vegetables as possible. For dressing, mix olive oil with any fresh citrus juice. Avoid adding salt to your salad or dressing to minimize water retention during your diet. If you’d like to make the meal more substantial, add a steamed potato or yam (hold the butter and/or brown sugar)., In the evening, eat any combination of raw vegetables and fruits you would like. Add 20 – 30 grams of protein to maintain your energy and help your body to function like it should. You can eat three extra-large eggs, a half-cup of diced chicken breast, a four-ounce fillet of salmon, or a half-cup of black beans, for example.1 ounce of meat has about 7 grams of protein, so it is a good option to ensure you get enough protein.
 Hungry between meals? No problem! Snack on raw fruits, vegetables, or smoothies made with raw fruits and vegetables (with no added sugar). You can dip your raw veggies in guacamole made with avocado, red onion, and lemon or lime juice., At any time, drink as much water, sparkling water, peppermint tea or chamomile tea as you would like., Drinking plenty of water will reduce bloating, help you feel more full, and aid in your body’s natural cleansing processes., Carbs get a bad rap but the truth is your body needs them to function properly. Your diet should contain at least 120 grams of carbohydrates a day., Limiting what you eat can leave you with low energy and can be logistically difficult. Limiting your cleanse to three days until you have a lot of experience with what kind of diet your body needs to function at its fullest.

