;
, How many oranges you end up using depends on your final design and how long you want the final garland to be. Plan on using about 11 oranges for a 4-foot (1.22-meter) garland., You can place them directly onto the rack in the oven. Avoid using a baking sheet, as this will trap too much moisture and will prevent the orange slices from drying out properly. Every hour, use a pair of tongs to turn the orange slices.If you'd rather not dirty up your oven, place a metal rack on top of a baking sheet, then place the orange slices on the rack.
 Again, how many bay leaves you end up using will depend on how long your garland is, and how you choose to arrange the oranges, bay leaves, and cinnamon sticks on it. You will need about 250 bay leaves for a 4-foot (1.22-meter) garland.It might be a good idea to go through the bay leaves first and pluck out any damaged or broken ones. Save those for cooking.
 You can always just tie the twine around the cinnamon sticks instead, but they will stay on the garland better if you use holes instead. Plan on using about 18 cinnamon sticks for a 4-foot (1.22-meter) garland.Drill the holes from the curled/seamed side using an electric drill and a small drill bit.
 The loop does not have to be very big; something big enough for your finger to slip though will be plenty. The loop will help prevent everything from sliding off. It will also allow you to hang the garland up.
 Slip your needle through the a cinnamon stick first, then pierce it through the center of an orange slice, followed by 5 to 8 bay leaves. Add another orange slice, 5 to 8 more bay leaves, and then a final orange slice. Slide everything towards the end of the string.If you did not make holes in the cinnamon sticks, simply wrap the twine around the center of the stick and tie it into a double knot.
 You can also vary the pattern, if you'd like, use more of certain items, or use fewer of others. Remember to leave a few inches/centimeters at the end of your twine.
 At this point, you can hang your garland from hooks or nails in doorways, above fireplace mantles, or over windows. You can also wrap them around your Christmas tree!

