 One look at FSBO and other real estate websites will tell you that numerous high-quality, even professional-grade photographs of listed homes are now the standard.Here, again, may be another investment worth making. You might want to consider hiring a professional to take pictures of your home. Barring that, you may want to at least contact that amateur photographer cousin of yours who is always in demand at family weddings.
If you are taking the photos yourself, take the time to ensure proper lighting, clarity, and scale for your pictures. Stage each room so it looks lived-in but not cluttered. You want to inspire the viewer’s imagination, not command or limit it.
 You want the person looking at the listing to be able to visualize him/herself living in the house while sitting on his/her couch or desk chair.Good options for enhancing your online advertisement include: professional-grade videos of the home, or perhaps even a 3-D video tour; area maps, perhaps including drone photos; detailed, and possibly 3-D, floor plans; online access to schedules, checklists, and documents once a potential transaction begins; and virtual staging, which allows potential buyers to visualize a room with various furniture and accessory set-ups.
Access to such features should be a part of your package with a paid FSBO site. Browse the listings of different sites and decide which provides the best combination of extras that will enhance your home’s sales appeal.
 As mentioned elsewhere in this article, hiring an appraiser to help determine the right sale price for your home can add thousands to your pocket, or prevent you from overvaluing your home and delaying any sale.The appraiser will offer his/her professional opinion on the home’s value, but it is of course up to you to set the initial price and determine the minimum you will accept.
Even if you aren’t the most shrewd negotiator, it makes sense to ask for a bit more than your target price (perhaps $10-$20,000 more, depending upon total price). This sets things up so that the inevitable counter-offer will bring you in line with your target.
The more pressure you are under to sell, the more flexible you’ll have to be with the price you’ll accept. But try to stick to a hard price floor, especially if you are conducting an auction or direct cash sale, or you may eventually regret selling too low.
 If you’re going to serve as your own real estate agent when selling online, that means you need to be regularly available to show the house and knowledgeable and engaging when showing it. You do have the advantage of knowing the house better than any agent could, but you need to combine it with preparation, poise, and punctuality.


Some may say that you should be ready to show the house at any time, just in case a legitimate buyer happens to drop by. There is something to be said, however, for setting specific viewing hours and/or only showing by appointment. This way, you can always be fully prepared (and have the house tidied up) when someone comes to take a look.Of course, if you do take appointments, always keep them. Also, however you choose to show the house, always be friendly and courteous. Even if the person taking a look doesn’t turn out to be a serious buyer, they may know someone who is.While being friendly and courteous, however, do weed out unqualified buyers so that you don’t waste time and possibly miss out on a legitimate buyer.
 Though it is unlikely that anyone coming to view your house is anything but an interested buyer, you should still protect yourself against someone who might mean you, your family, or your property harm.This includes:Taking down the full name and phone number of anyone interested in viewing your house, then calling that number later to verify the person's identity.
Removing any loose valuables such as jewelry, credit cars or wallets, car keys, cash, or other small valuables.
Using a sign-in sheet during an open house.
Not putting yourself alone in a room with a potential buyer (stand in the hallway).
Keeping the potential buyer within sight at all times.
Hiring security personnel to circulate during an open house if you have many valuables.
Requesting a picture identification when potential buyers show up to your house. This may be off-putting at first, but if you explain that you need to know who is being granted to detailed information about your home, they should understand.

