 Since your chinchilla will be vigorously rolling around, it is important that you set up the bathhouse in a safe location where there isn't a chance that it could fall off.
 Your chinchilla’s dust bath should be a pleasurable and relaxed experience. Make sure larger pets, like dogs and cats, are not present as they can stress your chinchilla out and make it feel like it is in danger., The dust particles are very fine, so be careful when opening the container.
 Your chinchilla needs the dust to be deep enough that it can roll around and coat its coat generously. For larger chinchillas, you may need to add 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of dust. A little too much is better than not enough., Gently scoop your chinchilla up with both hands from underneath. Be careful not to grab it by the tip of the tail, as it can easily snap off. Once you have scooped up your chinchilla, hold it gently but firmly against your chest.Chinchilla don’t like to have their legs dangling.
Make sure you have a firm hold on your chinchilla while transporting it to its bathhouse, as they are very quick to move and can easily escape your grasp if not help properly.
 Slowly release your hold as you place it in its secure bathhouse. At this point, you can just sit back and enjoy the marvel of the chinchilla dust bath. Just keep an eye on your chinchilla so that you know when it is done bathing.
 When your chinchilla is finished bathing, it will start exiting the bathhouse. You want to make sure that you are there for this in order to avoid an unnoticed escape. Pick up your chinchilla with both hands and from underneath its body and transport it back to its cage.Chinchillas are very exploratory, which can be an issue if yours escapes while being unsupervised during its dust bath. A chinchilla can find itself in a dangerous situation if left alone in the open.
For example, they are known to chew through electrical wires, scavenge and ingest something harmful, or encounter a predatory animal. Keep an eye on your little furry friend.
 Slowly lower your chinchilla back into its enclosure and release your gentle grasp. Close and secure the cage.
 Loose dust particles can be easily picked up with a damp cloth or hand held vacuum cleaner.
 Chinchillas need to take a dust bath one to three times a week in order to remove excess oils from their skin and coat.