 If you have curly hair, try allowing them to hang naturally. Instead of over-styling your hair, part it as you normally would and let your curls hang naturally. Natural curls can give you a great romantic look for your wedding day.Curls are prone to frizz, so use some product to keep them looking smooth. Apply an anti frizz serum or a hair smoother prior to your big day.;
, If you want your hair out of your face, but don't want an updo, pulling half of your hair up can be a great in-between. This style looks great for many different veil types, including the cathedral veil.Pull half of your hair up and pin it in place using a hair type or hair clips.
Use things like hairspray and anti-frizz serum to keep the hair hanging down looking smooth.
If you want, you can use a hair curler to add curls or waves to your hair that's hanging down.
 If you have naturally straight hair, try adding some soft, gentle waves with a hair curly. Then, part your hair on the side. This can make for a sleek, romantic look that will compliment the long, fairytale like cathedral veil., This can work well if you're doing a half updo or parting your hair on the side. Make use of your veil as a hair accessories to keep your style in place. This works great if you prefer to have your veil towards the back of your head.This can work particularly well if you're wearing special earrings for your wedding day. Pulling some of your hair back with your veil can show off the earrings so your veil does not snag all the attention on your big day.
 A high bun is a bun that sits near the top of your head. This can work great with a cathedral veil, as it gives you a classic, romantic look. A bun is a fairly standard wedding style, so it can work great with a more traditional wedding.A high bun is also great if you want to draw attention to your facial features and any earrings you're wearing. A lot of a high bun is covered by a veil.
 For a more casual look, tie your hair back loosely. A more sloppy bun that allows for some loose hair and fly-aways can be a great laid back look that pairs with any veil, including a cathedral veil.This works best if you use your veil to pin your hair in place.
 A braided look calls attention to your hair. It can be an elegant, classic look that would pair great with a cathedral veil's long, flowing nature. It can also give a somewhat bohemian vibe.A ribbon in your hair pairs well with a braided updo.
 A low bun can be held in place with a cathedral veil. Much like a high bun, a low bun can help you show off your facial features and any jewelry your'e wearing. It is a classic and sophisticated look that would work great with a cathedral veil., Once you've picked the ideal veil and hairstyle, you want to make sure it stays in place. Nothing can sour a wedding day more than a veil falling off.Place one bobby pin in your hair near where the veil will go.
Take another bobby pin and attach to the second pin in an "X" position, pinning your veil in place.
 Where you place your veil depends on your hairstyle. If you want a more modern style, your veil should be placed towards the upper back of your head. For a more classic, romantic style, place your veil towards the front of your head., If you want more than one wedding style on your big day, there's nothing wrong with changing your style after removing your veil. You could, for example, let your hair hang down for the reception after keeping it pinned up with your veil during the ceremony.