 When you have braces, you need to brush your teeth even more often than normal. Food is easily trapped in braces, which can lead to tooth decay and could even damage your braces. Therefore, you should brush every time you eat., Before brushing, take off the interarch rubber bands. These bands usually connect the top of the mouth to the bottom, and you shouldn't confuse them with the small ligature bands (the colorful ones) that connect your teeth together. You need to remove them so you can get in and around them to brush your braces and teeth.If you have the clear, removable braces, you can just take them out and brush normally. Be sure to put them in their case to protect them., It helps to start your brushing routine by rinsing with water first. Take a mouthful of water, and swish it around the inside of your mouth. This process will help draw out food particles in your mouth, making it easier to remove them.You can also rinse when you can't brush. If you forgot to bring your toothbrush with you, the next best thing is rinsing. Fill your mouth with water, and swish it around thoroughly. Spit the water out. Brush when you're next near your toothbrush.
 You need to brush your teeth, the gum line, and the brackets. With the toothbrush at a 45-degree angle, brush the gum line first. Then, adjust the toothbrush to brush the top and then the bottom of the brackets, making sure to get your teeth along the way. Remember, you should brush for two minutes each time.After you're done, be sure to rinse.
Be gentle when brushing because you can break wires if you're too rough. Clear ceramic brackets are also susceptible to breaking.Brush invisible braces separately. Just use a bit of toothpaste to brush them, and then rinse them off., Flossing with braces is a bit more difficult because the wires get in the way of the floss. However, a floss threader can help. You pull about five inches of floss through the loop of the threader, then pull the threader in where you can't get the floss (above the wire). Make it go between your teeth, then take the floss out of the threader to floss your teeth.A water flosser may also help.

