 Before setting out to design your red space, you must have an idea of what you want it to be and have a place to gather inspiration from. You can look in interior decorating magazines, on websites such as Apartment Therapy and Pinterest, or even draw inspiration from shows on channels such as HGTV and DIY.;
, Just because your room is red doesn't mean you need to be restrained to red and its various shades when planning the color scheme of your room. Mixing colors that complement red, like black, white, and blue, will leave your room fresh and vibrant. Remember to stick to light colors, preferably creams and whites, to complement your shade of red, however, unless you are going for a heavy, dark look. Also keep in mind that with red, since it is such a loud color, less is often more.
 Often contemporary, white furniture (think Ikea and Scandinavian designs) looks best with the color red. So whilst shopping for furniture, look for sleek designs with sharp features, minimal detailing, and clean lines. Also consider metal (perhaps a wrought-iron headboard) for an edgy feel or vintage furniture if you have in mind a more romantic space.
 What's so great about designing a red room is that red is thought to be a very dramatic color, associated primarily with theatre and the other various performing arts. So if you choose to go bold, then it will certainly fit in. Especially with lighting - in a room that's been painted red, strand of christmas lights and other bright, overbearing lights will fit in quite nicely. When shopping for lights, try to draw inspiration from movies and plays, or sets for plays and movies.
 Ideas for things to hang up on your walls include vintage movie posters, pictures of black-and-white actors or actresses, modern painting by artists like Jackson Pollock and the like, and mirrors. When looking for frames, try to pick up frames that are more neutral and simple to contrast with the overall dramatic feel of the room. Feather boas, when draped on dressers or floor-to-ceiling mirrors also add a bit of pizzazz. When looking for statement pieces, think glitter, sparkly, and shiny.

