 If you want privacy from time to time, a pop-up tent is great option for your dorm room. Unlike traditional camping tents that require stakes to assemble, these tents stand on their own so you can put it up anywhere in your room. When you want some private time, you only have to climb inside. The rest of the time, you can choose to leave the tent assembled -- or take it down, fold it up,and stash it under your bed.Some pop-up tents are designed to fit around a bed, so you can privacy when you’re sleeping or just sitting on your bed reading. Other pop-up tents are placed on the floor, so you can have private space anywhere in your dorm room.
The tents usually have zip-out windows that you can open when you feel like being more social or just need some air.
 If you and your roommates aren’t on the same schedule, a sleep mask is a must. These masks block out the light, so if your roommates are staying up to study or write a paper, you won't be disturbed. It’ll also help you sleep during the day if you’ve had to pull an all-nighter. By being able to sleep more flexible hours, you may be able to find a little more private time in the room too.Sleep masks come in a variety of materials, such as cotton and silk. Try some different options to see what’s most comfortable for you.
Some masks are infused with aromatherapy scents that can actually encourage sleep. If you have trouble sleeping while your roommate is working, it may help you fall asleep.
As a friendly gesture, you might want to purchase a sleep mask for your roommate so they can sleep around your schedule too.
 If you don’t want to listen to your roommate’s phone conversation or fights with their significant other, noise-cancelling headphones are the best way to give them so privacy. You can wear these headphones whenever you want to study or do work for class and not have to worry about being distracted by whatever your roommate is doing.Noise-isolating and noise-cancelling headphones are not the same. Noise-isolating headphone physically block out noise by creating a tight seal between your ear and the headphone to minimize the amount of noise that you hear. Noise-cancelling headphones may use a seal to help block noise, but they also electronically cancel out ambient sounds for more effective noise blocking.
It’s a good idea to try on the headphones that you’re considering if possible. You want to make sure that they’ll be comfortable when you wear them.

