 Your parents might not approve of your online purchase, but your friend's parents or a relative, like an aunt, uncle, or grandparent, might be more understanding. With the approval of a friend or relative, you could have your item shipped to their house instead of yours.


There's always a chance the first person you ask might say no. Make a short list of people who might be willing to help and rank them from most to least likely to help. This way you have backups ready, just in case.
You'll need to be careful about who you choose for this purpose; in some cases the person you ask might inform your parents of your plans. The simple act of asking someone to help you could get you in trouble with your parents.
 If you feel comfortable enough, or if you know for a fact your friend/relative supports you ordering your secret item through the mail, you might want to be honest and tell them exactly what you're ordering. The person helping you may feel betrayed if you lie to them about the thing you are ordering. On the other hand, a simple excuse may make your situation seem less strange.


You might say something like, "I'm ordering something for mom's birthday. I want it to be a surprise. If she sees a package, she'll know something's up! Will you help me?", While your friend might be comfortable with you mailing your secret item to his address, his parents might not be. And even if your aunt has no problem with you receiving a package at her home, your uncle might think it inappropriate. In these kinds of situations, you may need to have your accomplice keep a close eye on the mail until the package is received so that others don't become suspicious.


You might want to wait until less understanding people (for example, your friend's parents or your aunt's husband) are out of town or occupied with something out of the home. This way there is even less risk of your mail being discovered.
You should also discuss with your accomplice what your story will be if the item you are having mailed gets found out. This way, if your mail is found out by someone else, inconsistencies in your story and the story of your accomplice don't make others suspicious.
Mailing something to an address without the homeowner's approval and retrieving that mail could get you into trouble. Be sure you have permission before mailing anything to an address not your own.
 Without the help of your friend or relative, you might not have been able to get your item. You could show your appreciation by saying "thank you," but you might want to do something special to show how grateful you are. Some ways you might show your appreciation include:


Picking out a card and writing a short thank you message. This way when you go to pick up your item from your friend/relative's house, you can exchange the thank you card for your mail.
You could treat your friend or relative to a special lunch or dinner. This can be done as simply as saying, "Hey, I really appreciate you helping me out. Let me say thank you by taking you out to dinner this weekend."
Showing your appreciation isn't simply good manners. Showing your gratitude will also make your accomplice will be more likely to help you again, should you need it.