 The outside of the card is where you'll do the most adornment. Pick a theme based on the season, the occasion, or the person you're making the card for.


Pressed flowers that you lightly glue to the card can make wonderful and eye-popping 3D decorations in the springtime, sprucing up a card with a natural highlight of color. It's a great idea for people with a green thumb.
You could also add shells to summertime cards for a unique touch. This works especially well for gift tags or other types of place cards.
 Saving old school books, kids' books, magazines, and newspapers can be a great source for making cards. If you don't have a big store of them laying around, hit up a local thrift shop for extremely cheap (or even free) piles of cut-up magazines that you can repurpose for your cards.


Nature magazines are a great source of card-material, as well as magazines that feature lots of advertisements. The high contrast colors in magazine ads look great when cut up for cards.
For a real shortcut, you could even consider saving your old cards and cutting shapes from them to reuse in new cards. Repurpose those old Christmas cards you always recycle by cutting out the manger scene or the Christmas tree from the front and putting it front and center on your own card. No one will know the difference, and you'll save money.
 You don't have to be a great artist to be a great card artist. Depending on your audience, a silly stick figure comic or a diagram of your feelings would be a hilarious gift for a holiday or other special occasion. If you can actually draw well, even better. Decorate the card with your own artwork for a personalized touch your friends and family will treasure.
 Adding a few tasteful adornments to your card is generally better than making something too busy or too cluttered with decoration. A simple white card with a pressed flower on it will look thoughtful and elegant, making a great message to give someone.Avoid making your collage too busy. A good combination of two pictures culled from a magazine or book can be poignant, cute, or hilarious. Don't clutter it with fifty pictures of your friend's favorite Baseball player for a birthday card. Maybe go for one good one with a well-timed funny caption for effect. Do more with a little., Quirky holiday cards are usually better received than deadly-serious ones. Little jokes, non-sequiters, or weird pictures of sea creatures should be welcomed and embraced in the card-making tradition.


Your family's never heard of the Hannukah Squid? Time to change your traditions. Cut out an idyllic holiday scene being attacked by floating clouds of squid with Santa hats and HAPPYNESS in all caps on the inside. The less sense, the better.
Making something weird doesn't mean you should send a crude card to your mother-in-law for her favorite holiday, or that you should try to make a funny sympathy card, but you should send something that the receiver will appreciate. Know their sense of humor and make them chuckle.

