 This is a simple way of encoding messages so they can't be understood at a glance. A message like "Meet me outside" written in reverse would instead be "Teem em edistuo."


This code can be easily solved, but it can be useful if you think someone is trying to peek at your message.;
, Write out the letters A through M in a single line on a piece of paper. Directly beneath this line, write out the letters N through Z also in a single line. Change each letter of messages to the opposite letter of the two lines of letters you have written out.


By using a reflected alphabet, the message "Hello" would instead become "Uryyb.", Draw a tic tac toe grid on a piece of paper. Write out the letters A through I in the grid going from the left to right, top to bottom. In this example:


The first row is made up of the letters A, B, C.
The second is made up of D, E, F.
The last row is made up of G, H, I., Draw another tic tac toe grid beside the first one. Fill the grid in with the letters J through R, similarly to the first grid. Then mark dots in each space of the grid of each row as described:


In the first row, starting on the left, place a dot in the lower right corner (letter I), on the bottom middle side (letter K), and in lower left corner (letter L).
In the second row, starting on the left, place a dot on the middle right side (letter M), on the bottom middle side (letter N), and on the middle left side (letter O).
In the second row, starting on the left, place a dot in the upper right corner (letter P), on the top middle side (letter Q), and in the upper left corner (letter R)., These two X shapes will also be filled with letters to complete your pigpen cipher key. In the second X, place dots in the open spaces surrounding where the X crosses so there is a dot on each side of the center of the X. Then:


In the first (undotted) X shape, write S in the top of the X, T on the left side, U on the right, and V on the bottom.
In the second X shape, write W in the top of the X, X on the left side, Y on the right, and Z on the bottom., The grid shapes (including dots) surrounding letters are used as substitutes for the letters themselves. Use your pigpen cipher key to translate messages into and out of pigpen.