 Consider investing in a satin or silk pillowcase.


If you cannot find a satin or silk pillowcase, consider getting a cotton one with a high thread count, such as Egyptian cotton.
 This will help prevent the ends of your hair from splitting. If you already have split ends, then you will need to cut 1 ½ inches above the split; this will prevent your hair from splitting further up the shaft., It may not cause the split ends to seal themselves back together, but it will help make the rest of your hair stronger, and prevent the damage from becoming worse. Here are some foods that have lots of protein: Beans
Dairy products, such as cheese, milk, and yogurt
Eggs
Fish and seafood, including halibut, salmon, and tuna
Meat, including chicken, lean beef, turkey, pork, and veal
Nuts and seeds, such as pistachios and pumpkin seeds
Soy-based products, like tofu and soymilk

, Some examples are, proteins, vitamins are important to maintain strong, healthy hair and thus prevent the damage from getting worse.Try adding some citrus, broccoli, or spinach into your diet, all of which are rich in vitamin C.
To add more biotin to your diet, eat more berries, fish, and nuts.
 This may not necessarily fix the split ends, but it will help prevent them from getting worse. There are different ways in which you can protect your hair from the elements. There's a list to get you started:


Wear hats and scarves when going outside, even in the winter. The cold air can be just as damaging as the hot sun. Consider using a UV-shielding spray for your hair if you are going to be outside on a hot, sunny day for a long time.
Protect your hair from chlorine when swimming by wearing swim caps.
 These ingredients are very damaging to your hair, and will make your split ends worse. Here is what you should try to avoid and why:Sulfates, sometimes listed as sulfites, are harsh detergents also found in commercial cleaning products. They give shampoo that nice lather, but they can also strip your hair of its natural oils and make it dry and brittle.
Silicones are plastics that help your hair become smooth. Unfortunately, they can only be removed with sulfates; a buildup of silicone can lead to limp, dull hair.
Parabens are preservatives and may lead to cancer. It is best to avoid them.
 Try to air dry your hair when possible; if you must use a hair dryer, then turn it on to the lowest setting. Also, avoid using hair straighteners and curling irons every day. Excessive heat can cause your hair to become dry and brittle, which will make split ends worse than they already air.


Always your hair with a heat protection spray before straightening or curling it. This will protect it and prevent it from becoming dry and brittle.
 Start from the ends ad work your way upward, brushing in small sections at a time. If you have curly hair, consider using a wide-toothed comb. Never brush your hair from the roots straight down; this can cause your hair to snag and tear, which will make the split ends even worse.

