 A three cheese pizza includes three different types of cheese and then is topped with other pizza toppings such as sauce, pesto, vegetables, and meats. You're welcome to use any type of cheeses you'd like, but most people add mozzarella cheese since this is a common cheese used for pizzas. You can also add:


Fontina cheese
Grated Parmesan cheese
Ricotta cheese
Boursin cheese
Cheddar cheese;
, A macaroni and cheese pizza is a pizza that's topped with cooked macaroni and cheese. Sprinkled over with extra cheese such as mozzarella or Parmesan; A macaroni and cheese pizza makes a regular cheese pizza even more cheesy than ever and is completely sauce-less. Feel free to use any type of macaroni and cheese when making this pizza. Any macaroni and cheese recipe will work well and will make the pizza even more cheesy than a normal one.
Packaged macaroni and cheese can also work for this pizza, but do note the taste varies from homemade macaroni and cheese.
 A white pizza, unlike most types of pizza, does not include any tomato sauce. It gets most of its delicious flavor from cheese. A white pizza usually will contain ricotta and mozzarella as a replacement for the sauce. It can also be topped with Alfredo sauce, garlic, vegetables, shrimp, and clams. , If you want to twist up your classic cheese pizza and want to make it even cheesier, cheesy pizza bread does the job. Cheesy pizza bread is made out of bread dough and is then topped with tomato sauce, plenty of cheese, and other desired toppings. Once it's baked, it's sliced into strips to be devoured easily. To be even cheesier, you can stuff cheese into the pizza bread and then bake it. When you take a bite, you'll be able to taste the cheese on the top and on the inside. Sprinkling garlic powder or minced garlic over the cheesy pizza bread can give it more flavor with the cheese.
 Made with New York style pizza dough and sprinkled with fresh cheese, pepper flakes, and other seasonings; This New York style pizza makes any pizza cheesier and is a great meal for dinner. The most common cheeses for this pizza include:


Shredded mozzarella cheese
Romano cheese
White cheddar
Provolone

, A stuffed-crust pizza has a crust that is stuffed with mozzarella string cheese, making it an even cheesier treat. After the crust is stuffed, you can top the base with any other desired toppings such as sauce, vegetables, meat, and even more cheese. Once it's baked, you'll be tasting gooey cheese both on the pizza and in the crust.
 Just like the sandwich, a Philly steak contains plenty of shredded provolone cheese and deli-style roasted beef. The combination of cheese and beef goes well and spices up any normal cheese pizza. You may also want to add other toppings to the pizza such as chopped bell pepper, onions, and tomato sauce. , Cheesy, gooey, and magnificent; A pizza cake is the absolute best way to make pizza even more cheesy. This pizza is multi-layered with cheese, sauce, and other toppings such as pepperoni or vegetables. It usually contains three layers, but some have four or five depending on how big or cheesy you want the pizza cake to be. The best of cheese to layer the pizza with is mozzarella cheese. It's easy to sprinkle over the pizza cake and gives it a delicious, gooey taste. , If you're looking for a spicy, cheesy pizza then buffalo chicken pizza might make a good treat. This pizza is covered with buffalo wing sauce or hot sauce and then topped with chicken, cheddar cheese, and mozzarella cheese. Once it's baked, you'll taste a cheesy and spicy explosion in your mouth for the mouthwatering flavors.


For a vegan version, make a buffalo pizza instead of a buffalo chicken one. The cheese is still there but there is no chicken added.
You can also sprinkle bacon bits and blue cheese over the pizza for more flavor.
 One of the most popular cheese toppings for pizza is mozzarella, mainly because it's a great a cheese to be baked in the oven when shredded. When buying mozzarella, always buy the ones that come in a block so you can shred it. Shredded deli mozzarella gives the pizza a richer taste from the cheese. Choose between whole or skim milk mozzarella. Whole milk mozzarella has a creamy texture and has a lot more flavor than skim milk, but includes more fat content. Consider picking out fresh mozzarella for your pizza. Fresh mozzarella is sold in eight-ounce balls and is very soft. It cannot be shredded but it can be sliced into pieces. , Provolone is a smoked cheese and has a different flavor than mozzarella, but still tastes just as delicious. It can be combined with mozzarella on your pizza since the two go very well together. When buying provolone, be sure to buy the one sold in a block so you can shred it by yourself. This helps give the pizza a creamier and richer taste. Instead of shredding the provolone, you can slice it into pieces and add it onto the pizza.
For more flavor, pick out an Italian or aged provolone cheese to add on your pizza. , Semi-firm cheeses like smoked gouda, Edam, fontina, emmental, and Gruyere. These type of cheeses are semi-hard and give out a thick but creamy texture once it's melted in the oven. In order to add it on your pizza, slice the cheese into pieces or bits and garnish it all over your pizza.


Smoked gouda goes well with a pizza that's covered with mozzarella, bacon, roasted vegetables, and/or caramelized onions. , A hard cheese such as Parmesan, romano, and grana padano are great to garnish over a pizza that's finished baking. You can shave or grate the cheese over the pizza to give it a more intense or rich flavor.


Since hard cheeses are very delicate, they have to be added on the pizza once it has finished cooking. If you add it on the pizza before it has cooked, it can lose flavor and overcook. , Mascarpone, boursin, regular cream cheese, and goat cheese are similar to mozzarella and make a good replacement. Break the cheese into small chunks and place it underneath your sauce and toppings since it can burn very quickly. Garlic, rosemary, basil, and other infused cream cheeses can bring good flavor into your pizza.

