 When you have a cough, you may also be using pain medication, antifungal medications, antibiotics, or other doctor recommended treatments for infections. Always follow any instructions given to you by your doctor first.


Follow these natural remedies for one to two weeks. If you don't get better or your symptoms worsen, see your doctor immediately.;
, Use a vaporizer or humidifier to help your cough. You can also take hot, steamy showers.This can help loosen mucus so it’s easier to cough up.
 Warm fluids are great when you have a lot of phlegm. They can help loosen congestion so you can cough it up. You can drink warm water, hot tea, juice, clear chicken or vegetable broths, or chicken soup.


You can also put honey and lemon in the water and tea to add extra benefits. Honey and lemon booth help boost the immune system. Honey has antiseptic properties while lemon has antibacterial properties. Honey can also help get rid of mucus.Honey can also help

, Rubs like Vick’s VapoRub, Mentholatum, peppermint rubs, and other topical ointments that contain camphor and menthol can be helpful for coughs. Menthol is an expectorant and naturally breaks down mucus and helps you be able to cough up phlegm.Just rub a small amount onto your chest and around your nose. The smell will loosen mucus.
 There are situations where you need to see your doctor immediately, especially if you have other conditions or are treating a child's cough. Seek immediate help from your doctor if you or your child:Coughs up thick phlegm that is green, yellow, or red tented, which can signal infection
Experiences wheezing or whistling when you cough or breath, which can mean your lungs are effected
Has any indication of a strange sounding cough
Has trouble breathing or shortness of breath after a cough
Has whooping coughDevelops a fever over 100.4°F (38°C)

, One way to cough up phlegm is to use a controlled coughing treatment. Sit somewhere comfortable. Cross your arms over your torso and put both your feet on the floor. Breathe in slowly through your nose. Lean forward while pressing your your stomach. Cough a few short, sharp coughs. After a few coughs, the phlegm should loosen so you can cough it out.Try a huff cough treatment. Start seated. Lift your chin and breathe slowly using your diaphragm. Inhale, hold for a few seconds, then exhale sharply through your mouth. Repeat a few times, then breathe normally. When you feel phlegm in the back of your throat, cough it up. You will probably have to do this a few times to get rid of the phlegm., A different cough treatment starts when you are lying down. Make sure your chest is angled at about 45 degrees. Cup your hand, then gently tap the left side of your chest, between the nipple and collarbone. Continue to tap with gentle, firm pressure, for about two minutes. Then do the same thing on the right side. Sit up, lean forward, and tap the same way on the left and right shoulder blades on the back. This might require a partner to help you.


Lie on your back again, and tap the left and right front sides. Then, lie on one side with your arm over your head and tap the side. Repeat on the other side. Lie on your stomach and have a partner tap the back right above the ribs on the right and left side.