 You might choose to rent a bedroom in your home. However, if you choose to buy a building, then look close to home.You might not know enough about a neighborhood to properly assess whether it is a good idea to invest in the area.


By living near your property, you may also be able to personally manage it. If not, you’ll need to hire someone else.If you want to buy in an unfamiliar neighborhood, perform thorough research. Speak to real estate agents in the area and other landlords.
Ask about crime, the quality of schools, and the quality of government services.;
, Experts suggest you start with a single-residence home or small multiple-dwelling unit.Starting small will help you get your feet wet. If you find out that being a landlord isn’t right for you, then you haven’t invested too much.
 To qualify for a rental loan, you need a 20% down payment as a minimum. If you’ve never purchased a rental property before, you also will need sufficient current income to cover the loan payment for the rental unit.Talk to a lender about the terms for a loan. Generally, there are two types. With a non-recourse loan, the building itself secures the loan. However, non-recourse loans are usually only available when the building is worth at least $2.5 million.With a recourse loan, you are personally liable. This means your lender can come for your personal assets if you default.
Loans can be of varying lengths—5, 10, 30 years.Furthermore, the loan might have a fixed or variable interest rate.
 You can use a real estate agent to find properties to purchase. Make sure to visit in person. As you walk through the building, note its current condition. If the building is in bad shape, you’ll have to pay for repairs.


Ask the owner their reason for selling. If they are losing money, then you will probably want to avoid buying in the neighborhood.
Also ask for the “rent-roll” if you are considering buying a current apartment building. A rent-roll includes a complete list of units with the names of the tenants and the terms of each lease (including monthly rent)., You’ll need insurance specific to landlords. It will generally cost more than a homeowner’s policy because of the added risk of your tenants. If you need help finding an appropriate policy, contact an insurance agent or broker in your area. At a minimum, your policy should cover the following:personal injuries occurring on your property
losses from fire, storms, vandalism, and theft

, In some countries, you might need a license to run an apartment building. In the U.K., for example, you might need a license if your building is three stories and has five or more people living in it.You should talk with a lawyer to understand any licensing requirements.
 Landlords must abide by a variety of rules—local, state, and federal. Unless you have a lot of time to read up on housing law, you should hire an experienced lawyer.This person can answer your questions and draft documents for you to use. Obtain a referral by contacting your local or state bar association.Set up a consultation and talk about your obligations as a landlord. For example, you will need to follow local laws on having a “habitable” apartment, which usually means providing sufficient heat, hot water, sanitation, and other essentials.
Also talk about how the law limits your ability to evict people. Discuss what steps you must take if you want to get someone out of your building.
 Unless you’re good with numbers, you’ll probably need an accountant to help you understand your finances and pay your taxes.You must keep accurate records of your income and expenses, including proof of all expenses.Ask other landlords if they would recommend their accountant and call to schedule a meeting.
You can also obtain a referral by contacting your state’s accounting society., A property manager will help deal with tenant complaints, schedule repairs, and collect rent payments for you. In exchange, you pay a percentage of the rent to them. Generally, property management companies charge 7-10% of the rental income.Ask other landlords if they would recommend their property management company. Alternately, you can search online for companies and read online reviews.
You might not need a company if you have only one property or if you don’t work another job. However, landlords with multiple properties and/or jobs often find it helpful to hire someone.
 If something went wrong in an apartment, could you fix it? A good test is whether you can fix leaky faucets or electrical problems in your own home. If not, you’ll probably need help.


Look in the phone book and try to find people who will be willing to work on your building.
 Rent depends on location. You want to charge a fair rent, based on the unit and where it is located. It’s cheaper to rent in rural New York state than it is in Manhattan, so research what other landlords in your area charge for comparable properties. Check online or ask people.Your rent also needs to cover the costs of the property. You’ll have to pay back any loan you obtained to buy the building. You should also set aside 10% to cover regular maintenance and any downtime when the unit is empty.If you hire a property management company, you’ll need to pay them as well.
 You can get the word out using several different methods. Choose which of the following works best for you and remember to advertise early:Tell people you know that you are renting. They might know people looking for a place.
Put up flyers at your library, grocery store, university, or community center. Remember to include your location and helpful details about the unit, such as the size, amenities (e.g., washer/dryer, yard, parking), and limitations (no pets).
Place ads in newspaper classifieds.
Post online using Craigslist or another website.
Create your own website. This method is a lot of work. However, if you have multiple properties, you can upload pictures of each available unit on the website.
Hire a real estate professional to show the property.
 You should have applicants complete a standard application. Your lawyer can help draft one, or you can find a sample online. At a minimum, the application should ask for the following:applicant’s name and contact information
Social Security Number (if you want to check credit history)
amount of time the applicant has been at their current address
current employment and income
contact information for current and past landlords
personal references
written authorization to check references and verify income

, Don’t deny someone solely for their credits core. For example, new graduates might not have built up any credit.However, you can screen out people who are constantly delinquent on their bills.


Get written authorization to perform the credit check. To protect yourself, put this authorization on a separate sheet of paper so that it stands out.
Should you deny someone rent because of information in their credit history, you must notify them of that fact. To protect yourself, put the notification in writing. Federal law in the U.S. gives the applicant a chance to contact the credit reporting agency and address any errors in their report.
 You requested references for a reason, so be sure to call and talk to them. Make sure to ask questions like the following:Did the person pay their rent on time? How often were they late?
Did the person observe other rental policies in the lease?
How considerate was the person of their neighbors? Did they make a lot of noise?
In what condition did they leave the apartment? Was there more damage than normal wear and tear?
Did they provide proper notice before leaving?

, It’s against the law to discriminate against potential tenants on the basis of certain characteristics. You should know this information before you meet with your first potential tenant. For example, federal law prevents discrimination based on the following:race
color
national origin
gender
religion
disability or handicap
familial status, such as the number of children

, Your lawyer can help you develop a standard lease. If you don’t want to hire a lawyer, then you can find sample leases online. However, read through any sample lease carefully and add anything you think is missing.For example, you might not want animals in your apartment buildings. If not, you can include a provision stating that the tenant agrees not to keep pets. Alternately, you could allow only some pets (such as cats) while excluding others.
Set up your lease like a template with blank lines for information that will change from tenant to tenant. This will allow you to use the same lease more than once.
However, you should always be careful to update your lease if circumstances change.
 Being a landlord is a job, even if it is only part-time. Accordingly, you should treat it like a regular job. Begin by setting your hours. For example, you might be available to talk with tenants from 10:00 am to 5:00 pm. If someone calls after those hours, you can let the call go to voicemail.Buy a filing cabinet and files so that you can keep a file on each tenant. You’ll want to keep a copy of each signed lease, proof of monthly rent payment, etc.
Also create a filing system so that you can find important documents quickly.
Sign up for a Google Voice number, which is forwarded to your mobile phone. Use this number as your landlord number.

