 There are many computer animation programs you can use online, with prices varying from very inexpensive to more expensive. Many programs do not require extensive knowledge about computer animation and are designed to help beginners learn how to make their own cartoon movies. You can also design your characters and add props to shots with a few clicks of a mouse, making it easy and fast to build your movie.


A list of the top seven computer animation programs can be found here: http://www.freemake.com/blog/5-best-sites-to-make-animated-video-trouble-free/. They are rated based on their accessibility, their price, and their range of options.
 You can use the computer animation program to design each character in your cartoon and any props you may need for your movie. Many programs will provide models that you can edit and add to, adjusting them to fit the look of your characters.


Most programs come with a library of props that you can access for your movie. You may also be able to build your own props if it is not a very common or well known prop, i.e. a magic wand or a special sword.
 Most computer animation programs come with several standard settings that you can use for your movie. Once you have designed your characters and props, you can start to place them in the settings to see how they look.


If you are making a movie about a boy wizard in medieval times, for example, you may choose a castle setting or a rural farm setting. You may then place your boy wizard in the setting with props like a magic wand, a sorcerer's hat, and maybe even a fire breathing dragon.
 Use your carefully drawn storyboards as a guide for animating the movie. Focus on creating the movie one scene at a time, moving your characters and props in different settings within the computer animation program.


Once you finish animating the rough cut of the movie, you should watch it from beginning to end, noting any scenes that appear underdeveloped or confusing and checking that the pace of the movie is appropriate to the content. If you are making an action packed movie about a boy wizard and his quest to save the world, for example, the pace should be brisk and quick. If you are making a mode meditative film on the death of the family pet, the pace of the movie may be a bit slower and drawn out.

