 Make sure children know they are loved and supported. Kids need to feel loved in order to have good self-confidence.Tell your children know you love them unconditionally. Tell them on regular basis. They should know that your love will not disappear just because of any bad actions or behavior.Tell your children that you support them no matter what. Children who feel supported by adults are more likely to be confident and adventurous in what they do.Correct bad behavior, but be sure to say that the action is bad, not the child. Doing bad things is different from being a bad child. If the child thinks he or she is bad, they may develop poor self-esteem.;
, Give them space to explore their interests and talents. Trying new things makes children feel better about themselves and gain confidence in their abilities.


Tell children to try out new things. They should not be scared to do something different. Remind them that you’ll be there to help them if they need it.
Get them involved in good learning experiences, especially those involving other children like athletic teams or volunteer groups. Anything where your children work together with other kids helps them build self-confidence.
Give children positive feedback. Children need to hear affirmation by parents of their activities. Let them know you’re proud of them for trying something new even if it doesn’t work out.As you encourage your child, try to focus on the behaviors you want to see more of, instead of offering praise that is disconnected from your child's positive actions. Instead of saying "You are so brave!" try saying "I know it was scary to try that, but you did a great job overcoming your fear!" , Working on chores around the household can give children a sense of ownership and responsibility. Even something as simple as cleaning up their room can give children an increased sense of self-confidence.Keep a regular chore time. Children gain confidence by completing their chores if it's a regularly scheduled activity.
Time your chore activities. Don't overwhelm your children with chores. Spend less than 10 minutes on chores for kids under 7, 15-25 minutes for kids 8-10, and 25-45 minutes for kids over ten.Do chores before a fun activity. This makes the chores easier to get through and makes the fun activity more rewarding for the child.
Make chores fun. Chores can be fun for younger kids by making them an adventure. You can do things like making your children superheroes who are defeating the evil villain Chore. For older kids, let them choose the music for chore time to make it go faster.
 Let them see the entire process through so they can feel good about themselves. Working together on a puzzle and letting them finish the final piece can give them a sense of accomplishment.

Set goals for children that are age-appropriate. Younger children need simple goals that are more immediate, whereas older kids can handle more abstract goals.Discuss goals as cooperative, rather than competitive. Cooperative goals are those when you work with others, whereas competitive goals are those against others. Goals that help students feel like a part of a group give them more self-esteem than those that make them feel good only as an individual.
Tell your children to fight for their goals. Make sure they don't give up easily, but instead keep striving. Dealing with setbacks help self-confidence.
 Make them feel like they are part of a group and belong with others around their age. Have them work together with others in play groups or during preschool.Encourage children to play with friends. Playing with others means negotiating towards common goals. Friends can help children feel a greater sense of belonging through being valued by others.
Have kids join extracurricular activities. Whether it's team sports, band, or clubs, extracurricular activities make children feel like they are part of something larger and are important to others.Join arts-related activities. Arts and music classes with other kids can make them feel more self-confident as they work and play alongside others., Children learn self-confidence from a young age. Work on their self-confidence as soon as they are able to think of themselves as a separate individual.Let your child make choices. Give them choices for a part of a meal. Making choices can help younger kids develop self-esteem.
Allow them to say "no" occasionally. They need to assert themselves to show they are an individual person.
Help them through difficult situations. If they are having a problem with sharing, coach them until they share with others. After that, praise their behavior when they share.

