 The bare minimum for a Pinterest profile--your name, age, and gender--aren't enough details to help users connect with you. Consider adding the following details to your account:A brief description of you, your content, and your mission.
A link to your website (if applicable).
Your general location (e.g., your country).
You can add this information in by going to your profile, clicking the gear icon, and clicking Profile.;
, Uploading and re-pinning focused content will show your followers that they can count on consistent presentation from you; with time, you can use this consistency to become a valuable resource to followers.


For example, if you're interested in nature, focus on nature-based content and avoid off-topic posts.
You can always create a secondary board (perhaps even a private one) for content that you want to pin for yourself.
 Around 80 percent of posts on Pinterest are re-pins. To help your account stand out, upload some of your own content that fits your theme.This doesn't mean you can't re-pin--in fact, re-pinning is a vital part of your growth strategy--but avoid exclusively re-pinning items and try uploading some of your own.
Pinterest users tend to enjoy infographics. If creating and uploading infographics fits your content theme, doing so is worth your while.
Try to keep the content you post largely specific to Pinterest. Posting the same exact content across all of your social media platforms will actually cut down on overall follower engagement.
 Adding a title, a description, and tagging other people you follow will both make the posts more appealing to your followers and increase the number of people who can search for your posts.Using hashtags in the description box that relate to your posts' content will increase the number of search queries that match to the posts.
 People will often leave comments on your posts; replying to these comments or addressing them in subsequent posts will help your followers feel heard, which will both retain followers and perpetuate your reputation as a positive creator.


You should also incorporate follower feedback for your content.
 Consistency is one of the most important aspects of any social media campaign. If your followers can rely on you to post content at regular intervals, you will eventually be able to create a demand for your content, thereby retaining followers and enticing non-followers.


Try to communicate your posting schedule to your followers so that they know what to expect.
 While plenty of people actively use Pinterest, expanding your reach to cater to Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram users will greatly increase the number of people who can view your content.


You can link your various social media accounts to your Pinterest page from the Settings page.
Instead of promoting your entire profile on social media, you can promote a specific board to your followers so as not to inundate them with too much content.
 Tagging them, using hashtags to reference their content, and leaving comments on their content will draw their attention to you, meaning that they'll likely check out your account. You should also follow as many accounts as possible, since Pinterest users will often follow you back.


You should especially do this with other popular or verified accounts.
Consider following these users' specific boards so you don't miss their content when they post it.
 In addition to making sure that you're consistent, actively using Pinterest every day is a good way to ensure that you don't miss content relevant to your brand.Being on Pinterest throughout the day is also a good way to respond to followers quickly while their comments are still fresh.

