 Subtitles are translations, and as anyone who has ever used Google Translate can tell you, translations are as much an art form as a science. If you're subtitling the scene itself, there are several considerations you need to come up with for each line:


What is the goal of the dialog? Regardless of the words they use, what feeling is the character trying to get across? This is your guiding principle when translating.
How can you fit the subtitled words within the time the character is speaking? Some writers will display a few lines of dialogue at once, starting a little early and ending late to give viewers a chance to read everything.
How do you handle slang and figures of speech? They often do not translate well, so you'll have to substitute slang or figurative language from your native language. This, however, requires you to look up the meaning of foreign expressions and slang., Sites like DotSub, Amara, and Universal Subtitler let you see the movie while you write out the subtitles, eventually spitting out an .SRT file that fits with your movie. While all subtitling sites work differently, they all follow a similar format:


Choose when the title starts.
Write the title out.
Choose when the title disappears.
Repeat across the movie, marking "Complete" when finished.
Download the .SRT file and place it in the same folder as your movie., You can write out subtitles by hand if you want though the process is greatly expedited by a program. To do so, open up a Text editor like Window's Notepad or Apple's TextEdit (both free and pre-installed), and make sure you know the proper format for a subtitle. Before beginning, click "Save As" and title it after "YourMovie.SRT." Then set the encoding to "ANSI" for English subtitles and "UTF-8" for Non-English.Then write out your titles. Each of the following parts goes on its own line, so hit "enter" after each one:



The number of a subtitle. 1 would be the first title, 2 the second, etc.

The duration of the subtitle. This is written in the format hours:minutes:seconds:milliseconds --> hours:minutes:seconds:milliseconds

Example: 00:01:20:003 --> 00:01:27:592




The text of the subtitle: This is simply what the title will say.

A blank line. Leave one blank line before the number of the next title., This method lets you see the titles as you add them and adjust their placement, color, and style by hand. Open your movie file in your favorite film editor, such as Premier, iMovie, or Windows Movie Maker, and pull the film into your timeline (the work section). From here, click on your programs "Titles" menu and choose a style you like. Write out your title, drag it on top of the appropriate section of the film, and repeat.


You can right-click on a title and copy and paste it to keep your same settings on every title, saving you tons of time.
The only drawback to this format is that the movie will need to be saved as a separate file. You will not be able to turn the titles off, as they will now be part of the movie.

