 Figure out exactly why you are leaving your current job. Is it for more money, due to a lack of advancement opportunities, a bad relationship with your employer/boss, or for another reason? Try to understand what you liked about existing job and what you disliked about it. Consider your own failures in your current position and what you might do differently in a new position.


Use what you learn to inform your search for a new job. You may
You may wish to jump to a new career path by making a "lateral" move to a position with the same pay as your current job. This can give you a change of pace and set you on the path to greater success in the future.
However, you should think about whether a lateral move is worthwhile in the long term. Will your new trajectory be worth the lost growth opportunity in your old career path?

, There may be unintended consequences or costs of your job search. Finding a job can takes months of applications and planning. Look at a variety of job sites in your area to be sure that you see all of the possible openings in your chosen field. You should also consider what your current employer will think of your job search. Specifically:


Will your search be confidential?
What will be your employer's reaction?
Are you bound by employment contract or non-compete?

, Make sure you are clear on what they are asking for and explain how you are well-qualified for the position. Even if you don’t get the job, you might be working with the people at the company to which you applied at some point in the future, and you want to show your professionalism.Have someone else read and proofread your application documents. A second pair of eyes will help to identify any mistakes you may have made.
Focus on quality over quantity by focusing on specific jobs for which you are qualified and submitting exactly the information in the format they want.
 If you’ve decided to move on from your current job, reach out to friends and colleagues in similar positions elsewhere. Let them know what you’ve been doing. If you are close, confide that you are considering making a job change and are starting to look for other work, in case they have any ideas.


Utilize your professional network by asking former colleagues and/or clients about job opportunities at their companies. You can also check the companies' websites for job posting then ask your contacts for referrals.
You can do the same thing with your social network, including friends and family.
In addition, try checking out online employment sites like Monster, Indeed, and Glassdoor.
You might also consider hiring a professional headhunter to find a good position for you. Your mentor may be able to recommend one that they have worked with in the past.
 Sometimes the job we think we want isn’t actually the job we do want. To increase your understanding of the position, research the industry and specific position online. Look at job satisfaction, salary expectations, growth potential, and other factors that might be important to you. Then research the potential employer. Are employees generally happy with their experience there and the company's management? Finally, make sure to look into occupational requirements if you are changing careers.


You can gain an even better look at a potential company with informational interviews.
Informational interviews with people who have already had success in your chosen career can be very helpful in steering you toward jobs and giving real-world advice.
Prepare yourself well for an informational interview. There might be opportunities at some point at your interviewee’s workplace, and you want to make a good impression., Different jobs will require different types of interview, from a 15-minute chat to multiple days of interviews and events. Be sure you know what kind of interview you will be attending and start preparing yourself.Do research on the company or institution at which you’ll be interviewing. You want to be prepared for their questions about how you will fit there, and have your own questions for them.
Make a list of possible questions and have a friend do a mock interview with you. If it doesn’t go well, do it again.
 You might receive multiple offers, or you might wait a long time for just one. Regardless of your situation, you need to decide what you are willing to accept in terms of compensation, benefits (or lack thereof), room to move up within the same company, etc. No job is perfect, and few of us stay in our first jobs for the rest of our lives. Think about whether the job you are considering is right for your career path, or if you want to stay where you are.
 Whether you take the job or not, be sure to always respond professionally to all offers. Be respectful, grateful, and polite to the hiring managers you correspond with during this time. This also includes leaving your current employment. There is no need to burn bridges when you depart for your new job. Who knows when you'll need a recommendation or favor from a previous colleague.

