 Coconut oil can quickly cure your split ends and give your hair a smooth texture.The coconut oil must be unrefined, otherwise it won't soak into your hair as it should. Your main goal is to condition your ends to eliminate dryness; the scalp is where much of your natural oils are and won't need quite as much attention. To successfully complete a coconut oil treatment, you need to:


Wash your hair with warm water.
Carefully scrunch the oil into the ends of your hair, one tablespoon at a time. Avoid touching your scalp with the oil.
Let the oil sit on your hair for at least thirty minutes.
Rinse your hair with cold water, then shampoo and condition like normal.
Air dry or dry with a towel around it.;
, Mayonnaise is mostly eggs, so it only makes sense that eggs would also be an effective way of putting moisture and shine back in your hair. They also have a lot of protein, which is good for strengthening weak hair.


Crack 2-4 eggs (depending on your hair length) into a bowl.
Pour olive oil in the bowl, just enough to cover the yolk, and whisk together. Make sure the solution is well blended.
Shampoo your hair in lukewarm water then put the mixture in your hair.
Let it sit for 5-6 minutes.
Rinse your hair again with lukewarm water.
Lastly, rinse with cool water.
 Yogurt can add softness and shine to your hair while also de-frizzing and repairing damage.Make sure the yogurt is plain, otherwise you will end up with more sugar and food colourings in your hair, which isn’t something you want.</ref> Use plain yogurt, although plain Greek yogurt works very well also.


Brush out your hair well.
Spread the yogurt all over your hair.
Take an old hair tie and put your hair into a ponytail or bun.
Leave the yogurt in your hair for 20-30 minutes or until the it has hardened.
Shampoo and condition your hair.
 Mix together equal parts conditioner, alcohol-free aloe vera gel, and honey. Aloe Vera is an excellent conditioning and rebuilding agent, and honey does a good job of adding shine. You can also substitute the aloe vera for jojoba oil.


Massage the mixture through your dry hair.
Leave the mixture in your hair for 5-10 minutes.
Rinse out with shampoo and conditioner.
 The acidity in apple cider vinegar can restore your hair to its proper pH, which makes it much stronger and healthier.Shampoo your hair and rinse it with cold water.
Make a mixture of equal parts water and apple cider vinegar.
Leave the vinegar and water mixture on your hair for fifteen minutes.
Rinse the vinegar out of your hair with warm water.

