 Before you can even begin to consider living in the Marsh, make sure you gather as many resources as you can. Flint, Cut Grass, Rocks, Berries, and Twigs must be stockpiled before the venture. To gather, click the item or press Spacebar (PC), press X (console), and tap the item or the green hand button (iOS).


Flint looks like sharp, jagged stone; they can be found scattered in the world or through mining.
Berries are found on bushes.
Rocks are more uncommonly found scattered in Forests and rocky areas, but are more commonly found through mining.
Cut Grass can be gathered from long tufts of grass found nearly everywhere.
Twigs can be gathered from dried out bushes, oddly called saplings in the game.;
, Now it’s time to create some basic tools. If you look at the left side of the screen, you’ll see the crafting hotbar. For the PC and iOS players, accessing and crafting is as simple as clicking or tapping the tab you desire. For the Console players, press L2 to access it and scroll between your options with the right analogue stick. Select the icon that resembles a crossed pickaxe and axe. This is the Tool tab, where you can make your basic Tools. Select a tool you can initially create, and ta-dah! You can now mine boulders and chop down trees!


The Pickaxe costs 2 Twigs and 2 Flint.
The Axe costs 1 Twig and 1 Flint.
In Reign of Giants (RoG), the Hammer is available at the start and costs 3 Rocks, 3 Twigs, and 6 Cut Grass.
 Now it’s time to equip and use your tools! While the first tool you make is automatically equipped, you can equip and unequip your other tools whenever you like, and you can use your tools immediately afterwards. For the PC, right-click equips the tool and the left-click uses it. For the iOS, you tap your tools and choose “Equip,” then tap and hold or press the green hand button to use it. For Console, it’s the right direction button, then X.


Axes let you chop trees down to get Logs.
Pickaxes let you break down boulders for Flint, Rocks, Nitre, and Gold.
In RoG, Hammers are immediately available and let you break down any and every structure in the game to recover a fraction of the materials used to make it.
 Ideally, the Marsh should have a number of rundown houses, which spawn Merms every dusk. The Merms would serve as the main source of your food and your unwitting “bodyguards,” despite and because of their extreme hostility. The most ideal place for you to set up camp in is a patch of road or a clear area near the most rundown houses, and at least a screen away from any and every pond in the Marsh. This campsite of yours will be the closest thing you have to a “safe area” during your stay in the Marsh.
 What comes next are the structures for your food and belongings. The most important thing to build are the two crafting structures: the Science Machine and the Alchemy Engine. These two will let you prototype other vital structures for your venture. You also need to craft a Fire Pit, which is a permanent source of fire, and perhaps some food structures, like Drying Racks and a Crock Pot. You also might want to consider investing in Walls to protect your loot and yourself when you’re not busy dodging Tentacles and other March denizens. Once you make these structures, simply place them with X, left-click, or tapping the area.
 A Fire Pit is one of the most vital objects in the game, providing you with a near-permanent source of light and warmth for a very cheap cost. The Fire Pit can be crafted right off the bat on the Light tab, represented by a flame icon, for 12 Rocks and 2 Logs. Do note that unlike a regular campfire, this is permanent, which means you have to choose a suitable campsite before placing it. When it extinguishes, you can just add more fuel (Logs, Grass, and Log Suits, Sleeping Rolls, Beefalo Wool, etc.) to it to reignite the fire.


In RoG, you can first make an Endothermic Fire Pit on your Alchemy Engine for 2 Nitre, 4 Cut Stone, and 2 Electric Doodad. This fire pit cools you down instead of heats you up, which is handy for Summer.
 As mentioned, having the two major crafting stations is vital to your prolonged survival, primarily because you can’t craft weapons, armors, and food structures without them. The Science Machine, being your first crafting station, opens up a wider range of items to prototype, while the Alchemy Engine widens the range even further. In short, if you truly wish to make your stay in the Marsh worth it, you need these structures.


Science Machines can be crafted right off the bat in the Science tab, represented by the icon of an atom, and can be crafted for a Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Rocks. Since this is a structure, it can’t be taken and placed elsewhere, so save this for your camp.

Gold Nuggets can be mined from large dark rocks with yellow streaks or traded to a Pig King for any meat, if you’re lucky enough to find one.


Alchemy Engines can first be crafted in the Science Machine for 6 Gold Nuggets, 4 Boards, and 2 Cut Stones. It’s also a structure, meaning you can’t move it.

Boards and Cut Stones can first be made in the Science Machine under the Refine tab, represented by a diamond icon. Boards cost 4 Logs, and Cut Stones cost 4 Rocks.
In RoG, the recipe replaces the 6 Gold for 2 Electric Doodads. The Doodads are also found in the Science tab and cost 2 Gold Nuggets and 1 Cut Stone, making it a cheaper recipe than before.
 Once you have at least a Science Machine, you can make Farm Plots, Drying Racks, and the Crock Pot. These structures are vital because they let you widen your food options. They can all be crafted through the Food tab, represented by a carrot.


Jerky Racks cost 3 Rope, 3 Twigs, and 1 Charcoal. You can use this to dry every type of meat, save for eggs, into Jerky, which heals you a bit for all three stats. Charcoal is acquired by burning down trees with a torch and then chopping it down with an axe. Be careful though, fire tends to spread unpredictably, so don’t set fire to trees near your camp.
Crock Pots are made with 3 Cut Stone, 6 Charcoal, and 6 Twigs. To use it, drop 4 separate food items into the 4 slots, then select “Cook.” You need to wait a while before the food is ready, but this will normally make your food much more filling and healing than just eating each individual ingredient. You can also use Twigs in the Crock Pot, but not Rot or Seeds.
Finally, you can make two kinds of Farm Plots. The Basic Farm plot requires 4 Manure, 8 Cut Grass, and 4 Logs to make, and is available in the Science Machine. The Advanced one, which grows your crops faster, requires 10 Cut Grass, 6 Manure, and 4 Rocks; it is available in the Alchemy Engine. Manure is naturally dropped by the Beefalo roaming around the Savannah or can be “made” by feeding Pigs some Berries and other vegetables.
 This is where the Alchemy Engine comes in handy. Fortifying your area involves placing multiple Walls around the perimeter of your camp to prevent unwanted visitors from the Marsh from breaking in to kill you. Walls can be made through the Structures tab, represented by a hammer.


Hay Walls can first be crafted through the Science Machine with 4 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs. It’s not very strong and can be quite flammable.
Wood Walls, also available through the Science Machine, can be made for 2 Boards and 1 Rope.
The Stone Wall, which is arguably the best Wall in the game, is first made through the Alchemy Engine with 2 Cut Stone. It’s a very cheap recipe and isn’t flammable, plus it’s infinitely renewable if you decide to explore the underground Caverns beforehand. This is the most prefered Wall type by experienced players.
 Even the most basic of armor and weapons will greatly help your chances for survival here. With your Science Machine, the Log Suit and Spear become available in the Fight tab, represented by crossed swords. These two will greatly help your chances of surviving. Equipping both and using the spear is identical to equipping and using tools, but their usage is purely for battle and survival.


Spears cost 1 Flint, 2 Twigs, and 1 Rope. This is the most basic, but most useful weapon.
Log Suits need 4 Logs and 2 Ropes to craft. It’s the easiest to craft, with somewhat decent defense for most of the game.
 The Marsh is full of surprises, normally the bad kind. If you see some things like an abundance of Reeds, a pile of Fish, scattered Frog Legs, or the Tentacle Spike weapon, do NOT approach immediately. There’s a very large chance that the place is infested with Tentacles. Equip some armor and a spear before running off and picking stuff. Also, make sure you’re really quick about it too, since Tentacles appear fast and hit very hard.
 Merms and Mosquitos spawn at dusk and night, making nighttime exploration quite difficult in the Marsh. You’re better off holing up for the night than exploring, since the threats have basically doubled. Spiders also wander about at dusk and night, so if there are any nearby Spider Dens, then you’ll be in more trouble. Take a hint and stay in camp when it gets darker.
 The Marsh’s most dangerous aspect besides the abundance of Tentacles and other such monsters is the fact that it tends to drain Sanity quite fast. Since it’s densely populated by an assortment of nasties, you’re bound to take continuous hits to your Sanity, further endangering your life, since at lower Sanity, your hallucinations turn real and deadly. Keep up your Sanity by eating Crock Pot dishes and Jerky, and by picking flowers.
 Even with your armor and spear, you’re still quite vulnerable to the many monsters and their many claws. Don’t immediately rush into battle, and let the environment do it for you. If you’re being chased, lead them to an area you know has lots of Tentacles, and RUN. Just run. Most of the time, the Tentacles will lash out to what was chasing you, and they all fight it out, leaving you to hastily reap the spoils before you become a victim as well.


As long as you’re quick and smart, the Marsh is a great place to live in. Just try not to anger your “neighbors” so much.

