 By knowing where to look for clover mites, you can assess the severity of the infestation and begin a treatment regiment. Outside, clover mites gather underneath bark at the base of trees, in lawns, and around algae- or mold-covered areas like roofs and cracks. Clover mites also gather under sidings and in sewers. If the infestation has spread to the cracks and siding of your home, there is a decent chance there are mites already inside your home, making home treatment necessary as well as lawn treatment.;
, Giving your lawn or the plants around your home too much water can create conditions that are perfect for mold and other fungi that can attract the mites. Too much fertilizer can cause a similar problem. If you do not overfeed your lawn, you can prevent these food sources from growing, discouraging the expansion of the infestation.
 If you notice clover mites around the base of your trees or crawling on the leaves or stems of other plants, treat the infested plants with a liquid pesticide labeled to treat mites. Apply the pesticide early in the morning or late in the evening to avoid scorching the plants, and follow label directions to avoid under-dosing or overdosing.
 When a home or plant has clover mites, there is a good chance the entire lawn is infested. If further inspection proves this to be true, apply a broad-range spray pesticide over your entire lawn. Dilute both granular and liquid pesticides with water according to label directions and spray the entire landscape, using a mist nozzle, in the early morning or evening, before the heat of the afternoon.
 Focus your efforts on the south, southwest, and east sides of the house. Clover mites need plant material to survive, and by removing it from the area near your home, you reduce the likelihood of having the infestation spread to your home. You can either leave these areas bare or you can cover them with mulch or gravel, which often turn mites away because it is difficult to crawl over.


Note that gravel and mulch do not always drive the mites away. Resilient clover mites will crawl over it, difficult or not. Moreover, if mold or moss is allowed to gather on these materials, you may end up attracting the mites to your home instead of driving them away.
 Even though many plants provide the mites with a food source, some plants repel clover mites. These plants often prove even more helpful than bare ground or mulch.


Mite-repelling flowers include geranium, zinnia, marigold, salvia, rose, chrysanthemum, and petunia.
Mite-repelling shrubs include barberry, juniper, spruce, arborvitae, and yew.
 Spray a barrier around the perimeter of your house that is 2 feet (61 cm) high and 5 feet (1.5 m) (1.5 m) wide. You need to apply the chemical thoroughly, making sure that you do not miss any spots, and you may need to repeat treatments several times while you get the infestation in your lawn under control.


Apply the treatment in the morning, before the heat of the afternoon or the coolness of night. Bright sun can damage vegetation, but cold weather can make the product less effective.
 Windows, doors, and cracks are all places where mites may enter. Placing a powder-like substance, such as talc baby powder or baking soda, will stop the clover mites that crawl through those spaces from entering any further into the home. The dust coats the clover mites, making it difficult to move and causing them to die off one by one.
 Since the mites are so small, they cannot avoid strips of tape placed across their entryways. When mites crawl onto the tape, they will get stuck and will eventually die. Once the tape becomes covered by dead mites, you can remove it and stick another one in its place.
 When you see clover mites, use a vacuum cleaner to sweet them up instead of smashing them. Smashing the mites usually leaves behind a red stain. Aside from vacuuming up the mites as you see them, you can also do frequent broad-area vacuuming to pick up any mites or mite eggs that you do not see.
 Indoor insecticide application is generally considered a last resort, but occasionally, it may well be necessary. Apply a mild mite-killing insecticide, lightly spraying it on the crawling mites. Avoid broad use of interior insecticides. It is generally considered safer and better to use an insecticide that must be applied directly to the pests than it is to use one that is applied to surfaces of the home.

