 Employers have the responsibility to provide a safe workplace. Employers are required to protect workers by furnishing personal protective equipment, by taking steps to reduce the presence of asbestos in the workplace, and minimize their employees’ exposure to asbestos.They are required to:


Find and correct safety and health problems.
Eliminate or reduce hazards. Employers should not rely solely on the use of personal protective equipment to keep their employees safe.
Inform employees about hazards, provide safety training and safety information.
When employees are exposed to asbestos in excess of the legal limits, employers are required to pay for medical monitoring of their condition.
Non-compliance of asbestos regulations will result in steep penalties, and non-compliance includes discrimination against employees who complain or cooperate with the Department of Labor.;
, Most workers in most professions are not exposed to asbestos in the course of their employment. However, since asbestos is such a dangerous material, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has compiled a set of regulations designed to protect workers in various occupational categories.These are:


The construction industry.
Employment in shipyards, including shipbuilding and shipbreaking.
General industrial settings, including building custodians, housekeepers, and auto mechanics.
 Although the use of asbestos as a building material has been restricted in the US since the 1970s, construction workers still come into contact with asbestos. The list of regulations that keep construction workers safe from asbestos is extremely extensive, and if you are in the construction industry, you should read the entire list at https://www.osha.gov/Publications/OSHA3096/3096.html. However, in general:Asbestos removal may only be done by persons licensed to remove asbestos. You may search for licensed personnel at https://cfpub.epa.gov/flpp/pub/index.cfm?do=main.firmSearchAbatement

Employers are required to protect employees from asbestos. The level of protection depends on the type of work, but it includes furnishing employees with personal protective equipment like ventilator masks and establishing protective barriers around the asbestos-containing material itself.Employers have a duty to warn individuals on job sites of the presence of asbestos containing material and the dangers those materials pose.
 Sailors and shipyard workers are among the most likely persons in the workforce to be exposed to asbestos. While the use of asbestos has been restricted in the US shipbuilding industry for some time, ships are often used for decades and many ships are manufactured abroad (where there is less stringent regulation), creating a high risk of exposure.While the list of regulations for the shipyard industry is even more extensive than the construction industry—the guidebook is more than 300 pages—there are some general rules to be aware of.Asbestos on ships is found from bow to stern and everywhere in between, including engine rooms, tiles, doorways, pipes, walls, sealants, insulation, and mooring.If possible, anyone working with asbestos or around asbestos should wet the material down with oil or water. Doing so makes it much less likely that the particles become airborne.Avoid the use of power tools like grinders, sanders, or power saws around asbestos. Use hand tools instead. They are far less likely to send breathable particles into the air.Workers should use personal protective equipment and any areas where work on asbestos containing material is being conducted should be clearly marked and labeled.
Read the complete guidebook at https://www.osha.gov/Publications/OSHA_shipyard_industry.pdf.
 Although workers in the building and maritime trades are the most likely to be exposed to asbestos, the problem is not unique to those industries. Asbestos exposure is of particular concern to auto mechanics, building custodians, and housekeepers.


Asbestos in automobiles is often found in hoodliners, brakes, clutches, and seals. Personal protective equipment should always be worn when working on these components, and effort should be made to wet these materials down as much as possible.While building custodians and housekeepers are not usually exposed to asbestos dust in the regular course of employment, they may still be around material which contains asbestos. These employees should be educated as to where any asbestos in their buildings may be, and how to judge damage or degradation in the materials leading to the release of asbestos dust.Read the complete guidebook for general industrial safety at https://www.osha.gov/Publications/osha3095.pdf.

