 If you don't want to wear gloves, be aware that your skin may stain, but you can still remove the Kool-Aid from it.;
, Remember that Kool-Aid can stain fabric, so use an old towel or cloth.
 Be sure to use the unsweetened version, to avoid creating sticky hair. Moreover, don't use the artificially sweetened kind, as the chemicals might irritate your eyes. You may need to use more packages than recommended here, depending on the length of your hair, and how deep you want the color. Suggestions for suitable Kool-Aid matched to a hair shade change are:


Tropical punch is great for a brighter red
Cherry works for a deeper red
Black-cherry mixed with strawberry works for a bright red
Mixing strawberry and grape can make a purplish red
Experiment with variations of your favorite Kool-Aid colors to get more unique colors

, Adding conditioner helps to make a paste, which is easier to handle.
 Keep mixing out all the lumps and liquidy areas.
 This is the fun part but you definitely need help for this if you're dyeing your own hair.
, All of your hair must be very damp and sticky, otherwise the powder will just wash out, without coloring your hair.
, You'll have to sleep in it, so do a good job! This step is important not just to protect your pillows and sheets, but because it will trap the moisture in, allowing for a deeper color change. It would be a good idea to wrap your pillow in an old towel in case the sandwich wrap moves around while sleeping.


You can secure the plastic wrap carefully with tape.
 Don't be dismayed by the gruesome colours on your skin––everything washes off! See How to remove Kool-Aid from skin if you have skin stains.
 Do not shampoo! If you use shampoo, the color will wash straight out. Apply conditioner if wished, then rinse again. Then comb your hair out and wait for it to dry. The final tint will be less obvious with wet hair.
 Darker hair will change the tints of the hair color, but lighter hair can be dramatically changed! You may need to experiment with this a few times to get the balance right for your hair color –– just remember that the darker your natural hair, the less obvious the effects will be.
, Ensure that the foil does not come off.
 Remember, this is not a permanent hair dye.
, Remove from the heat and let it cool to room temperature.
 Then pull up a chair, sit back, and dip your hair ends in, let them sit in for different timings depending on how dramatic you want the color, how dark your hair is, and how long you want it to stay in.
 DO NOT wash with shampoo. If the color does not show up with your wet hair, do not worry. The color is not as visible with wet hair than dry hair. After rinsing your hair, blow dry it until dry.
, Wait 3-5 minutes for it to cool off. Add the unsweetened Kool Aid packets (two packets for blondes, three for brunettes). Stir it in.
 Put one section on each shoulder.
 Let it sit for 15-30 minutes, depending on how strong you want the color and how long you want it to last. Have a magazine or book to read while you're incapacitated over the bowl! (Or listen to music, a podcast or an audio book.)

, Then wash your hair with cold water and conditioner (conditioner is optional) You will see some Kool Aid start to drip off while washing but this is normal.
 You're now ready to rock the new dye!

