 Google's Gmail is the most popular, and it's also known for its high-level security and user-friendliness, but there are other strong options, like Outlook, Yahoo!, and GMX. Some services, like Lycos, allow you to create aliases within your email account. Others, like Gmail, do not.
Zoho accounts are ad-free.
AOL and Mail.com allow you to choose your own domain name for your email address.
Hide My Ass has a disposable email account option that allows you to set an expiration date, and your personal information isn't required to sign up. ;
, Most email services will have a "sign up" or "create a new account" option on their mail page. If you're on the site's homepage, like Yahoo.com or Google.com, click on the "Mail" tab.
 Create one that can't possibly be linked back to you.


Think about your defining characteristics: your occupation, where you live, your hometown, your hobbies. Avoid using any words that can be linked to those characteristics.
Think about numbers that are associated with you: your birth-date, your address, your zip code or area code. Avoid using those number combinations.
If you're having trouble creating a screen-name, check out the user name generator spinxo.com. Enter random words and numbers instead of ones associated with you.
 Don't use your real name when you're completing the sign-up form. Think of a fake name to use.


Don't use your middle name or your mother's maiden name or any name that can easily be linked back to you.
Look around at objects in the room for inspiration.
Mix and match first and last names of book or movie characters.
Use a random name generator like fakenamegenerator.com or fake.name-generator.co.
 Sign any terms and policies agreements. Remember not to provide any personal information like your address or phone number.
 Double-check to make sure you're not including any clues as to your true identity, like accidentally signing your real name.


Write a concise subject line; this will lessen the risk of the recipient sending it to the trash without reading it. Make sure you are sending it to the correct email address.

