 Ignore the movies, which portray sex as a deeply serious act of soul-wrenching power. More often than not, especially in committed relationships, sex is a fluid, often-awkward, and always fun activity that only you two share. Having a light-hearted attitude may seem like useless advice, but people are way more willing to try something new when they can laugh off any initial issues or awkwardness


If you like something in the moment, let her know! This is the best way to build comfort, trust, and a great shared sex life.
If something goes "wrong," simply smile! If something goofy happens, like your fall off the bed somehow, don't be afraid to laugh -- it won't kill the mood.
Successful sex lives are about feeling calm and comfortable, and no one is more at ease than smiling and laughing with significant other., Never make demands, get upset, force her to give you oral sex, or blatantly ask for it, especially as things are heating up. You've said your piece, and she's said hers, and there is no need to start pushing it now. When she's ready, she'll initiate things herself.


If you've discussed ways to bring oral sex into your relationship, and several weeks or months pass without any change, you should bring the conversation back up during a quiet, respectful moment.
 Not all oral sex has to be to completion. A good way to make her more comfortable is to bring oral sex into foreplay, then moving on to positions you're both more naturally comfortable with. This can help her start to find her comfort level and keep the conversation alive and find a level of compromise.
 She needs to feel completely safe. Make sure she knows, if you hold her head or her hair while engaging in such intimate relations, you'll always maintain enough control of yourself to be able to avoid restraining her head in the heat of passion. It's fine, and can even be desirable, to hold her hair out of the way, or place your hand on her head or shoulder, but it should be in a way that's very gentle and comforting to her.


If she becomes uncomfortable and wants to stop early, that's okay. Remember that, for a woman who may not enjoy oral sex, these first steps will help her become more comfortable over time.
 This isn't a debriefing, and you don't have to do it every single time you sleep together (it will get old, fast), but you should feel free to talk about your sex life together. After the act, as you're hanging out and cuddling, ask what she enjoyed. Figure out if there were some things she can do without, and be sure to keep it light and laugh-filled. You're a couple, and you likely discuss every meal you cook after eating it -- there is no reason you can't share this same openness after sex.


If she's just exploring oral sex, let her know how much you enjoyed it! Staying silent may make her feel like it was unappreciated or, worse, that she is no good at it and shouldn't keep exploring., If approached with love, trust, openness, and understanding, this can be a mutually shared, and mutually satisfying experience for both partners. You sex life is an ongoing, living part of your relationship, and will grow and evolve if you give it attention. Keep talking, keep being honest, and keep loving each other and you'll both be happy.


Know that, if you've talked honestly, you cannot take this personally. Her refusal or desire not to go down is not necessarily a sign she "doesn't love you." Trust her responses and find a way to work things together instead of freaking out.
Disliking oral sex isn't a great reason to break up with someone, but a lack of sexual compatibility may be. Make sure both parties are willing to listen, compromise, and work together., Different people are aroused by different sexual acts. Just because you talk to her and listen to her and do all of the above, does not entitle you after any amount of time to expect her to "come around" on the subject. The same is true for yourself. If she suggested an act that you simply don't enjoy, you would not want to engage in it, regardless of how nicely she asked you about it. Respect her decision. She does not owe you oral sex or have to take it because you want to give.

