 Picking the right date spot is imperative to being able to get to know someone. If you choose to go to a noisy place or to the movies, you won’t be able to have a quality conversation. Consider going for coffee, out to dinner, or having a picnic. Avoid bars or places with large crowds.If you do choose to go to the movies, go for a walk afterwards or out for ice cream so you can chat.
See if they have any places they would like to go as well.;
, When selecting the day you’re going to go out with someone, avoid picking a day when you are very busy or when you have limited time. You will want to devote at least two hours to this date so that you can properly get to know the person. Pick a day of the week and time that works best for both you and your date.


Make sure that you get enough sleep beforehand so that you are well rested and prepared to be social. Your date will be able to tell if you are tired.
Be on time. Allot enough time to get ready and to travel to the place where you are meeting them. If necessary, set an alarm on your phone so that you know when you need to leave.
 People tend to respond well to confidence and will feel more comfortable talking to you if you don’t seem shy and nervous. Be willing to be open about yourself and your date will be more likely to share openly about who they are as well. While you should not pretend to be someone that you are not, you can still kill your nerves and feel self-assured. Do this by spending time getting ready to ensure that you look your best. Dress well for your date. Take a few deep breaths before you approach them to calm your nerves.Repeat positive self mantras to yourself on the day of your date to hype yourself up. Say things like “I am beautiful, I am confident, I am incredible.”
Listen to music that boosts your confidence as you are getting ready.
Watch some funny videos before your date to lighten your mood and make you laugh.
Try doing 30 minutes of moderate exercise before your date. This can help to control anxiety and boost your mood.
 As you are interacting with your date, be actively engaged in the conversation. Don’t be on your phone and perhaps even consider keeping it in your car if possible. Ask them questions, follow up on certain responses that they give, and reply to them with exuberance.For instance, if they mention having recently gone on vacation you could ask an open ended question like “Can you tell me about your vacation?”
Don’t try too hard to come across a certain way because this may make you seem fake. Just relax and be yourself.
 When you are talking to your date, be sure to actively listen to them. Avoid preparing a response in your head as they are speaking. Don’t monopolize the conversation; leave space for your date to speak just as much as you are. You can even try repeating back to them what they said to show that you are hearing them and to help you remember details about them.For instance, if they tell you that they visit their family often and spend a lot of time with them you might say “So, it sounds like family is very important to you.”

, When you are interacting with your date, avoid sharing very personal details about your life. Remember that trust is built over time and you should not disclose too much about yourself to someone who you don’t know well. Some things you might keep to yourself are your sexual past, deep secrets, family drama, or political views., If your date asks you a question, answer it honestly unless the question is too personal. Just as you are looking to get to know them, they are also interested in getting to know you. It is best to be honest with a potential partner so that you don’t have to pretend to be someone you are not.


If you feel that you cannot be honest with them, you can always say that you would prefer not to discuss that topic at this time.
 Don’t always lead the conversation. You can sometimes assess a person’s character by what they do when there is silence. Do they try to fill the space with small talk? If so, they might be nervous. Do they sit in silence and never try to reinitiate conversation? This could indicate that they are either very shy or uninterested.
 When your date is speaking, even if you have something to say related to the topic, don’t interrupt them. Wait until they are done speaking to raise your point, ask a question, or pivot the conversation. Interruption is considered rude by many and doing so can be off-putting, making it hard for you to make a connection with them.
 You can get to know others beyond the words that they say by assessing their actions. If you are out at dinner, notice how they interact with the servers. If they are rude to the waiters, then this person may not be a good fit for you. If they make jokes with the servers or are very respectful, then this might be a good potential match for you.
 Start the conversation by asking them how their day was. You might ask them to tell you both the best and worst parts of their day. This will help you determine how positive or negative they are as a person, particularly if they cannot give you a high or a low, or if they dwell on one for a particularly long time.This is a good way to warm them up and get them talking initially.
 Ask them about their favorite movie, book, TV show, music or food. You might find that you have some of these things in common and that you are very compatible. This well help you to better assess their interests.You can also ask them to tell you the last song they listened to or last movie they watched.
If you do find that you have something in common with your date, ask them to expand on their interest in the subject.
 Some people do not like discussing work on dates, but you should at least know what your date does for a living. Ask them about their job and if they like it. If they don’t, tell them you can table the discussion and then shift the conversation to lighter topics.


A person’s career can also give you some insights into their personality type. For instance, a person who works with kids and enjoys doing so might be caring and empathetic.
 Broach this topic with your date, particularly if either are deal breakers. Ask them if they smoke cigarettes or drink regularly. In addition to being a conversation starter, this can also give you some insights into their personality.


Determine if their use of any of these substances align with your own values and usage levels.
 Find out where they grew up. Ask if they have siblings and if their parents live nearby. See if they have any nieces or nephews. These discussions will tell you about how close they are to their family, which is key to assessing their values., You might also want to learn what grinds your dates gears. Ask them about what bothers them the most, either in dating relationships or in general. This will help you determine how easily annoyed they are and will also let you know what behaviors to avoid should you date this person., The best way to get to know someone on a first date is to ask them questions. However, exert caution in this area and do not ask questions that are very personal unless they broach the topic first. Avoid asking about their dating history, sexual past, or finances. Reflect on what questions that you personally would not want to be asked and avoid those topics.