 Khan Academy offers several web development and computer programming courses. Learn to design creative content and build your own webpages with today’s most popular online languages.Learn to draw and animate with an intro to JavaScript. In another class, learn how to make 3D graphics, menu screens, and games.
Make your own webpage while learning to use HTML and CSS. (HTML is the language with which you surround a webpage’s content to determine headings, lists, tables, and other text formatting. CSS is the language that also helps style pages by specifying colors, fonts, layouts, etc.) Later, you can combine knowledge learned in multiple courses to make your webpages interactive.
Learn to store, search, and otherwise handle data with SQL, a popular data managing software that is commonly used in both apps and within data-generating institutions.
 While there are plenty of courses and programs available online, it can be hard to organize a series of courses into a coherent curriculum – that’s where aGupieWare comes in. This website is actually a blog on applications, technology, and politics. Use their guide to help you complete all of the free online courses necessary to earn the equivalent skills and knowledge you would derive from a bachelor’s degree in computer science. aGupieWare’s proposed curriculum is based on the course lists and degree requirements of the most respects computer science departments in the world. They simply outline the best free computer programming courses you can take, from the best institutions, and recommend the best order to do so.
Don’t worry about having any prerequisite computer science experience. aGupieWare’s proposed curriculum assumes only a willingness to learn, and math and reading skills equal to that of a high school education.
The entire curriculum proposes 15 courses, including 3 introductory classes, 7 core courses, and 5 electives. The curriculum will familiarize you with the field of computer science and a more specific understanding of data structures, algorithms, programming languages, operating systems, networking, data communications, systems engineering, software development, and more.
aGupieWare also recommends a list of electives that can help you advance your knowledge of whichever specialization you choose. Electives include electrical engineering and robotics, software development and programming, computer architecture and hardware design, mathematics and cryptography, or networking and applications.
 Code Academy can teach you to code, with courses interactively adjusting themselves to your pace. It offers programs in a wide variety of programming languages, has been used by over 25 million people around the world, and has been widely recognized as a dependable source of coding expertise.See the Code Academy website to read brief overviews of each of the courses they offer. These overviews outline the workflow you’ll follow during each course.
Courses include training on how to program with JavaScript, host web images on Dropbox, read and write with Ruby, problem shoot HTTP errors, use data software Rails, make a website with HTML5 and CSS3, learn Python, operate SQL, use DevTools, and more.

