 In order to get a copy of a Florida birth certificate in person, you need to make sure you meet certain requirements for getting the document from the Florida Bureau of Vital Statistics. If you know whether or not you may apply for a birth certificate copy, it can keep you from making an unnecessary trip.


Florida requires that you meet one of the following requirements to obtain the copy of a birth certificate: be the child named on the certificate and 18 years of age or older; be the parent, guardian or legal representative of the person named on the certificate; have a court order., You will need proper documentation to submit to the Bureau of Vital Statistics to ensure that there aren’t any delays in getting you the birth certificate by mail.


You need to have a completed application form or letter of request for a copy of a Florida birth certificate.If you are applying for a copy of your own birth certificate, you need to provide a copy of your official photo ID. For example, you can provide your driver’s license, military ID, passport, or a work ID.If you are applying for a copy of a birth certificate for another person, including for your child, you need identification and any other legal documentation, such as a court order., In addition to your documentation, you need to submit either an application or letter of request for a birth certificate copy.The application is available online at http://www.floridahealth.gov/certificates/certificates/_documents/dh726-birth-app-7-2016.pdf.
If you prefer to write a letter of request to file in person or by mail, you need to include the following information in the letter: full name of child at birth and any legal name changes; date of birth; city or county of birth; mother's full name including her maiden surname; father's full name (if his name is on the record); full name of the person ordering the certificate; relationship to person named on the certificate, such as father, mother, or self; mailing address, including city, state and zip code; a contact telephone number where you can be reached between 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM (EST) Monday through Friday; and your signature.
If you have any questions on the application, you can call the Bureau of Vital Statistics at 904-359-6900.If you are filling out the application, you do not need to write a separate letter of request for the birth certificate copy.You also need a copy of your valid photo ID.You have the option of Express Service with the US Postal Service. If you wish for expedited delivery of the birth certificate copy, you must provide a self-addressed expedited delivery envelope to receive this service., You can request two different kinds of birth certificate copies in Florida, and the price ranges from $9.00 to $14.00. You must pay this fee by personal check or money order when you send your application.Both types of birth certificate copies are valid, official documents. Computer certification costs $9.00 and is processed within 1 to 3 days. Photocopy certification costs $14.00 and is processed within 3 to 5 days.Make the personal check or money order out to “Vital Statistics.”

, Once you’ve collected all of your required documentation, send your application to the Bureau of Vital Statistics.


Send your application to: Bureau of Vital Statistics, Attn: Vital Records Section, P.O. Box 210, Jacksonville, FL 32231-0042.Consider sending the application materials by registered mail so that you can ensure that it arrives at the Bureau of Vital Statistics.
 It can take a few days to a few weeks to get the copy of the birth certificate for which you applied by mail. If you have any questions about your application, follow up with of the Bureau of Vital Statistics at the phone number listed above.


If you paid the standard fee, it includes standard delivery by the U.S. Postal Service.
If you provided a self-addressed express delivery envelope, you will receive your birth certificate more quickly.

