 Sitting at home alone waiting for your partner to return isn’t going to make you feel better about their absence, and will probably drive you crazy. Instead, try to spend this time with friends or loved ones. Think of the separation as a chance to catch up with old friends. Or, spend a little extra time with your BFF and remind your friend how much he or she also means to you.Call a friend and arrange a coffee date.
Invite a few friends over for dinner and cook together.
Plan a weekend visit to your grandma out of town.
Avoid withdrawing from people, especially if you feel like you might be depressed.;
, Most likely, there is either some activity you have scaled back on to make time for your significant other, or a new activity that you have been wanting to try and haven’t made time for yet.Instead of sitting around and feeling lonely, embrace your extra free time to finish that model ship or dress.
Start learning a new language through a free phone app like Duolingo.
Pick up a book you’ve been meaning to read and just start reading.
 Use whichever artistic or crafty medium you like, or try something new! Design a cross stitch pattern with your initials, a favorite joke or reference, or your significant other's favorite movie character. Paint an abstract representation of how you feel about your significant other using different colors and textures. Make a photo collage of your favorite pictures.Cross stitch is a great hobby for occupying time spent alone since it contains small detail work and usually requires counting. If you are trying this for the first time, choose a simple pattern so you don’t get frustrated or overwhelmed.
Buy cheap outdoor acrylic paints at a craft store or Walmart and a canvas to create an abstract painting. Choose colors that express your feelings and add things like sand or plaster to create different textures.
Use an empty picture frame with or without the glass for making a collage. If there is no glass, glue images to a piece of cardboard and cover it with modge podge or use a spray varnish to protect it from damage.
 Create something special describing your relationship to send your significant other or to share when your significant other returns. Use whichever creative writing outlet you enjoy. Put all your energy into making an amazing gift to show your significant other how much he or she means to you.



Write an original poem on fancy paper with a calligraphy pen.Better yet, make your own handmade paper.

Create a children’s style book about how you met, complete with illustrations. You don’t have to be great at drawing to make a cute book your significant other will love. Make illustrations simple and add meaningful details to each scene.
 Join a book or movie critique club. Doing activities like these allow you a chance to make some new friends and get out of the house. These things will also occupy some of your free time with “homework” of reading or watching. Plus, you may end up making a great new friend, possibly even meeting another couple you both can hang out with on date nights.
 When you feel particularly sad and cannot get into your favorite pastime, get up and go for a run, ride your bike along a trail, or go to the gym and do at least 20 minutes of cardio exercises. Not only does exercise help relieve stress and get your mind on something other than what’s bothering you, but your body releases endorphins that act like pain-killers and mood-boosters.Just five minutes of intense exercise can instantly boost your mood, but exercising regularly can also help with long-term depression. Consider exercise as natural medicine that your body needs to function properly.
 Use your time apart as a chance to finish some unfinished tasks. These could be things you’ve started working on and did not finish, or something you have been putting off until you had enough time to finish it. You will stay busy and feel good about yourself for accomplishing those things at last.Recaulk your bathtub, sand down and refinish your grandmother’s antique dresser, fix the screen door that swings open in the wind, etc.
Finish writing your book of short stories, you’ve been saving fabric for, or sign up for pet training classes you’ve been meaning to start.
Paint your bedroom, install shelves in the bathroom, or finish planting a vegetable garden.

