 Most enemas should be given at close to human body temperature, or between 98 and 105 degrees Fahrenheit (37 to 40.5 degrees Celsius). Enemas may be given with water as cool as 86 degrees Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius) or as hot as 113 degrees Fahrenheit (45 degrees Celsius). Using water colder than 86 degrees Fahrenheit may cause cramping, while using water hotter than 113 degrees Fahrenheit can scald the rectal area.
 While tap water is sufficient for most enemas, it may be necessary to add something to make the enema more effective, or if the enema is intended for something other than colon cleansing.


Mild soap is added to the enema solution when the enema is intended to relieve constipation. Enema soap is specially formulated to be mild enough for infants but able to handle the most severe constipation. Enema soap is available in packets in most medical supply stores or may be ordered by a local pharmacist. One packet is sufficient. (Liquid dishwashing detergent should not be substituted, as it will irritate the colon and may cause colitis.) If enema soap is not available, baking soda may be substituted.
Salt is added to enemas that are designed to soften impacted stools rather than trigger the bowel to expel them. Generally, one teaspoon of salt should be added per pint of water (10 milliliters/cubic centimeters of salt per liter of water). Mineral oil also softens stools and lubricates the colon, but it may seep out of the anus for up to 24 hours after the enema is given.
Sodium phosphate is added to commercial enema solutions designed to clean out the colon prior to a colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy. Sodium phosphate draws water from the bloodstream into the colon, but often triggers intense cramps in the process.
Certain drugs that penetrate the body faster without going through the digestive tract, such as some cancer, arthritis and macular degeneration medicines, as well as a few anti-nausea drugs, can be added to the enema solution.
Barium solution is used in enemas that are to be retained long enough to enable the colon to be displayed on an X-ray.
 The amount of enema solution the recipient will be able to accept varies according to the size of the recipient's colon and how much fecal matter is inside it. A child 11 years old or older has the same colon capacity, on average, as an adult.


If using a pre-measured enema solution, a child aged 5 to 10 years can be given a full bottle of a child-sized enema, while a child aged 2 to 4 years needs only half a bottle.
