 You're going to be changing the appearance of your wood with a solution of warm water and baking soda. After the solution is mixed, you'll apply it to your wood with a paintbrush, allow it to dry, and then you can stain the wood if you desire. All things considered, for this project you'll need:


A container (for your weathering solution)
A paintbrush
Baking soda
Wood
Wood staining (recommended; optional), Dirt, dust, or irregular bits of wood can make the application of your weathering solution inconsistent. Wiping down your wood with a damp, clean rag first will help prevent this from happening. You might also want to sand the wood to give it a professional, well-finished look.
 There is no perfect proportion for this weathering solution. A high concentration of baking soda in warm water will produce a more intense weathering effect. A good starting point, however, is 1 cup of warm water and 1 tablespoon of baking soda.Mix your baking soda and water thoroughly before applying the solution. If the baking soda isn't equally distributed, parts of your wood could look more weathered than others.
Baking soda has a chemical reaction with a substance in the wood known as "tannins." Wood high in tannins, like mahogany, oak, and walnut, will react more intensely with this solution.
Generally, hardwoods have a higher tannin content than softwoods. If you notice natural yellow, red, or brown tinting in the wood, this could be a strong indication of tannins.
Since wood with a higher tannin content reacts stronger than lower tannin wood, you may want to decrease the amount of baking soda when weathering high tannin wood., Take your paintbrush and dip it into your weathering solution. Use a generous coating to completely cover your wood with the solution, but do not leave excess puddling on it. Pay special attention to cracks and knots, as these can be difficult to completely coat.


It's better to use less than more at this point in the weathering. If after the wood dries it is not weathered to the point you desire, you can add another layer of solution.
A single coat of this solution should be enough to have a noticeable effect on your wood, though the change in woods containing few tannins may be slight., Since you've only applied a single coat to your wood, it shouldn't take too long for it to dry. In most climates, 10 minutes should be enough for your wood to be ready for staining, though in humid regions this may take longer.


If your wood is taking longer to dry than you'd like, you can use a hair dryer to dry it more quickly.
Observe your wood closely at this point. If it is not as weathered as you wanted, you should apply another coat of your weathering solution and allow it to dry again., This step is optional, though adding staining to your wood will make the weathering more distinct. Use a clean brush to apply your stain in the fashion indicated by its label until the surface of the wood is completely stained.


Use a test piece of wood that you've already weathered to prevent unpleasant surprises. Some stains may have a unexpected effect on your weathered wood.