 Abnormal ejaculation would be an ejaculation with a lower sperm count or total absence of sperm. Abnormal ejaculations and unhealthy sperms can result in infertility. This is normally due to a problem arising in your seminal vesicles which produce the sperms and hormonal imbalances.


Varicocele or an enlarged testicular vein leads to abnormal sperm development, and results in 40% of infertility cases.
Abnormal ejaculations such as retrograde ejaculation or ejaculation into the bladder and premature ejaculation due to physical or hormonal causes also lead to male infertility.
 Erectile dysfunction is also known as impotence. This issue affects almost 20 million American males. It can be a result of psychological factors or inherent medical disorders. Almost 90% of erectile dysfunctions are due to medical causes.Performance anxiety, guilt, and stress are the common psychological causes of erectile dysfunction.
Type-2 DM, hypertension, hormonal imbalances, heart diseases, and pelvic surgery or trauma may also result in erectile dysfunction and subsequent infertility issues.
 Various underlying medical conditions affect your androgen or male hormone levels. They could also affect your sperm count and increase your chances of infertility. These conditions include:


Anemia, type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, pituitary disorders, hyperprolactinemia, hypothyroidism, testicular torsion, hydrocele, and obesity

, Various infections such as tuberculosis, mumps, brucellosis, influenza can affect your infertility. STDs such as gonorrhea, chlamydia and syphilis lead to low sperm count and sperm motility. Some STDs also lead to blocking of the epididymis which transports the sperms to the seminal fluid, leading to infertility.
 There are quite a few lifestyle choices and habits that can result in a decreased sperm count. These include:


Unhealthy eating habits, like eating a diet that is lacking in zinc, vitamin C and iron could affect your sperm count.
Wearing tight underwear can lower your sperm count as well, by increasing the scrotal temperature.
Long standing use of steroids also results in infertility from testicular shrinkage. Extreme exercise routines may also lead to infertility in men.
Cigarette smoking and excessive or chronic alcohol consumption leads to hormonal imbalances, low sperm counts and infertility.
Dealing with excessive amounts of stress at work or home could affect your sperm count and hormonal balance.
 Your doctor will run tests to determine your sperm count. He or she may also run blood tests to check androgens, postprandial blood sugars, and thyroid functioning. Further tests may be done if these tests are inconclusive.

