 When your name is called, the judge will read the charges against you and explain how the charges are classed and what sentence you potentially face if convicted.The degree and possible sentence for your offense depends on what the charges were in the original crime.
For example, if the crime you're charged with assisting was a first degree felony, you will be charged with a first degree felony as well.;
, After the judge reads your charges, he or she will explain the constitutional rights that you have as a defendant in a criminal case, and ask whether you understand those rights.The judge also will ask if you have an attorney. Since you've been charged with a crime, you have the right to an attorney. If you can't afford to hire an attorney, the court will appoint a public defender to represent you in your case.
Don't think you can defend yourself on your own without the benefit of an attorney. A mistake in procedure could end up costing you dearly.
Attorneys also may be able to review information from the prosecution, including the identity of witnesses against you, that can't be disclosed to you as the defendant.
 At this point, assuming the judge is satisfied that you understand your constitutional rights, he or she will ask how you plead in response to the charges. If you intend to defend yourself against the charges, you will respond "not guilty."Technically, you also could plead "guilty" or "no contest." A no contest plea has the same effect as a guilty plea in the criminal court, but it can't be used against you in civil court.
However, the only way to get a trial that will give you the opportunity to defend yourself against the charges is to plead "not guilty."

, If you were previously in custody, the judge will hear the recommendation regarding bail from the prosecution. Based on the circumstances, the judge will decide whether to grant bail and if so, how much that bail will be.The judge may decide to release you on your own recognizance, or "OR." This means that you present such a slight flight risk, or your charges are so minor, that the judge doesn't believe any bail should be paid to guarantee your return.
On the other hand, if the judge sets bail, you'll have to make arrangements (typically with a bail bondsman) to have the bail paid.
For this reason, it's a good idea to have a close friend or family member at your arraignment who can make bail arrangements for you, because you'll be returned to jail to until the bond is posted.
 While you may want to start by asking trusted friends or family members for recommendations, you also can get some good attorney prospects by searching on the internet.The website of your state or local bar association is a good place to start. There, you'll typically find a searchable directory of attorneys licensed to practice law in your area.
Once you get several possible names, see if those attorneys (or their firms) have a website. Reading through the information on an attorney's website can help you get to know them and build a first impression about them.
Look up attorneys at the bar association or state court system website to confirm that their licenses are in good standing and they haven't been the subject of any discipline.
As a result of your search, you should be able to come up with a strong list of three or four candidates who potentially would represent you well.
 Regardless of the recommendations you have, you should try to meet with several attorneys so you can compare and contrast your options and find the best possible person to represent you.Criminal defense attorneys typically provide a free initial consultation, so it won't be a great expense to talk to several attorneys.
Time is of the essence, so try to schedule all of your initial consultations to take place within the same week or two-week period so you can make your decision quickly.
If an attorney on your list cannot meet with you in that time frame, strike their name off the list and move on to the next one. An attorney who is that busy probably will not have sufficient time to devote to your defense.
 In many ways, an initial consultation can feel a lot like a sales pitch. Typically it's up to you to ask the right questions so you can properly evaluate each attorney and what they could offer you.You may want to make a list of questions before your first initial consultation so you can make sure you don't forget anything.
Ask questions about the attorney's background and experience, particularly the number of cases they've handled that were similar to yours.
Criminal law is a broad area of practice, so many defense attorneys specialize in particular areas of the law. Look at the primary charge, the crime you've been charged with assisting.
If the primary charge is murder, you don't want an attorney who specializes in DUIs – you want, ideally, an attorney who specializes in defending against murder charges.
 Once your initial consultations are over, look at each attorney's background and experience to objectively determine who could best represent you. At the same time, your ultimate evaluation also should take your subjective feelings into account.When you compare the attorneys, you'll naturally take fees into account. However, unless someone has a fee that you absolutely cannot afford, fees should not be the determining factor in whether to hire a particular attorney.
You need an attorney who has experience successfully defending people similar to you, but don't be afraid to go with your gut.
If there was a particular attorney who made you feel at ease and inspired confidence in your relationship and the attorney's ability to represent you, that's the attorney you should go with.
 When you've decided which attorney to hire, make sure you have a written agreement that outlines the terms and conditions of the representation before you pay the attorney any money or allow them to work on your case.Have your attorney go through the retainer agreement with you and explain it in plain language. If you have any questions, don't be afraid to ask.
Your attorney should give you time to look over and think about the retainer agreement before you sign it. You may want to have a trusted friend or family member look over the agreement as well before you sign it, so you have a second opinion.
It may not seem like it, but this agreement is negotiable. If there's anything you don't agree with, let your attorney know. You may be able to work out a different term or a compromise.
 Depending on the gravity of the charges against you and other factors, the court may schedule a number of preliminary hearings that you will be expected to attend before trial.Many of these preliminary hearings address procedural questions or motions filed either by your attorney or the prosecution that relate to evidentiary issues.
The judge also may hold scheduling conferences or hearings designed to ensure the case is proceeding smoothly.
You may not be required to attend many of these hearings. Your attorney will let you know if your presence is required.
 Discovery is the phase of any litigation in which the parties exchange information related to the case. In a criminal case, the prosecutor will share evidence with your attorney so you can understand the prosecution's case against you and plan your defense.Keep in mind that your attorney may have access to information that you don't, such as the identity of witnesses who the prosecution will call to testify against you.
Your attorney will discuss the evidence, including documents such as police reports, that he or she acquires through discovery.
The main point of discovery, from the defense perspective, is to get a good idea of the evidence the prosecution has against you and use that evidence to formulate your own defense.
The prosecution has to prove that you are guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. Your attorney will find elements of your charge for which the prosecution has scant evidence, and use that lack of evidence to plant reasonable doubt in the minds of jurors.
 At any time before trial, you can plea bargain with the prosecution. This typically involves you pleading guilty to a lesser charge, sometimes in exchange for information about the principal crime to which you've been charged with being an accessory.The value of any plea offer may change depending on the evidence the prosecution has against you.
However, keep in mind that prosecutors typically don't charge anyone unless they believe they can win a conviction at trial.
If the prosecutor starts out thinking their case is strong, and discovery reveals fatal flaws in their evidence, they may offer a better deal than you were offered originally.
Your attorney will present these offers to you and may advise you on whether to take the deal, but ultimately the decision to take the deal is yours.
 If you're unable to come to any agreement, you'll have to prepare to defend yourself at trial. Your attorney will go over basic criminal trial procedure with you and gather information to be used in your defense.One of the most important elements of an accessory charge is intent. The prosecution must prove that you knowingly contributed to the crime.
Many defenses to accessory charges therefore focus on the fact that you were unaware that the crime had taken place, or even doubted that the person had committed the crime.
When you found out the crime had been committed also is important to your defense. For example, if a friend asked if they could borrow your car, and you allowed them to borrow your car without knowing why, the prosecution would have a hard time convicting you as an accessory to a crime – even if your friend used your car in robbing a bank, and you found out your friend had robbed a bank when they returned your car to you.
 If you proceed to trial, you do have the choice of whether to have a trial before a judge or a jury trial. You have the right to a jury trial, and it's a right that most defendants exercise.Jury selection begins with questions from the judge. Once the judge is satisfied that everyone is qualified to serve, each attorney will ask questions to reveal any prejudices or bias that may exist in particular jurors.
Each attorney can challenge a juror "for cause" – typically in situations where the juror indicates they cannot put their own feelings or beliefs to the side and evaluate the facts impartially.
There are other peremptory challenges, typically limited in number, which either attorney can use to exclude particular jurors for any reason or no reason at all.
Attorneys typically use peremptory challenges to strike jurors who they don't believe will be favorable to their side.
 Once the jury is chosen, your attorney and the prosecutor typically will take care of any last-minute evidence issues that may have arisen since the last court hearing. Then the trial will begin in earnest as each side makes opening statements.Opening statements are brief speeches in which each attorney explains to the jury what will happen at trial, including the evidence that will be introduced and the witnesses who will be called.
Your attorney likely will use the opening statement as an opportunity to introduce you to the jury. A good defense attorney typically attempts to paint a relatively sympathetic picture of you as someone who simply was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Potentially your attorney also will begin to plant the seeds of doubts by suggesting that you did not have the requisite knowledge of the crime when you provided the assistance you did.
 The prosecuting attorney first presents the state's case against you by introducing evidence and calling witnesses in an attempt to prove that you are guilty of committing the crime with which you've been charged.Pay attention to the prosecutor, and watch your body language. While the jurors may be focused on what the prosecutor is saying, they also will be watching you.
Avoid facial expressions or gestures that react to statements by the prosecutor or witnesses and could paint you in a negative light to the jurors.
The prosecutor may call witnesses to testify against you. Don't glare at witnesses or attempt to menace them. Listen impassively, taking notes if you need it to distract you.
If you hear the witness say something that you believe is untrue, let your attorney know as soon as possible. He or she will address the situation on cross-examination.
 You (through your attorney) have the right to ask questions of any witnesses that the prosecutor calls to the stand to testify against you. Pay attention while the prosecutor is questioning the witness and make notes of anything that strikes you as inaccurate or inconsistent.Your attorney typically will ask each witness a series of leading questions on cross-examination. The main purpose is to undermine the witness's credibility, causing the jury to doubt their testimony.
For example, your attorney may question an eyewitness in such a way that it is revealed that they didn't actually have a clear view of the events they testified they'd seen, or that they had a vision or hearing impairment that diminished their ability to see or hear.
 After the prosecutor presents the state's evidence against you, it's your turn (through your attorney) to present your defense, either by asserting an affirmative defense or by poking holes of doubt in the prosecutor's evidence.An affirmative defense would be something like self defense, in which you argue that you committed the crime with which you were charged, but your actions were justified under the circumstances.
There aren't many affirmative defenses available if you're charged as an accessory. If you assisted in the commission of the crime before it was committed, one affirmative defense is that you completely and voluntarily renounced your actions and refused to further assist in the criminal activity.
If you are charged with accessory after the fact, your primary defense typically will revolve around doubt regarding your intent.
The prosecution must prove that you intended to assist the person who committed the crime, for example by hiding them from the police or otherwise helping them evade arrest.
Any witnesses you call to testify on your behalf may be subject to cross-examination from the prosecution.
 When you've completed your defense, both sides have the opportunity to make closing arguments in which they summarize the evidence that has been introduced and what it has or has not proven.Your attorney will use the closing argument to draw the jury's attention to the weaknesses in the prosecution's evidence, and to highlight any doubts that you actually served as an accessory to the crime.
The prosecution must prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt, and your attorney will hammer home to the jury the high level of this standard.
 The judge will instruct the jury and they will leave the courtroom to deliberate. When they've come to a decision, everybody will be called back into the courtroom so the verdict can be read.If the jury has found you guilty, your trial typically will proceed to the sentencing phase.
You can speak to your attorney about whether the verdict should be appealed. As a criminal defendant, you have the right to one appeal.
On the other hand, if the jury finds you not guilty, you have successfully defended yourself against accessory charges.
The prosecution has no right to appeal a jury verdict of not guilty, nor can they charge you again.

