 You can always ask your teacher when the test will happen. Knowing this will give you time to prepare and study your notes. You should also ask your teacher what subjects the test will be covering so you know what to study. Though, this step is optional when having a pop quiz.;
, The best thing that you can do is to arrive at the test/exam prepared. Bring everything that you will need (i.e pencils, extra paper, pens, erasers, white out, etc.)

, Something that always causes test anxiety is not studying. Once you arrive at the test, you will realize that you don't remember anything that you have done. Study at least 3 days before the test, but keep in mind that you will likely need to start studying months in advance if you are preparing to take a very large test.
 Remember, look over your notes carefully. You might have missed something that could be on the test. Another fun way is to study with a friend. A friend can always help you memorize your notes. You can also use a highlighter to help you memorize the important facts.
 Having a lot of stress can make you distracted. Every time that you have a test, find something that you like to do before the test to keep you calm. This could be singing, yoga, deep breathing, praying (if you follow a religion), and so on. It will keep you calm and focused.
 Close your eyes and inhale for 4 seconds, hold it for 6 seconds, and then exhale for another 4 seconds. Repeat three times. It will give you more focus and calm you down.
 Don't go into the test thinking that you will fail. Be optimistic.
 When you rush you won't be able to look at the questions carefully, you might even read some questions wrong! Be careful. Put all your effort into it and try your best. For word problems try to show your work. The end result might be wrong but if you show your process you might still get points. It's not always about the right answer.
 You shouldn't rush but remember to watch the clock so you finish it!

, Have you missed something? Made a mistake? Make sure to fix those when you're done.
 Singing or playing an instrument, or even going for a jog! This helps keep your calm and allows you to have some fun while studying.