 Make sure you provide your full name so that the person can remember your name. You can say, "Hi, my name is Mark Salazar," or "Hello, I'm Angela Grace," and they'll be more likely to remember you.
 If you're at a networking event, then it's likely that you'll be talking about what you do to a variety of people. So, what do you say when a new connection asks, "What is it that you do?" Do you launch into a ten-minute story about your career path? Do you reel off a list of your accomplishments in your field? Absolutely not. Unless you're having a more lengthy conversation, you should be prepared to give a one-sentence description of what you do that gives the following information:Who are you, professionally? Are you a teacher, a project manager, or a health care professional?
Who do you work with? Do you work with children, cross-cultural project teams, or micro-finance organizations?
What do you do? Do you help second-grade children develop their writing skills, do you help cross-cultural teams meet complete their goals while keeping their budgets, or do you help microfinance organizations expand their market base in developing countries?
Now, put your sentence together. State who you are, who you work with, and what you do.
 If you have items, don’t place them on recruiter’s or presenter’s tables. Respect their space and don’t overwhelm them. You can also disrupt their materials, such as knocking over a poster or messing up pamphlets. Wait to be asked to exchange business cards, resumes, etc., If the person has asked you what you do first, don't just walk away and praise yourself for a job well done. Instead, ask the person what he or she does in return. This is not only polite, but shows that you have a real interest in this person's career path and want to build a meaningful connection.
 Don't just wave and say, "Nice meeting you" and walk away from the person. Anyone you meet at a networking event can have the potential to help you in the future, so make sure that you make eye contact, repeat the person's name, and exchange business cards or any other pieces of relevant information before you walk away.

