 Arrange them by date so that the one you are having first comes at the top, then your next exam, then the next etc. Read the syllabus that comes with your classes.


By the time finals roll around, your time is precious -- every minute counts. Which is why scheduling is essential during the weeks (er, days) prior to exams. So as not to go totally bonkers during this stressful time, make a realistic study schedule for yourself, too. Leave yourself time for breaks -- you'll be taking them anyway -- and be sure to prioritize according to which class you'll need to study for the most. The syllabus is one of the most important papers your professor will give you. Hold onto it! Use it when you're studying for your finals as a sort of outline.It may also make it clear what topics your instructor finds interesting and important -- certain topics may pop up more than others and those are definitely the ones to crack down on.;
, Do you have to study just words? If yes, type them out in a word processor and print them. The words you already know should not be on the list. Make absolutely sure that you know them before you take them off the list! Repeat every word 10 times and you will remember.


Go through your notes and highlight major vocabulary words and concepts (in different colors!). Manipulate the material to your liking. Create charts and index cards to help yourself study. Make cards in different categories -- some for terms and/or concepts, some for formulas, and some for specific quotes from reading assignments.
 And if they're in your class, all the better (for them and you). However, make sure it's someone who's serious about studying -- goofing off together won't be very productive. A friend is beneficial if you can stay focused.


Take turns explaining terms and concepts to each other. Odds are if you can explain it to someone else (and they can follow), you have a good grasp on the material and that'll show up on the exam.
 Study in a quiet place that has a nice chair you won't hesitate to spend large chunks of time in. If you find the perfect chair in a not-so-perfect area, move it. It's not glued to the floor for a reason.


Or, rather, scope out nice areas (yep, that's plural) to study. Believe it or not, several (again with the plural) studies have found that if you switch up your environment while learning, retention is increased. Somehow, magically, keeping your brain surrounded by new stimuli makes the information more interesting and therefore easier to remember.So if you get antsy, listen to your gut and find a new armchair to sink into.
 When you leave your dorm room or home, make sure you have everything you need and then some. Grab all your papers, folders, writing utensils and books you need, but make sure to not forget the almost more important stuff: a water bottle, some money (just in case), your headphones, and snacks to munch on.


Magically, chocolate is starting to be deemed the new "super fruit." It's high in antioxidants and healthy plant compounds, even more so than most fruit juices.So don't feel guilty about grabbing your dark chocolate bar when you hit the study room. You may actually be doing yourself a favor.

