 If you’re suffering from allergies or sensitivities, NEAT may be an option for you. NEAT is a naturopathic medicine that has its basis in NAET, or Nambudripad’s Allergy Elimination Technique. Locating NAET/ NEAT practitioners can put you on the path to relieving your food or environmental allergies.Find practitioners of NEAT and NAET in the United States at https://www.naet.com/Patients/locator.aspx. There are also individual search sites available at this site for practitioners in Canada, Central and South America, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia.;
, Once you’ve found a practitioner in your local area, call the office and schedule an appointment. Let the doctor you would like to undergo NEAT or NAET to relieve your allergies. Consider asking questions about things such as directions, payment, and parking., Make sure to arrive at your appointment on time and fill out any necessary forms before your exam. Let your NEAT practitioner know what specific allergies you have or think you have. This may point the person to specific allergens or symptoms you have.Make sure you let the doctor know any supplements and medications you are taking.
Allow the doctor to exam your skin and body as necessary and if you are comfortable. The NEAT protocol uses elements from both acupuncture and homeopathy with computer technology.
Have your skin conductance measured at acupuncture points with a computerized electrodermal screening system. This uses a blunt probe to touch on specific acupuncture points, which then tell the practitioner about the electrical energy and problems it may cause, including allergies.Take a sample of any suspected allergens to the practitioner.
 After undergoing your NEAT examination, your practitioner will discuss your diagnosis with you. This is based on the “problem” energies found when the practitioner probed your acupuncture points. Your doctor may diagnose you with specific allergies or even sensitivities to food and environmental allergens.Ask any questions you may have about the diagnosis. Let the doctor know about any concerns you may have, including ability to avoid these substances. This can help the doctor formulate the best treatment plan for you.
 Your NEAT practitioner will develop the treatment for your allergies based on the “problem” energies and the best way to contain them. This usually requires testing the responses of the patient to certain allergens and then creating specific natural “medicines” from the findings.Recognize that the NEAT treatment protocol usually takes seven visits over the course of a few weeks.
 Your initial visit to the practitioner is the first step of seven in your treatment. In order to reap the most benefits from your NEAT treatment, you’ll first need to make sure your membranes are not acting as barriers during the second visit. Your practitioner will assess the barrier functions of your members and then desensitizes them before beginning the treatment protocol.Undergo a brief acupressure technique by your practitioner to clear any membrane barriers that exist.Hold a vial of liquid that your practitioner has imprinted with the energies of the allergens. Then your doctor will stimulate specific points with a reflex hammer. Keep grasp of the vial for 15 minutes, which can set your new energy state. Avoid any allergens for 24 hours if you are able.
 For your third through fifth visits with the NEAT practitioner, you’ll update the person on any changes in your allergies or sensitivities to food or environmental allergens. During these visits your practitioner will also make sure any previous substances are now clear for you. The person will also test new panels of substances and perform barrier clearing for each of them.Do any sampling of work or home exposures that your practitioner prescribes.
Contact your practitioner in between visits if you notice any recurrent symptoms or problems.
 The sixth part of your NEAT treatment is the “clean up” visit. Your practitioner will test all of the categories of allergens and sensitivities discovered in your previous five visits. The practitioner will then repeat the treatment procedure for each of these substances to help clear the energy and relieve your allergies., Three to four weeks after your “clean up” visit, your practitioner will see you to review any changes to your immune system. The person will also see if you have any aggravations to barrier functions or your allergies since the “clean up” visit.Ask the doctor any questions you may have about maintaining barrier functions or how best to treat residual symptoms. The practitioner’s suggestions may include a healthy, natural diet or natural hygiene choices., The best way to maintain the benefits of your NEAT treatment is to have regular cleanup visits. These can be anywhere from every three months to every six months or once a year.This can help maintain the enhancements to your immune system and keep barrier functions clear.