 Try completing the tutorial since it helps to gain some spare money, and when you do quest, always make sure to check their rewards to make sure that they do not give any type of combat experience (Attack, Strength, Defence, Constitution, Prayer or Summoning), note that slayer does not give combat level! (Please note after release of Evolution of combat, Prayer and Constitution do not give combat levels);
, Once you learned the basic of the most skills, try to stick with a stick that you get along with. The point of Runescape is to be motivated and always make sure to have a plenty of fun! So head of and start to train your skill, with those raw resources sell them to Grand Exchange, or players nearby who are interested to trade of.
 Once you have enough money, spend on other raw resources that may acquire few gps (gold pieces), go ahead and start training other non-combat skills since they are going to be useful, much later when you start to get more experienced. In addition, if you are a P2P (pay-to-play) skillers, may acquire over millions of gps just to sustain their skills up and therefore it is always nice to make sure always focus on multiples skills, in case you get bored.
 In order to get levels in skills, you need motivation and most of Runescape players may know that Runescape does acquire a lot of motivation. Note since this guide have been recently updated, this are the new ways players get motivated in Runescape:

, This three, are commonly used amongst many players out there to make sure to that they are enjoying the game and also being motivated in order to keep their skills up high.
 Inexperienced skillers are required to make short term goals, such as achieving a level or the amount of resource required. Although experienced skillers are required to make long term goals, since you are going to experience a large amount of experience to gain till level up, make sure to set reliable goals. In addition, experienced skillers it is always great to make goals that relates to amount of experience they gain, instead of levels!

, Always keep in track of your time, and never try to play over the limit! Often, players tender to play Runescape for a long time of period, since they start to get addicted, which is quite bad in a way because they are losing motivation and not concerned with other things! Always keep in track of your time, and what is going on your Physical World and Virtual World!, Always play Runescape with your friends; clans are usually not the best because often leaders decide what each clan member should do, which ruins the fun! I highly recommend having active friends, who are interested on Skilling and Socializing! Remember that now days, the Runescape Community has change a lot, and people always got to adapt with the new environment.
 There is no secret in Runescape, it acquires trial and error and search new ways to enhance your efficiency on training your skills since searching new methods will always help you out to boost your skill up!

