 When you wash every day, you put unnecessary strain on your hair follicles. The nourishing oil your scalp naturally produces gets washed away, plus you pull and tug on your hair in the process of washing it, drying it and combing it out. When regrowth is your goal, you want to treat your hair and scalp as gently as you can and leave it alone as much as possible.


Washing every three days or so, or going even longer without washing, is recommended by beauty experts as the best course of action.
In between washing days, try using dry shampoo. It’s a powder you sprinkle on your hair and then comb through. Your hair will look clean and smell fresh for the day.
 When you step out of the shower, use a wide-toothed comb to gently comb out the tangles, starting at the tips and moving up toward the roots. When you yank a brush through your hair, you damage your hair from the roots down the shaft and all the way to the tips, causing hair loss, breakage and split ends.


Be especially careful when your hair is wet, since it’s most easily damaged when it’s moist and stretchy.
The thicker and curlier your hair is, the wider the teeth on your comb should be. If you have very kinky or curly hair, don’t comb any more than necessary.
 Heat is damaging to hair, plain and simple. Even if you use a heat protectant, your hair will still be affected when you apply heat from a hair dryer, curling iron or straightening iron. Use heat only when you absolutely have to for a special occasion. Otherwise, let your hair air dry and style it without using heat tools.
 When you’re trying to regrow your hair, trimming it off isn’t going to help the problem. It’s a good idea to trim off your split ends every few months, but don’t go overboard getting brand new styles. Having a stylist cut and style your hair using heat tools and heavy products could make matters worse. It’s better to do your daily massage, use oil treatments and mask, and otherwise try to leave your scalp alone so your hair can start growing in.


When you do get your hair cut, opt out of getting a blowout. See if the stylist will use a wide-toothed comb instead of a brush to comb out your hair after washing.
 Hair extensions are hard on your hair and your scalp. The weight of the extensions pulls on your hair causing breakage, and in the worst cases, bald patches. When you’re trying to grow your hair in, you want to let it be as natural as possible. Hair extensions, chemical straightening, bleaching and dyeing are extremely damaging and will not help your hair grow back in.


Experiment with styles that look great and don’t require handling your hair too harshly.
If you absolutely have to dye your hair, try a natural henna dye, which can actually nourish your hair instead of harming it.
 Although it may be tempting to wear a wig or hairpiece when your hair is thinning, they can actually make hair loss worse by damaging your scalp and interfering with circulation. If you must wear a wig or hairpiece, take these measures to keep possible damage to a minimum:Make sure your wig fits properly. Get fitted by a hair-care professional.
Get a “breathable” wig or hairpiece that allows airflow to the scalp.
Avoid using hairpiece adhesives, or hairpieces made from materials that might irritate your scalp.
Take off your wig or hairpiece as often as possible. Don’t keep it on when you are at home.
 Sleeping on silk minimizes stress on your hair by preventing damaging tangles and frizz and helping your hair retain its natural oils and moisture during the night. Be sure to select a pillowcase made from 100% silk for best results.