 You should see a big slot down there with a part covering it up. Remove this part and enter whatever game you want to play into the slot. Make sure that the pins on the game line up with the pins in the slot. Entering the game into the Nintendo DS the wrong way can damage the system., The game will normally automatically start playing but if it doesn't you can use the stylus to tap the box on the screen that says Nintendo DS Card Slot. Then the game will start playing. Follow the game specific prompts to move forward in the game or read the instruction manual that the game provides if you are having trouble navigating the game. Generally the 'Start', 'Select', 'A', and 'B' buttons will move you forward or back through the menus.


In some games, you can choose which screen to play on. Follow the game specific prompts to do so.
 Each game comes with a specific instruction manual that will tell you how to play. Every game is different, but generally you will move your character around using the arrow keys on the left of your Nintendo DS. The 'X' button is often the action key that will cause things to happen. Read your user manual and learn the specifics., For some games you'll need to practice playing the game a lot and continuing practicing to get good at playing it, sort of like playing an instrument or a sport. However, other games require a large time commitment but not as much practice. For example if you play games where your character 'levels up', you don't have to worry about losing that level if you don't play the game for a while. Plan accordingly., Some games save automatically, and some have different saving mechanisms. For most games, you will press the 'X' button on the Nintendo DS and then choose the Save Game option in the menu that shows up. , This will help you save your battery for the next time you want to play. You can turn the Nintendo DS off by following the same method you used to turn it on. Look on the right side of the console until you find the 'Power' button. Slide this button down to power it off.