 With your fingers, separate out a small section of hair that will be your first curl. Moisten it slightly with the water spray bottle.


It doesn't matter where you begin, but going from your left to right (or vice versa) will make missing strands less likely.
Remember that the thicker the strand, the bulkier each curl will be. Use a lot of hair per roller if you want only a few curls.For thin coils, use sections that are roughly an inch wide. These will be separated into smaller pieces later on., Start with the bottom tip of your hair and wrap it around near one end of the first straw. Roll the straw up your hair until the entire strand is coiled or you run out of space on your straw. Be sure to keep the strand taut on the straw without pulling your hair to the point of discomfort.


For the tightest ringlets, roll your hair flat onto the straw.If you are going for a thinner spiral or wavy look, coil the strand around the straw like a telephone wire. Instead of flattening your hair against the straw, keep the section rounded., Take a bobby pin and clip the straw-wrapped hair strand near its roots. Slide the bobby pin across the center of the straw and through the hair you're securing it to. Later on, you may start to run out of space and may need to clip to a different wrapped strand instead., Secure each new finished strand with a bobby pin. Work your way around your head until all of your hair has been wrapped. Keep the sections at a consistent size and coil pattern.


While this method works with many different ringlet sizes and styles, you want each strand to be as similar as possible. Multiple curl types may be used by an experienced stylist when creating more adventurous hairdos, but it is a difficult look to pull off.
 Depending on your hair type, this may take anywhere from three hours to overnight.


When drying overnight, wrap your hair with a silk scarf or a bathing cap.
If you remove the straws while your hair is still damp, your hair will look more similar to a messy 1980s-style perm. While this is another great look, it's very different from the ringlets you were probably going for. Don't waste all the time you spent rolling and waiting by rushing at the end., Free each curl one at a time. Start by unclipping its bobby pin. Next, simply unwrap your hair by rolling the straw in the opposite direction. Depending on your hair type, just unclipping the bobby pin may cause the strand to unwrap itself., After removing the straws, your hair is likely to be a single layer of a relatively few strands. To add depth and fullness to your hair, use your fingers to carefully separate each large coil into multiple smaller ones.


Keep in mind that the hair texture you begin with will impact your hair's final look. However, it's not always possible to predict how this style will come out in your hair until you try it.
If your hair is naturally straight and doesn't tend to hold shape well, a little hairspray will help your curls to last longer. You must also be careful to avoid brushing out your new curls as you style.