 After you warm up, use a trampoline to practice tucking. Your coach must be there to spot you so you don't hurt yourself. While standing on the trampoline, act as though you are doing a back jump. You will be jumping into the air and landing on your back on the trampoline.While you’re mid-jump on the trampoline, pull your knees against your chest, forming a tuck position. Grab your knees to your chest for second, then kick your legs out to 45 degree angle before landing.
If locating a trampoline isn’t convenient for you, practice back jumps from the side of the pool deck you’re using. Do a back jump tuck directly into the water. Instead of landing flat on your back, try to enter the water smoothly at an angle.
From there, move the jump up to the diving board from the deck. Get comfortable with the jumps and once you’ve completed a set of three to five jumps, try the dive.
 Once you feel comfortable with the tucking motion, you can practice diving into the water. Again, start low, diving off the edge of the pool into the deep end, and eventually work up to the diving board. As always, make sure your coach is there to spot you.


Stand backwards on the edge of the pool or diving board with your heels hanging off the edge. Raise your arms above your head in the diving position — hands together, arms in line with your ears.If you are on the board, start bouncing gently. Let your arms drop behind you, whipping them around in a quick circular motion. As your arms return to their position above your head (imagine your entire body being in the 12 o'clock position on a clock), you’re ready to take your dive.
 Position your body at a slight backwards angle and jump up and away from the board.To help keep your head in a neutral position, try picking a point on the back of the diving board (or pool deck) and focusing on this spot as you dive.
 Without moving the upper part of your body (including your head — don't tilt back and look for the water), bring your knees to your chest (do not bring your chest toward your knees).Grab your shins as your knees come to your chest.
 Extend your legs for the kick-out and entry part of the dive. Make sure your body is tight during entry, especially your stomach muscles.Kick your legs out to a 45 degree angle.
Keeping your legs at this angle, you can now look back toward the water.
Bring your arms back up over your head to resume the flat-hand or diving position, moving them up along the center of your body.
When you enter the water, your body should be almost vertical, positioned at a very slight angle.
 Learn how to control your body during the back dive tuck to have the most successful dive. Practice the back dive tuck on 1-meter and 3-meter diving boards to master the movements.