 Be sure to learn about their history and influences. Here are some genres that have certain bands and artists mislabeled as:,


Screamo - A subgenre of emo music which is influenced a lot by hardcore punk and has screaming in it sometimes. It was started by bands like Heroin, Mohinder and Antiotch Arrow.Bands - I Hate Myself, Saetia, Pg. 99, Heroin, Antiotch Arrow, Raein, The Saddest Landscape, Reversal of Man
Mislabeled as screamo: Screamo has been confused with metal, death metal, metalcore and deathcore or just simply heavy music with screaming or growling. Bands mislabeled as screamo include Cannibal Corpse, Children of Bodom, Lamb of God, Asking Alexandria, Falling in Reverse, Pierce the Veil, Black Veil Brides, I See Stars and Motionless in White.






Emo pop - Was made in the 1990s regeneration of emo. One side of the regeneration was indie-emo bands like Sunny Day Real Estate, Dashboard Confessional and Braid, while the other was the pop punk-emo bands such as The Movielife,The Get Up Kids,and Jimmy Eat World.These bands remade emo to sound less punk and more like indie rock or pop punk. Later emo pop bands were bands like Fall Out Boy. Some emo purists reject emo pop as "real emo", but then call The Get Up Kids emo when they obviously are pop punk which you can hear in songs like "Holiday", "I'm a Loner Dottie, I'm a Rebel" and "Forgive & Forget". The Promise Ring, an indie-emo band, played emo popwith their third album from 1999. A song like "Emergency! Emergency!" shows an example of this.
Emo - A style of post-hardcore which began in the 1980s characterized by its emotional lyrics and punk rock traits with bands like Rites of Spring. In the 1990s, it was remade for a more indie rock (Sunny Day Real Estate, American Football, Dashboard Confessional, Braid) or pop punk (The Get Up Kids, Jimmy Eat World) sound.Today, bands like Black Veil Brides, Suicide Silence, Asking Alexandria, Pierce the Veil, Cannibal Corpse, Hopes Die Last, Motionless in White, etc are being mislabeled as emo by the media.
Emo bands - Thursday, Rites of Spring, The Pine, Saetia, Sunny Day Real Estate, Silverstein

,


Pop punk - A style of music which blended pop rock with punk rock. Some bands who are simply normal punk rock with casual lyrics get mislabeled under this style. Before the genre got big, bands like The Descendants,Screeching Weasel, The Queers, Jawbreaker, Social Distortion, NoFX, Rancid,Buzzcocks, etc got called pop punk for being non-political bands with more casual lyrics.The most famous band in this group's Green Day,which is why they always get compared to bands like New Found Glory, Good Charlotte, etc when they sound nothing alike. However, Green Day has played pop punk before, but their old stuff was punk rock. One band called MxPx gets mislabeled often as pop punk and more skate punk. However, they did go through a major pop punk phase for years from around 1999 to the middle of the 2000s, but then returned to their roots. Their pop punk stuff is their most popular, which is why this might be true. Bands such as Hawthorne Heights, Senses Fail, The Used, Silverstein, etc have been called pop punk by emo purists, even though they sound nothing like pop punk. Bands in pop punk include Sum 41, New Found Glory, Bowling For Soup, McFly, The Ataris, The Get Up Kids, Lit, Blink-182, Jawbreaker, Bodyjar, Bouncing Souls, Millencolin, Good Charlotte and Simple Plan.



Post-hardcore - A style of punk, hardcore and alternative rock. It originally was traced back into the 1980s when hardcore punk bands expanded their sound and made it more experimental. Later bands would sound very alternative rock mixed with punk. Some bands were even influenced by post-punk. Genres like math rock, progressive rock, noise rock, jazz fusion, indie rock, reggae and funk have influenced post-hardcore often.Many people today aren't aware of this, but bands like Hüsker Dü, Fugazi and The Minutemen were the first to be called post-hardcore. In the 1990s, it was bands like Hot Water Music and At the Drive In. Today's bands include Senses Fail, Aiden, The Sleeping and Small Brown Bike. Alesana and Blessthefall's early stuff has been mislabeled as metalcore, but isn't metalcore because it doesn't have any metal traits (screaming doesn't count as metal all the time). Blessthefall did later go metalcore though. But their early work was influenced a lot by emo, indie rock, hardcore and post-hardcore. They were some of the heaviest post-hardcore bands. Today, many bands who are actually metalcore/electronicore/melodic metalcore are being mislabeled as post-hardcore. Bands like Asking Alexandria, Bring Me the Horizon, I See Stars, The Devil Wears Prada, Make Me Famous, Of Mice & Men, etc aren't post-hardcore. Bands like Fugazi, At the Drive In, Gray Matter, Dag Nasty, Glassjaw, Senses Fail, The Sleeping, Glassjaw, The Blood Brothers, etc are post-hardcore.
Hardcore (short for hardcore punk) - A subgenre of punk rock which was fast and had less melodic vocals, including yelling.Because it influenced many -core genres like metalcore, electronicore, deathcore and such, bands under those genres have been mislabeled as hardcore bands. Asking Alexandria, Of Mice & Men and August Burns Red aren't hardcore bands. Many people will say they hate metalcore but then will take off listening to bands like Hatebreed, Converge, Integrity, etc when they are metalcore bands, but these people mislabel them as hardcore bands. It could be because they are influenced by hardcore, their concerts have slam dancing, or because of their look. Although in the 1980s, most hardcore bands opposed the punk fashion (spiky hair, hair dye, black clothes and leather jackets, studs, skinny jeans, etc), they ended up looking like average joes because they dressed how they want instead of simply dressing punk to fit in, which proved that punk wasn't about the look. In the 1990s, when the hardcore subgenre tough guy hardcore (or beatdown), which was more abrasive, heavier, down-tuned and had low-chugging breakdowns, was made with bands like Madball, Death Before Dishonor and Youth for Today, these bands (Agnostic Front even joined them) would play a heavier hardcore style (which was confused with metalcore) and they tended to have a look of buzz cuts, baseball caps, gauges, black hoodies, tattoos and crossing arms in photos. As a contradiction to hardcore's original view on fashion, people made their idea of the hardcore look by wearing black hoodies, baseball caps, crew cuts and tattoos. See metalcore


,






Crunkcore - A subgenre of crunk (Lil Jon, Soulja Boy) and electropop (Ke$ha, Blood on the Dance Floor). It has been stereotyped a lot with having screams used a little bit. Crunkcore songs might have screaming used a little bit in the song.However, not all crunkcore has screaming. For example, Brokencyde's song "My Gurl" and their third album has an absence of screaming, "obSCENE" by Scene Kidz doesn't have screaming and 3OH!3 don't really scream. Crunkcore mixes the genre crunk with electropop music. Brokencyde, 3OH!3, JJ Demon and Dot Dot Curve are examples of crunkcore. However, some groups and artists have been mislabeled as crunkcore. For example, Blood on the Dance Floor has been called crunkcore because some of their songs have a tiny bit of screaming in it. Most of their songs don't have screaming though. But they don't have any crunk characteristics and are actually dance-pop. Some people consider Hollywood Undead crunkcore but they don't have any electropop characteristics and are actually more rap rock. Some people say crunkcore is a rap rock genre, but in reality it isn't and crunkcore music doesn't even have guitars in it.
Scene - Not a genre of music. Just a term for people who listen to stuff like Brokencyde or Jeffree Star and dress like those guys from Brokencyde or The Millionaires. Genres like deathcore have been called scene because of bands like Design the Skyline and We Butter the Bread With Butter, but deathcore bands aren't scene and bands like Emmure, Despised Icon, Annotations of an Autopsy, All Shall Perish and Whitechapel are proof. Death metal fuses death metal with metalcore and metalcore fuses metal with hardcore punk. Punk and metal have nothing to do with scene and neither does rock music. "Scene" music would be Owl City, 3OH!3 or Brokencyde.



Glam metal/hair metal - a subgenre of either hard rock or heavy metal which had catchy, repetitive choruses, upbeat pop melodies, hard rock or heavy metal riffs and solos and lyrics typically about love, lust or anything used in pop lyrics. Because some bands would wear bright makeup, red or pink lipstick, big, long hair and stuff, glam metal was confused consistently as a fashion and bands would sometimes be mislabeled glam metal for their look.Bands like Mötley Crüe, Poison, Dokken, Faster Pussycat, Ratt and Quiet Riot are glam metal bands. Here are some bands confused as glam metal:
Guns 'N Roses - Are actually more of hard rock
KISS - They only were glam metal from 1983-1989, their other stuff is more of shock rock.
Skid Row - Only played glam metal on their self-titled debut, all subsequent material is just heavy metal.
Twisted Sister - Are obviously more of just metal. They only are called glam metal for their look, although they don't wear makeup anymore. However, their look is actually more shock rock than glam, and their music doesn't sound much like glam metal at all. Here are some reasons: They aren't all poppy and upbeat like glam metal is, they sound more like artists like Judas Priest, Ozzy Osbourne and Motörhead, they don't have any lyrics about love, lust, etc and have lyrics that are the opposite of friendly or romantic such as rebellion, rock n roll and violence.Not only that, even Metallica were always fans of Twisted Sister, and even Overkill and Anthrax like Twisted Sister and covered the band's music. Even on Metal Archives, they don't call Twisted Sister glam metal. Dee Snider even spoke against the thing in the 1980s where glam metal bands would constantly do ballads and accused them of selling out. If you listen to songs like "You Can't Stop Rock 'N Roll", "Under the Blade" and "Burn in Hell", they don't sound anything like bands like Poison or Warrant. They also would rather be called "Hid-metal" than glam metal, according to Dee Snider. Whitesnake - They were only glam metal on their two late 80s albums, all other material is hard rock.
Nu metal - A style of rock music which mixed groove metal/alternative metal with hip-hop and had down-tuned guitars and sometimes influences from 1990s alternative and grunge. Bands would have hip-hop rhythms, down-tuned guitars, heavy riffs and vocals ranging from rapping, yelling, growls and singing.Bands like Korn, Slipknot (old stuff), Coal Chamber, Limp Bizkit, Deftones (early work), OTEP and Papa Roach and Linkin Park are nu metal bands. Bands like System of a Down, Nothingface, etc get called nu metal but aren't because they have no hip-hop traits and are more alternative metal. Nu metal isn't to be confused with rap metal, which is a combination of rap and traditional heavy metal which doesn't have down-tuned guitars a lot in it. Not all nu metal has rapping though. Some people argue the Deftones aren't nu metal. However, their early work is nu metal because you can obviously tell if you listen to songs like Engine No. 9 and 7 Words.
Alternative metal - For some reason, some bands such as Avenged Sevenfold, Atreyu, Escape the Fate, etc have been called alternative metal. But in reality, bands like Tool, Nothingface, Mudvayne, Helmet, Drowning Pool, Godsmack, Fear Disorder, Alice in Chains, etc are alternative metal.
Metalcore - Many people aren't aware of this, but metalcore wasn't always about doing clean vocals then screams and growls, because even metal bands have done this. Cradle of Filth's "Lilith Immaculate", Nothingface, Anaal Nathrakh's "Paragon Pariah", and Testament's recent stuff have done this type of vocal style. Metalcore has, believe it or not, been around since the early 1990s and 1989. Because bands like Integrity, Earth Crisis and Converge mixed metal with the tough guy hardcore style, they were called metalcore bands first. Tough guy hardcore is hardcore punk only much more abrasive and heavier with down-tuned guitars and some slow passages or breakdowns. It's alike to traditional metalcore, but metalcore is heavier and has metal characteristics. Metalcore has been shortened for metallic hardcore with bands like Hatebreed, Converge, Earth Crisis and Shai Hulud. Later bands such as Killswitch Engage, Avenged Sevenfold, As I Lay Dying, changed metalcore and because they were the most famous of metalcore, people haven't been aware of what metalcore originally was.Many people might call bands who do clean singing then screams and growls "metalcore" when they aren't. Here are some bands who have been mislabeled as metalcore by at least a few people. Some of these bands are extremely far from metalcore:

Senses Fail - Emo (There obviously is no way that these guys are metalcore in any way. It would be making you wonder how they got called metalcore.)
Alesana - Post-hardcore (Not that Fugazi or At the Drive In post-hardcore. These guys don't have any metal characteristics. They are influenced by hardcore, emo, screamo indie and post-hardcore. They may have metal influences, but that doesn't make them metalcore.)
From First to Last - emo (Not even close to metalcore)
Five Finger Death Punch - Groove metal
In Flames - Melodic death metal/Swedish metal



