 Annoyed with a family of raccoons feasting on your garbage? Instead of laying down dangerous poison or a trap, use a natural way to keep them away.


Sprinkle Epsom salt on the garbage can lid at night. For added effect, encircle the can with salt--the taste of salt will send raccoons looking for somewhere else to dine.
Consider lining the area where you keep your garbage cans with Epsom salt on an ongoing basis. Eventually the woodland creatures will get the message that dining at your house is off limits.
 Especially during the beginning of the season, when your grass is returning from its winter slumber, add Epsom salt to your watering cycle to return it to its original green, lush state.


Add 2 tablespoons to every gallon of water used to water your lawn. If you use an underground watering system, consider lightly sprinkling it directly on the grass during the watering cycle and allow it to absorb with the groundwater.
 If you are having trouble keep white or light floor tiles looking their best, add Epsom salt to regular dish soap for the cleanest clean.


Combine ½ cup of Epsom salt to a gallon of warm sudsy water. Add more salt if your floor tiles are especially dirty.
Using a scrub brush, apply the mixture to your tile and scrub well. Pay close attention to the grout too--you may need to add a little ammonia to the mixture if you still have trouble getting grout clean.
Rinse with clean water. Buff floors with a clean towel to reveal a new, bright floor.
 Looking for the richest, most delicious fruits and vegetables this season? Add Epsom salt to your regular watering routine to not only boost flavor, but also color and even size.


Mix 1 tbsp. of Epsom salt to a gallon of water and then sprinkle over plants. Be sure you soak each plant well with the mixture.
Add plant food immediately following the water cycle to aid in plant nutrient ingestion. Because Epsom salt boosts magnesium levels in plants it strengthens its ability to absorb nutrients, making fertilization following the water cycle imperative.

