 Often, in combat situations, you won't have the luxury of being able to throw grenades from the standing position. For instance, if you're pinned down behind cover by enemy fire, you won't want to expose your upper body by standing up to throw. Luckily, it's also possible to throw grenades from positions that minimize your exposure to the enemy.


To throw a grenade from a kneeling position, start by getting in the proper stance. Bend your knees to lower yourself near to the ground, then turn your body ninety degrees away from the direction you intend to throw so that your throwing shoulder is facing away from your target. It's hard to get the same sort of throwing power in the kneeling position that you'd get while standing, so turning to side is a smart choice because it allows you to throw across your body, maximizing your power.
 Bend your non-throwing leg and press it into the ground in front of you so that your knee is pointing toward your target. At the same time, stretch your throwing leg back behind you so that the side of your boot makes contact with the ground. Keep your throwing leg straight and locked for maximum stability.Keep in mind that the kneeling stance you use to throw grenades is not the same as the typical kneeling stance you may use in ordinary noncombat situations (like when you need to pick something up off the floor). This modified stance gives added stability and support while throwing that you can't get by simply lowering one knee to the floor directly beneath you and bending the other in front of you.
 Arm the grenade against your chest by pulling the pin and holding down the lever. As you cock your throwing arm back, stretch your other arm toward your target with your fingers extended and your thumb against the side of your hand. Keep your non-throwing arm at a slightly raised angle (about 45o). If you're positioning your arm correctly, you should look somewhat like you're flexing like a bodybuilder.


As mentioned above, the kneeling stance doesn't have as much throwing power as the standing stance. Extending your non-throwing arm in this way allows you to gain extra leverage in your follow-through, slightly increasing your throwing force.
 Launch the grenade over your head, bringing your arm past your ear and twisting at the hips as you throw. For added power, push off with your throwing leg, which should still be firmly planted against the ground behind you.


Don't forget to take cover! Get as low as possible behind the sturdiest cover available. As always, if no cover is available, press yourself prone against the ground and face the direction of the blast.

