 "Hunger overcomes Curiosity". A very familiar and popular quote for every wild animal. So try luring the little guy with some smelling food. Gerbers, Whiskas, Friskies, Fancy Feast or other strong smelling cat food will do. Or simply a piece of bread. Call the kitten with hissing sounds, meows, or purrs or whatever you want that can call it's attention. And place the food in front of you, for now, you may want to leave at a vantage point where you can see him but he can't see you. Repeat this for several days and weeks and he might then just eat it even if you're there. Or rather come to you even if you haven't given his food yet. Remember, cats are good time-keepers. They know when they should be fed, if you forget a feeding time, he'll think of you as someone who can't be trusted. And he won't show up for long.;
, When he's used to his "eating time" try the next step of being there, while he's eating. At first he might be skittish, double-thinking on eating, or running. But then again, "Hunger overcomes Curiosity" so he'll stop worrying about you and will start eating. After many times of successful feeding times. It's time for step 3.
, You may have noticed that he's hanging out at your place or with you a lot even if it's not feeding time. Well, that's step 2 for gaining his trust and step 1 for bonding time. Now without food, pet him again, you should be able to pet him without fear or skittish movements. But if you're still unsure, try bringing along a bowl of cat food to distract him while you practice handling him.
 After a month or so of doing this, your feral kitten may have start to actually like you. The next step is to be able to pet his back-of-the-ear area (since cats tend to love that part), and at the base of his tail. Since that's the area where they "mark" you with their scent making you his territory.
 Successful petting leads to successful grooming. It may look a little too early to groom a feral kitten but a brush is all you need, try showing him a brush (he should be happy to play with you by now) at first he'll try to bite it, or bat at it, or even attack as if it were prey, thus, you need two brushes. One for batting, and one for grooming. While he's busy swatting at the other brush, you comb him with the other one, he'll just think you're petting him which will help strengthen your bond.
 During rains and scary moments when nature strikes, make sure you're there for him. Snuggle him and cuddle him every moment, animals are the most sensitive to danger. So he can feel things you can't.
 Play time is a must for every kitten. A piece of string, a shiny aluminum ball, a catnip filled bag or just an ordinary shoe box will keep your kitten busy for hours on end. But for an interactive game, a fishing rod tied with feathers, a string or a stick is best.

