 Maybe even accessories if your school will allow. Pluck your eyebrows into a soft arch.;
, No one wants to get near a girl that smells bad. Make sure to scrub everywhere including your feet, as your heels can get very dry as well as the rest of your skin. Apply a face mask on your face in the shower. If you like, you can even give yourself a mini-facial with fruit each week.
 At least brush them twice a day. Make sure to floss at least once a day, and try to brush your teeth after meals. Remember to brush your tongue, bad breath comes from the left over residue on your tongue (plaque), so make sure you brush that as well. Consider using the back of an old toothbrush, or buy a tongue scraper.
 Try to make your eyes pop or stand out, and try keeping your teeth healthy and fresh. Some people do not consider "ladylike" for a girl to have unclean teeth, so you can consider buying teeth whiteners.
 Be careful, too much brushing causes flat and dull hair. A few strokes to get out your tangles and style it will make your hair beautiful! Using cold water when you rinse your hair will help it to shine. You'll look like your hair is flowing when you walk. Do not use electronic hair machines like blow dryers and curling irons too often or they will dull your hair. Let your hair air-dry. Straightened hair is very girly and cute. Hair accessories are hot. Long hair is ideal, and get highlights if you wish.
 Try different hairstyles each day. Make sure you keep your hands clean or you could get sick. Express yourself and let out your true feelings. Don't try to be someone you're not. Respect your parents or your guardian. Be kind.
 Pink is a typical girl colour, but don't shy away from blacks and blues, as they can also be worn very cute! You might not want to go for an extreme sparkly butterfly shirt, as those might not be right for you. You should wear clothes that fit you well (mini skirts, skinny jeans, sundresses, shark bite tees, etc.) Good stores are Hollister, Torrid, Abercrombie, Justice, H&M, Cotton On, and Forever 21, and for make-up/accessories, Claire's is good as well as Barry M, Charming CHARLIES, and Mac. Remember, you don't have to be all name-brand! Don't be ashamed to get cute things from Target or Salvation Army or get drugstore makeup.
 Nail polish can be extremely feminine and chic at the same time, and it comes in tonnes of different colours. Pink, sparkly colours, and red are good, girly colours. Light browns and brights also are very chic!

, Be confident, be a strong woman, be you. Don't be afraid to get caught in the rain or eat a chocolate bar every once in a while, just try to be yourself and show off your potential and who you really are! And don't forget to wear pink and another dark colour with it.
 Big or small they can always carry your makeup, hairbrush, and any other stuff you need to look amazing.
 Wear a minimal, cute-looking amount. Eyeshadow is very girly, so wear a sparkly eyeshadow. Curl your eyelashes and apply mascara and lip gloss. Eyeliner is cute too.
 The right role models make you feel confident and beautiful! No ditzy celebrities too focused on their look to inspire anyone.
 Smells and scents are VERY important! Use a pretty, girly scented body butter that looks cute as well as the smell. The brands Strawberries and Milkshake are good ones. You'll be glowing with girlishness! Use a cute bath sponge and take care of yourself. Have very good hygiene.
, Girly girls are always kind and respectful.

