 The holidays are stressful. Whether you’re worried about finances or anxious about having all your loved ones together under one roof, this time of year can be associated with anxiety and depression.Counteract the negative aspects of the holiday season by starting a deep breathing practice. Do this regularly to ward off anxiety. You can even practice deep breathing when you don't feel anxious.


Breathing deeply kicks on the body’s natural stress response, helping you slow your heart rate and ease tension. Try breathing in through your nose for about 4 counts. Hold the breath. Then, release the breath from your mouth slowly for 8 counts. Repeat as needed.
 If worries are making the holidays less than merry for you, take a meditation break. People are often intimidated by meditation, but it’s a very simple technique with amazing benefits. Fight illness, eliminate negative thoughts and emotions, improve self-awareness, and reduce stress—all while taking a moment to sit in silence.One practical method is mantra meditation. Sit comfortably in a quiet place. Close your eyes. Select a phrase, such as “I am the picture of calm” and repeat it over and over in your mind. Take deep, cleansing breaths. When distracting thoughts enter your mind, don’t judge yourself. Simply let them come and go as you repeat your mantra and breathe gently. Try this exercise for about 10 minutes and add more time as you get accustomed to the practice.
You can also look into local meditation classes to help you destress.
 The holiday season is colder, which can make it less likely that you want to lace up those running shoes. However, getting exercise should be a priority during this time of year, and always. Do something good for yourself by stealing away just 30 minutes on most days of the week for physical activity.


Exercise can be done alone or in a group. And, it doesn’t have to be limited to gym activities. Go for a hike. Take the kids sledding. Go window shopping with your best pal., Your holiday schedule may be filled to the brim, but a quick and easy way to take time for yourself is by ensuring that you eat a solid breakfast each day. When you’re busy or stressed, you’re more likely to reach for convenience foods that aren’t good for the body. Or, you might skip breakfast altogether.


Prep your meals the night before as you are getting ready for bed. Set aside filling and healthy options such as toast and peanut butter, fruit and yogurt, or oatmeal. Try to eat at home, so you know you’re making healthy choices., Be sure not to overindulge on alcohol over the holidays. Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant and it can make you feel depressed if you drink too much of it for long periods of time. Opt for non-alcoholic drinks most days and if you do drink, keep it to one or two drinks maximum.