 The bottom portion of the moka pot is the water tank. Unscrew it from the top portion, and add 2 cups (474 ml) of fresh, cold water to it.Most moka pots have a fill lines that indicate how much water to add based on how much espresso you want to make. Consult the instruction manual for your pot to see if there are guidelines if you want to adjust the amount.;
, Place the filter portion of the pot over the water tank. Fill the filter with 2 ½ tablespoons (16 g) of espresso grind ground coffee. Don't press the coffee down, but you can smooth it with a spoon to ensure that none of the grounds spill out of the filter.You can use pre-ground coffee or grind your own beans, depending on your preference.
Depending on the coffee that you use, you may want to adjust the amount of grounds that you use. Experiment to determine the best amount for the flavor that you like.
 Once you've added the ground coffee, place the top on the pot. Set it on your stove, and turn the burner to high. The coffee will need to brew for 5 to 10 minutes -- you'll know that it's finished when the pot makes a loud gurgling sound.If you have a gas stove, you may not need to use high heat. Experiment with the settings to determine what works best.
If you have an induction stove, you'll need a specialty moka pot.
 While your coffee is brewing, add ½ cup (118 ml) of skim milk to a frothing pitcher. Heat the pitcher on the stove on medium for 3 to 5 minutes to steam it.Use an instant read thermometer to monitor the temperature of the milk so you know when to froth it. It should be between 130 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 66 degrees Celsius).
Skim milk is the best option if you want a skinny latte. However, 1% or 2% milk can also work. Just be aware that the latte will just have more fat and calories.
You can use non-dairy milk for the latte as well.
 When the milk is warm enough, submerge the whisk portion of a frothing wand completely in the pitcher. Turn it on low and gently move it around the milk, keeping it fully submerged. After 5 to 10 seconds, increase the speed to high and move the wand up so it's just beneath the surface of the milk to create more foam.Foam made this way tends to dissipate as you drink your latte, so if you want it to last, make a little more than you'll think you need.
 Once the espresso is finished brewing, pour it into a large coffee up. Slowly add the milk to the top of it. Use a spoon to keep the foam from flowing into the cup with the milk.You can add as much steamed milk to the espresso as you like. You may need to experiment to see how much provides the best flavor for your latte.
 When the espresso and steamed milk are mixed, use the spoon to gently place some of the foamed milk on top. Handle the foam gently because it can easily fall apart.You can add as much milk to the espresso as you’d like. However, if your drink has a greater percentage of foamed milk to steamed milk, it is technically a cappuccino, not a latte.

