 An autism diagnosis may be confusing or frightening to them, especially if the parents did not respond well to it. Make yourself available to listen to the child's concerns, and reassure them that they are not broken or defective, just different.Show genuine interest in the child's needs, and treat them as natural and reasonable.
Keep in mind that many autistic people—both children and adults—are taunted, or told that their special needs make them a burden. This leads them to believe that they are inferior, or even that they should not exist at all.
By showing respect and flexibility, you demonstrate that they are fundamentally okay, and that not all non-autistic people will bully them.
If they seem upset, ask "Is something wrong? Is there something I can do to make this less uncomfortable for you?"

, An autistic child has the right and ability to say "no," and may have legitimate reasons to refuse something. You won't know unless you ask. Meet them at their level and try to understand their concerns.The child may find something overwhelming or confusing, and need time to recharge. After any stressful experience, give them as much time as they need to recover.
Don't push the child to do anything that they find painful or unpleasant. Autism causes developmental delays, so patience is the key.
If the child is old enough, you can ask directly how you can accommodate their needs. Listen to their response and try to accommodate as best you can. This teaches the child self advocacy, which is a very important skill.
 Remember the saying that if you've met one autistic child, you've met one autistic child. The autistic spectrum is broad, so you shouldn't assume that this particular child will have problems with something just because you've read that it's difficult for autistic people generally.Avoid making assumptions based on stereotypes. Many stereotypes about autistic people are misleading or downright incorrect.
The only thing you should assume is that the child is intelligent and capable. A little patience and understanding can go a long way in helping the child to succeed.
 Many basic chores, such as cleaning and hygiene, may be confusing or overwhelming to an autistic child. Autistic children often have delays in developing fine motor skills, and have poor executive function.If you are in the position to help the family out with chores, you may have the opportunity to assist the child. Some things you can suggest to the child’s parents include:


Working together with the child, breaking a chore down into smaller, simple steps. Treat the whole thing like a game to get the child involved.
Letting the child do smaller tasks. For example, if you're doing laundry, the child can sort the clothes for you as you fold them. Breaking down chores like this allows the child to become familiar with the steps involved, and makes the task as a whole seem less monumental.
Doing these household chores with the autistic child. This may help to lighten the load for his or her parents.
 Autistic children are at risk for developing low self-esteem and viewing themselves as burdensome, worthless, or lacking any redeeming qualities.Notice and reframe any negative self-talk. For example, if the child says "Mom would be happier if she didn't have to deal with me," you could say "Your mom loves you very much, and I can tell how proud she is that you're such a helpful person and hard worker. Both your brothers struggle sometimes too, but that doesn't make you or them worth any less. Your mom would cry and be really sad if she lost you."
Offer plenty of praise. Autistic children are often reminded of all the things they can't do, so it helps to remind them of the things they do well.Model good self esteem. For example, if the child sees you calling yourself fat, stupid, or useless, the child might do the same. Don't say anything about yourself that you wouldn't want the child to start saying about themselves.
 The world can feel strange and overwhelming to an autistic child, particularly if they have significant sensory issues. Making things friendlier will mean a lot to the child, and make it easier on the parents.Teach the child to say "I need quiet time," and immediately honor that request.
If the child spends time in your home, ask the parents what sensory stimuli upset the child, and keep those things out of your house. For example, the child may have a reaction to fluorescent lights, or to strong cooking smells.
Encourage the parents to provide materials for stimming, such as exercise balls instead of chairs, fidget toys, beanbags, stress balls, or whatever the child likes.
Encourage the child’s parents to allow the child to use whatever coping mechanisms they need, regardless of how strange or "abnormal" they may appear to others. Make your home a safe, judgement-free zone if the child spends time in your home.
Teach the child that it's okay to be different – there's no need to fix what isn't broken to begin with. The child will be more comfortable if they feel they can be themselves around you.
If they like to rock or flap their arms when they're pondering something, let them know that behavior is acceptable. Encourage the child’s parents to do this as well.
 Physical exercise is important for all children. For autistic children, physical activity can reduce stress, improve coordination, and help emotional regulation. If the child is prone to fidgeting that interferes with their ability to concentrate, physical activity can help decrease this.Autistic children enjoy the same activities that other children do. You can take the child for a walk, go play in the park, play catch in the yard, or dance to music.
If you have children as well, you may want to arrange a play date with your children and the autistic child. Explain autism to your children beforehand, and teach them to be patient and respectful of the child.
Encourage the child’s parents to keep group gatherings small and low-key, and give the child plenty of opportunities to take a break if they need it.
 A meltdown can be overwhelming or even frightening for an autistic child. Reduce stimuli and remove the child from any stressful situation.Some other suggestions you might make to the child’s parents or caregivers include:


Teaching the child some basic self-calming skills, such as deep breathing or counting to ten.
Keeping in mind that autistic children may need extra help to learn how to express anger or frustration in appropriate ways. Teaching them appropriate techniques can help them handle meltdowns better, as well as identify the signs that they are overstimulated and need to take a break.
Showing compassion. It's typically better to enable a tantrum than to brush off a fear-driven meltdown. It's important that the child feels adults will help them when they're hurting.
 An autistic child will not understand "do as I say, not as I do." It's important for parents and caregiver to provide a positive role model that the child can emulate in social situations. If the child sees you listening patiently and treating others with respect, they will start to do the same.Autistic children may struggle especially with self-control, self-calming, and appropriate social interaction. One way for parents and caregivers to help this is to explain what they are doing out loud.
For example, you might encourage parents and caregivers to say, "I'm feeling a little frustrated right now, so I'm going to remove myself from the situation. I'm going outside to take a few deep breaths. Then I'll come right back inside."
Explaining behavior recognizes that many autistic children will not pick up on the meaning of certain gestures, or why you acted in a certain way. You have to tell them.
Try to encourage the child’s parents or caregivers to help the child create rules to order their understanding of a social situation. For example, you might encourage parents or caregivers to say, "When I say hello, you must extend your hand and say 'Hi, how are you doing?' Then I will shake your hand and answer your question."
Encourage parents and caregivers to read tips from autistic writers. There are many autistic bloggers on the internet. Through their blogs, they share tips for interacting with autistic people and helping autistic children succeed.
 Special interests can act as a coping mechanism during stress, and may develop into a successful career as an adult. Spend time talking with them about their passions, and if you give them birthday presents, try to pick ones related to their interests. This can improve their self-esteem, as well as their relationship with you.An autistic child's special interests are very important to them. You can use these special interests to teach the child communication and other social skills.
Talking about a child's special interests also teaches them how to make friends and interact with other people.
Expressing interest in the child's special interests is an important way to reach out and connect with them.
For example, if the child has a special interest in trains, ask them what new information about trains they've learned that they'd like to share with you. Ask questions and stay engaged in what the child is saying.

