 Many times, people pick up different food packages due to the information that is advertised on front of the box or package. This marketing or "front-of-pack" labeling can provide information to the types of ingredients or the nutritive value of foods.


One common sugar related claim you'll see on boxes and packages is "sugar-free", "zero sugar" or "sugarless". All of these claims have identical meanings: there is 0.5 g or less of sugar in each serving of the food.If you're looking for foods with absolutely no sugar, choose foods with these claims on the front.
Another common sugar claim is "no added sugar." This means that no additional sugars have been added to the product during processing; however, the product contains a natural source of sugar."No added sugar" can be used as a marketing trick since the food may not be actually low in total sugar, since they may contain a lot of sugar naturally.
Another term you may see is "unsweetened." This claim can fall into either of the above categories. For example, unsweetened tea doesn't have any added sugar or artificial sweeteners; however, unsweetened applesauce has no added sugar, but does contain natural sugar.;
, Regardless of what the package says on the front, it's always important review and verify the claims by looking at the nutrition fact panel and ingredient list. This will provide you the real story.


The first place you should look is the "total sugar" on the nutrition fact panel. This is listed under the heading "total carbohydrates" on the label.
The amount of sugar listed here is the total amount of sugar in one serving of the food. It will include both added sugars and natural sugars.If you're avoiding added sugars specifically, you'll need to review the ingredient list since the nutrition fact panel doesn't differentiate between the types of sugar.
When you're reading the ingredient label, note that the first listed ingredient is the one in the highest amount while the last ingredient is found in the smallest amount.
 Food manufacturers have gotten very clever about putting a variety of sweeteners in foods — there are over 60 different names for sugar. There are new names, confusing names and ones that you may have never heard of; however, they're all considered added sugars.


Look beyond your current knowledge of added sugars. There are many more names for sugar besides the common versions like: sugar, brown sugar, corn syrup or high fructose corn syrup.
Other names for added sweeteners include: anhydrous dextrose, confectioners sugar, corn syrup solids, dextrose, fructose, honey, molasses, agave syrup, maple syrup, invert sugar, maltose, malt syrup, brown rice syrup, cane juice, sugar in the raw, nectars, sucrose, fruit juices, fruit concentrate, and many more.
If you see any of these names in your ingredient list, you'll know there is a source of added sugar in your food.
 Although you may only be avoiding added sugars that add calories to foods, note that many food companies are also adding artificial sweeteners. If you're not interested in any added sugars or highly processed artificial sweeteners, you'll need to avoid foods that are sweet but labeled as sugar-free.


To provide consumers with lower calorie, reduced sugar or sugar-free products, food companies are using artificial sweeteners and/or sugar alcohols. These provide sweetness to foods without adding calories.Artificial sweeteners will also be listed in the ingredient label. These may include: acesulfame potassium, aspartame, neotame, saccharin, sucralose or stevia.
Foods typically containing artificial sweeteners include: baked goods, sodas, drink mixes, canned fruit, jams and jellies, dairy products, candy and puddings.Research has shown that small quantities of artificial sugars present no risk to those who consume them., Like artificial sweeteners, sugar alcohols are used to sweeten foods without adding too many calories.


Unlike artificial sweeteners, sugar alcohols generally do have a calorie value associated with them; however, it's minimal.Sugar alcohols are found frequently in sugar-free gums, candies or mints. In addition, they can be found in: ice creams, cookies or sugar-free puddings.
Sugar alcohols included may be: erythritol, isomalt, Lactitol, maltitol, mannitol, sorbitol, or xylitol.
Be aware the sugar alcohols can have a laxative effect, especially when consumed in larger quantities. If you're noticing this effect, you may want to limit how many items with sugar alcohols you ingest., An easy way to avoid added sugars and even artificial sweeteners is by avoiding or limiting sweet treats.


Foods like candy, cookies, cakes, pies, ice cream and breakfast pastries all contain added sugars. In addition to having added sugars, these foods are also typically high in calories and fat.
If you're craving a sweet treat, keep it to a small portion and only have these foods every once in awhile — not every day.
In addition, try substituting more nutritious foods that are naturally sweet for these types of processed sweets. For example, have a small bowl of fruit or an individual yogurt.
You can also try making some of your favorite sweet treats at home from scratch. You can control how much sugar is used and what types of sugar you use. For example, bake cookies, muffins, cupcakes or pies from scratch instead of buying a store bought version.
 Another big source of added sugars in many people's diet is from sweetened beverages.


Sugary beverages are not only high in sugar, but can be dangerous to your overall health. Sweetened beverages don't fill you up and people frequently don't count them in their total calorie intake for the day.You may end up eating more food, more calories and more sugar by drinking sweetened or sugary beverages on a regular basis.
Typical sweetened beverages include: sodas, coffee drinks, smoothies, sports drinks, energy drinks, fruit juices and fruit juice cocktail, yogurt drinks and sweet tea.
Replace these drinks for diet versions, sugar-free options or unsweetened options. Try: water, sugar-free flavored water, sparkling water and unsweetened decaf coffee and iced tea.
 You may be surprised that outside the typical sweet treats and sweetened beverages there are other sneaky foods that you'll find a significant amount of added sugars.


Many condiments have a significant amount of added sugar. It's used either to sweetened the item or to replace ingredients that are removed to make condiments "low-fat" or "low-calorie."
Be aware of added sugars in these common condiments: tomato sauce, salsa, fat-free salad dressings, barbecue sauce,

, Most people know that sweetened beverages are higher in calories and aren't the best choice; however, there are some specific beverages that are overly high in added sugars and should be limited or avoided if you're minimizing added sugars in your diet. Be aware of:


Coffee drinks like: blended drinks or coffee milkshakes, coffees with whipped cream or sweetened drizzles.
Smoothie drinks like: Naked protein smoothies, smoothies made at fast food restaurants and even those that are made at "health food" stores.
Juice drinks like: Naked juices, Odwalla juices or juices like Capri Sun.
"All natural sodas" like: Pepsi natural and Coke Life.
 Outside the obvious pancakes and syrup, there are a variety of other foods that are also high in added sugars. Avoid things like:


Sugary cereals like: Fruit Loops, Cocoa Krispies, Apple Cinnamon Cheerios, Cap'n Crunch, etc.
Pastries like: muffins (even "healthier" muffins like bran muffins), banana bread or pumpkin bread.
 Like condiments, you may be surprised to find a good amount of added sugars in foods you may think of as "healthy" or "nutritious."


The added sugars in some of these foods may be in smaller amounts and they might be more natural sources of added sugars, however they still count as added sugar in your diet.
Foods like smoothies, yogurt, breakfast cereals, multigrain crackers and bread, canned soups, granola bars and dried fruit can have added sugars.
Make sure to read the labels, even on these seemingly healthy foods, to make sure you're not consuming added sugars.

