 In some cases, you may not be able to get different colors or flavors to hide the appearance or smell of the medication. If this is the case, you can aim medication away from your child’s taste buds so that the medication goes down easier.Recognize that the taste buds are concentrated on the front and center of the tongue. Place the medication towards the back of your toddler’s tongue, but not so far back that she chokes. You can also drop the medication between your child’s rear gum and the inside of the cheek, which can help the medication glide down the back of throat. This can minimize the bad taste of the medication.Consider giving your toddler an ice chip on which to suck before she takes the medication. It can help numb the taste buds so the medication goes down more smoothly. Remember to not give larger pieces of ice or entire ice cubes, which are a choking hazard., Having a fun diversion such as playing with stuffed toys, singing a favorite song, saying a rhyme, or watching TV can also help medicine go down more quickly and smoothly. This can help ease your toddler’s feelings discomfort and being out of control.Be honest with your child that he has to take medication and you know it doesn't taste good. Suggest doing something your child likes while you give the medication. Allow your toddler to choose what that is. Having something the child likes to do combined with giving him choice may be the optimal combination to get the medicine down.
Preface with something like the following example: “Hi Alla! It’s time to take your meds and I know you think it’s icky. Should we sing a song or watch your favorite DVD while you take it?”

, You can avoid any conversation about medication altogether by sneakily putting your child’s medication in a food; however, you need to check with your child’s doctor or pharmacist before doing this because some meds cannot be taken during meals or with particular foods.Mix the medication with a small amount of something tasty like chocolate syrup, pudding, applesauce, yogurt or ice cream. You can also put a small amount of the medication on a spoon with any of these and give your child a spoonful until the entire dose is gone.
Avoid putting the medication in large quantities of food so that your child doesn't need to eat much to get the full dose. A sick child won't have much of an appetite and may not want to eat an entire cup of applesauce or pudding.
Alternate between a small dose of medicine and something your child likes to eat or drink, such as a blueberry or sip of juice.
Grind down any tablets completely and sprinkle them in your child’s food so that she doesn’t choke.
 In many cases, you can also add your child’s medication to a drink he likes. As with food, check with the pediatrician or pharmacist to make sure that the medication can be mixed with a beverage.Make sure to fully grind down any pills to prevent choking. Avoid mixing the medication with a full bottle or large cup of liquid to ensure your child gets the full dose before he doesn’t want any more.
Try giving your child a spoonful of medication followed by a sip of a favorite juice or drink.

