 Many people find it most satisfying and effective to take stand alongside other people who feel the same way they do about an injustice. If you're interested in doing this, go online and research groups in your area that might be suitable.There may be several groups, and you can choose the one that you like best. For example, if you think homelessness is unjust, you may find that there are both secular and church-based groups working to help the homeless in your community. Depending on your religious beliefs, you can choose the group you like best.
On the other hand, you may find there isn't a group in your area dedicated to standing up to the injustice you are concerned about. If this is the case, you might want to consider starting your own group. There might be people you know who would be willing to join as you first get started, and you can build the group from there.
 After you find a group you think you might be interested in working with, find out when they meet and go to a meeting. This is a great way to learn more about the group and the people in it.


Going to a meeting will give you a better sense of whether this group is right for you and if you want to be involved in the types of work they do to combat injustice.
It's also a great way to meet people who feel the same way you do about the issue, which can help you feel more inspired to take action yourself., Depending on the specific injustice you are interested in standing up against, some groups will organize large public events to speak out. Attending one of these can be a great way to take a public stand, and can be a lot of fun, too.


Many organizations will set up marches or rallies and encourage the public to join in. This can be powerful way of attracting attention to an injustice and putting pressure on the government or businesses to do something about it.Many protests are entirely peaceful and legal. Some groups, however, will engage in illegal actions to promote what they see as a more important form of justice. Some people will get themselves arrested in non-violent civil disobedience, for example, sitting down in an intersection and refusing to leave as a means of calling attention to an injustice.Some will even destroy property at protests.
Think carefully about what types of actions you are comfortable with. Are you willing to be arrested for your beliefs? Are you compelled enough by some injustice that you think more militant actions are appropriate? This decision is a personal one, but take some time to consider the consequences of any action you take before breaking the law.
 It may not be as exciting as a protest, but most organizations taking stands against injustice need people to work on other tasks as well. Volunteer to do anything you feel comfortable doing to contribute to the group's efforts.


This could include any number of activities, from collecting signatures for a petition to raising money, from stuffing envelopes to making phone calls, or even just helping set up and put away chairs before and after meetings.Sometimes, this work might not feel much like you're taking a big stand, but by contributing to an organization that is doing important work to remedy an injustice, you are making a difference.

