 The best pan for making fried eggs is a heavy iron cast skillet.






;
, You'll need just enough to coat the pan––this is one of the secrets to getting the yolks to cook just right.









Bacon fat is considered to make especially good fried eggs.
 One tip to ensure perfectly fried eggs is to wait for the whites to set and the edges of the egg to be cooked. To make this happen, add 1/2 a teaspoon of water per egg before adding the eggs.If a drop of water immediately sizzles and evaporates on the pan, it's hot enough to hold the eggs in the right form when you add them.









Don't wait too long before adding the eggs. If the pan gets too hot, the edges of the eggs will burn before the whites are finished cooking.
 Hold it over the frying pan as you break it, and let it gently drop into the hot fat. Immediately lower the heat and do the remaining cooking over low heat.









If you have trouble cracking eggs so that none of the shell gets in it, crack each one into a bowl, check for shell fragments, then pour into the pan, one egg at a time.
 With practice, you'll be able to keep the yolk centered within the white. You could also use an egg ring instead, which will keep the eggs nice and round and separate.









Alternatively, you can deliberately let the whites mingle and separate them after they're cooked by slicing with a spatula or knife.

Optional: Break the whites apart right around the yolk with a spatula or spoon. This will help the whites spread into a thinner layer so that they cook more thoroughly.
 Although this addition is optional, it does rev up the taste and texture of the sunny-side egg!









The addition of salt and pepper at this stage is suggested by chef Michael Romano.However, other chefs disagree, citing the tendency of eggs to lose moisture and to turn rubbery when salt is added during cooking. Salt may also cause the eggs to cook unevenly.It might be worth experimenting, to see which approach you agree with – salt during or after cooking.
 Covering the pan can accelerate the cooking process but care must be taken to avoid overcooking the yolks. If you cover the pan, the top of the whites (including the layer over the yolk) cooks and turns white and firm, rather than remaining clear and slippery. This is more similar to over-easy eggs, which are actually flipped over so that the "sunny" side cooks.









If you do cover the pan, keep an eye on the time and check at the 3 minute point without fail. A pan with a clear cover can be helpful for watching the progress easily.
You can also pour about a tablespoon's worth of water on the pan before covering it. This will steam cook the tops of the eggs more thoroughly. One tip to ensure perfectly fried eggs is to wait for the whites to set and the edges of the egg to be cooked and then to add 1/2 a teaspoon of water per egg., Usually this means that the whites are firm and the yolk is thick but not firm but whether you prefer the yolk runny or set is a purely personal preference. You can check the consistency of the yolk by shaking the pan gently and observing how the egg jiggles. With experience, you'll learn just how long to cook the egg to fit your taste.









Another technique is to cook the egg for one minute covered, then remove the pan from heat (still with the cover on) and wait for the white around yolk to become opaque white (usually 3-5 minutes).In order to kill any possible bacteria, the eggs need to reach a temperature of 140ºF (60ºC). At that point, the whites are completely set, and the yolks have begun to thicken, although the center may still be runny.If the eggs don't reach this temperature, there is a risk of food poisoning (see "Warnings" below).
 Slip the spatula under each egg, and gently place the fried egg on a plate ready for serving.









It's a good idea to have a warmed plate for serving as this helps keep the warmth in the fried eggs.
 These eggs should be served straight away once cooked, from the pan to the plate. Have accompanying items ready in advance, such as beans, toast, cooked tomato, sausages, bacon, etc. Some serving suggestions include:









Serve with toast; this lets the diner use the pieces of bread to wipe up all the yolk that remains on the plate.
Serve over white rice, grits, or corned beef hash.
Serve with a favorite sauce.
Try adding some extra butter or oil and using a spoon, "baste" the egg yolks with the oil.

