 Whether you’re meeting her for the first time or you don’t know her well, but you have mutual friends, just be friendly and sure of yourself.A simple “It’s very nice to meet you.” is a great opener in this situation.
Remember that in this situation she’s in the same place as you. So don’t feel like you need to one-up her (or anyone else there) or act like someone you aren’t. Just be yourself.
 Remember that you don’t know this girl very well or at all, so reading her body language can give you a good indication of her comfort level. Trying to embrace her with a hug may be too forward if you two aren't close.


You can offer to shake her hand if she seems open to it, or even just give a friendly wave.
Be polite. Like the saying goes, “You catch more flies with honey.” In this scenario you're probably making a first or second impression. Trying to show off or joking with her like you might a good friend could offend her.
 Don’t overdo it though by smiling too big or being too enthusiastic.


Acting too eager to meet her or greet her could make her uncomfortable and make you look like you’re coming on too strong.
 If you’re greeting her in a group of friends, hopefully your friends will properly introduce you, but if you're not introduced, politely ask her name and offer yours.When you learn her name repeat it back to her when you tell her yours.
Making eye contact and using her name can also help you to remember it better.
 When you greet a girl you may not know all that well, some humor will show her that you’re comfortable with yourself (even if you’re nervous) and not a rude person.


Using humor is a great approach when greeting a girl because it can ease any tension.
If you’re shy or nervous you can use a little bit of self-deprecating humor to break any tension and make her feel more comfortable around you. Joke about your appearance or the situation.

"I'm glad dragged me to this, I had a pretty crazy night of Netflix binging planned, but this seems better."



, Sometimes the best impression is a quick one that leaves her wanting to know more about you.


If you have a hard time making small talk with people, especially when greeting a girl, keep it short and sweet. Don’t try to force any conversation.
If the conversation doesn’t seem to be going anywhere, politely excuse yourself.

