 The type of malpractice claim will matter when looking for a lawyer since most lawyers handle only one type of malpractice case. Consider the following common types of malpractice lawsuits:Medical malpractice. This involves lawsuits against medical professionals for mistakes they make. For example, you might sue because a doctor made a mistake in surgery, prescribed the wrong prescriptions, or failed to diagnose you properly.

Legal malpractice. This type of lawsuit is brought against lawyers for failing to represent you properly with sufficient skill.

White collar malpractice. You can also sue accountants or financial professionals for mistakes they made, provided they were not sufficiently careful.;
, Bar associations are organizations made up of lawyers. Often, they provide a referral service to the public. You can call or go online and request a referral. Usually, you can have a consultation for a discount rate.


Find your nearest bar association by visiting the American Bar Association’s website here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx. Enter your zip code.
There may also be a local bar association in your city or county. Check with them, too.
When asking for a referral, specify the type of malpractice claim you are bringing. For example, you might say, “I need a medical malpractice lawyer to sue a doctor.”

, In particular, ask whether they would recommend their lawyer and why. Write down the person’s name and include them on your list.


Avoid hiring someone immediately because a friend recommends them. People have different expectations, and what pleased your friend might not please you.
Also make sure the person making the recommendation actually used the lawyer. You don’t need a referral to someone’s cousin who just happens to be a lawyer.
 You might have used a lawyer to write a will or buy a house. You can ask this person if they would recommend a malpractice attorney. Lawyers tend to know each other’s reputations, so they are a good source of referrals.


Call them up and describe your situation. Ask if they know of a lawyer who could represent you., There are many online databases you can search. They allow you to select your area and then the type of attorney you need. Often, these databases provide direct links to the lawyer’s website, which is helpful. Here are some of the more popular databases:


FindLaw. Browse for medical malpractice lawyers at their website by state.Avvo.
Attorneys.com., If you are the person being sued, then you should contact your malpractice insurance provider. Call them up and tell them about the lawsuit. If your policy has a “duty to defend” provision, then your insurer will be responsible for paying a lawyer and mounting a defense.Because your insurer pays for the lawyer, they typically will want to choose who to hire. They may work regularly with malpractice defense attorneys.
 Each state has a board that investigates public complaints against lawyers. Find yours and check the lawyers’ disciplinary history.You can find the disciplinary board online by typing “your state” and “attorney discipline.”


Generally, you can search by the lawyer’s name.
A notation should be made if the lawyer has been disciplined.
 Every lawyer should have a website, which should contain helpful information. Study the website closely. In particular, pay attention to the following:


Malpractice experience. You want someone who has handled many malpractice cases before. The lawyer should give a summary of the type of work they do. If all you see are mostly divorce or slip-and-fall cases, then look elsewhere.
Specialist credential. In some states, a lawyer can become a certified malpractice attorney.To qualify, the lawyer has to devote a certain percentage of their legal practice to malpractice cases. They also must pass an exam and take continuing legal education classes in the field.
Overall presentation. Pay attention to typos and grammar, as well as the overall presentation of the website. A lawyer with a sloppy website is probably sloppy in other areas.
 Many websites collect reviews on lawyers—FindLaw, Yelp, GooglePlus, etc. You can also type the lawyer’s name into Google and look to see what comes up.


Always approach reviews skeptically. It’s very easy to give a negative, anonymous review of a lawyer. In fact, some clients might be disgruntled simply because they lost the case. Of course, the case might not have been a slam-dunk to begin with.Nevertheless, look for common themes across complaints. If several people complain that the lawyer doesn’t bill accurately, then there is probably a problem.
 You’ll want to attend a consultation to see each lawyer up close and personal. However, you probably don’t have a lot of time. Accordingly, narrow your list down to three or four lawyers.


For example, you might choose the lawyers who have the most experience in your field of malpractice.
 Ask if you should bring anything and ask how much the lawyer charges.Some lawyers offer consultations for free, while others charge for them.


A secretary might ask you questions when you call. This is part of the screening process. They are checking to see that your malpractice dispute is the kind of case the lawyer can handle.
Make sure to pick a day and time when you know you can meet. Nothing is more annoying than having to cancel a consultation and try to reschedule. Lawyers are very busy, so be courteous and make your appointments.
 The lawyer’s staff should tell you what to bring. You may also have to complete a survey or background questionnaire. Make sure to gather everything ahead of time and organize it. Generally, you will need to show the lawyer the following at a consultation for a medical malpractice claim:list of your healthcare providers
summary of your medical treatment
correspondence from medical professionals, such as letters or emails
medical records
medical bills
photographs of your condition
information about your health insurer, including correspondence

, You’ll need to hire someone you can afford. If you are the person bringing the malpractice lawsuit, then you should ask whether the lawyer will take the case “on contingency.” This means the lawyer won’t charge a fee but will instead take a percentage of your settlement or jury award. Generally, lawyers take 33-40%.For example, if you win $200,000, then your lawyer might take $80,000 as a fee. If you lose, they take nothing.


However, you will have to pay the costs of the lawsuit. Costs include things such as fees for filing, expert witnesses, and court reporters. Your lawyer may advance the costs to you and then deduct them from your settlement or jury award.
Also ask if you are billed for support staff. For example, does the lawyer charge for paralegal and case manager help?
Defense attorneys charge by the hour. They don’t offer contingency arrangements.
 You’ll want a lawyer who can confidently handle your malpractice case. This means they should have plenty of experience with malpractice cases like yours. Ask the following questions:How long has the lawyer handled malpractice cases?
What percentage of their practice is committed to malpractice? Does the lawyer specialize in the field?
Has the lawyer taken malpractice cases to trial? If so, how many have they won?
What is the largest verdict or settlement they have ever won?
Have they ever handled a case just like yours? For example, if you are suing because a surgeon left a sponge inside you, ask whether the lawyer has ever sued for this reason.
 You’ll want to get in touch with your lawyer for updates, so ask how the lawyer communicates. You can only meaningfully participate in your case if you can get in touch with your lawyer.


Who will return phone calls? Will the lawyer or an assistant?
How long does the lawyer typically wait before responding?
Will you be assigned a case worker for your case? How many cases is this person managing?

, Have them point out the strengths and weaknesses.Also ask them to identify what other evidence would be helpful for your case.


The lawyer should also explain what options you have other than bringing a lawsuit. For example, you might use arbitration, which is like a trial except it is held before a private arbitrator.
Remember to discuss whether settlement is a possibility. Many malpractice lawsuits settle because the defendant’s insurer wants to avoid trial.
Does the state have tort reform laws that will limit how much you can recover?Where can you sue if you traveled to a different state for treatment?

, You’ll want to meet with all of the lawyers on your list before making a decision. Write down your impressions so you don’t forget.In particular, note the following:


How comfortable did you feel with the lawyer. Did they explain things in an understandable way? Were you intimidated to ask questions?
How confident are you in their ability to handle the case?
Was the fee arrangement acceptable to you? Do you think they are charging too much?

, Some lawyers should be avoided. Note these red flags and refuse to hire any lawyer who exhibits them:


The lawyer’s staff is rude. Everyone should treat you with respect when you visit for your consultation. A lawyer who tolerates rude staff probably isn’t paying close attention to their work.
The lawyer’s office is messy. A lawyer has a duty to keep a client’s confidences. If papers are spilling all over the place, then the lawyer probably isn’t too careful with information.
The lawyer promises a result. There are no promises in the law. A lawyer can discuss the strengths and weaknesses of your case but not promise you will win., Once you’ve made a decision, call up the lawyer and tell them you want to hire them. Ask what next steps to take.


Send an email to the other attorneys you met with and let them know you’ve decided to go with someone else. You don’t need to give a reason. However, thank them for their time.
 Your lawyer should send you a written agreement. It is usually called an “engagement letter” or “fee agreement.” In it, the lawyer will explain what they will do and how they will bill you. They also should explain your responsibilities as a client.Read the letter closely. Make sure the information is the same as what you were told during your consultation.
If you disagree with something, call up the lawyer and talk about it. You shouldn’t sign the letter until you agree with everything stated in it.
Before returning the signed letter, make a copy for your records.
 Malpractice lawsuits require a lot of evidence. If you are suing for medical malpractice, you may need to meet with a doctor hired by the lawyer. You also will need to hand over copies of all kinds of information.


Provide everything to your lawyer in a timely manner. This will help your lawsuit be as successful as possible.

