 In order to get the full benefits of Nasonex, your nose needs to be clear of obstructions. This ensures that the medication gets deep into your nose. Gently blow your nose to clear any mucus or other obstructions out of your nose.Sniff air through each nostril after blowing your nose to make sure that you’ve cleared the passage. If you can’t do this, gently blow your nose again. Not clearing your nasal passages keeps Nasonex from going deep into your nose.;
, Before you begin administering your Nasonex, shake the bottle gently several times.This can ensure that nothing has settled in the bottle and that you get the full benefits of Nasonex.


Remove the Nasonex cap when you’re finished shaking it.
 If it is your first time using your Nasonex prescription or you have not used it in a week or longer, you’ll need to prime the applicator pump. Doing this ensures that you get a fine and even mist for optimal use.Push the pump a few times into the air until a consistent fine mist comes out. If you notice any problems with the pump or applicator, contact your pharmacist.
 After you’ve primed the Nasonex, you’re almost ready to administer it. Keep the bottle upright as you place your forefinger on one side of the applicator and your middle finger on the other side.Use your thumb to support the base of the bottle., It may seem better to tilt your head backwards, but this can cause Nasonex to go down your throat instead of into your nasal cavity. The best way to ensure that you’re getting the full benefit of Nasonex is to tilt your head forward slightly.Breathe out slowly as you tilt your head. If you notice any mucus or obstructions in your nose, blow it again.
Make sure that you don’t have any hair or clothing in your face that may cause you to itch or sneeze. This can keep you from getting the proper amount of Nasonex.
 Once you’re head is in the proper position, insert the applicator into your nostril. Close off the other nostril with a free finger. Aim the application towards the back of your head for optimal placement of the medication.Keep your aim as straight as possible so that you don’t waste medication.You can also point the applicator away from the center ridge of your nose and towards the corner of your eye on the same side if it is more comfortable., As you slowly and gently inhale, push down on the applicator once with your fingers. You should feel the light mist of Nasonex inside your nose. When you’re finished, remove the nozzle from your nostril.Exhale through your mouth when you’re finished. It’s important to not breathe out through your nose so that the medication doesn’t dribble out.
Finish administering the prescribed number of sprays into your nostril.
 Just after you’ve finished spraying the allotted dose, try to not blow your nose or sneeze. This can dislodge Nasonex and keep you from getting the benefits of a full dose.Avoid taking an extra dose if you sneezed or had to blow your nose. Simply skip it for that day and continue with your regular regimen.Try not sniffing too hard after your dose, which can cause the medication to end up in your throat instead of your nose., When you’re finished administering the proper dose in one nostril, it’s time to switch to the other side of your nose. Repeat the steps for properly getting your Nasonex dose in the opposite nostril. Making sure to use Nasonex in both nostrils can ensure that you reap the full benefits of the medication.Return the plastic cap to the applicator when you’re done. This keeps dirt and bacteria from accumulating on the tip and making you sick.
 You may need to give a friend or another member of your family Nasonex at some point. You can do this after the person has blown his or her nose and you have prepped the bottle.Have the person sit with his or her head slightly forward. Ask him or her to breathe out slowly while in this position.
Put the tip of the bottle in the just into the nostril and ask the person to block the other side of the nose. If he or she is not able, you can also block the opposite nostril. Have the person slowly inhale through the open nostril as you push the spray nozzle.
Repeat the procedure for other nostril.
 Children over the age of 3 generally understand if you tell him or her that it’s time to take medication. If your child is resisting his or her dose of Nasonex, be honest and don’t lie to make the situation better. Appealing to your child’s sense of reasoning may make administering the Nasonex easier.Let your child know that you understand he or she hates getting Nasonex. Tell him or her that it will be easier to get it over quickly.
Tell your child why it’s important to take Nasonex. Ask him or her why the medication is important, which can start a conversation that makes getting the Nasonex easier.Reassure your child and be as honest as possible. Say, “I know the Nasonex feels weird, Anna. Letting me squirt it into your nose will make you feel better. Just think, if you take it, you can go play with your friends.”

, Your reactions can impact how your child reacts to taking Nasonex. Even if you feel badly, smiling and being cheerful may make it easier for your child to get the dose of medication.Give yourself a pep talk before you approach your child. Remind yourself that it will be quick and painless for you and your child. Then say, “Hey Joe! What are you watching? Let’s take a minute to squirt your Nasonex and then we can watch together.” Remember to keep your facial gestures and voice as positive as possible.
 Occupying your child with stuffed toys, singing a favorite song, reading a book, or watching TV may make administering Nasonex easier.Let your child choose what he or she does while you administer the Nasonex. Allowing your child to do something he or she likes can be a great way administer the medication.
Consider having your child read a book or watch something on a tablet. This will naturally have the child bow down his or her head, which can make administering Nasonex much easier and quicker.Say, “Hi Christopher! It’s time to squirt in your medicine to make you feel better. Do you want to read a book or watch a movie or show on the tablet?”

, If your child is being uncooperative, enlist the help of a friend or loved one. This may not be pleasant for any of you, but it can help get the process over quickly.


Hold the child on the lap of one adult. This person can also keep the child’s hands and head from moving. The second person can then administer the Nasonex.
Say, “I’m really sorry we had to give you medicine by holding you. If your let me give it to you next time, no one has to hold you.” Provide your child some reassurance or extra love.
 It’s easiest if you have your child sit in a chair or on the lap of another adult. This allows you to stand or squat down in front of your child to best administer the Nasonex.Make sure your child is sitting in a comfortable chair or on the sofa. Letting your child pick the chair may also help him or her feel more in control of the situation.
 Once your child is comfortably seated, have him or her tilt down his or her head as though he or she is reading a book. This can ensure the Nasonex goes into the nose and doesn’t drip down the throat. Letting your child read a book or watch something on a tablet can get your child to naturally tilt his or her head, which will make administering the Nasonex easier., Place the Nasonex bottle tip straight back in your child’s nostril. Tilt the nozzle outward to your child’s eye or ear on that side of his or her head. Then press the nozzle for the proper number of sprays.Ask your child if he or she is ready to do the other nostril when you’re finished giving a dose in one nostril.
Dab off any Nasonex that may run out of your child’s nose. Tell him or her not to sniff back the medication.
 If your child did a good job getting his or her Nasonex, offer a little treat. It can be something small but special like a sticker or other trinket. You could also place gold star stickers on a board after he or she has taken the medication. If your child has a gold star for getting Nasonex each time, after ten stickers (or whatever number you choose) you can give him or her a treat such as a trip to a favorite restaurant or the zoo., It can take up to 2 weeks of taking Nasonex before your notice its effects. If you have seasonal allergies or know you’re going to be around something to which you’re allergic, begin using Nasonex about two weeks before exposure.Check to make sure your Nasonex hasn’t expired, especially if you don’t use it consistently. Although the dose may still be effective, the tip could have been exposed to dirt or bacteria that could make you sick., Your doctor will give you specific instructions about how to take your Nasonex. This includes a specific dose, which you shouldn’t exceed. It’s important to closely follow your doctor’s instruction to ensure you get the optimal dose and minimize your risk of side effects.Ask your doctor any questions you have about the drug, your dose, or how to best administer it in your nose. Using Nasonex consistently and regularly can ensure that it works best for you.Tell your doctor right away if you are planning to become pregnant, are pregnant, or breastfeeding. It is currently unknown if Nasonex can pass to your baby through breastmilk. Your doctor will discuss whether it’s best to continue using Nasonex or try another drug.Let your doctor know if you have a history of glaucoma or cataracts. It’s also important to tell your doctor if you have tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or herpes simplex of the eye. Make sure he or she is aware of any exposure to chickenpox or measles, especially if your immune system is suppressed. Use of Nasonex with these conditions can make them worse or compromise your immune system., You may experience some pain or stinging if you use Nasonex, especially over a longer period of time. You may also even notice nosebleeds. If this happens, stop using the spray for one or two days. This can give your nostrils a chance to rest and minimize the risk of further irritation.Contact your doctor if your nosebleeds are severe.
Try an over-the counter saline spray before using Nasonex. This can moisturize your nasal passage and make it less uncomfortable to inhale your Nasonex.Avoid using the saline spray after you administer your Nasonex because this can wash the medication out of your nasal cavity., Like all medications, Nasonex can cause side effects. Although most are not serious, you should watch for side effects and let your doctor know if you’re experiencing any of them.Common side effects include: headaches, viral infections, sore throat, nosebleeds, coughing, dryness and irritation in the nose or throat, mucus of phlegm that contains a small amount of blood.
Call your doctor right away if you notice any of the following side effects: pain or sores in your mouth, white patches in your nose or mouth, painful swallowing or trouble swallowing.
Seek immediate medical attention if you experience the symptoms of an allergic reaction. These include: rash; itching of the tongue, throat, or face; severe dizziness; trouble breathing.
 How you store you Nasonex can make a difference in its ability to treat your allergies. Sunlight and heat can degrade your medication, cause it to lose potency or harm your health. Keeping your Nasonex in a cool place away from the sunlight can ensure you get the full benefits of the medication.Put your medication in a room that is between 58 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit. Move the bottle if the room temperature falls below 58 degrees or rises above 86 degrees.
Remember that part of proper storage is throwing away your Nasonex after you’ve used the allotted number of sprays. Each bottle comes with 120 measured sprays.

