 Don’t call just to call, or just because you texted that you would call. You can come up with something to say from your previous conversations, and from information she has given you about herself.


Try checking on something she was involved with or trying to get done. You could say, “So, how did your driver’s license photograph turn out?”
Ask her if she likes or frequents the place where you two saw each other last.
Check on how her day or week is going.
If she mentioned her pet or pets, ask about how they are.
 If you got her number while she was at lunch, or while she was commuting to work or taking a coffee break mid-morning, try calling then.


Don’t call early in the morning. Most people have a pretty tight morning schedule and can’t really take time for a phone conversation.
Immediately after work might be a good time, but be aware that end of day routines are more variable than start of day. She may be meeting friends, or going to a class, or just looking forward to getting home and in front of the television.
Don’t call past 7:00 or 7:30 pm. Just like morning routines, evening schedules can be very packed and very tight. You don’t want to interrupt her, and possibly annoy her, with a phone call when she’s trying to wind down for the evening.
 Write it down and have it ready when you make your call. You need to have a plan for what you will say if she picks up, or what message you want to leave if she doesn’t. Have a script for the conversation if she answers, and one for leaving a message. This will keep you from stammering or rambling, and knowing exactly what you are going to say will help you focus more on how you sound rather what you are saying., Pick a time in your day when you can be calm and focused, and when you have plenty of time in case she answers. Also, make sure you aren't in a noisy space that makes it hard to hear what you are saying.


Do not call her while you are in distracting or stressful situations. Driving, waiting for your train or bus, or being in the middle of something else are all bad times to try to call. You don’t want to be tempted to yell at another driver or lose your train of thought because of multitasking.
Do not call her just because you have some time on your hands. You don’t want her to think that you’re calling just because you haven’t anything better to do at the moment.
Call when you're sure you won’t be interrupted by anything or anyone else.
Turn off the television, shut down your computer, and turn your music off or to a very low volume. Focus your attention on the phone call and nothing else.
Do not call from a crowded bar or restaurant, or while standing or walking in busy places like city streets or train stations. The chances of being interrupted or needing to hang up suddenly are huge, and you will be distracted as well as fighting to be heard over the noise.

