 Use hydrating hair care products to give your thick mane a dose of moisture. Squeeze your wet hair gently with a towel to remove excess water. Do not rough up your hair when you’re towel drying it, since this can cause your curls to turn into frizz. Apply a smoothing serum or oil product to your hair.Run a wide-toothed comb through your hair from root to tip to remove any lingering tangles and evenly distribute the serum.
 Part your damp hair down the middle or along its usual part to divide it into two sections – one on each side of your head. Loosely braid both sections, making sure to smooth down the top. Secure each braid at the end with an elastic. Tug gently on each braid to loosen it up.


If your hair is thick and coarse but not curly, start your braids at the root and don’t worry about smoothing down the top.
For extra waves, divide the hair into more than two sections before you braid them., Simply pull them across the crown of your head, one from each side, so that the braids look like a head band. Use bobby pins to gently secure the braids. Doing this can help prevent your curly hair from getting frizzy during the night. It will also encourage your ringlets to dry into looser waves, which is how you’ll achieve the beachy style.Avoid blow drying or “rough-drying” your hair, since your hair naturally has plenty of volume. Rough-drying could lead to frizzy strands, too., Go to bed as you normally would, allowing your hair to dry naturally during the night. In the morning, gently remove the pins from your hair and release the braids. Shake your head and use your fingers to loosen the waves. Your hair will be almost completely dry, with a slight dampness remaining.
 Spray a texturizing product all over your head and let your strands air-dry the rest of the way.As it air-dries, your tousled waves will fluff up and fill out. Control any fly-aways with a light creamy wax. You can also apply the wax to the ends of your hair to create a little more texture and achieve a “piecey” effect.