 Think of what you want to have in this life, and what life means to you. Develop your own philosophy about life. Part of being alone is not being overly influenced by others' values and perspectives.;
,

, It can be a dog, a cat, a bird or even a fish. Anything you can buy in a pet shop. Then name it & talk to it. Let it be your best friend.
 You can write them in a journal, or record a video when great things are happening and tell your thoughts. Keep a diary and write about your feelings and reactions to the day's events.
 Being so organized will give you confidence and power. Be thorough, and ruthless if you have to. Clear out all the things in your closet and reorder them by color and type. Throw out the clothes you don't wear anymore, or adapt them to a different style. Clear out your bookcase and organize your possessions in any way that you like.
 Buy yourself a present, have it wrapped, open it later and be surprised!

, Add fragrances, get a flower you like and put its petals in the water. Burn some candles, have a drink and just chill out!

, Use body lotions regularly, use hand/face/body creams after showers, put on deodorant and perfume. Being well cared for will increase your self-esteem. Don't be lazy, just do it and you'll feel great.
 Bad or unhealthy habits hold you back in life and prevent personal growth. For example, if you smoke, try to give up. Most people don't give up successfully the first time, but every cigarette you don't smoke, or chocolate bar you don't eat, is doing you good.
 Music is can be enjoyed with others, but is brilliant as a personal and lonely way to spend your time. Search on iTunes, go to CD stores or just go on last.fm. You might find many new artists and genres that you've never even heard of. Start a music collection.
 You can watch anything you want, because you don't have to bend to the tastes of your friends. Go to the cinema (no one actually cares if you're alone), or just get some DVDs and have your own movie night with some popcorn and snacks.
 You don't have to copy anything your friends are doing. Try searching for interesting tutorials on YouTube.
 Write about what you are interested in. You could even blog about being alone, and encourage others to spend more time alone.
 See and feel the beauty of nature.
 Life is short, don't postpone anything. Create time for them.
, Make all the foods you like and experiment to find new things. Just don't starve yourself; also don't eat only junk food.
 Spend some of your alone time exercising your brain on a nonfiction, or just relax with a novel. Read wherever you like, it doesn't have to be at home.
 A story, a poem, an essay, an article. Whatever you want.
 It sounds funny but you deserve it! Go to a restaurant and have a great night ordering whatever you want.
 Be careful doing it if they are unknown foods or just unhealthy.
 Design your own charms, stationery, or jewelry. Create figures from felt and use them as a pendant.
 Or giveaway whatever you don't need anymore.
, Get lessons. You can even do this online with native speakers.
, Don't be afraid to do it, be firm with yourself. Don't waste too much of your valuable time on the internet.
 Be grateful for as many things as you can think of.
 Don't forget that you have to do that to have money or to get a decent job.
 Pick something expressive, but don't pick anything too expensive until you know you really like it.
,, Take some flowers and surprise them.
 It doesn't matter if your voice is bad or good, just sing whatever you want, OUT LOUD!

, You can collect coins, tickets, seashells, plush toys, figurines, film memorabilia, jewelry, lipsticks, pencils, journals, video games, socks, anything - the choices are endless! Learn about the history of the item you collect.
, Things you want to do before you die, your ambitions, best holiday destinations, your best and worst attributes, favorite artists.

