 High protein diets (sometimes paired with a low-carb diet) are popular for weight loss. However, they might not be appropriate for all people. Your doctor may be able to provide you with additional guidance or recommend alternatives that might be more appropriate for you.


High protein diets may have some side effects. Immediate side effects may include: nutritional deficiencies, constipation and headache. Long-term side effects may include: increased risk for heart disease and decreased kidney function.A registered dietitian is a nutrition expert that may give you a more effective diet for weight loss or help you include healthy, lean sources of protein into your high-protein, meat-focused weight loss plan. Seeing a dietitian on a regular basis can also help with accountability.
Visit the EatRight website and click on the orange "Find an Expert" button on the top right to search for a dietitian in your area.;
, When you're trying to lose weight, even with a meat-based diet, it's crucial to have a nutritionally balanced meal plan. Writing down a few sample days can help you plan accordingly and help you to include a variety of foods and lean meats.


Take a few hours of your free time to write up your meal plan. Include lean meat and protein in most or all of your meals.
Also make sure to include a variety of fruits, vegetables, dairy and 100% whole grains (if you're including these in your diet). Consuming a variety of foods from each food group is essential for a balanced diet.
Consider your lifestyle as well. If you're busy, on-the-go or have little time to cook, consider purchasing protein or meat that is pre-cooked or frozen for easier meals.
 In order to realize true weight loss benefits, stick to appropriate portion sizes-even with lean meat. Eating portions that are too large may results in excess calories and weight gain.


One serving of protein is 3 – 4-oz.This is similar in size to the palm of your hand, a deck of cards, or a check book.
Examples of appropriate protein servings include: 1 small chicken breast or 1/2 large breast, one or two eggs or 1/2 cup of beans.