 Your Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) reflects the amount of calories your body burns doing daily, vital functions like breathing and circulating blood. This number will help you know how many calories your body needs at an absolute minimum to function.


Women should use the following formula:655 + (4.3 x weight in pounds) + (4.7 x height in inches) – (4.7 x age in years)
Men should use the following formula:66 + (6.3 x weight in pounds) + (12.9 x height in inches) – (6.8 x age in years)
It's not recommended to cut calories below your body's BMR. This is considered unsafe and unhealthy.;
, Including your general activity level into your calorie range is helpful. You burn calories throughout the day in addition to your BMR. Walking around, standing up, sitting down, lifting items all burn calories.These types of minor lifestyle activities should be included into your daily total.


If you are sedentary, multiply your BMR by 1.2. If you are moderately active, multiply your BMR by 1.3–1.4. If you are very active multiply your BMR by 1.4–1.5. This resulting number is an estimate of the number of calories you burn per day.
Example: If you were a man with a BMR of 1,924.8 and lived an active lifestyle then you would need to multiply your BMR by 1.4. If you did this, you would find that you burn approximately 2,695 calories per day.
This calculation can also show you how many calories you currently burn at your activity level and how many you could burn if you were more active throughout the day.
You can also use a variety of online calculators or charts instead of doing the math yourself, such as this one. This might be easier for some.
 A reasonable calorie goal would be to consume about 500 calories less than you currently burn per day.Cutting out about 500 calories daily will result in about a 1–2 pound weight loss per week. This slower, more steady weight loss is considered safer, healthier and more sustainable by health professionalsCutting out more calories may result in additional weight loss; however, it's not recommended to consume fewer than 1,200 calories daily for adults. It's difficult to consume adequate nutrients and calories to sustain a healthy functioning body.When you've only got another 5 pounds to lose, those last few pounds can be stubborn.; however, it's important to be patient and follow safe and healthy dieting practices. Those pesky last pounds will come off.
 Once you've figured out how many calories you should be eating and how many you're going to be cutting out for your diet, it's time to set your weight loss timeline.


Since it's not considered safe to lose more than 1–2 pounds per week, a 5 pound weight loss should take anywhere from three to five weeks.
Plan your calendar and timeline to incorporate enough time for a 5 pound weight loss. You may need to start dieting and exercising about one month prior to your event or goal date.
You may lose weight a little faster or slower. Everyone will have a different weight loss speed due to their age, gender, weight, activity level and diet.
 Cardiovascular exercise is good for overall health and weight loss.Adding in regular aerobic exercise can help support your weight loss by burning more calories each day.


Some cardiovascular exercise you might consider including are: A light two mile jog before breakfast a few days a week, 20 minutes on the stair master or 20 minutes of high intensity interval training a few days a week.
You can also try aerobic classes, dancing, rowing, swimming, biking or using the elliptical.
Aim for about 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week. In addition to supporting your weight loss, this amount of physical activity can help improve your mood, energy level and decrease your risk for heart disease.If you seem to be struggling with those last 5 pounds, try increasing the frequency, intensity or duration of your cardio exercise. This can help boost your metabolism to get your body to drop that last bit of weight.
 With any weight loss diet, it's normal to lose a little lean muscle mass along with fat mass. However, you want to minimize how much muscle you lose. To help maintain your muscle mass while in a caloric deficit, consider taking up weight training two times a week.


To maximize your benefits from strength training, plan to do 20 minutes of strength training about two to three times a week.Strength training can include: weight training classes, yoga or pilates, using free weights or machines, or doing body weight exercises like push-ups or sit-ups.
If you have not weight trained before, you may feel sore the first week. Like all new exercise, introduce it slowly to let your body adapt and avoid injury.
 When you're trying to lose weight, there's a fine balance between cutting out calories and burning them with exercise.


Remember, it's not considered safe to eat fewer calories than your BMR each day. It's also not considered safe to burn so many calories working out, that your net calorie intake is less than your BMR.For example, if you only ate 1,200 calories in one day and the burned 300 calories with exercise, your total net calorie intake is 900. This is too low.
You may need to adjust your calorie intake with foods to ensure you're eating a net of at least 1,200 calories daily.
 A food journal is essential when you're trying to lose weight. You can keep track of how many calories you're supposed to be eating and how much you eat throughout the day.When you're tracking your food each day, make sure to include all foods you eat — even a taste or two while you're cooking. The more accurate you are, the more likely you are to be successful.A food journal is also a great tool to use if you're not losing weight or hit a stall. You can refer to your notes to see how well you were following your diet or staying within your predetermined calorie limits.
 Eating a well-balanced diet means you're consuming a wide variety of foods from every food group. This type of eating will help ensure that you're getting enough of every recommended nutrient your body needs.A well-balanced diet is also important for weight loss. Missing nutrients from an overly restrictive diet can slow your weight loss or make you feel fatigued and tired.When you're planning out your day, make sure that you're eating a food from each food group. In addition, choose a variety of foods from within each food group.
 If you're planning on cutting out 500 calories from your diet each day, you're going to have to cut back on different food groups. Cutting out more calories from the grain food group can help you lose more weight without risking any nutrient deficiencies.


Lean protein helps your body function and run all essential processes. It's not wise to restrict calories from this group.
Fruits and vegetables are also not food groups that you should necessarily limit. They contain fiber, vitamins and minerals that many other foods do not.
Grains do contain fiber and some minerals, but the majority of the nutrients found in grains can also be found in other food groups. That is why it's safe to cut calories from this particular group of foods.
 Processed foods are usually high in calories and low in nutrients.In addition, highly processed food usually does not contain much fiber, which can leave you feeling hungrier throughout the day.
Avoid foods like: pastries, cakes or cookies, frozen dinners or desserts, breakfast meat, deli meat and foods made with processed white flour (like bread or pasta).
Throw out junk foods and processed foods. Get rid of tempting treats and processed foods. When there are fewer tempting foods in your house, you may be less likely to choose those options.
 It's important to try to stay hydrated each day. This will help your body function normally and help support your weight loss.


When you're thirsty, your body sends a signal to your brain that feels very similar to hunger. Many times people end up eating, when they really just needed more hydrating fluids.Everyone needs varying amounts of fluids each day. The goal is to not feel thirsty and to have your urine a very pale yellow color by the end of the day.Stick to sugar-free, decaffeinated beverages like: water, flavored water, decaf coffee and tea.
Ditch sweetened beverages like sodas, sweet teas, sports drinks or juices. These contain extra sugar and calories which can really sabotage your weight loss efforts.

