 Babysitting out of your home is a great way to make money at home, especially if you love kids. You don’t have to make a career out of it; instead, you can babysit on days you aren’t working, or a few evenings per week.Check with local laws before embarking on this method of making money, as some states require licensing to babysit out of your home.
 Stock websites pay photographers and illustrators to populate their sites with stock photos. If you are handy with a camera or can whip up a drawing, turn your hobby into a small side job, and sell your work.iStock Photo and Shutterstock are the two most popular sites, but not the only ones available. When you sell your photos, pay attention to the terms and agreements; some sites require an exclusivity agreement, while others do not.
On most sites, the more your image is downloaded, the more you make. Share your work with friends and family members to gain a wider online audience.
 You can sell your writing services to a blog in need of a boost, or you can write stories and submit them to paying sites for publication--whatever the medium, there are many ways to make a little extra money from your work.Be careful when you submit your work. Some sites will allow you to maintain the copyright of the piece, while others require you to surrender ownership. Make sure you know which is the case for the site you are using.
Some sites will not offer you recognition, but will instead consider you a ghostwriter. Although this is not a bad thing, it will mean not being able to link to your work for future job applications.
 In a similar vein, offer your editing services to companies in need of some touch-ups. You can use an established website to apply for jobs or advertise your services, or you can contact a site in need of some clean-up directly.UpWork, Elance, and Demand Media are easy-to-use, popular sites to find editing jobs through, but you can also check regular job postings, and Craigslist ads. All are effective ways to find editing jobs.
Have a resume on hand, as most editor positions want you to have experience in the field. Many editing gigs will also require a test to make sure your skills are up to par, so be prepared for a bit of leg work.
 In the age of the internet, graphic design is an important tool. If you are a graphic design student or simply know your way around Photoshop, sell your graphic design work or services for a fee.You can make a lot of money doing design work, or you can make a tiny amount--a lot will depend on your skill, experience, and the amount of time you have to devote to the task.
Sites like Fiverr are great for making a little bit of money, while sites such as Upwork have the potential to make a decent chunk of change. Tailor your search to suit your time constraints and experience.
 Many companies look online for qualified individuals to complete simple data entry tasks and book-keeping. Most do not require experience (or at least not a lot of it), and are looking to hire the person with the lowest rates.


Accuracy is key in these positions. If you are uncomfortable with computers or are a slow typer, this may not be the best fit. If you are an expert typer and love computers, these jobs could be a great source of extra cash.
 While call centers are still widely used, a lot of companies use at-home customer service representatives. These positions can be both part-time and full-time, but are typically required to operate within set hours, and do not have quite the same flexibility as many online positions.Large-scale companies like Amazon and Convergeys have online customer service positions that may include paid time off and benefits. These positions require part-to-full-time commitments.
If you are looking for a smaller-scale position, search Upwork and Craigslist for smaller positions.
 If you are an expert in any field, you can find a way to teach or tutor others in your area of expertise. These jobs are great for anyone who enjoys teaching on a smaller scale, and individuals who hope to bring in a more significant amount of money.Online tutors can earn anywhere from $5 to $30 per hour. Sites such as Tutor Me and Chegg bring tutors and students together online.
Online teaching possibilities range from teaching for an established school (usually charter or private schools) to smaller venues, such as Skillshare. Determine the amount of time you would like to dedicate to your side job, and move accordingly.

