 Your friend may be doing something that you find annoying, but have no idea that it gets on your nerves. Your friend probably cares about you and does not want to annoy you. However, your friend won't be able to stop if you do not tell them.For example, your friend may joke with you a lot and it hurts your feelings. However, your friend thinks that it is all in good fun. Simply tell your friend, "Hey, it kind of hurts my feelings when you pick at me like that. Could you stop doing it so much?"
Be as nice as possible when you talk to your friend. Write down or practice what you will say.
 Once you tell your friend how you feel, it is important that you allow your friend to respond and to listen to them. Your friend may explain their behavior and why they have been acting a certain way. Ask your friend why have they been engaging in the annoying behavior. Your friend could also have a negative response and be unwilling to change.


If your friend is unwilling to change, you might need to change the nature of your friendship permanently.For example, if your friend refuses to stop gossiping, you may need to set new boundaries for your friendship. Maybe you will not talk about certain topics with this friend from now on.
Your friend could just be going through an annoying phase or be having some personal issues. For example, your friend could be trying to get more attention from you because they are having some family problems at home. It is important that you listen to the other person to get to the root of the problem.
 You may be able to help your friend with their annoying behavior. Tell your friend that you really value their friendship, but you two need to make some changes so you can stay friends. The solution is more likely to work if both of you contribute. You do not want your friend to feel like you are being bossy or critical of them.


For example, if your friend needs to stop gossiping, tell your friend that you will remind them to stop when you see them gossiping. You could even create a little hand signal to do when the two of you are around other people. This way you can tell your friend to stop without embarrassing them.
If your friend is annoying because they are constantly complaining about something, volunteer to help your friend improve in that area., Change does not happen overnight. If you and your friend had a good talk and your friend is willing to change, give your friend some time. If you have set new boundaries for your friendship, it will take time for both of you to get used to them.


Friendships go through ups and downs and change over time. As long as both you and you are friend are willing to work through your issues, you two can still be friends.You may need to have multiple conversations about your friendship throughout the process.

