 When you first bring your new puppy home, it is a good idea to keep him within the confines of just one or two rooms at first. Common choices include the kitchen, laundry room, or den. This allows your puppy to explore while keeping him safe. It also makes it easier for you to keep track of your puppy and clean up after him.


If allowed to wander the house freely, a puppy may feel overwhelmed and confused by all the new scents and sounds.
Puppies are more likely to soil an area again after they have an accident in the house, so it is good to keep a close watch on him so that you can take him to go potty when he needs to go.;
, You can puppy-proof the area that you have chosen for your puppy by cleaning it well, removing any wires or other items the puppy may chew, removing ornaments or anything the puppy may bump into or break. Also, make sure that you remove anything from this area you don't want soiled, chewed or scratched.


Keep in mind that puppies will chew anything, electrical cables are no exception. Make sure they are out of your puppy’s reach.
Place all hazardous substances out of your puppy’s reach. This includes cleaning products, medications, vitamins, plants, cat litter boxes, tobacco products, garbage, and anything else that your puppy may try to eat., Crate training is a powerful method to train your puppy, but it is not required. If you do decide to crate train your puppy, choose a crate the puppy can stand up in and lie down with his legs extended. Make sure that there is a soft bed inside the crate as well.


The idea of crate training is to teach the puppy that the crate is his safe place, kind of like a wild dog’s den.
Keep in mind that the crate should never be used as a punishment or a prison. It should be a place where the dog goes willingly for a time-out and where you know he is safe when you aren't with him.Wire crates are ideal because the dog can see everything around him. This helps him to feel more secure.
 Choose bedding that is machine washable and that your puppy can snuggle into. Get at least two sets of bedding. That way one set can be in the wash while the other set is in use.Make sure your puppy is raised slightly off the ground in his bed, so he avoids draughts at floor level.
 Even if you will be taking your puppy outside to a toilet spot, it is also a good idea to provide him with a place to relieve himself indoors in case of an emergency. Puppy pads are useful for this - they are like a large flat, absorbent cloth that you can just throw away.


You can also use newspaper but it is slightly less absorbent, so there is a greater chance that you will end up with some urine on the floor.
It is also a good idea to get some disposable gloves, a disposable kitchen towel, and some disinfectant spray (enzymatic - not ammonia or bleach based) for cleaning up messes.Some dog trainers also recommend getting a timer, and setting it to go off every half hour. Then, every time the timer goes off, take your puppy out for a toilet break.

