 You may not think that you know anybody who can help you with your career, but you’d be surprised by how many people you know may know somebody who knows somebody. If you’re looking for a new job or want to take your career in a new direction, reach out to the people you know to see who they know; you can even send an email to your friends describing the kind of position you’re looking for as well as your qualifications, and see who can help you out.


Don’t think that using your connections instead of getting a job “on your own” is somehow being sleazy or cheating the system. You’re just playing the game instead of being played. Research has shown that a whopping 70-80% of jobs are found because of networking, so don’t be afraid to take this initial step. In the end, it’s unlikely that anyone will hire you based on networking alone, and you’ll still have to prove yourself., If you want to be able to connect with anyone to find a job, then you have to know how to sell yourself—and how to do it quickly. You may only have a minute or two to meet someone who can help you find a job, and when you do that, you have to make yourself stand out. You can’t just make small talk about the weather, but make the person remember you and see you as someone he would want to help.Whether you’re selling yourself or selling a product, the most important thing is to have a strong opening line that either shows why you are a candidate the employer can’t miss out on, or why your product is something he must invest in.
Keep it short and snappy and end by giving the person your business card and saying you’re looking forward to hearing from that person. Of course, you should make sure the person has a genuine interest in you or your product.
 Another way to make connections for work is to find a way to help the person you want to connect with. You may have to think outside the box a bit and to find something you can do that doesn’t directly have to do with your career; for example, if you know the person is writing a memoir, then you can offer to give feedback on it because of your writing background; if you know the person is looking for a venue for his daughter’s wedding, tell him that your aunt can offer him an amazing location at a discount.


Don’t think that you have nothing to offer to the world. Just because you’re trying to network, you still have plenty of skills and abilities that can benefit other people in a variety of ways.
 You may think that being persistent is a turn off and that, if an employer or a business connection really was interested in you, then that person would make this clear the first time around. However, you’d be surprised by how often people get approached by others; make yourself stand out by making that extra phone call, connecting with that person at a business or social event, or sending a follow-up email. Though you don’t want to be annoying, you also don’t want to give up too early, either.


Think about it: the worst thing that can go wrong is that you keep trying to get the person’s attention and he doesn’t get back to you. Well, that’s exactly where you started so it’s not as if you’re worse off, is it?

, Another way to network with people is to make sure that you stand out in their minds. You have to find a way to be remembered, even if it’s by a small detail, such as the fact that you speak fluent Japanese, or that you and the person you met both are obsessed with the Russian author, Sergei Dovlatov. You only have to find one or two ways to really stand out to people so you can remind them of who you are later when you try to get in touch with them.If you find a way to stand out, then you can say something simple in a follow up email like, “We met at the Business 101 event. It was so great to find another person who loves Sergei Dovlatov as much as I do!”
Of course, this doesn’t mean you have to take it too far and go so out of your way to stand out that it comes off as obnoxious. You don’t need to make a lime green resume or do a tap dance to be remembered—unless you want to be remembered unfavorably.
 Another way to connect with more people when you’re networking is to connect with people close to the people you really want to meet. Check out LinkedIn to look for mutual connections, or even ask the people you do know to connect you to someone who knows someone. Don’t be shy about it and work on building towards having a wider net of work connections.


You never know who can be useful to you, so make sure to be friendly, kind, and approachable to anyone in your orbit.
 It goes without saying that if you want to connect with people for work, then you have to make it very easy for them to get in touch with you. You should have business cards with you at all times, have a phone people can easily reach, and even promote yourself with a website or blog. If someone has heard about you, for example, then you want that person to be able to find you just with a quick Google; you don’t want to deprive yourself of networking just because you don’t have a personal website.


Many companies even ask to see your personal website when you apply for a job nowadays. You don’t want to miss out on this opportunity because you don’t have a personal site. If you use sites like Wix or Wordpress, it’s free and easy and only takes about 1-2 hours to set up, even if you’re not tech savvy.

