 Some states allow passengers in a vehicle to have open containers of alcohol. However, you'll typically draw less attention to yourself if you're drinking out of a plain glass or plastic cup.Keep in mind that drinking from a plastic cup is no guarantee that you won't get cited for an open container violation if the car gets pulled over.
If you're riding in a car in an area where open containers in vehicles are prohibited, You can be cited for violating this law – even if you weren't aware of the law.
However, if you're just bringing along a drink you started at a bar or party, a plastic cup is less suspicious and less likely to draw questions than if you're drinking from a beer can.
 Particularly if you're driving on city streets or through an entertainment district, police officers will often observe traffic and pull over cars where people are not wearing their seat belts. In addition to a ticket for riding without a seat belt, you may end up with an open container violation if you're also drinking.Even if you're not drinking out of the open container you have, you can still get cited for an open container violation if a police officer pulls the car over because you aren't wearing your seat belt and sees the open container in the car.
In some states, the driver also can be charged with a violation of the open container law – even if you had the open container with you in the backseat.
In these states, the driver of the car has the responsibility not to allow passengers to bring open containers inside the vehicle with them.
 The driver is trying to obey traffic laws and avoid getting stopped. Distracting the driver or engaging in horseplay with other passengers can cause the driver to swerve, endangering other cars on the road.This is something you should avoid doing at any time, regardless of whether there are open containers in the car.
However, this also is a way to avoid open container law violations. Basically, allow the driver to concentrate on driving, and don't do anything that would draw attention to the car or cause danger to others on the road.
If a police officer sees the driver operating the vehicle erratically, stopping abruptly, or swerving, they may pull the car over, which would mean they'd see the open containers.
 Ideally, passengers in a car who have open containers of alcohol should cover them to avoid spills and keep them in the floor while the car is moving, rather than drinking while the car is in motion.There's no legitimate reason why you need to drink an alcoholic beverage while you're riding in a car. However, you may have legitimate reasons to transport an open bottle.
For example, you may be getting a ride home from a party. Before you left, the host gave you the remainder of a bottle of wine.
Make sure the cork is tight in the bottle, and put the bottle in a paper or plastic bag if possible.
Ideally, you want to put the bottle in the trunk – but if your friend is just dropping you off, this may not be an option.
While the car is in motion, keep the bottle in the floorboard rather than holding it in your hands.

