 Steaks taste best if they're cooked at room temperature. Steaks that are cooked too cold tend to come out tough. Before you begin cooking, set the steak out in your kitchen. Leave it out between 30 minutes and an hour., You will need a pan big enough to hold your whole steak. You should also use a heavy-duty pan, preferably one with a non-stick coating. A griddle pan or skillet can also be used to cook a steak. A pan needs to get very hot to comfortably cook a steak.If you're cooking multiple steaks, and don't have a pan big enough to hold them all, do not squeeze all the steaks on the pan. Instead cook them one at a time.
 Steaks need a layer of salt to help the meat moisten prior to cooking. Use kosher salt instead of regular table salt, as the bigger grains help the steak get juicier.








If you salt the steak too soon before cooking, the salt will actually result in it ending up dryer. Salt the steak at least 40 minutes before you cook it, if not longer.
If you have time, salting the steak a few days before you decide to cook it can give it a nice, juicy flavor.
 Steak should be cooked in a light coating of oil, such as olive oil or canola oil. If you use butter at all, it should only be used at the end of the cooking process to give your steak a creamy taste. Some people apply a coating of oil to the steak before cooking it. Other people prefer to add oil to the pan, heat it up, and then add the steak.
Either method can effectively cook your steak. Choose whichever one you prefer. Just make sure the oil is coated evenly throughout the pan or steak.
 Steaks should be cooked on high or moderate heat. If you want a slightly charred flavor, opt for a higher heat setting. If you dislike a charred flavor, use a medium heat setting. Allow your pan to heat up for a few minutes and then place the steak on the pan.
 Steaks will come out juicier if flipped often. After adding the steak to the pan, stand by it and flip it frequently. Keep doing so until each side of the steak has browned.








Strive to flip your steak once every 15 seconds. In addition to creating a juicier steak, this will give your steak a nice crust., After the steak browns, flip it every 60 seconds. How long it takes a steak to cook depends on its size, so track time according to the steak you're using.A 3.5 centimeter steak takes between 3 and 9 minutes to cook. Rarer steaks should fall on the lower end, while more well done steaks should fall on the higher end.
A thinner steak, around 2 centimeters, takes between 1 to 5 minutes to cook, depending on whether you want to rarer or more well done.
 Steaks should be seasoned about halfway through the cooking process. Once the steak has browned, add your desired seasonings. Then, continue to flip the steak, basting it in the seasonings, until it's finished., You should not go by timing alone to make sure a steak is ready. Check to make sure it is done before removing it from the heat. You do not want to eat a steak that's not cooked through.








If you want your steak rare, make a circle using your thumb and index finger. Press on the bulge made by your thumb. A rare steak should have roughly the same firmness.
For a medium-rare steak, make a ball with your middle finger and thumb. A medium-rare steak should have the same feel as the ball made by your thumb.
For a medium steak, make a ball with your thumb and ring finer. A medium steak should have the same firmness as the bulge made by your thumb.
For a well-done steak, use your little finger and thumb. The steak should have the same firmness as the ball made by your thumb.
 Fillets are small steaks that are 6 to 8 ounces in weight. A fillet has slightly less flavor than other steaks. However, it's good for a single serving. It also tends to come out more tender than other varieties. However, fillets do best cooked rare or medium-rare. If you want a well-done steak, don't go for a fillet., A New York strip is a larger steak which is tender and has a lot of flavor. They do best with dry rubs for seasoning rather than wetter marinades. They also cook well if you want a rare or medium-rare steak., A ribeye can be cooked and seasoned in a variety of different ways. If you use a ribeye, buy a thicker cut as they tend to cook better. If you buy a ribeye that has a bone in it, it will have more flavor.