


The Italian culture is definitely different than American culture. In order to appreciate, learn about, and immerse yourself in Italian life, keep an open mind about your first experiences with the people and the cities. Here are a few things to know about the Italian culture before you go to Italy:
The people are loud, bold, and have little awareness of personal space. Don't be shocked if you hear people yelling or if you are heckled on the street. It is just the way they communicate.
While Italy is a modern country, they do not have many of the common luxuries that the United States feels are essential. Be prepared for the lack of functional restrooms, clothes dryers, electrical plugs, and internet connection. Life is just a little bit simpler!
Everyone and everything runs late. The Italians have a lack of regard for time. Their attitude is to simply enjoy the moment, and everything else will have to wait. So enjoy it! Take your time relishing the little things in life and learn to relax like an Italian.
It's nap time in Italy from about 3-5pm. Life stops - stores close, people take a break from work, and children go home from school. This is completely different from American society. We live to work, but Italians work to live.
Italy is relatively a very safe country, but always be aware of pickpockets and petty thieves. Check out some safe travel gear to protect your belongings and never bring attention to your electronics or jewelry.
With all this in mind, try to accept the differences as they come. It may be difficult and frustrating at times, but part of the reason why you're there is to learn how to adapt to a new culture!;
,


Italy has a rich and vast history, and they have done an excellent job preserving their culture. While you are there, take the time to explore and learn as much as you can.
Visit the museums. Italy has an amazing collection of paintings, sculptures, religious and historical artifacts, and much more. A few to make sure you don't miss are the Academia and the Uffizi in Florence; the Vatican Museum, Capitoline Museum, and Galleria Borghese in Rome; the Museum of Modern Art in Bologna; and the Leonardo da Vinci Science and Technology Museum in Milan.
Each city in Italy will have a vast number of churches and cathedrals, as well as monuments dedicated to past leaders and events. Each one has something interesting to offer, not to mention how beautiful they are!
Italy also has a rich past in music and theater. Try to go to an opera or musical performance. Most have student ticket pricing!
Italians are huge soccer fans (or in Italian "calcio"). Seeing a home game for the team in your city would be an exciting culture experience.
Good thing to note: Since you are studying abroad and have a student visa, you will receive discounts on many of the tourist attractions, like museums, monuments, events, etc. Make sure to check those out and use your visa to your advantage!

,


Since this is your home base for the semester, make sure you know it well! These few tips will help you to feel like a local instead of a tourist, making you more comfortable in your location and feel less homesick.
Learn some of the language (especially the correct pronunciation). Many Italians in the larger cities now speak English, but if you attempt to speak Italian to them, you will usually get a friendly response and a lesson in the language. Have your host family help you too!
Know how to get around. Whether that be by foot, bus, car (not likely), or bike, make sure you become familiar with your Italian town. And always keep a map on you! It is extremely easy to get lost in the winding, unmarked streets, especially in the smaller medieval towns.
Be involved in the community. Whether that be the local soccer games, a volunteer project through your school, becoming a regular at a bar (which is their version of an American coffee shop), or talking with other locals in the town, meeting and interacting with the local community will make you feel comfortable and connected to your new home.
Another good idea is to find a blogger who details many of the local events and attractions - they will have some very good suggestions on what to do in your city.



Your program in Italy will most likely have many events, trips, museum visits, etc. that are pre-paid or pre-planned. These are convenient and easy, as you have the transportation and tour guide planned for you.
Your professors will know much about your city - ask them for help or suggestions.
Meet and travel with people in your program. Italy is full of American students, so you have the opportunity to meet people from all around the country. They will also understand the frustrations and homesickness that comes with studying abroad.
Remember to take your classes seriously. You are still in Italy to learn!

,


Italy is blessed with having a variety of different cultures and landscapes within the same country. While you may be tempted to jet off to another country each weekend, make sure you spend some time exploring all the different areas of Italy as well.
Research what cities are interesting and affordable to travel to for you and make a list of about 10 places you want to visit. Day trips by the trains or buses are extremely doable!
Check out different cities and regions: Rome, Venice, Florence, Milan, Pisa, Assisi, Lucca, Palermo, the Alps, Cinque Terre, Tuscany... the list goes on!
You should also try to travel outside of Italy too. It's great to be able to compare the Italian culture with other cultures and to experience something not-Italian every once in a while.



Food is a central part of the Italian lifestyle. While you are in Italy, make sure you never pass up on a meal, specially if it is from an Italian mama.
Each region and city in Italy has many signature dishes. The Naples region is famous for its pizza, Tuscany is famous for its bistecca and wine, and the southern region is famous for its sweet desserts. Inquire what they are when you are visiting different cities and try them!

,


You only get to be a study abroad student for so long, so make sure you make the most of it!
Keep these tips and suggestions in mind as you travel and learn to make your transition to Italian lifestyle smoother. See as much as you can while still enjoying the simplicity and treasures of the Italian culture.

