 When you have guests over, ask them to let your cat approach them, instead of the other way around. Cats are generally curious by nature, so letting them explore new guests without becoming startled can help to socialize them.Cats may be less likely to approach children, guests who are very tall, or people they've never encountered before.
Be especially patient with your cat when guests of this kind come by.;
, Instead, the person can take a seat and drop a few treats from their hand to help the cat build a positive association.
 If you have guests over, but your cat is nowhere to be seen, try shaking his food bag, or (if he eats canned food) running the can opener to coax him from his hiding spot. You may also try jingling a toy that he likes.If your guests are patient and calm, you may consider bringing your cat out.
However, make sure he has an escape route if he becomes overwhelmed.
 Cats tend to be afraid of particularly large and/or tall people. Ask your guests to sit down or squat to make your cat feel more comfortable around them., Having planned guests over is one thing; however, sometimes unexpected strangers (like a pizza delivery person, mailman, or missionary) may arrive at your door. Strangers are the not right people to use for breaking your cat's xenophobia. Allow your cat to run and hide if he wants to.
 It may sound counterintuitive, but if your cat has a safe bolt hole (an empty cardboard box, for instance) then he may be more willing to be brave. Make sure he has access to his hiding places when guests are over.


You can also provide vertical spaces for the cat to escape to if he feels threatened, such as tall cat trees. He can also watch and assess a situation safely, before deciding it's OK and he wants to join in.
Knowing when to hide and protect himself and when to come out and play is an excellent social skill for your cat to develop.
 When guests are over, you (or someone else the cat trusts) can sit with him nearby. You can pet him, offer him treats, and encourage him to play. If you can get him into a positive and playful mood, he’ll be more likely to interact with new people., You may be frustrated by your cat's fear or really want him to stay and play, but trapping him can cause him to panic and won't do much to cure his xenophobia. Make sure guests leave a clear route between the cat and the door or his hiding place so he can escape if necessary.
 When a cat feels safe and comfortable he will rub his face against objects, which leaves a facial pheromone. Products like Feliway mimic these pheromones, which may help reassure your cat that he is in a safe environment., If your cat is experiencing ongoing anxiety, speak to your vet about including anti-anxiety medication in your method. This may help your cat stay calm enough to gain a critical level of socialization.Your vet might recommend using zylkene, which can help pets manage stress.
Some people believe that certain flower extracts, such as Bach Flower Remedies' "Rescue Remedy", can help their cats relax. Give the proper dose to the cat before company arrives.
Always consult a veterinarian before administering medication to you cat.

