 Try to get at least a half hour of exercise per day. Go to the gym, on a daily jog, or ride your bike around the neighborhood. Physical activity will help you deal with stress in the moment and reduce stress in the long run.Signing up for a group workout class will also add a beneficial social dimension to your exercise routine.
Talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise regimen, especially if you have any existing conditions, like heart or joint issues.;
, Like exercise, a healthy diet is also important for a healthy body and mind. Having a healthy diet is crucial for optimum emotional and mental health. Make sure that you incorporate whole organic foods into your diet as much as you can.


Avoid processed foods. Eat whole fruits and vegetables, beans and legumes, whole grains, and lean protein. Try to incorporate three meals a day, with your most important and largest meal at breakfast. Avoid overeating as well.
Avoid alcohol, especially when emotional distress is high. Drinking when you are upset can cause many other problems with your health, and in your relationships with your family and friends as well.
 Find a nearby hiking trail, park, or beach and go for a regular stroll. Sit and read your favorite book in a grassy, tree-lined place with nice views. You could also try calling a friend to plan an outdoor picnic in your backyard.Natural environments encourage ease, mindfulness, and a sense of belonging.
 Worry can interrupt sleep and a lack of sleep can increase worry, resulting in a vicious cycle. Getting a good night’s sleep and maintaining a healthy sleep cycle will help cut down the anxiety you feel when confronted with a constant stream of bad news.Try to go to bed and get up at the same times every day.
Reduce your light exposure an hour or two before going to bed. Choose a good book over your smartphone when relaxing before bed.
Avoid heavy meals before bedtime.
Skip out on caffeine in the evenings, and go for a decaffeinated herbal tea if you want a hot drink.
 Sometimes when you repeatedly receive bad news, it can be overwhelming. A normal response could be to obsess about your problems, which will ultimately lead to negative feelings. Don’t ignore the bad news, but make sure that you acknowledge the events that happened and how you are emotionally responding to it. Do the best you can to address the problem and deal with the issues and your associated feelings. Then find ways to let go of some of the things in our life that are too overwhelming for you to handle.


Allow some quiet time for yourself to do something you enjoy, but that is also soothing to your mind and body. For example, you can use relaxation techniques such as meditation, deep breathing, listening to soothing music, or listen to an audio recording of guided imagery. You can also take a yoga class, or go out to a park and participate in Tai Chi or Qi Gong.
 Keeping a journal will help you clarify your feelings and process bad news. Take 20 minutes per day to write an entry then set aside some time every week or two to read over what you’ve written.Consider including a section in your entries about things you are grateful for or that made you happy that day.

