 Stack half a dozen to a dozen paper towels into a single pile. Lay the affected clothing on the paper towels face down, with the stain directly over the paper towels.


Use white paper towels instead of colored patterned ones. Otherwise, you run a slight risk of accidentally transferring color from the paper towels onto the fabric.
 Soak the stained area of fabric with WD-40 from the back of the fabric. Let the WD-40 sit on the fabric for five minutes before pressing forward.To prevent the WD-40 from getting on anything else, do this on a work surface, like a tool table, unfinished basement floor, or garage floor.
The reason the WD-40 works is because it is a solvent. This means that it can break apart tough stains.
 Flip the garment over so that the stain is now exposed and spray the area again, this time working from the front.


You do not need to let the WD-40 soak into the stain this second time. You can press forwardly immediately after application.






Make sure that the stained portion is still positioned over the paper towels.
 Rinse the WD-40 and crayon out of the fabric thoroughly using cool, running water.


Rinse the stain from the back first to force the excess crayon away along with the WD-40. Then, rinse the front of the stain to remove excess WD-40 from that area.
 Apply a dot of dish soap directly over the stain. Use your fingers or a clean rag to rub the soap into the crayon.


Position the stained fabric back over the paper towels for a few minutes so that the paper towels can continue absorbing some of the stain.
Rinse once more in cool water before continuing past this step.
 At this point, most of the stain should be gone. If this is not the case, though, blot the stain with a pre-wash stain stick or stain remover.


Let the stain remover dry before continuing.
 Run the garment through a hot wash cycle with chlorine bleach.


If your garments should not be washed with standard bleach, use oxygen bleach, instead.
Use the hottest water safe for your fabric.
Rinse the clothes in warm water.

