 Self-talk is a powerful tool that can be used to create a positive or negative reality.If the script running through your head all day long is that you can’t do this or that, you are bound to feel bad about your mothering skills. You can shift this internal dialogue to feel like a better mom.


Start by listening to your self-talk. What are you telling yourself throughout the day? Notice your thoughts and how they make you feel. For instance, you might find that you tell yourself, “I lost my cool and shouted at Samantha, I'm a terrible mom.” Saying this makes you feel even worse about raising your voice.
 Once you start becoming aware of your self-talk try to reflect back on what led to your negative thinking patterns. These are your triggers. Sometimes, triggers are more obvious, like when your teenager tells you “You’re the worst mom ever.” Other times, the culprit behind negative self-talk is harder to spot.


When you catch yourself thinking negatively, try to pinpoint the stimulus. For example, when you show up late to the parent-teacher conference, you start telling yourself “You’re always late. You’re never on time,” which makes you feel bad. Maybe this self-talk is so negative because another mom exited her meeting right before you, and she always seems to be on time. In this scenario, your comparisons were the culprit of your negative self-talk.
 Challenging negative self-talk is the key to getting rid of these unhealthy thinking patterns. Usually, these thoughts are unrealistic. So, when you look more closely at them, they lose their impact. Reality testing is one way to challenge unhelpful self-talk. It involves looking for evidence that supports your thoughts.For example, you tell yourself “I never get anything right.” Ask yourself what evidence is there for or against this thought? Maybe you forgot to sign a permission slip, but you did succeed in getting your toddler to eat his vegetables and you got your teenager to open up about a bullying situation. Those are clear instances when you got something right. That way, you can recognize how illogical the earlier thought was.
 Challenging negative self-talk isn’t beneficial unless you make the effort to modify the negative language and change it into more positive, realistic statements. When you do this, you set a foundation for putting a positive spin on any negative thinking you notice.You can reframe the earlier example of “I never get anything right” into “I make mistakes as a mother, but there are also many things I can do well.” Just shifting this thought can lead to a healthier, more positive outcome.

