 Thin to moderate weight paper works better than heavy paper, but otherwise, the only limit here is your imagination. Collect several sheets of paper in nearly any pattern or design that appeals to you.


Some good sources can include wrapping paper, old magazines, old books, comics, and crossword puzzles. If you are unable to find anything you like in print, you can also find images you like online and print them onto standard printer paper.
When selecting images and patterns, pay close attention to the size of the print. You'll need to make sure that the pattern is small enough to fit over the surface of your shoe.
Take color into consideration, too. Arrange your images in a pile and make sure that the colors work well together.;
, The easiest size to work with will be postage-sized squares—approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) around all sides.


You can also cut the paper into small strips or cut out individual shapes from the pattern.
Small pieces work best since they will crease less when you apply the paper around the curves of the shoe.
Cutting the paper with scissors will create smooth, straight edges. Another option would be to simply tear the paper into small pieces. Doing so will create ragged edges and give the finished shoes a different sort of look.
 While not strictly essential, it's usually a good idea to spread out your cut pieces and plan a layout or overall design for your shoes.


You may need to make alterations to the layout as you actually apply the pieces, but giving yourself a rough estimate of how the design should look can make the application part of the process seem less intimidating.
 Find a good pair of leather or faux leather shoes. Solid color shoes with a smooth surface and minimal detail will work best.


This project is a great way to add new life to an old pair of shoes, but if you don't have a pair lying around, you can probably find some at a thrift store.
By choosing a solid color shoe, you'll guarantee that the decorative paper will be the focal point instead of the pattern beneath.
Shoes with grommets, laces, straps, and other details can be a bad choice since you'll need to decoupage around these elements. Doing so isn't impossible, but it will make the project more complex.
 Wipe the shoes down with a damp rag or baby wipe to clean away any surface dirt and debris.


The shoes do not need to thoroughly cleaned, but you shouldn't see any large clumps of dirt or grime. Stains and deeply imbedded dirt can be left alone, though.
 If you choose patent leather shoes, it's a good idea to lightly buff and scuff the surface with a patch of sandpaper before continuing further.


A nail file can also be used to scuff the shoes.
Scuffing shiny, smooth surfaces can give the paste something to sink into when you apply it, creating a more secure bond in the process.
Note that this scuffing process is not necessary if the shoes already have a matte or rough surface.
 In a glass or plastic bowl, combine equal parts PVA glue and water. Stir them together with a popsicle stick or disposable wooden chopstick until thoroughly combined.


Note that PVA glue is merely standard white glue.
Another option would be to purchase Mod Podge or a similar commercial decoupage glue. Make sure that whatever you choose will create a permanent bond and a clear, smooth finish.
 Apply your prepared paste to a small section at the back of the shoe using a sponge brush or other small paintbrush.Only apply enough paste to cover enough shoe for one or two small patches of paper. The paste needs to be fresh and very wet when you adhere the paper, and if you apply too much at once, it may start drying out before you can work with it.
You can technically start working anywhere on the shoe, but typically, it is easiest if you start toward the back (heel) of the shoe along the inside edge.
 Place one patch of your desired paper over the paste on the shoe.Use your fingers to apply gentle pressure to the paper so that it adheres securely.
If the paper does not adhere well, you may need to coat the back of the patch with additional paste before trying again.
 While the paste is still wet, use your fingers to smooth away any wrinkles or creases you see in the applied patch.


If the paste has already begun drying or if you are otherwise unable to smooth away the wrinkles with your fingers, brush over the patch with a damp sponge to help smooth it out more thoroughly., Before proceeding, with the next patch of paper, apply another smooth coat of past over the patch you just put on.


Don't be afraid of applying too much. The paper should be thoroughly soaked with paste if you really want it to remain in place.
This coat of paste can also extend over onto the next section of shoe you plan cover.
 Work your way around the rest of the shoe in the same manner, applying the paper one patch at a time until the entire surface is covered.


Each patch of paper should slightly overlap the one before it. Overlapping the patches reduces the amount of blank space and gives the final piece more strength.If you make a mistake, you'll only have a few seconds to remove the patch before the paste starts setting. After this period of time passes, it is better to cover the patch with a new one instead of trying to rip it off.
You can decoupage the heel of your shoe, if desired, but do not bother covering the sole or the inside. These spots will wear down too quickly to make the effort worthwhile.
When you finish decorating one shoe, complete the second shoe in the same manner.
 Set the shoes aside for a couple of hours until the surface is mostly dry.


The surface can still feel sticky, but it should be dry enough to prevent the patches of paper from sliding around.
 Use a foam paintbrush to apply one final coat of paste around the entire covered surface of both shoes.


This final coat of paste can help keep all of the paper patches down while also adding a mildly protective coating.
Set the shoes aside when done and let them dry or a full 24 hours before handling them further. The shoes must be completely dry before you do anything else with them at this point.
 Once the shoes have dried, you should apply some form of waterproof sealer so that they can be worn in any kind of weather without a problem.


Mod Podge and several other pastes can actually create a waterproof seal, so you can use several coats of this if desired.
Clear varnish and sealing lacquer are other options worth considering.
Regardless of the option you choose, let the sealer dry for a few hours in between each separate coat and wait for the final coat to dry completely before proceeding.
 While not strictly essential, you may wish to mask the messy, uneven inside edge. You won't be able to see this inner edge while the shoes are on your feet but you will see it when the shoes are off.Begin by trimming away any paper that is not stuck in place.
The simplest option is to paint over the messy patchwork edge with a paint color that matches the inner lining of the shoe.
Another option would be to glue a ribbon around the entire inner edge of the shoe. Doing this would hide the messy inner edge while creating an aesthetically interesting accent.
 You can keep the shoes as they are at this point, but you could also add other embellishments to the surface to create a slightly different look.


Some possible options include sequins, glitter, buttons, and bows.
 Make sure that any glue, sealer, and paint has dried before you handle or wear the shoes.


As a general rule, it is best to wait 12 to 24 hours after completing the shoes before actually wearing them.
 Your newly decoupaged shoes should now be complete and ready to show off.

