 Once you've told her everything you want to say, it's time to give her some space. The worst thing you can do to earn a girl's trust back is to call her or show up at her place constantly until she feels completely suffocated by you. Instead, let her know that you'll be stepping back and waiting for her to reach out when she's ready. This doesn't mean that you should completely cease communication, but it does mean that you should back off for a while until she's ready to talk to you.


You can check in with a text or a phone call every few days, but only if she does sound like she wants to talk to you -- however reluctantly.
If you want to be sweet, you can send her flowers, but don't overdo it. If she's really angry, then she won't be ready for your gifts.
You can do something small, like write her a letter, to let her know that she's on your mind without overwhelming her.
If you do run in to her, be kind and friendly, but don't talk to her for too long or make her feel like she's getting ambushed.
 Giving it time is just as important as giving the girl space. You have to be patient and wait for her to come around instead of forcing it and pretending like everything is exactly like it was before. To do this, you'll have to be patient, even if you are hanging out a lot, and know that the girl won't rush back into your arms after you've lied. Don't ask her if she forgives you every two seconds, and don't try to book elaborate vacations or to go on romantic dates; instead, take it slow, and wait for her to make the move.


Even if you are hanging out again, don't expect things to be the same. Be more cautious about touching, complementing, or generally spending time with her.
Don't get frustrated. It's natural that you wish that everything was completely forgotten instantly, but that's not the way the world works.
Act natural. You don't have to bring up your lie all the time. Just be more cautious without being too obvious about it, and wait for her to trust you again.
 If you want your girl to trust you again, then you have to be absolutely dependable, even if you weren't in the past. This means that you have to be there for her if she needs help, to follow through on your plans, and to show up to your dates on time -- or even a little early. If you're not dependable after lying to her, she'll be even less inclined to trust you.


Go out of your way to be helpful and supportive. Let her see that you'll be there for her. Even if you didn't go watch her basketball games before, show up to watch a few games after school to show that you care.
Let her open up and talk to you about her problems. This will show that she's starting to trust you again.
You should be dependable, but that doesn't mean you should become her lap dog or servant -- maintain your own identity while being as helpful as possible. You don't want her to think that you're downright groveling, or that won't be very attractive.
 If you want to earn your girl's trust back, then you have to be easily accessible. Though you don't need to give her a copy of your schedule, she should have a sense of where you are most of the time, or she'll start to worry again. If she calls or texts you, you should try to get back to her as soon as you can. If you leave her waiting more than a few hours, or even a day, then she'll start doubting your ability to change.


You can casually let her know what you'll be up to when she's not around. If you're going to a baseball game with your friends, let her know, and get her a teddy bear with your favorite team's logo on it. If you're going to your uncle's beach house, send her a picture of the ocean and say you wish she was there.
Don't be mysterious. If you're hanging out but you have to get going, tell her why.
This doesn't mean that she has to keep tabs on you or stick a GPS locator to your car -- it does mean that she has a general sense of what you're doing so she can trust you.
Even if you're away for a few days, don't forget to check in. Try to call at least once a day and send her a few texts a day to let her know you're thinking of her.
 As you and the girl start to spend more time together, keep up your honesty. Level with her if you're feeling upset, confused, or hurt, and let her know if you feel smothered or like you're not being yourself. She'll want to know how you're feeling so that she has an insight into what's really going on in your mind. If you're not honest with her again, and she finds out, then it's over.


Just stay patient and continue to let her know what's on your mind. This will slowly make her trust you again. You don't have to tell her everything that you're thinking, but you should make a conscious effort to be open with her.

