 This is one of the most classic styles for a square silk scarf. Lay your scarf flat on a table. Fold two of the corners to meet each other, creating a triangle. Place the scarf around your neck with the wide triangle point over your chest pointing down. Wrap the two ends around your neck, and tie them in a loose knot either over or under the triangle, whichever you prefer.





;
, Lay your square scarf flat on a table. Fold it in half so that two points meet, creating a large triangle. Then, starting at the widest part of the triangle, fold in inwards in 2–3 inch (5.1–7.6 cm) sections. This should leave you with a long rectangular scarf that can be wrapped around your neck and tied in a simple knot.
 Put your scarf on a flat surface and spread it out completely. Fold the scarf in half diagonally to create a large triangle. Roll the scarf up to create a long, skinny stretch of fabric. Wrap this around your neck, and tie it in a simple knot and bow. Adjust the bow by stretching out the fabric for a fuller look.
 Wrap your scarf up into a vintage ascot. Fold your scarf in half diagonally to create a large triangle. Drape the scarf around your neck so that the triangle lays on your back, and the two ties are in the front. Tie the ends together in a loose knot; you can tuck the triangle into the scarf a bit in the back if you would like.
 Lay your scarf out on a table. Fold the scarf in half across the middle, matching the two corners together to create a rectangular shape. Pick up small sections at the corner, and tie each corner-pair together. When you hold the scarf up, you should be left with a large loop that can be fitted over your neck. If your scarf is too small to fit over your head, tie it in this fashion around your neck instead of prior to putting it on., Square scarves are perfect for tying your hair back. Fold the scarf in half diagonally to create a large triangle. Drape the scarf over your head with the two tail ends at the nape of your neck, and the large triangle covering the top of your head. Tie the ends together in a knot underneath your hair to finish the look.
 Hold up your scarf and fold it in half diagonally, in order to make it as long as possible. Then, fold it up into a long, narrow, rectangle 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) wide. Wrap the scarf around your head with the ends at the top of your head. Tie the ends together to create a double knot at the top of your head. The tail ends can be left out or tucked under the wrap to create a finished scarf headband.
 A small square scarf can make a cute bow when tied around your hair. Put your hair up in a bun or a ponytail. Wrap the scarf around your hair (as is, or you can fold it to be narrow-er) and tie two of the ends together to create a knot around the base of your hairstyle. Use the remaining end pieces to create a completed bow.