 A car dust storm emergency kit will not be as comprehensive as a home kit but it will be very important if you are caught out in a storm. A car emergency kit that will help you through a dust storm should include:Jumper cables
Flares or reflective triangle
Flashlight with extra batteries
First aid kit
Non-perishable food (such as protein rich energy bars)
Water
Basic toolkit (pliers, wrench, screwdriver)
Radio (battery or hand cranked)
Blankets or sleeping bags (or simply extra layers of clothes)
Charged cell phone and car charger

, It is not safe to drive in a large dust storm. Instead of continuing to drive in the storm, find a close spot to park that is as protected as possible. Pull off the road as far as possible, turn off your car, and make sure your windows are all closed.If you are not in a spot that you can pull off, make sure your lights are on, honk your horn continuously, and use the center lane line as a guide. Do this until you can find a place to pull off the road.
 While it seems like a good idea to show other vehicles where you are located by turning your lights on, it's not. Drivers coming from behind may think that you are on the road and your lights will actually lead them off of it.Instead of leaving your lights on, just make sure your car is totally off the road. This will protect you better and will help to protect the safety of other drivers.
 Make sure all windows and doors are closed as soon as you can. In a big dust storm, dust may get into your car through the vents, so it's also important to close them all as well.In a really severe storm, with strong winds, you may even need to place a piece of fabric or tape over the vents so that dust doesn't seep into the car. The goal is to keep dust out as much as you can.
 Most dust storms are very brief. It is a good idea to wait the storm out instead of getting jumpy and trying to change locations. The odds are that you will be stuck in your car for a very short time and it is much better to be in the car than to be out in the storm.

