 Manners are a way of showing respect and thoughtfulness and help the other person to feel cared about.


Be polite at all times.
Don't argue with your sister or talk back to her. Show respect for her.
Don't curse or abuse her. Saying abusive words is a sign of disrespect.;
, If your sister is bored and wants to do something, don't be afraid ask her if she wants to play with you. You can play video games with her if you like.


Watch TV with your sister. Play with her every once in a while. You don't have to give up your whole life for her, just about 20 minutes a day.
 Even if it is just small talk, talking can make you become better friends with her. Ask her about her day and what she's thinking about doing over the weekend.
 Always help her with her problems. If she needs you, be with her.


Don't make your sister feel left out. Never leave or ignore your sister; it can cause her to feel unwanted or useless.
Don't act like a mom. Don't judge her. Always remember your her sister not a parent.
 Sharing is caring. Remember that she is your sister.
 Don't fight, whatever you do. Instead, try to solve the problems by talking it out. If you need space from one another, then take it and come back and resolve your issues later, in a calm and dignified way.
 If something bad has happened to you and you think it is your sister don't blame her without evidence.
 Being loud and spiteful will just make her angry. Be equal siblings. Try to be your sister's best friend.
 When going through a rough time, what would you want her to do for you in the situation? Always think about her feelings and try to comfort her.
 If something difficult has happened to her, be there for her and be supportive and attentive. Listen without judging and simply let her know that you are there for her.
 Help your sister to do her homework, and her chores. Put on some music and teach her some songs to make the time pass quickly.
 It will make her feel good and helps her to know that she can trust you.
 She will really like this! Show her you care by making homemade gifts or getting her that special something that she's been wanting forever.
 Compliment her new hair-cut or something that's new. She'll see that you actually care about her and that you're observant.
 Do things for her that she never thought you would do. Bring her coffee, buy her favorite breakfast/lunch/dinner/snack/ anything. If you both live in the same house, maybe you should fold her laundry or vacuum her room.If she sees that you can scratch her back, then she'll scratch yours.
 Nothing is better than a sibling being proud of another sibling. It's encouraging for a sibling to be praised by another sibling. It gets them going. If you show that you are so proud of her and you tell her, then she's sure to say the words "Thank you."

