 Guys like girls who look well put together but not so perfect that they are unapproachable. Guys don’t like too much jewelry but if you wear pretty earrings, paired with a cute and simple dress with flats or well fitting jeans and a simple black blouse with heels, guys will be attracted to your style. Add a smile and your outfit will be perfect.


Consider wearing a necklace that will highlight your collar bones. Guys like it when girls flirt with them by touching their neck, and wearing a simple necklace is an easy way to attract attention to your collarbones and neck.
Make sure your clothes are clean and ironed. Choosing what you are going to wear the night before will help keep you on top of washing your clothes when needed.
Wear one piece of clothing that is a little sexy. Guys like it when girls know how to be a little sexy while not going overboard, for example, wear tight jeans with a loose fitting top.;
, A lot of your natural beauty can be hidden if your skin is acting up, and it can ruin your confidence with it. Wash your face every night and morning with a face wash with acne medication if needed. Follow it up with a light face moisturizer. Your skin will appear softer and have more of a glow if you keep it healthy.


Using an exfoliating face wash once a week is a great way to get rid of dead skin and make your skin brighter and prettier.
 Guys like light and natural makeup. Makeup should just enhance your features, so keep it simple. Widen and brighten your eyes by applying a coat of your favorite black or brown-black mascara to your upper lashes. Apply a tinted lip gloss that gives your lips a little color and keeps them moisturized before you go out and again before you talk with the guy. If you have blemishes, bags under your eyes, or other skin imperfections, apply a stick or liquid concealer to your trouble spots that is a shade lighter than your skin. Gently blend it in well with the tips of your fingers. Then finish it off with a translucent face powder, especially if you have oily skin.


You can apply a little bit of tinted lip gloss to your cheeks to give them a little color and sheen.
 Guys often talk about how much they like a girl who smells good. Smelling good starts with showering daily. You don’t have to wash your hair every time you shower. Put your hair up in a cap or in a towel wrap while you shower and wash your body. Use a good smelling body wash or bar, and wash with a washcloth or loofah that lathers the soap up well.


Apply a good smelling deodorant every morning before you leave your house. Then apply it again in the middle of the day, after you have done something that has made you sweat, and/or before you go out at night.
Find your signature fragrance. You can use a body wash or a perfume. Use it in the morning and again before you go out at night. Spritz your fragrance once on your wrist and rub your wrists together, once on your neck or collarbone area and spread the perfume with your wrist on your neck or chest, and then spritz it once in your hair. You might want to keep a small bottle in your purse or car to reapply if you don’t have a chance to go home and freshen up during the day.

