 A room with no windows is usually best, otherwise try to find a room with few small windows. A bathroom or basement room are usually best for this purpose. This room doesn’t have to be particularly big; a 25 square foot space is sufficient.Make sure this room has an outlet for your equipment.
Running water can also be useful but isn’t required.;
, If you situate your darkroom in a bathroom, you usually have a bathroom fan which can help keep the room ventilated. However, this is not ideal in the long run; chemicals are heavier than air, and most bathroom fans will struggle to completely clear the air. You’ll eventually want to invest in more powerful fans to preserve your health., If space permits, this surface will make setting up your equipment and developing photos much easier. A desk with drawers will allow you to store some of your supplies, especially important if your darkroom has other purposes. Make sure your photo paper is stored in a drawer that doesn’t let light in.
 If your future darkroom has windows, you’ll need more than curtains or blinds to make it completely dark. Take some black fabric, cut slightly larger than the windows, and tape it around the edges of the windows. Alternatively, you can use cardboard or thin plywood to block of windows, with fabric and tape around the edges to completely seal out light. If light leaks in around the door, affix a strip of fabric along its edge in the same manner.


You’ll have an easier time spotting encroaching light by turning off the room’s lights. As your eyes adjust to the dark, you’ll have an easier time spotting places where the light leaks in., You’ll want to establish this separation before you start setting up your equipment. This will protect your photos from costly mistakes, as well as make sure you don’t damage your equipment. The dry side will include your electronic equipment and should be close to the outlet. Having running water near the wet side of your darkroom will make the development process much simpler.


Make sure to check the water quality in your darkroom; errant particles can negatively impact the development process. Run the water over a tray for 15 minutes. If there are visible particles at the bottom of the tray, you’ll need a water filter., If you’re particularly knowledgeable, you can save quite a bit of money buying used. Check with friends or family in the hobby for hand me downs; knowing the previous owner means you’re more likely to get a good deal. You can also find used photo development gear on eBay and Craigslist. Make sure to check the condition of the equipment before buying.


If you live near a college, check campus bulletin boards near the end of semesters for ads from students looking to offload supplies.
 The enlarger is the centerpiece of the darkroom, as well as the most expensive piece of equipment you’ll need to acquire. If you’re new to the hobby, look for an entry level enlarger that’s easy to use and store. Beseler has a line of enlargers aimed at newbies, made for developing 35mm film.These models also come with lenses. Not all enlargers come with a lens, especially at higher price ranges.
 You’ll get the best deal picking and choosing each article, but this requires a minimum of knowledge. Several companies have complete darkroom kits available; these give you all the equipment you need without having to shop around.Keep in mind that some of these don’t include an enlarger, but will provide you with most of the equipment you’ll need.
 Developing photographs requires three specific chemical solutions. You’ll need developer, fixer and stop bath. The first two of these can be purchased from photography speciality store, while there are more options for your stop bath. You can either purchase acetic acid, pickling vinegar or a specialized premixed stop bath solution.Make sure your trays and tongs are clearly marked, as putting chemicals in the wrong tray can contaminate your materials.
You’ll also need a water tray close at hand to rinse your developed pictures.
 These lights provide just enough light to allow you to see your workspace, without compromising your photo paper or chemicals. These lights can get quite expensive, but many photography stores have safelight bulbs available for purchase.
 This is where the chemical processes involved in photo development takes place. The equipment in this area will include:


Funnel
Trays
Tongs
Film clips (for drying processed film)
Graduated Cylinder
Chemicals (in their storage bottles), This side of the room will house your enlarger and photo paper. The rest of the equipment here will include:


Film tank and reels
Safelight
Easel
Timer
Grain magnifier
Optional: Paper cutter used to trim your photo paper., The chemicals used in the development process can be harmful for your skin, especially if you’re planning to spend several hours in your darkroom at a time. As such, make sure to wear latex gloves when handling chemicals. Additionally, a face mask will help protect your respiratory system from the fumes created when you develop your pictures.

