 Keep a strong magnet around, and you can magnetize some types of steel with a couple minutes of work. This turns the steel into a weak magnet that loses its magnetism over time.This method is ideal for magnetizing a screwdriver, nail, or needle just before use. You can also use it to restore magnetism to an old compass needle or other weakened magnet., You can use any magnet to "pass on" the magnetism to the steel, but ordinary refrigerator magnets will have a very weak effect. Neodymium or other rare-earth magnets are good options, available at home improvement stores, hobby stores, or specialized online magnet stores.


You can also purchase a "tool magnetizer" designed for this purpose.
 If the steel doesn't respond to the magnet, it can't be turned into a magnet itself. Also note that this method is easiest to use on long, thin pieces of steel, such as screwdrivers or nails, but will work on any shape of steel.


If you're considering purchasing stainless steel and can't investigate it before buying, ask the manufacturer what type of steel it is. You'll want "ferritic" stainless steel, or stainless steel graded as part of the "400 series."Coincidentally, the varieties that can be magnetized tend to be cheaper, but that's not universally true.
 Hold the steel object in one hand. Stick the magnet to the steel about halfway along its length, then drag it to one tip. Repeat several times, stroking only in one direction, and only along half of the steel. The more you do this, the more magnetized the steel will become.


You can magnetize a ball bearing or other small, steel object by rubbing the steel along the magnet, instead of vice versa.
 Flip the magnet over so the other pole touches the steel. Place it against the steel at the midpoint again, but drag it the other way, toward the end of the steel that wasn't rubbed earlier.Repeat until the steel can pick up a paper clip, or continue to rub to increase the strength slightly.


If you're not sure where the two poles are located on the magnet, test them using a second magnet. One pole will attract a surface of the other magnet, and the opposite pole will repel the same surface.

