 You'll need an avocado and olive oil to form the base of your mask. When it comes to adding moisture back to your hair, the avocado works great on all hair types. It’s packed with vitamins– A, D, and E, to name a few– and contains fats and oils that nourish every strand of hair.Olive oil is a powerful natural conditioner, and it will make your hair shiny and smooth. If you don't have olive oil on hand, try coconut oil.
You may also add honey, lemon juice, or banana to your mask. You can do this hair mask every week, so you can try different mixtures of ingredients to see which works best on your hair type. Luckily, there is no risk of damage with any of these natural ingredients.;
, Using a knife, cut the avocado in half. Because of the pit in the middle, you’ll have to rotate the avocado to cut all the way around it. After you remove the pit, scoop out the inside. Because you’ll be mashing the avocado anyways, you don’t need to worry about removing the center in neat little slices. Put the avocado in a bowl and throw away the peel. The easiest way to remove the pit is by wedging your knife into it, and then pulling it out of the avocado half. If you don’t feel comfortable stabbing the pit with your knife, you can scoop out the pit with your spoon.
Don’t worry if there are brown spots inside the avocado. They wouldn't taste good, but they will be great for your hair.
 If you don’t have a tablespoon, you can certainly just eyeball this step. Using a spoon or fork, mash up the avocado as you mix the olive oil into it. Add enough oil so that you’ve created a consistency that will easily coat your hair. Continue mixing until there are no chunks of avocado, and the mixture is nice and smooth.
 Add a tablespoon of the honey or lemon juice, and mix. If you choose to add a banana, you may need to add a bit more olive oil in order to get an easily spreadable consistency. Whatever you choose to add, mix until everything is blended thoroughly. You can also skip the optional ingredient all together, if you only have an avocado and olive oil at your disposal.


Honey adds extra shine, so it's great for dull hair.
Lemon juice clarifies hair and can create pretty highlights.
Banana adds extra moisture, creating a glossy look.
 If you don't have time to create a deep-conditioning mask and want something you can apply quickly before a shower, try honey! Honey actually helps your hair retain moisture. It will also help soften your hair, leaving it looking sleek., Bananas are natural moisturizers. Not only will they smooth and soften your hair, they’ll also help to protect against breakage and frizz by improving your hair’s elasticity.They smell pretty good too!

, Eggs actually have multiple benefits for your hair. They're packed with vitamins, so they help moisturize your hair. They help make your hair look shiny and sleek. Additionally, they can stimulate hair growth and prevent dandruff. , Both the protein and acidity in the yogurt make it an excellent conditioner. The protein helps to repair your hair, helping to fight breakage and split ends. The acidity in the yogurt, like the acidity mentioned in the lemon juice, helps to smooth down the cuticle of the hair. This makes it appear sleek and smooth., This is a cheap and effective way to remove the buildup on your hair that accumulates from hair products. By removing the buildup, your hair will look less dull. It also makes your hair feel smoother and softer, which will keep it from tangling. Apply the vinegar and water combination after shampooing, wash it out, and you'll have shiny, beautiful hair.
 You can apply the mask after the shower, or you can wet your hair with a spray bottle. Because you’ll be shampooing your hair after you do the hair mask, don’t shampoo your hair directly before applying it. Shampoo can dry out your hair by removing the natural oils, so shampooing twice in one day isn’t recommended.If you’re applying the mask after the shower, let your hair air dry a bit before starting. Your hair should be damp, but not soaking wet.
 If you struggle with an oily scalp, start coating your hair an inch or so below the root.Embrace messy hands, because there isn’t a neat way to apply this mask. Run your fingers through your hair as you apply it, massaging the hair to ensure the mask coats the hair from all sides and you don’t miss any sections.
 By leaving it on for a bit, you give the mask time to penetrate the hair cuticle. In twenty minutes, your hair has time to suck up all of that moisture, and get the maximum benefit from the mask.Paint your nails, sip on some tea, or watch some TV while your hair becomes silky and beautiful.
 In the shower, wash your hair thoroughly. Once you’ve ensured that your hair is clean, shampoo and condition like normal (or use whatever products you typically use).For the best effect, let your hair air-dry. You will have shiny, soft, silky hair, from completely natural ingredients.

