 Packing your bags can be one of the most frantic and stressful aspects of travel–not to mention one that’s often left until the last minute. To slow down this aspect of your traveling, create a packing list months in advance of your trip. Write down travel necessities (clothes, passport, computer) first, and add new items to the list when they come to mind.Don’t throw away your list after you return from your trip. A well-made travel list can serve you for years, since you’ll typically take the same items with you from one trip to the next.
Consider laminating your packing list and placing it in your suitcase or backpack, so you won’t have to search for it each time you’re planning a new trip.;
, To slow down the speed of your travel preparation and to avoid stress, start packing in advance. Although some items—such as clothes and toiletries—may need to be packed the day before you leave, others can be set aside weeks in advance. This will allow you to pack more slowly, and decrease travel-associated stress.As a busy traveler, it’s also important that you travel light. This will help you move with less stress through busy airports, security lines, and bus terminals. Packing light will also help you focus on the places you’re traveling to see, as you won’t be weighed down by several heavy bags.
Only focus on bringing the essentials; you can always pick up incidental objects on your trip.
 Especially if you’re planning a long trip—or several short trips—with multiple destinations, hotel stays, rental cars, and other logistics, plan to talk with a travel agent. Although the profession may seem outdated, an agent can put together all of these bookings for you, so that you’re not searching through countless travel websites on your own time. For long, complex trips, working with a travel agent could also save you money. Your travel agent may be able to find lucrative deals that you wouldn’t have access to, or may know ways to package flight, hotel, and rental car purchases together to decrease the cost.

