 Excel spreadsheets are formatted by default to have cells that are wider than they are tall. To create a uniform flowchart, you will want to set the cell sizes to be square. To do this, click the Select All Cells button located in the top-left corner of the spreadsheet.


Right-click on any column heading and select Column Width from the menu. Enter 2.14 into the field and press Enter. This will change all of the cells into perfect squares.
Turn on Snap to Grid from the Align menu in the Layout or Page Layout tab. This will make any created objects adjust their size to match the grid, helping you to create uniform shapes.
 If you plan on exporting the spreadsheet to Word or another program, you will want to make sure that the margins line up. Use the Margins menu in the Page Layout or Layout tab to adjust the margins to match the software you are exporting to.


You can adjust the orientation of the document (portrait or landscape) using the Orientation menu in the Layout tab. Flowcharts that go from left to right should be formatted for landscape.
 Click the Insert tab and select the Shapes menu. Select the shape that you want to create and then draw the size of the box using your mouse. Once you create a shape, you can change the color and outline style using the tools in the Format tab that opens.
 To add text to shapes, click on the center of the shape and start typing. You can adjust the font and style in the Home tab. Keep your text short and to the point, and ensure that it is easily readable.
 Open the Shapes menu from the Insert tab. Select the line style that most suits your needs. Hover your mouse over the first shape. You will see small red boxes appear on its edges that show where lines can be connected.


Start the line in the red box, and drag it to the second shape.
Red boxes will appear on the second shape. Place the endpoint of the line on one of these boxes.
The shapes are now connected. If you move one, the line will stay connected, and adjust its angle appropriately.
Add comments to connecting lines by inserting a Text Box, available from the Insert tab.
 Instead of creating a flowchart from scratch, there are a variety of Excel templates and wizards available both for free or for purchase online. Many of these take most of the work out of creating a flowchart.

