 Fill a 5 gallon (18.9 L) bucket with sand, rocks, concrete, or even water. Use it to do curls or attach two of them to a bar or board and use as a bench press.
 Take 2 packs of 6 bottles each and duct tape them symmetrically to an iron bar you can grip easily. This barbell will be good for any exercise you do with a barbell, like lifts and presses.


If these 2 packs are too much, don't use half filled bottles. Half-filled bottles will slosh around and shake the bar. Instead, tape individual filled bottles to the bar.
If 2 packs aren't enough, use four or six packs of bottles taped to the bar. Alternately, tape individual bottles to each end of the bar. First line them horizontally along the bar side by side, then stack them on top of each other. Make sure to leave plenty of room for your hands to grip the bar in wide and narrow grips.
The taping must be functional. Make horizontal, vertical, and diagonal rounds to wrap the packs to the bar.
 Tires are used in many workout and bodybuilding routines. You can add additional weights to regular tires when doing workouts, or you can go to a junkyard and find tractor tires. Flipping them and tying a rope to them to pull behind you are only two ways you can use a tire as a weight., Slosh tubes are long plastic tubes filled with about 40 pounds of water. But the workout benefits come from the uneven, sloshing water, which makes you use muscles as you try to keep the water balanced as it goes from one end of the tube to the other. You can make your own slosh tube with a PVC pipe. The pipe should be about 4 inches in diameter and 9-10 feet long. Place a cap on one end, then fill the pipe halfway with water. Cap the other end., Sandbags are similar to slosh tubes in that they are unstable, shifting weights that require you to engage more muscles. To make an easy sandbag, fill 5 or 6 gallon freezer bags with sand. You want the sandbag to be around 50 or 60 pounds. Double bag the bags so they don't break, and then tape the end. Place the bags into the duffle bag. Zip up the duffle bag, and you are ready to work out!An alternate way to make a sandbag is to use an old army/navy rucksack or canvas laundry bag. Use contractor garbage bags to fill with pea gravel. You can fill them with 10, 20, or 25 pounds. Fill 5 or 6 bags with gravel, and secure them with duct tape. Add them to the bag until your desired weight.Add and remove bags of sand or gravel for different weights. Use a scale to determine how heavy the bag is before you start working out, and add or remove weight accordingly. If you don't want to change the weight, you can add the sand or gravel directly into the bag. You cannot easily remove the weight or add weight if you do this.
Make sure to leave some room in the interior bags so the sand or gravel can move around.
If you are adding a large amount of weight, use a sturdier duffle bag.

