 You can access this by clicking the "Steam" menu and selecting "Settings"/"Preferences".


If you're using the Steam website, click your profile name in the upper-right corner and select "Account details".;
, Follow the prompts to send a verification email to the email address you used to sign up for Steam.
 It should appear after a few moments. Follow the link in the verification email to complete the email verification process.
 If you're not receiving your verification email, there could be a few different causes.


Make sure you're checking the email that you used to create your Steam account. If you no longer have access to the email address that you used to sign up, you'll need to contact Stem Support at support.steampowered.com/newticket.php.
If you're using Gmail, the verification email may appear in the "Updates" tab.
Check your Spam folder if the message isn't appearing. If it's still not showing up, add support@steampowered.com and noreply@steampowered.com to your list of trusted email addresses.
 After verifying your email address, Steam Guard will turn itself on automatically if you restart Steam twice. This is a security precaution.
 This is the way to enable Steam Guard if you've just verified your email address or if you have disabled Steam Guard in the past.
 In the "Account" tab of your Settings or Preferences menu, "Security Status" will display "Protected by Steam Guard" if Steam Guard has been enabled.


Note: After enabling Steam Guard, you will need to wait 15 days before you can trade or use the Community Market.
 If the "Account" tab in your Settings or Preferences menu does not display an "Enable Steam Guard" button, you've likely recently had your account restored by Steam Support. Log completely out of Steam and then log back in to make the button appear.
 When Steam Guard is enabled, you will be prompted to enter a code whenever you log in from a location or device that hasn't been associated with your account. This helps prevent unauthorized access to your Steam account.
 The subject will be "Your Steam account: Access from a new computer/device". This will be sent to the email address that you verified with Steam when enabling Steam Guard.


Check your Spam folder if the message isn't appearing. If it's still not showing up, add support@steampowered.com and noreply@steampowered.com to your list of trusted email addresses.
 Your verification email will contain a five-digit code that you will use to pass Steam Guard.
, Do not select this if you are logging in from a public computer.
 This will allow you to easily distinguish what devices have been authorized for your Steam account. For example, you could name your work computer "Office".
 Once you enter the code and click "Next", you'll be logged in and will be able to use Steam as normal. Note that when authorizing a new device, you'll be locked out of trading and the Community Market for 15 days on that device.
 This is usually caused by a problem with the authentication file on your computer. There are a few things you can try to fix it:


First, try restarting Steam. Log out completely and then log back in. This will fix most issues.
Delete your ClientRegistry.blob file. Restart Steam after doing so. You can find it at the following default locations:

Windows - C:\Program Files\Steam

Mac - ~/User/username/Library/Application Support/Steam




, If the above still doesn't work, you may be able to fix the problem by deleting all of your Steam program files. This will not affect any of your game files. Exit Steam and then open the same location as above. Delete everything except the SteamApps folder and steam.exe (Windows) and UserData (Mac). Restart Steam and it will redownload the necessary files.