 Turns out, that tingly feeling on your skin and pounding heartbeat when you see someone you’re attracted to are caused by chemical reactions. Attraction is, literally, about the chemistry between you.Your brain can make up your mind about whether you find someone attractive in as little as one second.Dopamine (where we get the word “dope”) is a “feel-good” brain chemical involved in your brain’s reward and motivation systems. Dopamine starts sending positive reinforcements to your system when you’re attracted to someone, resulting in that feeling of exhilaration when you’re around the girl you’re into.Norepinephrine, also known as noradrenaline (but not the same thing as adrenalin), is a messenger for your central nervous system.It decides what’s the most important stuff for you to focus on, and it’s why you’re able to block out everything else around you when you’re with the girl you love.
Serotonin regulates quite a few functions, including sleep, sexual behavior, and body temperature. The reason your skin may tingle when you’re around the girl you like is because serotonin drops your body temperature, making your skin temporarily more conductive of electricity. Pretty cool, right?If a girl isn’t attracted to you, it doesn’t mean there’s anything wrong with you. It’s all down to chemistry.;
, People send off a lot of messages with their bodies, some conscious and some unconscious. You can tell a lot about whether a girl is interested in you by looking at how she holds her body when she’s around you.“Open” body language, such as uncrossed arms and legs, relaxed posture, and smiling are all signs that she’s into the interaction.
If a girl plays with her hair, tilts her head when she talks to you, or keeps her hands and wrists relaxed and visible, these are good signs that she’s interested in what’s going on between you.
If her legs and feet are pointed toward you rather than away from you, it’s a sign that she is engaged in your interaction.
Watch how she smiles. True smiles, also called “duchenne” smiles, use the muscles around your eyes as well as your lips. If the creases around her eyes wrinkle a little bit when she smiles, it’s a good sign. If only the muscles around her mouth move, she’s probably trying to hide discomfort., Your body’s autonomic system is in control of a whole host of functions, including sexual attraction.When you’re attracted to someone, certain responses usually occur without you even knowing. Look for the following:


Flushed cheeks. When you’re aroused, blood rushes into your face and cheeks. (This is the reason why some cultures use blush.) People may also flush when they’re nervous or embarrassed, though, so don’t take this as the only sign that she’s into you.Reddening or plumping lips. Arousal causes blood to rush into the lips, making them appear redder and fuller. (Hence the reason some women wear lipstick.) And if she licks her lips, she may be signaling she’d be open to a kiss.Dilated pupils. Physical arousal (stress, attraction, etc.) tends to dilate our pupils. If hers are bigger than usual, she might be unconsciously signaling that she’s excited to be around you.
 Guys have plenty of body language cues too.And, fortunately for you, girls tend to be better at interpreting body language than guys are.This means she’ll probably pick up if you throw a few signals her way.


Keep your body language open. Don’t cross your arms or legs, keep your arms and hands relaxed, and don’t check your phone every 10 seconds.Keep your hands in plain sight. Studies show that we find people more trustworthy when we can see their hands.
Lean in a little bit. Don’t get creepily close, but show you’re interested by leaning it just a bit or tilting your head in her direction.
Smile. You don’t have to force anything, just throw her a quick glance and a friendly smile. If she returns it, she may be interested.
If she seems open and inviting, gently touch her. Maybe reach for her hand or gently brush her forearm. Don’t touch anywhere that’s too personal, and if she doesn’t react well, don’t try it again., You don’t have to be a bodybuilder or star athlete, and you don’t have to wear neon or flashy labels to impress a girl. However, humans have evolved to interpret signs of physical health, such as cleanliness, tidiness, and fitness, as signs that your genes are healthy too.Keep yourself clean, neat, and well-groomed. Not only will you not stink. you’ll project that you care about yourself -- which means you’re likely to care about her, too.
Eat a healthy diet and get regular exercise. You can still have the occasional doughnut or pizza, but try to eat lots of fresh vegetables and fruits, lean proteins, and whole grains. Exercise about 30 minutes a day.
 If you want the girl to fall in love with you, you have to catch her eye. Be friendly and approachable and to stand out to her in some way. Studies show that girls usually value social traits like friendliness and kindness even more than physical attractiveness.Here are some ways to make her notice you:


Be a bit of a joker. If you make people crack up, tell funny stories, or just generally look like you’re having a great time, science suggests she’ll be more interested in you. Research shows that both girls and guys tend to value a sense of humor very highly.Just don’t demean others or be bitter -- that is a quick way to kill any attraction.Make some quick eye contact. Hold it for 4-5 seconds and smile at her.This will show her you’re fun and approachable without coming on too strong.
Be playful. Most guys and girls find playfulness very important.Make even everyday things like study group a little wacky and fun. Be able to laugh at yourself.
You don’t need to try too hard to look different. Unless you’d like to dress in a unique way, the best thing you can do is to wear clean, well-fitting clothes and to pay attention to your hygiene. Be yourself, express something about yourself with your appearance, and let the rest of it come as it will.
 If you want the girl to be hooked fast, then you have to let her see that you really want to get to know her and care about the person who she is. You don’t want her to think that you’re just looking for arm candy or that you just want any pretty girl to fall in love with you. If you actually want to get to know her, then you have to put in the time, pay attention, and ask her questions that help you understand who she really is. Here are some things you can ask her about:Her favorite bands, musicians, TV shows, and movies
Her pets
Her friends
Her family
Her hopes for the future
Her weekend plans
Her childhood
Her favorite hobbies
Her favorite books

, Though you may be extra eager to get the girl to fall in love with you fast, you don’t want to rush her or to force it too much. If you have the sense that the girl likes you but that she wants to move a bit more slowly than you do, then have the respect to let her do that. If you try to get her to move at your pace and she’s not ready for it, then she may feel overwhelmed and may actually back off. If you do feel a connection forming, then it’s worth the wait.


If you sense that it takes this girl a bit longer to open up, then you shouldn’t ask her too many personal questions or reveal too much about yourself right away, or she may feel taken aback.
Don’t introduce the girl to all of your friends and relatives right away if she’s still feeling out the situation. You don’t want her to feel pressured to commit to you too soon.
 To get the girl to like you right away, you have to show her that you respect other people (including her). This doesn’t mean you have to pull out her chair at the table or always pay for dinner; in fact, some girls may find these unappealing. It does mean that you should show respect and kindness to everyone you encounter, especially the girl you want to woo. Studies show that traits like kindness actually make people see you as more physically attractive.Feel out (or just ask) what your girl prefers. Some girls like the door held for them; others would prefer to do it themselves. Whatever she wants, that’s what you should do.
Remember that she will also judge you based on how you treat other people, especially people you have a certain level of power over (like servers at a restaurant). If you’re rude to your waiter, your girl will notice, and she’ll probably expect that at some point you’ll be rude to her too.
Whether you’re going on an official date or just meeting up to see a movie, be respectful. Get there on time, be courteous, and give her a compliment or two.
Though you don’t need to dress up like a prince when you’re together, if you don’t put in any effort into your appearance, then she’ll think you don’t care for her.
Everyone slips up. If you do, acknowledge your mistake and apologize for it right away.
 You’re more likely to get a girl to fall for you if you show that you believe you’re worth falling for. Be confident, but never cocky. Studies suggest that your self-confidence will draw her to you.True self-confidence comes from knowing and accepting yourself for who you are. When you’re cool with yourself, you inspire others to feel the same way.
Cockiness, on the other hand, may come from a deeper insecurity about yourself. You may feel the need to get your self-esteem from external sources, or like you have to put people down to feel good about yourself.Don’t brag about yourself, tear others down, or puff yourself up with arrogance. Your general rule of thumb? Don’t be a jerk.
A little self-deprecation can actually increase others’ perceptions of your confidence because you aren’t insecure about the little foibles we all have. Don’t present yourself as though you’re the world’s sorriest human, but if you have some flaws, laugh them off. For example: “Oh, no, you do not want me to help you with your math homework. You would fail the class. Now, if it’s history, you just call me up.”

, In order to get the girl’s attention and to keep her interested, you have to show her that she’s special and that she really stands out to you. Tell her why you think she’s different from her friends or the other girls out there, give her sincere compliments, and tell her how cool it is to get to know a girl like her. Don’t stare at every pretty girl in the room, either, or she’ll think she’s just one of your conquests. Here are some ways to really make her feel special:


Show her that you’re paying attention. Bring up something she talked about the last time she saw you, whether it was a book she was reading or an exam she was studying for, and ask her about it.
Give her a meaningful compliment. Sure, telling her she has nice eyes can make her feel good, but she’ll be even more flattered if you compliment her intelligence.
Let her see that you only have eyes for her. If her friends are around, don’t flirt with them; show the girl you like that you’re only focused on her.
 Though you may feel like you want to put all of your feelings out there right away and to tell the girl exactly how you feel, if you really want to keep her close, you want to keep a little bit of mystery.Don’t tell her every last thing you’re feeling about her, or she may feel like you’re over-sharing (or worse, only talking about yourself).


It’s also tempting to tell her everything about yourself in an attempt to convince her that you’re a great catch. However, it’s a better idea to let your conversations grow naturally. Ask her some questions about herself. If she’s interested in you, she’ll ask some back. You can let your sharing grow from there.
There are a few things you should probably not share. For example, don’t go on about your ex-girlfriends, even if you’re saying how crazy or awful they were. This might initially make her feel flattered, but it’s also a sign that if you break up, you’ll talk about her that way to someone else, and that is a major red flag.Trashing your boss is also a sign that you may not understand appropriate behavior, which could turn her off.
 If you really want the girl to fall for you right away, then you have to show her that you’re a dynamic, interesting guy who is worth knowing. Let her see that there are things you are passionate about, that you are keen on self-improvement, and that you do more than play video games for hours when you’re apart. Being a healthy, well-rounded person is attractive.Girls want guys who are interesting conversationalists. If she feels like you have nothing to contribute to the conversation other than the score of the baseball game or like the only thing you read are your friends’ text messages, then she won’t be as eager to hang out with you.
Guys who are independent are attractive to girls because independence is also a sign of confidence. If you’re comfortable pursuing your own interests, then this shows that you don’t need the company of others to find validation.
Be comfortable with doing your own thing. If you’d rather read a novel or play guitar in the park than hang out with a big group of people, she’ll respect your drive and independence.
This also means you let her do her own thing too. If she has interests that you’re not into, don’t feel bad about her not involving you. It’s actually healthy for people in relationships to have some separate interests.
 Sometimes girls can feel like it’s nearly impossible to get a guy to listen to them these days. If you want to stand out and to really make a girl fall in love with you fast, then you have to show her she’s worth it by making a real effort to listen to every word she says. Make eye contact, put away your phone, and avoid interrupting her while she’s trying to tell you something. Let her see that you care about what she thinks and that you want to understand what she’s going through.If she asks for advice, you can give it to her, but don’t be too quick to give her advice if all she wants is for someone to listen to her. If you aren’t sure, ask: “I just want to make sure I give you what you need. Do you want me to give you advice or do you just need to vent? I’m cool either way.”
If she’s going through a hard time, don’t just compare her experiences to your own; this can make it feel as if you’re minimizing her problems. However, if you really do have a relevant experience that you think can help her, then you can bring it up cautiously. For example, “Wow, that sounds terrible. I’ve also had horrible bosses, so I can totally empathize. When my boss was a jerk, I did _____. What do you think about trying that here?”
Practice active listening. While you don’t have to nod emphatically after every word she says, you should repeat some of what she says back to her in your own words to show that you really care.
Clarify anything you don’t understand, especially if it is fairly emotional. Your feelings may get hurt from time to time, or you may have no clue what she’s talking about. Stay cool and ask for clarification. For example: “I’m not sure I understood you right. I heard ________. Was that what you meant?” Take her at her word when she explains.
 If you want the girl to fall in love with you fast, then you have to make her see that she’s on your mind even when you’re a hundred miles apart. Though you don’t want to suffocate her with phone calls, you should give her a quick call or send a sweet text message often enough that she feels like you’re still thinking of her and that she really matters to you. Make sure she sees how important she is to you and that you want her to be a regular part of your life.


Just make sure you’re not always the one texting or calling her. You want there to be a balance so she doesn’t feel smothered. Otherwise, something called the “distancer-pursuer dynamic” can show up, where you continue to chase after her and she feels so overwhelmed that she keeps pulling back.Send her a quick note with a sweet reminder of something fun you did together or something you love about her to make her smile. Just say something like, “I keep thinking about how much fun I had hiking with you. I can’t wait to do it again soon” or “I can’t stop thinking about how cute you look with your new haircut.”

, If you want a girl to fall in love with you fast, then you have to be willing and ready to open up to her pretty quickly. You don’t want her to feel like you’re not vulnerable or like you’re not ready to share yourself with her, though you also don’t want to overwhelm her with too much private information at once.As you get to know each other better and better, you should make an effort to let her see who you really are. Here are some things you can open up to her about:


Your hopes and dreams
Your childhood
Your biggest disappointments
Your friendships
Your family
Your favorite hobbies
Your favorite memories

, One of the best ways to make a girl fall in love with you is to show her support and acceptance. Even if she already has high self-confidence, you should make her feel special, compliment her, and point out all of the things she’s good at; you want her to feel like you help inspire her to be the best version of herself.Be there to support and encourage her and make her feel like she can do anything. Whether she’s preparing for a hard test or an interview for her dream job, you should point out all of the reasons why she’ll do an amazing job.
If she has a big day coming up, write her a letter telling her she’ll do great. Make sure to check in with her after the event to see how it went, too.
 Another way to make a girl fall in love with you fast is to show her how dependable you are. You can’t say you’ll be somewhere and not show up, promise you’ll help her out with something and then cancel at the last minute, or be nowhere in sight the second she needs a shoulder to cry on. Dependability builds trust. You want this girl to think that you’ll be there for her through thick and thin and that she can trust you no matter what is going on.If she feels like she can’t really depend on you, then she’ll definitely doubt your feelings for her. Show her that your word is worth its weight in gold.
If you do have to cancel on her for some reason, let her know why. We all have unexpected stuff come up that keeps us from following through sometimes. She’s less likely to think you’re a flake if you explain what happened and express that you’re sorry you had to miss out on spending time with her. For example: “I’m so sorry I have to miss our date tonight! My mom is working late and my little brother has nobody to take him to soccer practice but me. How about tomorrow?”

, To really build a deep connection with the girl and to make her see how much you love and care about her, you have to make a real effort to bond with her friends and her family. These are the most important people in anyone’s life, and they can have a huge influence.Try to really get to know the important people in her life, to show them your best self, and to treat your girlfriend with the respect she deserves when you’re around other people. If you want your relationship to last, then you have to have the approval of her friends and family.


You may never be best friends with her friends and family, but you should still make sure they like you and think that you’re kind to your girlfriend; they have to think that she can be herself around you.
Ask them how they’re doing, show an interest in their lives, and be friendly, even if you run into them without your girlfriend.
 If you want the girl to fall in love with you fast, then she has to see that you’re someone who can really be there for her in the long run. Though you don’t have to ask her to think too far ahead, you can exhibit the qualities that any good long-term boyfriend should have if you want her to love you and to see real potential with you. Here are some things you can do to show that you’d make a great long-term boyfriend:


Have great manners
Treat her family with the utmost respect
Exude confidence
Be driven and motivated to achieve your goals
Be punctual
Be comfortable opening up to her and showing vulnerability
Make her feel good about herself and respect her decisions
Don’t drink too much and embarrass yourself or do anything else that would make her not want to be seen with you in public

, If you really want the girl to fall in love with you, then you have to be okay with letting her do her own thing. Contrary to what you may think, putting on pressure for her to spend as much of her waking hours with you as possible won’t actually make her fall in love with you any faster. In fact, being comfortable with letting her spend time with her friends and to pursue her own interests will actually make her love you more, because she’ll appreciate you more if you’re not always together. She’ll also appreciate the freedom to pursue her own interests and passions.If you’re okay with her being on her own, this also shows that you’re confident in yourself and your relationship. This will also help make her feel more excited about your relationship.
If you text or call her every five minutes when she’s out with her friends, then she’ll feel like you don’t really trust her. This type of behavior is actually a warning sign of abuse. Don’t be a control freak.
 If you want to make your relationship last forever, then you can’t take your girlfriend for granted. You have to make her see how much everything she does means to you and how much better your life is because she’s in it. You can’t get complacent and assume that she knows just how you feel about her because you’re together.You can write her a love letter just because you feel like telling her all of the ways that she makes your life better.
You have to remember to thank her for everything she does for you, even if she just runs a small errand, so she always feels like you appreciate her.
If you know you won’t be able to see each other a lot for an extended period of time, make sure that you call her and stay in touch so she doesn’t think she’s out of your mind just because she’s out of sight.
On the other hand, you don’t need to smother her, either. Secure attachments mean that each person feels comfortable and confident in the other person’s love. If you’ve said “I love you” once or twice that day, there’s no need to say it 50 more times. Too much can actually make you seem insecure.
 You don’t have to tell her that you love her every second of the day, but you should tell her at least once a day, and say it like you mean it, by looking in her eyes, putting away your phone or other distractions, and showing her that there’s nothing more important to you than telling her how you feel about her.Texting her “love you” or saying “love you!” as you walk off is not the same thing as really making the effort to say “I love you.” Avoid shortcuts when it comes to telling your girlfriend how you feel.
Don’t say that you love her when you’re in a fight or have just made up from an argument; “I love you” can mean the most when you say it just because.
 No matter how long you’ve been together, you have to make an effort to keep that spark of romance alive. Make sure you always have time for date nights, that you take care with your appearance when you’re together, and that you keep your relationship feeling exciting and adventurous. Keep on complimenting your girlfriend, being sweet to her, and giving her love and affection, and keep your romance going strong no matter what.Don’t forget to give your girlfriend a kiss when you spend time together. Kiss her passionately, not just because you’re saying hello or goodbye.
Give your girlfriend little meaningful gifts just because. Don’t give her a gift just because it’s her birthday or because an anniversary is coming up, but because you just feel like telling her how much you care.
Even if you’re having a date night in, make sure to wear flattering, well-fitting clothes. Don’t make your girlfriend feel like you don’t want to put in the effort anymore.
 If you’ve fallen in love and are determined to make that love last a long time, then you have to be prepared for the fact that your girlfriend won’t always be the same person she was when you met her. She will evolve, develop new interests, gain new experiences, and will see the world a different way, just like you will. You have to be prepared for the fact that you’ll both change as you move forward with your lives, and be accepting and even excited about that idea.


The key is that, while you both develop new interests and have life take you in new directions, that you develop together, instead of growing further apart.
While you may not always have the exact same interests, you can’t let the fact that you’re changing drive you apart. When things change, you have to talk about it and be accepting of it instead of always wishing you could go back to the way things were.
 To keep your loving relationship going, you have to make sure you do little things to show your girlfriend how much you love and care about her. It’s not all about the grand gestures, and life really is lived in the details.No matter how busy you are, you should never stop making an effort to show your girlfriend how much she really means to you. Here are some little things you can do to make your relationship shine in a big way:


Leave her little love notes around the house for her to find when you’re not around
Send her a sweet text or email during your day to let her know you’re thinking of her
Bring her flowers just because, not because it’s her birthday
Prepare a romantic meal for her at home when you know she’s having a busy week
Do little favors for her, like picking up lunch or coffee for her, when you know she needs a bit of extra help

, If you want to keep your love going strong, then you and your girlfriend have to build meaningful traditions that make your life together really special. This can be anything from playing bocce together to watching your favorite TV shows every Sunday night; it’s not important what you do, but that you take pleasure in each other’s company and find things to do together that make your lives and your relationship better.Here are some things you can do to build traditions together:


Go on a short vacation during each yearly anniversary
Write each other love notes on your birthdays
Have a movie-and-dinner-at-home night at least once a month
Pick up a new hobby together, such as biking or writing songs
Go to your favorite “date night” restaurant at least once a month
Find your favorite hiking trail and hike it at least once a year
Give each other gag gifts during a specific holiday

, While building strong traditions is one way to keep your relationship going strong, another way to make your love last is to never stop finding new ways to keep your relationship feeling new.Step out of your comfort zones, seek out new adventures, and don’t be afraid to be spontaneous. Making a real effort to make your relationship feel exciting can help your love stand the test of time. Here are some things you can do:


Take dance lessons together
Explore a completely new place together
Make an effort to meet new friends together
Learn a new skill together, such as cooking or speaking a foreign language
Point out new things you love about each other

