 People with delusional disorder may become agitated or have thoughts that can lead to harm, either to themselves or other people. As a precaution, give your loved one space if she’s having a serious delusional episode. Stand away or even place an obstacle like a chair between the two of you.Don’t touch your loved one without permission during a delusion. She may misunderstand or have a violent reaction. Keep your hands visible, as well.
If your loved one is paranoid, be clear that you are there to help and not to hurt or harm her.
Be mindful about your body language, which a loved one might misinterpret. Do not whisper, laugh, smile, or shake your head. In cases of paranoid delusions, these may serve to increase the person’s paranoia., Try to find out more about the delusion that your loved one is having — what he is experiencing. This can help you to determine whether he is a risk to himself or others and to determine what the best course of action is.Ask in a calm voice, again avoiding gestures that could be misinterpreted, “Are you having any thoughts about hurting yourself or someone else?” or, “Are you afraid of something or someone?”
Again, don’t try to refute the delusions or tell your loved one that they’re not real. This is counter-productive. Instead, affirm the person’s experience, i.e. “I believe that you are telling things as you see them.”
Don’t assume that your loved one will tell the truth about what he’s thinking or believing. If he is paranoid, he may not trust you.
 Ideally, you’ll be able to get your loved one to a hospital where she can get the attention she needs in a crisis. This can happen voluntarily — that is, your loved one consents to be admitted to a hospital. It can also happen through involuntary committal, however, if she is not able to make the choice for herself.Reassure your loved one that the hospital is a safe place where she can get better. Tell her that it is not an institution, an asylum, or a prison and that it is not for punishment. You might also mention that most stays usually last less than two weeks.
Let her know that hospitalization is confidential. No one outside of the family needs to know about it.
Call the hospital on her behalf to learn more about admission, treatments, and policies. Offer her choices, as well, like what clothes to take and who will go with her.
 Unfortunately, people with delusional disorder can have dangerous ideas and might not consent to hospitalization. They may be paranoid and agitated; they may have thoughts of harming themselves or others; or they may be driven to do things that are illegal, like stalking. If you have a safety concern — for your loved one or others — call for help.Call 911 emergency services if you have reason to think that your loved one is an immediate danger to himself or could be a danger to others. You could also notify the police if your loved one has what is known as an erotomanic delusion, meaning he believes someone (usually someone important or famous) is in love with him, and is stalking or harassing someone.People with jealous delusions (believing his spouse or partner is unfaithful)or persecutory delusions (believing a person or entity is out to harm him)can sometimes become violent. Call for help if you think there is a physical danger involved.
Consider involuntary hospitalization as a last option. Talk to a mental health professional if your loved one needs treatment but will not consent. Call a mental health doctor to find out what this will require — the police and lawyers may need to be involved.

