 You might even want to travel interstate or overseas, depending on your budget.


How much time do you have for traveling? If you don't have much, choosing a mountain range that is close by makes more sense (if there are any nearby).;
, If you're after specific activities, this will narrow down the options for which mountains you choose. Some mountain areas are quite developed, offering hiking trails, chalets, interesting towns, etc., while other mountain regions are wild and have little development. What do you want from your visit? Some options include:


Simply soaking up the scenery. In which, case, look for a hotel known for its scenic mountain views. Often it will be of a resort style, offering activities on the site, such as spas, fine dining and sports such as golfing or tennis.
Hiking trails, rock- or mountain-climbing, parachuting, hunting, wildlife spotting, etc. Some places will have better infrastructure for this than others but you can easily check this by looking online.
Visiting a national park or heritage/conservation area in a mountain region. This can include wildlife watching, sleeping in camps or huts, stargazing, seeing natural features and landmarks, etc.
A field trip. Maybe you're keen to study the wildlife, find specimens of alpine plant growth, check for signs of climate change by observing the glaciers, etc. Take along a notebook and start observing!
Water sports. Many mountain regions have fantastic lakes with a lot of water sport opportunities, along with cabins or similar self-contained stay arrangements.
 Early and later summer are likely to be less crowded than the mid-summer time. If you're heading somewhere that is really popular, you'll need to find out whether bookings are essential, so that you don't miss out. Even campgrounds fill fast when it's a good season and some have booking requirements.
 Bear in mind that even though it is summer, mountain weather can change without warning and can become very cold, very quickly. This means being prepared at all times for cold weather, even when you're out for a "short" walk. Carry a rain jacket and windproof top in your backpack, just in case. Other things you'll probably need include:


Clothing for the place you're staying at. If it's a tent, just comfortable things are fine but if it's a resort, you'll need formal dinner clothing as well as your outdoor stuff for the daytime.
Hiking boots, sandals, shoes, etc.
Camping gear if camping.
All of your sports equipment unless you plan to hire any. Find out before you leave home whether it's possible to hire the things you'd rather leave behind.
Insurance for your car, for you and your family, and for the accommodation arrangements you've already paid for.
The usual gadgets you like to have with you. Maps are also useful, both in digital and paper form; you can't be guaranteed of getting good reception in the mountains.
Compass, if you're heading into the back country. GPS can also be helpful, along with emergency locators if you get lost.
 Some mountain ranges will contain wildlife, depending on which country and which mountain range you're in. If you're not sure, ask the locals before venturing out. Stay alert and take what you need to protect yourself, such as bear spray in bear country and knowledge of how to respond to any threat tailored to the animals you're likely to meet.
 Mountain regions are wild, rugged and hazardous. It is part of their charm and attraction. Here are some of the things it pays to be aware of:


Although it's summer, an avalanche may be possible in some mountain regions. If there is snow, there is a possibility, so always know how to take care, how to avoid avalanche areas and what to do if one does happen.
Windy roads and narrow roads, rock falls over roads. Each of these presents its own set of hazards. It is important to heed road signs and road closures. Do not go through closed roads for any reason; they have been closed for your safety. If you see a rockfall, report it to the authorities. And on windy roads or narrow roads, drive slowly and carefully; give other drivers plenty of space and the benefit of the doubt.
Rivers and lakes. As beautiful as these water bodies are, they can also be very dangerous. A raging, swollen river can carry you away instantly if you cross it at the wrong time or fall in, while cold and deep lakes can claim an unsuspecting swimmer or boater. Treat water with care––cross rivers responsibly, always wear a life jacket when undertaking water sports and water activities and do not camp in dry creek or river beds.
Getting lost. Losing your way is possible when you go into the back country. Get sufficient information before setting out, let people know where you're headed and for how long, and when to expect you back. Take appropriate precautions to ensure your safety if you do get lost, such as having emergency beacon locators with you. Remember––your cell phone, no matter how smart, is next to useless when you're in the back country.
 That way, you will grow to enjoy the majestic skyline and some of the mountains will be seared in your memory, friends for life.
 Talk to people who live and work in the mountain area and learn what their lives are like. You might even make new friends out there, making it worth returning the following summer!


If you're in a national park or similar, find out what talks and gatherings the rangers have organized. You can meet a lot of wonderful people who share your passion at such events.
 Mountain air is good for you and while it's great to exercise in it, it's also lovely to just chill out and kick back. Take along some good books, your art kit or some nice music and allow yourself time to commune with mother nature in the mountains.
 With a digital camera, everyone can take great mountain images. If you're a really serious photographer, you can take panoramic shots and maybe even climb and get some more unique shots where most people can't be bothered going. Also check out the possibilities for taking photos of the wildlife, the plant life and sunrise and sunset over the mountains.

