 If you suspect your dog may be in need of a change to their diet, make an appointment with your vet. Bringing your dog into the vet will ensure you determine exactly what is causing your dog’s changes in behavior or physical appearance. Depending on your dog’s condition, your vet will do a physical exam and may run tests on your dog to determine the cause of the issue.


During the appointment, your vet may ask you about your dog’s medical history. They may also ask you about your dog’s changes in behavior and demeanor. You may need to answer questions such as, “When did you notice your dog acting lethargic or ill?” or “How long has your dog’s coat been dull and flaky?”

, Once your vet examines your dog, they may recommend a change in your dog’s diet. Speak to your vet about what your dog’s new diet needs to contain to ensure they remain healthy. Your vet may recommend a specific type of food, such as high quality dry dog food, or specific nutrients in your dog’s new diet.Work with your vet to develop a new diet plan for your dog based on their needs. Your vet should be able to help you select food to add to your dog’s diet and suggest foods you can try removing from their diet to see if it addresses your dog’s health conditions and nutritional requirements.
 Switch your dog over to their new diet plan gradually, as doing it too quickly can lead to digestive issues for your pup. Start with 25% of the new food and 75% of the old food for the first two to three days. Then, move to 50% of the new food and 50% of the old food. Finally, move to 75% new food and 25% old food. Moving over to your dog’s new diet gradually will ensure they do not get upset stomach and can digest their new food properly.Your vet may also recommend adjusting the amount of food you feed your dog and how often you feed your dog on a daily basis. You should follow your vet's instructions to ensure your dog remains healthy.
You should monitor your dog’s physical appearance and general demeanor while they are on their new diet plan. If you notice your dog is not improving, you may need to speak to your vet again about further adjustments to their diet so they remain healthy.

