 Knowing what to expect can help to ease any anxiety around the procedure.Assuming you have been bitten or scratched by an animal with a risk of being infected with rabies, you will first receive the rabies immune globulin or IgG. IgG is an antibody that is effective immediately at fighting off any rabies that may be present in your body.The vaccine takes a couple of weeks to develop your immunity, but IgG will protect you during this period.
You will also receive the rabies vaccine on the same day, which is a separate thing. The immunity from the rabies vaccine kicks in within about 2 weeks.You will then receive 3 additional "follow-up" rabies vaccines - on day 3 post-exposure, day 7 post-exposure, and day 14 post-exposure, respectively. This is to ensure that it is maximally effective in your system. Because of the high risk and fatality of a rabies infection, it is extremely important that you follow through with all vaccinations scheduled.Both the rabies "immune globulin" as well as the rabies vaccine are safe to give to pregnant women and children.;
, Similar to getting a flu shot, the arm muscle where you receive the injection may be sore afterwards, and you may have mild symptoms of fever or generalized muscle aches.This is normal and nothing to worry about.
 If you follow through with the whole treatment regimen for rabies, your chances for "cure" are near 100%. The main reasons that rabies becomes dangerous are that either you are in a developing country or a location where vaccination is not available, or you ignore the risk of the animal bite and fail to be treated quickly.As long as you seek treatment immediately after exposure, the risk is very low.
 If you are worried about getting the rabies vaccine, having a friend accompany you to the emergency room can provide an emotional support. Also, if you are nervous around the idea of shots, having someone else to drive you to and from the hospital can help to ensure safety while driving.
 It is important to fully relax your arm before getting the needle put in, as this will minimize the pain. If your muscles are tense, the shot will hurt a lot more. Some strategies to relax include:


Look away from the needle. Some people get very anxious at the sight of a needle that is about to enter their arm. If this is the case for you, it can be helpful to look away and to distract yourself.

Practice deep breathing. Focusing on deep breaths can help your whole body to relax, and also help to minimize any tension that may be present in the muscle receiving the vaccine.
Talk to the person giving you the shot. While looking away, it can also be helpful to distract your mind. One easy way to do this is to make small talk with the nurse giving you the vaccine. It can also help to get your mind off the worry of the pain that is to come. The great thing is that, when your mind is distracted, having a vaccine can be nearly painless!

, If you are someone who is fearful of vaccines, be proud of yourself for following through with the series of rabies vaccines. It is a long process, but one that is extremely important for your health and wellbeing, so be proud of yourself for conquering your fears., Even when you are treated after you have been exposed to rabies, the good news is that if treatment is done quickly enough you will recover just fine.
 In developing countries, dog bites are responsible for 90% of cases of rabies in humans.However, in North America the greatest risk for humans comes from bats. Rabies is also common in raccoons, skunks, and foxes.
 Putting it in context like this can help to ease tension around getting the vaccine, for the benefits far outweigh the hassle or the fear of getting a needle put into you.

