 An ITIN is a number issued only to individuals who do not qualify for a Social Security Number, but who have tax reporting or filing requirements. While a Social Security Number is necessary for employment, it is possible to legally start a business with only an ITIN.It is important to note that an ITIN does not authorize work in the United States, nor does it permit eligibility for Social Security.
For individuals not eligible for a Social Security Number, the ITIN can be a useful way to create legally create income via entrepreneurship.;
, If you are not eligible to obtain a Social Security Number, but still have tax reporting requirements (like owning a small business, for example), you qualify for an ITIN number.Examples of individuals who would meet these requirements include non-resident aliens, resident aliens, and spouses or dependents of resident/non-resident aliens.
A resident alien refers to any individual who is not a United States citizen, but who has passed the green card or the substantial presence test. A non-resident alien refers to a non-citizen who has not passed the green card or the substantial presence test., If you meet the above requirements, and have tax reporting requirements, or are interested in starting some sort of business that will have tax reporting requirements, you will need to apply for an ITIN number.


To apply, you will need to fill out a W-7 Form, which can be found on the IRS website. Simply fill out the form, and attach it to a valid federal income tax return. You will also need to include your proof of identity (either or originals or copies) , and foreign status documents.Mail your information to the following address: Internal Revenue Service, Austin Service Center ITIN Operation, P.O. Box 149342, Austin, TX 78714-9342

If you need assistance with your application and are in the United States, contact the IRS at 1-800-829-1040. If you are outside of the United States, contact the IRS at 267-941-1000
Note that you can apply for an ITIN at any time of the year, but since you need to attach a federal tax return to your W-7 Form, make sure to apply before the due date for the tax return as to avoid any penalties..

