 Only version 8.0 and higher of Acrobat can reliably redact information in a PDF document. Though you can try using other programs to remove information from a PDF document, they will not be able to remove the hidden information in the document effectively and are not recommended.The redaction tool option is only available for Adobe Acrobat Pro. It is not available for Adobe Acrobat Reader.You can try a plug-in made for other versions of Adobe Acrobat, such as Redux. These plug-ins or add-on software can be used to redact information in a PDF file using other versions of Adobe Acrobat.If you have access to the document as a text file, you can go through the redaction process for a text file and then use the final redacted PDF. However, if you only have access to the PDF file and need to redact the PDF file, you will need to try this method.
 To do this, go to View > Toolbars > Redaction. You can then choose the “Mark for Redaction” tool from the toolbar. Use the tool to mark all the items you would like to redact.To redact a line or item in the document, double-click on a word or image. Press CTRL as you drag to select a line, a block of text, an image, or an area of the document.
Click OK to remove the selected items. Keep in mind the items are not permanently removed from the document until you save the document.
 Once you apply the redactions, the “Examine Document” function will pop up. You can use this function to search for any hidden text or metadata and remove it.Hidden text can appear as the original text or a version of the original text. Metadata may look like coded text, where there are numbers or symbols within the original text.
Repeat this process until you have removed all the necessary content from the PDF document. Make sure you remove any hidden text or metadata as well.
 Once you have removed all sensitive information, as well as any hidden text, you should rename the document “Final-redacted” and save it. You should now have a redacted version of the PDF and an unredacted version.Once you save the redacted document, you should delete the unredacted document. You should now have a redacted PDF version of the document that has no hidden text or metadata. This will ensure that no one can access the original, unredacted document.

