 For example, country Texas (USA) will differ slightly from country Alberta (Canada), which will differ again from country Queensland (Australia), which will differ from country Taranaki (NZ). That said, there are some common threads among many of these, which includes:


Living off the land






Farming, owning stock, growing food,






Handling animals (riding, drenching, shearing, dipping, herding, branding, milking, etc.)






A love of liberty, freedom, big skies, lots of land, attachment to the land, etc.






Resilience, courage, coping with great odds from natural disasters such as droughts to the bank banging on the door for debts, strengths, resourcefulness, etc.
Bonding with others living off the land, sharing resources, helping one another, etc.





;
, This includes the colors of the land, depictions of the animals and crops, representations of seasons/harvests, the clothing worn when working on the farm, awards, displaying skills, etc.


For example, you might have won awards for your horse riding, sheep shearing, rounding up the cattle, whatever. These might be displayed as ribbons, certificates, trophies, etc. as part of a memorabilia section of your room.






Another example could be the clothing you wear for working out on the farm. An old pair of overalls or riding jodhpurs could be framed and hung up on the wall as a life-size decoration and memorabilia. Or you might hang up your cowgirl hat, riding hat or cork-rimmed hat as a feature piece.
 It's timeless. It's just country and it speaks for itself. Moreover, country is what you decide it is; after all, it's where you live or come from, so define it as you see and feel it. Maybe you have horses, hunt deer or wild hogs, see raccoons or possums in the yard, chase kangaroos off your garden, milk dairy cows, live among the tui or Kereru birds; whatever is around you can become part of your room's theme.
 It's easier to begin on paper, with a sketch and perhaps a list, so that when you're decorating, there is something to follow. This doesn't mean you're stuck making it exactly as you've drawn up; allow changes as you're decorating, as this is part of the creative process.
 Choose a color that suits both you and fits your idea of what is country. Perhaps you like eucalyptus green to represent gum trees. Maybe you'd like barnyard red trim around the window sills, to show off your love of all things in the barn.


Avoid bland colors or colors that are a bit too urban. Grey is a good color to avoid; it's too symbolic of concrete, a major city item.






Black and white might work if you're on a dairy farm but take care it doesn't look too stark; be sure to have plenty of dairy cow pieces to make it evident why you chose this combination.
 Once it's painted, you can start adding everything else.
 Choose wooden furniture; this speaks best to the idea of all things country. However, you could also choose things made from wool, leather, natural fibers, etc.


Log furniture is cozy country.
 Lamps, rugs, bedsheets, blankets, etc.. You will know if it matches the theme.


Choose thick, woven textures for soft furnishings. These will wear well, as things need to when living in the country.






Get a camouflage or horse bedspread. And choose country-themed pillows; covers can feature animals, plants and country objects.






Rugs could be real or imitation steer skin, place rabbit fur scraps on your wooden dresser, etc.
 These "things" can be varied, including paintings, banners, prizes, photos, wooden plaques, clothing, etc. Choose whatever you feel fits the theme.

