 Use a mirror, if you want to create an "opponent," or turn on a bright light behind you, so that you can project your shadow on to the wall. A shadow boxing exercise program can be done almost anywhere and in almost any clothes.


It is best to wear flat shoes, rather than heels. Athletic shoes with arch supports are preferable, so you can incorporate flexible movement into your exercise routine.
 Flex your arm muscles and make the movements as deliberate as possible. When you are confident that you are ready to speed up, then you can begin to move faster.
 Set a timer or start along with a clock. Do the same punches or use any combination, while you bend your knees and keep your core muscles secure to retain your balance.
 Incorporate lunges, squatting, switch feet or hop between your front and back foot, as if you are ready to follow your opponent around the ring. Footwork and hopping increases the intensity of this cardiovascular workout.


You can do the hand work (punches) and footwork separately, and then try adding them together. You must be careful to retain good posture and core muscle strength while you move.
 A boxer usually aims to throw about 250 to 300 punches per 3-minute period. You will be much slower than this when you start, so count your punches and work up to this speed.
 In the beginning, speed punching and footwork will increase your heart rate and make you sweat. As you continue boxing, you will be able to add intervals into your speed boxing routine to create an even better workout.
 Punch for 3 minutes, and then do jumping jacks, jump rope or climb up and down stairs for 1 minute. Repeat this set 3 to 5 times for an excellent cardiovascular workout.
 Concentrate on each punch by flexing your muscles and delivering punches as slowly and deliberately as possible for 1 to 3 minutes. Return to a faster workout once you catch your breath.
 Punch by holding 1 to 3 lb. (0.5 to 1.4 kg) weights, secure wrist weights or use weighted boxing gloves. These can all be purchased at most sporting goods supply stores.

