 While your taste in music has probably changed since you were a kid, you may still have those old CDs stashed somewhere. A long drive can be a great time for a walk down memory lane. Grab a handful of CDs you haven’t listened to in years and see if you can still sing along to all of the words.


You can also take some of your current favorites, borrow new music from a friend, or check out something random from the library.
If you prefer an MP3 player over CDs, consider playing it on shuffle and see if you are surprised by some of the music you forgot you had on there.
When travelling with kids, bring some CDs of silly songs kids like to sing along to. Or if they are older, let them play some of the music they like.;
, If you love to read, you probably have that one book you know you should read but have been avoiding. A long trip can be a great time to listen to an audiobook, especially of a book you can’t make yourself read. You get to experience the story without the potential boredom of hours of reading.Most public libraries have a large assortment of audiobooks on CD, which you could check out. You can also download from sites like Audible. Some libraries may even have digital audiobooks for streaming or download.
There are all kinds of audiobooks that are kid-friendly, so consider finding a story kids and adults both could enjoy.
You don’t have to just choose a difficult book. You could check out the latest best-seller or something a friend has recommended that you’ve put off for too long already.
 Although podcasts have been around for years, many people are still unfamiliar with them. These are scripted or unscripted audio recordings. Podcasts often have celebrity interviews but can also be done by people who are not otherwise famous. Searching in iTunes or the Google Play Store will give you nearly unlimited options.You can download podcasts that discuss the latest in sports, music podcasts that include full songs or clips, or serialized podcasts that tell a narrative in each episode. If you have a hobby or interest, there is most likely a podcast that will suit your taste.
 If you are far from home, check out what music stations are playing in the locale you’re driving through. You might assume that radio is basically the same everywhere, but you might be surprised by what you find being played. Even if you don’t settle on a station, or if none have good enough reception, it’s a fun way to take a break from whatever else you’re listening to.