 A standard ruler will work well for this.
 This is a fairly standard matting size.


Add 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) to the height and width measurements of your photo. You will cut your cardstock into this mat size. Once you center the photo on this cardstock, it will create a border of 1/8 inch (0.3 cm) on all sides.
Take a piece of cardstock. Beginning in a corner, measure the width of the mat size with a ruler. Mark it with a pencil in several places next to the ruler line for easy cutting.
Measure the length of the mat size and mark it in several places with a pencil.
Place the cardstock inside the paper trimmer with the excess paper going underneath the blade. Carefully align the pencil lines along the center of the trimmer, where the blade rests. Hold the paper and swipe the blade down for an even cut. Turn the paper and repeat this cut along the opposite pencil lines.
 Apply roll-on adhesive to the back of your photograph in sporadic lines all around the border and interior.


Center the photo above your mat. Press the photo lightly onto the map. Make any adjustments to ensure an even border.
Smooth the top of the photo with pressure. Use a soft cloth over your hand to avoid getting finger prints on the photo. Ensure it is properly affixed and allow it to dry. It is ready to be glued onto your scrapbook page.
 Remember to double the border amount and add it to the photo dimension measurements before cutting your cardstock. Choose the size of photo mat based on your preference.
 These photo mats will be 5 by 7 inches (12.7 by 17.8 cm), making great 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) mat borders for 4 by 6 inch (10.2 by 15.2 cm) photographs. Take a single sheet of cardstock and lay it on your flat work table.
 Mark the line measurement with a pencil. Measure 5 inches (12.7 cm) down from the top of the sheet.


Measure 7 inches down from the top right corner of the sheet. Draw the line measurement with a pencil. Your width measurement should be 5 inches from the first set of lines you drew.
Flip the sheet around so that the bottom is on the top. Repeat the above measurements. When you finish, you should have 4.5 by 7 inch (12.7 by 17.8 cm) photo mats.
Cut out the rectangles with a pair of sharp paper scissors.

