 You'll need a power drill, a dozen craft sticks, paint and brush (optional), a photograph (optional), a craft knife, glue, water, and embroidery floss.
 Do this for the rest of your craft sticks. Make sure all the holes are drilled at the same spot on all the sticks.


Use caution when cutting with a power drill. Wear eye protection and do the cutting on a flat surface.
 This will be the top of your fan and will spread out more than the base.
 Allow them to dry thoroughly.


You may find that some colors, particularly reds, will need 2 or even 3 coats.
 Make sure the sticks are touching, without any gaps in between them.
 Enlarge a photograph or cut a magazine photo to the size of the sticks you measured. Make sure your image is the exact same size of the sticks when touching.
 The image should completely fit over the sticks. If sticks are still visible at the sides, you should enlarge or cut a bigger image. If your photo hangs over the side of the sticks, you need to trim the image down.
 Use a craft knife to score the picture lightly along the sides of each stick.
 This will help keep them in order after cutting. Make sure you're numbering the back of the photo and not the picture itself.
 Use a craft knife to ensure a neat, straight cut. Hold a ruler tightly against the cutting line and slide the knife along the edge of the ruler, pressing hard enough to cut through the picture.


Be extremely careful when using the craft knife.
 In a small container, mix equal parts of craft glue and water.
 You'll need to brush the glue mix on the back of one picture strip. Center the strip on a stick, and brush a thin coat of the mixture on all sides of the stick and picture. Repeat this for the remaining strips and sticks. Let them dry completely.
 You can check to make sure your image is correct, by spreading the sticks back out to see if they're in order.
 Tie a knot in embroidery floss or 1/8-inch (.32 cm) ribbon. Thread the other end through the holes that are 1/4 inch (.64 cm) from the bottom of the sticks. Tie a knot to secure the bottom of the fan.
 Spread the tops of the sticks so they lie next to one another and tie a knot in the floss while the fan is open.
 Add a dot of glue to the knots and let them dry completely before opening and closing your fan.

