 Taking a supplement packed with essential vitamins and nutrients is an easy way to boost your immune system. You can take individual supplements such as a vitamin C or zinc tablets, or you can find a multivitamin which has everything in one. If you're not a fan of fish, you can still get the benefits of all the essential fatty acids fish contains by taking an Omega-3 supplement, which has been proven effective in fortifying the immune system.


A large array of supplements can be found at drug stores, supermarkets and health food stores.
Taking an immune-boosting supplement probably won't get rid of your cold any faster, but it will help you to avoid getting sick again.
 Garlic promotes the well-being of the heart and immune systems with antioxidant properties and helps maintain healthy blood circulation.One of garlic’s most potent health benefits includes the ability to enhance the body’s immune cell activity.Try crushing fresh garlic clove with a teaspoon of honey and quickly chew and swallow it.
 New research suggests that if you start taking zinc within one day of getting symptoms, you will probably recover one day sooner than expected and experience less severe symptoms., Honey is a natural immune booster, which also contains anti-viral properties. It has the added bonus of being very soothing on a sore throat, which is great news for cold sufferers. You can eat a spoon of honey on its own, or stir it into hot water or tea to make a soothing drink.
 Although the effectiveness of vitamin C in stopping colds is widely disputed, many vitamin C proponents advise the use of vitamin C daily to reduce the duration of a cold., Echinacea is an herbal supplement which many claim as an effective immune booster and anti-viral. Although its cold-busting properties are disputed by experts, some studies claim that echinacea can both decrease the likelihood of developing a cold, while also reducing the duration of a cold.Try taking a couple of capsules of echinacea as soon as you feel the first symptoms of a cold coming on.
 Elderberries are another great natural immune booster, so try taking a spoon of elderberry syrup - which can be found at most health food stores - every morning, or add just a few drops of elderberry extract to your morning juice.
 This will limit your chances of spreading the infection, as well as help remove the pathogens from your environment.


Wash your hands after you blow your nose. While this will not help you, it will reduce the likelihood of the virus being transmitted to someone else.Avoid human contact as much as possible. During all stages of a cold, the cold virus (usually rhinoviruses, or coronaviruses) can be easily communicated to other people.Staying home from work or school is the “nice” thing to do. If you must work, limit physical contact with people, try not to touch things and wash your hands often. This will lower your chances of getting sicker.

