 Is my age group allowed to use this site? Is swearing allowed? What sort of behavior is allowed? What information do I have to provide to use this website?;
, e.g. don't use a fake e-mail address, as many sites require you to verify it. If you don't want to use your real name (for security purposes), this may be acceptable. If you are going to share your geographical information make sure its true. Though most of the forums will not stress on this point however you stand a good chance of getting banned if you are lying and they catch you (using your IP).
 It's also quite annoying if used in excess.

Spamming - Spamming is when you repeatedly post one phrase over and over again, often to annoy other users. This is often to advertise another website.

Note: Spam is defined differently on different websites. A good rule of thumb is that if your topic does not encourage normal discussion, do not post it.



Using Improper English - There are many users on many websites that dislike spelling errors, grammar issues, etc. This includes Leet Speak (7@1k!n9 1!k3 7h!$), Chat Speak (lol, lmao, wtf, etc.), and just plain old misspelling of words.

Threatening Legal Action - Threatening to sue people may make them not want you to use their website.

Being Irritating - Yes, this is a pretty shallow reason why to ban somebody, considering that you may not be doing it on purpose. However, some moderators are just going to be like that.


Trolling - However, trolling is a good reason. Mean-spirited trolling is just plain annoying to people and selfish. Trolling when you first sign up for a forum can also convince mods that you aren't even a genuine forum user in the first place, making it harder to get unbanned.
 Do not post about being banned from another forum. As it could get you banned from that forum as well.
 This means stick to the topic of the thread and do not post about a subject not related to the topic. As many forums regard this a hijacking a thread. And you could get a warning from a moderator or banned on some forums. If you want to post about a different subject to the thread you are on, start a new thread.
 Many forums have different rules of what is allowed and what's not. So read the rules first and if you are not sure if your question or post fits the criteria of the forum, do not post it.
 This is seen and read as shouting, and that's rude.
 As many forums forbid this. So read the terms of service first before doing this. And if you are not sure, don't do it.
 If someone is rude to you, just ignore them.

