 Bad girls pay attention to their entire look, and they don’t neglect shoes. They make a statement with them.


Stilettos are a bad girl’s key accessory, at least at night.
Jordans work
Clogs or flip flops are nos. Bad girls aren’t that casual. And they’re never frumpy.
Above all, bad girls wear sexy shoes. ;
, Bad girls don’t leave the house without mascara. At night, especially, they aren’t afraid to go bold. They love to play with makeup. They do it strategically. They use it to make a creative statement.


It’s all about the eyebrows. Get them shaped. Make sure they are expressive. They should be bold. Bad girls use eyeliner to show drama and strength. The French actress Brigitte Bardot used eyeliner in her movies as a statement. When it comes to eyeliner, “the blacker the better.” Try a cat eye. Red lips make a statement. So do smoky eyes. Be careful with the glitter. Anything childish isn’t going to cut it. , Sunglasses create an aura of mystery and, above all, bad girls have an aura. They leave you wanting more. They leave you wondering.


Don’t wear sunglasses indoors or at night, though. There’s a fine line between cool and obnoxious.
 Bad girls don’t take five hours to get ready. They’re too confident to fixate on their appearance excessively, although they take care of it.


A bad girl doesn’t have to be dressed to the nines at all times, but she never looks sloppy. One absolute no: Wearing sweatpants outside your own house. , Everyone looks good in black. And black is just cool. But bad girls know how to carry off color too.


Bad girls don’t wear pastels. So put away the pink and lilac. Those are for girly girls.
Bad girls don’t wear bows. And they don’t do ruffles. You won’t find them in a prairie skirt.
Try monochrome. When Beyonce’s sister Solange Knowles wore head-to-toe red, she won raves. , It should be a small one, though, with meaning (and just one). And it shouldn’t be something you can’t cover up for the office. When Selena Gomez was trying to change her good girl image, she got a small tattoo on the back of her neck of a Roman numeral. That’s perfect.


Your tattoo should have a back story. And you should understand what it means.
Avoid a “tramp stamp.”

, Make them. Madonna is an example of a bad girl who did things her own way. Whether it’s her cone bra or challenging society's rules, Madonna broke convention. Find a trademark. That means something uniquely yours. Bad girls find their own look, and they stick with it, whether they go vamp or goth.
 Bad girls know their power over others. When they walk into a room, people look. Cleopatra is one of the most famous bad girls in history because she wasn’t afraid of using sex appeal to seduce. 