 This might seem counter-intuitive, but exercise is proven to make your rest not only more rewarding, but actually more restful. Studies show that exercise can raise the quality of your sleep and boost your mental health too. Exercise will also make resting easier, you will find that you are far less antsy when you are trying to relax. Try not to exercise six hours before bedtime, as this can contribute to poor sleep.;
, If you start hitting the snooze button too many times you can mess with your internal clock which causes you to start to feel tired at a certain time of the evening. Sleeping in can mess with your sleep cycle just as much as staying up really late can, so try to stick to a schedule. It might be hard, but that means getting up at the same time even when the weekend rolls around.
 Ice baths can do wonders for your body and have you feeling physically rejuvenated. There's a reason why so many professional athletes use ice baths as a way to recover. All you have to do is grab a three bags of ice from a convenience store, fill the bathtub halfway with cold water, pour the ice in, and then jump in yourself. If you find yourself feeling physically worn down this technique may do the trick, especially if you are proactive about the treatment.
 If the ice bath sounds like too much for you, warm baths can help you relax in a different way. As long as you don't stay in the hot water for too long, warm baths can help ease anxiety, soothe your skin, and even make it easier to fall asleep. Going from a warm bath to the bed can help trigger a change in temperature in your body that leads to melatonin production that will help you sleep. , Massages are a great way to get your body to relax and you'll find that even a quick one hour massage can help immensely. There are lots of different types of massages, so research which one sounds most appealing to you. Swedish massages are more gentle, deep massages are slower but more forceful, and trigger point massages focus on only very specific sections of your body to release muscle tension. , The idea behind aromatherapy is that the essential oils found in plants can help heal and relax your body. The treatment involves inhalation of these essential oils as well as having them massaged into your skin. Researchers aren't totally sure how it works, but they think the smells from these essential oils trigger certain and influence parts of your brain that lead to relaxation. Many people have reported decreased pain, improved mood, and a general sense of relaxation.

