 This doesn’t need to be done with force; simply stand the cat on a table and have the assistant gently place his or her hands on the sides of the cat's shoulders.;
, Check the right and left hand side of the cat's gum, plus the top and bottom row of the cat's teeth. This is an easy way to see the outer surfaces of your cat's teeth. However, to check the tooth surfaces resting against the tongue, you will need to open your cat's mouth.
 If you are right handed, use your left hand's forefinger and thumb to make a "C" shape. Invert the "C" over your cat's head so that the thumb rests on the left corner of the mouth, and the tip of the forefinger on the right corner. Apply gentle pressure to the lips between so that the cat must slightly open her mouth or risk biting her own lips.


Now hook the forefinger of the right hand onto the point of the lower jaw and press downwards to hinge the mouth open. Now you should be able to see the inner surfaces of the upper and lower teeth.
 Healthy gums are pink just like our own gums (some animals have natural pigment present, in which case the gums may be shaded grey or black). The gums should sit snug up against the tooth crown, with no exposure of the tooth roots.


There should be no angry red line, or bleeding, where the gum joins the tooth.
 A cardinal sign of gum disease is bleeding or inflammation where the gum meets the tooth; this is known as gingivitis and is usually a sign of infection. Gingivitis can create sores, and is often associated with bad breath because bacteria love to colonize the inflamed gum tissue.
 Teeth are made up of a crown (the visible part above the normal gum line) and the root. In a normal mouth, only the crown is visible because the root is embedded in the jawbone and covered by gum. The enamel should be clean (not covered with tartar) and not fractured or chipped. The teeth should be firm in the jaw.
 Diseased teeth may be either coated in tartar, loose, or broken, or they may have holes in the enamel, or tooth root infections. Most commonly cats either have heavy tartar (mineral deposits coating the teeth) which can cause gum recession, or they can have weak enamel that dissolves, leaving holes that penetrate to the nerve (these are called "feline odontoclastic resorptive lesions" or FORL).

