 Being respectful means valuing others and their points of view. You must accept them for who they are and avoid doing anything that would hurt or hinder them. Let's face it: it means treating others the way you want to be treated.









Keep your promises. One way to show respect is to do what you say you're going to do. This shows people that you value their time and the fact that they've put their faith in you.
Use your manners. Don't interrupt others, say "please" and "thank you," refrain from using profanity if you know it will be upsetting. Having manners show others that you value them and that they deserve your best behavior.
Be on time. Everyone is so busy these days, so every minute counts. Be on time for get-togethers or other planned activities to show that you appreciate the time someone is spending with you.
 Conversation is a two-way street; if you spend the whole time talking about yourself, you won't get to know someone better, and the other person will feel as though you don't have an interest in them.









People enjoy talking about themselves, so let them. Ask questions to draw people out and let them share things about themselves. You'll get to know them, and they'll like you all the more for having given them your time and attention.
Check for understanding. Paraphrase what someone has said back to them to be sure you're clear on what they're sharing. This lets them know that you're truly listening and provides the chance for them to clear up any misunderstandings so that you fully get their message.
Avoid interrupting or competing. While it may be tempting to jump in with a comment or to try to top someone's story about a trip they took or a bad day they had, resist the temptation. Keep your focus on the speaker and save your remarks for another time.
Listen with your whole body. Make eye contact with the other person, lean forward a bit, nod in agreement or understanding. Most of our communication actually takes place non-verbally, so let your body do some of the listening and the talking for you.
 Some people say that "quality" is more important than "quantity," but when it comes to time spent with a friend, they both matter. Set aside time to connect with people you like and want to get to know better.









When you give someone your time, it's a clear indication that they're important to you and that you like them. People are drawn to people who like them, so making yourself available in this way increases your likeability.
Connections happen over time. The more time you spend with someone the more comfortable you two feel around each other. Getting someone to like you means investing the time that it takes to create that feeling of comfort and familiarity.
 People need time to themselves and space to pursue all of their interests. Rather than overwhelm someone with your friendship, give them the opportunity to seek you out and stay engaged in your own life.









Some people are not comfortable with letting new people into their life too quickly. Every friendship moves at its own pace. Let a slower-moving friend set a speed that's comfortable for them.
Life circumstances change--someone's mother gets ill, schoolwork or work assignments increase, schedules get readjusted, projects need doing--there are lots of reasons someone needs to back away from spending time together. Respect their needs and don't take it personally.
Read the signals. If you're coming on too strong, the other person will let you know--you just have to read the signals. If they seem reluctant to commit to making plans, don't answer or return your phone calls or text messages or even physically back away when you're together--dial down your enthusiasm and back off a bit. You don't want to be perceived as needy, scary or over-eager.
It's not just emotional space that people need--they need physical space as well. If you come closer to someone than 18", you've invaded their intimate space, and they may not be comfortable with that. We generally reserve that zone for those closest to us, so be careful of standing too closely to someone.

