 OBEs can be caused by exhaustion, stress, or some medical conditions. Take in account how you were feeling before your OBE, and understand that there could be a medical explanation for it.Strokes and epilepsy can cause OBEs, even if the sufferer was not close to death.Many OBEs happen as a result of interrupted sleep patterns. If your OBE happens in middle of the night or just after waking, you may still be dreaming (even though you are awake). In these situations, a paralyzed sensation is common.Stress hormones can trigger OBEs.Carefully consider what is happening in your life. Have you been extremely busy? Is there something that is worrying you?

, Just by recalling how you felt during your OBE, you may be able to piece together what your mental and spiritual state are.Tap into your emotions. Describe the different sensations that you felt. These may be reflective of your overall mental health.


A common sensation is to feel at peace while outside of the body. You may be at peace with yourself, or you may realize that your earthly problems are insignificant.
Returning to the body can cause feelings of pain and discomfort.This may mean that you are hesitant about returning to life. You may be uncomfortable with your body.
Fear and panic are more negative emotions, but because you may see strange beings or objects during your OBE, they are perfectly natural.Once you have identified your emotions, try asking: “Why did I feel this way? What happened that caused this?”

, If you felt afraid during your OBE, try to understand the causes of that fear. Were you afraid you would not return to your body? Did you think you were dead? Were you worried that spirits or other presences would harm you? Try to pinpoint what caused the fear, and consider different reasons why you might have felt that way.Fear of death is common, especially in OBEs. You may have worried that you would never return to your body. You may have anxieties about where you will go when you die.
If you felt another presence in the room with you, you may have been afraid that they would harm you. You may not have been certain if they were friendly or evil. This might explain an underlying fear that spirits can influence your life.
If you were frightened by being transported to another place, you might be scared of change or the unknown.
 OBEs are almost always guided experiences; that is, they are influenced by your memories and experiences in real life.Think about who and what you saw in the OBE. Why do you think they appeared to you then?


Are they a cause of stress in your life?
Are you unable to see certain loved ones because of distance or death?
Are you anxious about death?
Do you have any unresolved problems in your life?

