 On the first day of class, instruct all students to take out their cell phones and walk them through the process of programming 911 into its one-touch memory.


Instruct them to place the cell phone on their desktop so it is available for use during any potential emergency, first thing, each time they come to class for the remainder of the school year.;
, When they've had adequate time to look around, ask them if anyone sees a potential hazard.


If a serious hazard is brought to your attention, report it immediately and thank the students for bringing the problem to your attention.
Instruct the students to continue to look around the classroom every time they're in it, and notify you immediately if they spot a hazard.
If the issues they point out are minor hazards, discuss this with them, then show them that you are filling out a request for repair form to submit to the school administrators.
 Make a note of any conditions they report having, then remind them to watch out for one another while in your classroom and tell you immediately if they see another student under duress, or apparently suffering an allergic reaction.


Make sure students know where the nearest water fountain is located, but encourage them to bring a bottle of water with them to class. Remind them that the water in the bottles can be used in a variety of ways to ensure greater safety in the classroom.
Encourage diabetics to bring any food item they might need into the classroom and keep it at their desks for easy access.
 Read through the poster instructions aloud to reinforce the information.
 The more students who are trained in CPR and basic first aid, the greater the chances of lives being saved during and after a weather or human-related catastrophe. Having such knowledge fosters self-confidence in students and enables them to offer competent aid both at school, and in their homes, in cases of emergency.
 Clearly explain to the students that each of them is capable of saving the life of another classmate, sibling, stranger, or teacher.


Tell them that by calling 911 on their cell phone during an emergency, they are potentially saving a life and that individual participation is vital to everyone's safety.
Remind students throughout the school year that they are "walking life-savers" and encourage them to find ways to improve their life saving skills and the safety of others as they go about their work at school.
Remind them that something as insignificant as picking up discarded trash around the school/school property creates a safer environment for others.
 Periodically, throughout the school year, offer the students an imaginary crisis (such as a fire in the room) and ask them to devise a response strategy that is uniquely suited to their best talents or abilities, and the situation. Have them share their strategies with the class.


Encourage them to entertain themselves by creating such response strategies, any time they are bored. By training them to devise these types of plans, you are empowering them, inspiring them to form independent reasoning skills, and strengthening their sense of self-reliance.
 In a light-hearted manner, encourage students to offer suggestions on how unique "reaction to crisis strategies" can be combined, changed, or rejected, to improve the outcome of the imaginary crisis. This will give you and the students the opportunity to discover strengths and weaknesses shared, and help students determine who they trust within the classroom to provide the greatest safety should an actual emergency occur.


This process will also encourage students to voice concerns with each other, freely, and fine tune their planned responses to threats they might encounter outside of your classroom.
 Recognize the tremendous impact students have on your personal safety, and show appreciation for their time and attention to creating a safer school environment. Ask the administrative staff to voice appreciation for the student's efforts and publicly commend individuals who take first aid/CPR training, fire safety courses, and emergency response training.

