 At least half of all communication is non-verbal. At the interview, sit up straight, which projects confidence. Don’t cross your arms or angle your body away from the interviewer, either.


Leaning back suggests that you don’t like the interviewer or are uninterested in the interview.Leaning forward can be perceived as threatening, which is also a problem.
 Gesturing can also be a problem. For example, pointing your finger is an aggressive gesture.Also, putting your hands in your pockets is too casual. Instead, fold them and rest them on the table. If you’re seated in front of someone’s desk, then rest your folded hands on your lap.
 Many interviewers are less interested in the substance of your answers. Instead, they want to see that you are confident and passionate.Get a handle on your nerves before walking in to the interview.


Breathe deep. Put a hand on your stomach so that you are breathing in from your diaphragm. Three deep breaths can calm you.
Smile. Smiling releases endorphins into your brain. Smiling also makes you appear confident.Accept your fear. The more you fight your nerves, the more nervous you’ll become. Instead, release your anxiety by accepting that you are nervous.
 You’ll look unsure of yourself if you pause too long or fumble around for an answer.Based on your preparation, you should be sufficiently comfortable to answer quickly.
 You want to sound confident and comfortable. However, you don’t want to come across as egotistical. Pay attention to how the interviewer is responding to your answers. If they break eye contact or show impatience, then it’s best to stop talking.


Remember to focus on highlighting a few of your strengths or experiences. There’s no reason to run down a laundry list of everything you’ve accomplished.
 You might say your five-year goal is to be a manager, only to have the interviewer say, “That’s not realistic.” It’s easy to get defensive in these situations, and some hiring managers can be condescending when interviewing younger people. Try the following:


Ask the hiring manager to explain themselves. You can say, “Really? Do you think it will take 10 years to become a manager?”
Be open to learning. Maybe the hiring manager has helpful advice for you. Be willing to receive it.