 A summary or objective statement should be approximately 2-4 sentences long and written in paragraph form, as opposed to point form with bullets. The purpose of such a statement is to outline what it is you’re looking for in terms of work, and why you’d be an excellent choice for that work. As you are likely a student, and you might possibly have other responsibilities or engagements (e.g. chores, sports, clubs, etc.), you might want to use this statement as an opportunity to explain what days and times you’re available for babysitting.You can update your summary or objective statement as often as you want. For example, you might have different availability during school months than you do during the summer months, or during holidays. You may want to create two separate resumes - one for school months and the other for holidays. You can submit or send whichever resume is relevant when you’re job searching.;
, Most skills and abilities can be divided into three categories - technical, transferable, and personal. Technical skills are very specific skills that are needed to carry out very specific tasks. For a babysitter, a technical skill may be knowing how to perform CPR. Transferable skills are more general skills that can be used to carry out a variety of tasks. For a babysitter, a transferable skills may be the ability to be organized and plan events. Finally, personal skills are attributes that describe your work ethic and personality. For a babysitter, personal skills would include being trustworthy, honest, organized and on time.Think about the various types of skills and abilities you possess and write them down. Search for skill or ability ‘words’ online to narrow down the exact words you’d like to use to describe yourself.Write out several sentences that describe your skills and abilities as they relate to babysitting. The exact number you should include on your resume will depend on how many you’re able to come up with, and how much space you have.
Examples of skills and abilities that are relevant to babysitting are: playful, active, responsible, flexible, patient, trustworthy, punctual, calm in an emergency, persuasive., Work experience is normally any past or current experience you’ve had where you’ve been paid to do a job. Obviously, volunteer experience can be any work you did where you were not paid. Assuming you have at least two past work experiences that you want to include, create a separate section for any volunteer experience you’ve had.In normal circumstances, when you list work experience, you would include the name of the position you held, the name of the department you worked in, the name of the overall company, and the location where you worked (e.g. Customer Service Representative, Women’s Shoes, Sears, Seattle, WA).
When you’re listing prior babysitting experience you have two options: (1) include the name of the family you babysat for, or (2) list the family generically. The two examples may look like this: (1) Babysitter, The Smith Family - 6 year old & 3 year old, Los Angeles, CA, or (2) Babysitter, Family with 3 and 6 year olds, Los Angeles, CA.
Each position you list on your resume should include at least 2-3 bullet points that describe what you did at that particular job. Each of these bullet points should start with a verb in the past tense (if you are no longer working at that job) or a verb in the present tense (if you’re still currently at the job).

Some example verbs to use are: conducted, directed, planned, oversaw, monitored, arranged, coordinated, encouraged, assisted, demonstrated, motivated, supported.Some example babysitting-related descriptions are: designed creative games and activities to keep children engaged; prepared nutritious meals; escorted children on outings to the local park; oversaw completion of child’s homework.You should also list each job in chronological order - from most recent at the top of the list, to least recent at the bottom of the list.
The final result of one job entry in your work experience section should look something like this: Babysitter, The Johnson Family - two 7 year olds, Portland, ME. January 2013 to August 2013. Escorted children home from school. Prepared a nutritious after-school snack each day. Assisted children with homework assignments. Escorted children to local playground in good weather.
 If you have at least one volunteer experience, you’ll need a volunteer section in your resume. If your work experience section is really small (1-2 items) you may prefer to add your volunteer jobs to that section, instead of creating a separate section. If you combine the two sections, you can give it a label of simply “Experience."In general, your volunteer experience section should be written in the same way you wrote your work experience section.
If you combine the volunteer and work experience sections into one, remember to list ALL experiences in chronological order - from most recent to least recent.
If you combine the volunteer and work experience sections into one, you can put the word “volunteer” in brackets after the job title you had for the volunteer job. For example, Food Server (volunteer), The Cancer Charity BBQ, New York, NY.
 Extracurricular activities can include a large variety of things that you do outside of school - sports teams, formal clubs and organizations (e.g. Girl Guides, Scouts, etc.), and information clubs (e.g. book club, gaming club, etc.). It can also include extra things you’ve done at school like being in the school play, playing on a school sports team, and being a member of school club.Listing extracurricular activities on your resume isn’t required, but it’s nice to have. Showing potential employers that you have a wide variety of skills and interests is beneficial, especially if some of those skills and interests align with the skills and interests of your potential employer!

, Your education will be fairly straight-forward as it’ll be the elementary and high schools you’ve attended so far. If you specialized in a particular subject at any of those schools, you can include that info. But you do not need to list all the courses you’ve taken. Training, however, is any type of education you’ve had outside the school environment. This may include first aid courses, sports lessons, art courses, babysitter training, animal behaviour courses, and so forth.You can tailor which training courses you include on your resume to match the type of jobs you’re applying for. For example, if you’re only using the resume to apply for babysitting jobs, listing babysitter training, first aid training and maybe art courses would be great.
 Start by looking at word processing software like MS Word, Google Docs or Pages. Many of them come with resume templates of different styles and design. You can also find many free templates available for download on the internet. You can either select a template to use “as is” and simply add your personal information, or you can select a template and alter some of the formatting to create something more unique. Or, if you’re more creative, you can create a resume template from scratch.While the resume templates that come with well-known software like MS Word are a great starting point, keep in mind that everyone who has access to MS Word can potentially use the same template. That means that employers may receive a stack of resumes from potential candidates that all look the same! Your resume will not stand out in such a situation. This may not be a problem when you’re only looking for babysitting positions, but keep it in mind as you start to apply to other types of positions like retail stores, restaurants, offices, etc., Every resume needs to contain your name, your (home) address, your phone number(s), and your email address. The best place to put these items is in the header. Having them in the header will help control the formatting and ensure these items are displayed on every page of your resume, if your resume is more than 1 page in length.Your name should be the very first thing on a resume, and it should stand out. You can make your name stand out by: using bold, using a larger font size than the rest of the document (e.g. 14-18 pt), or using a different font than the rest of your resume (e.g. use a fancy font like Copperplate for your name, but use Arial for the rest of your resume).
Your address, phone number(s) and email can be in the same font size and font as the rest of the document. Or, you can keep it the same font size as the rest of the document, but use a slightly different font.
You’ll want to use an address that is most relevant to the jobs you’re seeking. For example, if you’re looking for babysitting jobs while spending the summer at your cottage, put your cottage address on your resume.
Try to limit how many phone numbers you list on your resume. Ideally only use one phone number, but if you need to put a home and cell phone number, that’s fine. Just remember your phone etiquette for those phone numbers once you start circulating your resume!
For your first resume it is recommended that you keep it to 1 page. As you add more experience, you can expand to a second page if needed., Graphics and embellishments are not required on a resume, but if you want to add some creativity, this is one place where it’ll stand out. These graphics and embellishments should be simple, elegant and in no way overwhelming. They should work to enhance what’s on your resume, and make your resume stand out from the crowd. And it should go without saying that these graphics should never include anything obscene or anything that may be misunderstood by an adult.One possible embellishment would be to add one or more lines to the header or footer, or in between sections. The format of the line, including its width, it us to you.
Embellishments might also include small artistic symbols, webdings or wingdings.
You can even use symbols instead of standard bullets when you’re making a list.
One possible graphic idea is to add a subtle watermark to the page, using a simple graphic. The graphic could be your initial in really fancy calligraphic font, or a simple picture that you feel represents you.
If you ever expand your resume to be more than one page, put page numbers in the footer. If your resume is only one page long, do not put any page numbers.
 You will need to create headings for each major section of your resume. Which headings you need will depend on which sections you’ve decided to include in your resume. The section headings usually stand out nicely by simply bolding the font, but you can also use a slightly different font for the headings instead. The words you use in each heading should make the contents of that section obvious and should be short enough that the reader can skim through them quickly.Some possible section headings you may want to consider are: Professional Summary, Professional Objectives, Overview, Skills & Abilities, Qualifications, Work Experience, Volunteer Experience, Work & Volunteer Experience, Education, Training, Education & Training, Extra-Curricular Activities, Technical Knowledge, Technical Skills.
 Once your resume has all the content entered, and is completely formatted, read through it at least a couple of times. Look for spelling and grammar mistakes, and for any sentences or statements that don’t seem to make sense. Make any corrections or edits you want. If you find there’s a lot of white space on your resume (i.e. empty space), you may want to use this opportunity to add some more items. This could include more statements about your skills and abilities, or a couple more sentences describing the work you’ve performed for past jobs.


If your resume is longer than 1 page, reformat certain parts of the resume in order to fit it onto 1 page. You can make adjustments to the margins or font size, or remove some of your statements.
Make sure your resume is formatted to fit on a normal Letter-sized piece of paper.
 No matter how careful you are, and how many times you read over a draft of your resume, there may still be mistakes that your eyes simply do not notice. It is always a good idea to have someone review your resume and provide feedback before you consider it final. Ask them to look for spelling and grammar issues, but also ask them to let you know if any of your statements don’t make sense. From a visual perspective, as them if you’re resume is too crowded, or has too much white space. Or if any of the embellishments and graphics are too overwhelming.Don’t be offended by any of the feedback you receive, it is only going to make your resume better in the long run. And don’t feel you need to implement all the feedback you receive. If you do not agree with a specific point of feedback, don’t include it.
You might want to consider asking the following people to review your resume: parents, older sibling, teacher, guidance counsellor, coach, club leader, spiritual leader, or career centre advisor. As much as your good friends might want to help, you most likely want someone with experience creating several versions of their own resume as a reviewer.
 To save yourself time and effort in the future, keep a copy of your resume in a format that can be easily updated (i.e. doc, docx, txt, etc.) and save a FINAL version as a PDF. You might end up having multiple PDF versions of your resume over time, but only one version of the most recent editable format. Whenever you need to make a change or update to your resume, you would open the editable version, make the change, save the editable version, then also save the final version as a PDF (with the appropriate name).Depending on the reason for the various versions, you may wish to make the name of the PDF explanatory. This will help you keep them organized going forward. For example: My Resume - Summer, My Resume - School, My Resume - Oct 2014, etc.
 Getting a babysitting job via word of mouth is probably the easiest and safest method to use. Talk to your parents, teachers, coaches, neighbours, friends, fellow churchgoers, etc., about whether they know anyone who is looking for a babysitter. Also make the same people aware that you’re available for babysitting, and to share your contact info with anyone who might be looking for a babysitter. You can also try spreading the word via social media that you’re available for babysitting, assuming your social media account wouldn’t hinder you getting a job. You can also consider posting a flyer that contains limited personal information, but only post them in trusted areas like a community centres, local recreation centres, local job or career centres, libraries, churches or other religious buildings, etc., Regardless of how you found out about a specific babysitting job, you will most likely need to provide the family with a copy of your resume. You can do this one of two ways - you can print a copy of your resume to provide to the family, or you can send the PDF version of your resume via email. Which option you use should depend on what the family requests. If you aren’t sure what they’d prefer, ask.


If you do need to print your resume, you may want to consider purchasing slightly heavier paper stock from an office supply store. This type of paper feels heavier and thicker than the standard paper you use everyday in your printer. In many cases it also comes in different subtle colours that can make a nice background for your resume. Don’t go overboard with the paper, as you don’t want to detract from what’s on your resume.
 Normally you would not list a reference on a resume itself, but provide it when asked by a potential employer. You can either provide a copy of a written letter, or you can provide the name and contact info for your reference. A potential employer may simply want to read comments from former employers, or they may wish to talk to a former employer via phone or email and ask specific questions. If you’re providing a reference as just a name and contact info, you must be certain that the person whose name you’re providing actually wants to give you a positive reference. Always check with them before you give out their contact info, and if possible, tell them which positions you’re applying for.For most non-babysitting jobs you will want to avoid using a family member as a reference. But since many babysitting jobs may be found via word of mouth from your family, including a family member as a reference should be okay. If possible, limit family members to only one of your references.
 Even though a lot of information is contained on your resume, sometimes a potential employer wants to here you explain the details of your previous jobs or experiences. For babysitting jobs, it is also likely that you’ll be asked specific questions about your experience with children, and what sort of things you’re willing to do with kids. While you may know how you would answer all these questions, it doesn’t hurt to practice, or even write down your responses. There’s nothing wrong with bringing a notebook or clipboard with you to an interview. Practicing how you’d answer the questions is also important as you may be nervous during the actual interview. If you’ve repeated your answers to yourself several times before the interview, you have a better chance of remembering exactly what to say in the interview.Do a quick web search to find career sites with some commonly asked babysitter interview questions and think about how you’d answer each one.
 The employer or parents aren’t the only ones allowed to ask questions at an interview - you’re allowed to ask questions as well, and you should. In order to make sure you remember the questions you want to ask, write them down in advance and bring the list with you. Check off each question as it is answered throughout the interview. Additional questions may come to mind as you are talking during the interview, and some of your prepared questions may get answered without you needing to ask them.Some potential questions you may want to ask the parents are:How many kids will you be taking care of, and what are their ages?
Do any of the children have any medical conditions or allergies that you need to be aware of?
Does the family have any pets that will be at home while your babysitting? If so, do you need to do anything for the pets?
Are you allowed to take the children on outings? And if so, where can you go? (If you have a license and are driving, you should also ask if you’re allowed to take the children in your car.)
Will one of the parents drive or escort you home at the end of the night (if you haven’t driven yourself)?
What types of activities do the parents want you to do with the kids, if any? Do they expect you to entertain the kids while you’re there, or can the kids do what they want?



, There is no standard hourly rate for a babysitter. The amount normally depends on a number of factors, including: how much experience you have; how many children you’ll be looking after; what time of day you’ll be babysitting; what types of activities you may be required to do with the kids (e.g. take them on outing, make them dinner, help them with homework, etc.). Before you go to an interview, think about the minimum hourly rate you’d consider. Get advice from friends or family who have babysat recently and ask them what they charged.There are also online tools available that can help you determine the average hourly rate in your area based on your experience and other factors.If you take a babysitter’s training course they might provide you with some localized information pertaining to hourly rates that may be helpful.
 Babysitting isn’t a formal office job where you need to wear a suit and tie, but dressing nicely is always a plus when going for an interview. You may want to avoid clothing that has rips or tears in it, or shirts that have graphics or words that may be offensive or confusing. Wear shoes that you can easily take off, as you’ll most likely be interviewed in the family’s home. Remember that the parents who are interviewing you will probably judge you a little based on your appearance, so don’t give them anything to misjudge you by.