 Use a rattail comb to help make the part nice and neat. It does not matter which side you do the part on.This method will give you a braided crown with a flower headband secured into it.;
, Gather a small section of hair from the thicker side of the part. Split it into three strands. Cross the left strand under the middle one, then cross the right strand under the middle one.


Do not cross the strands over the middle one, or your Dutch braid won't turn out right.
 Dutch braiding is just like French braiding, but in reverse. Instead of crossing the side strands over the middle one, you cross them under. Gather hair from your hairline when adding it to the front strand. Gather hair from just behind the back strand before adding it in., Continue adding hair from your hairline to the front strand. When you braid down the side of your head, gather hair from your part before adding it to the back strand. Stop when you reach your ear., You can also use a hair clip instead. Don't worry how it looks; this is just temporary.
 Gather your hair up into a half-up, half-down ponytail. Twist and clip it out of the way. Again, don't worry about how it looks; you will be letting your hair down shortly.
 You can use any type you want; the ribbon kind that you tie in the back work the best. If you choose a stiff crown, like a tiara, make sure that it doesn't have flowers in the back. Secure the headband with bobby pins if needed.Choose a flower headband that matches your style and outfit.
 Unclip and untwist your half-up, half-down ponytail. Let it down so that it covers the back of the headband, where the ties or bobby pins are.
 Keep gathering hair from your hair line and adding it to the bottom strand. Gather the hair that you let down, and add it to the top strand. When you reach the side of your head, gather hair from your part before adding it to the top strand.If your headband has any ties, add them to the braid.You will be braiding upward in this step. If you are having a had time, try bending forward so that your head is pointing towards the ground.
 When you are back to where you started, you won't have any more hair left to do a Dutch braid. Switch to doing a regular braid. Tie it off with a clear hair elastic., This time, wrap the braid behind the flower crown. Secure the end of the braid with bobby pins., If you want a more tousled look, gently tug on the outer loops of your Dutch braid to fluff it up. You can also muss up the hair at your temples for a boho look., If you have any flyaways, smooth them down before the hairspray sets.