 Take advantage of big sales. If there is a buy one get one free deal, but you don’t need all of that food immediately, buy it anyway.You should also purchase unpackaged organic foods from bulk dispensers.Foods found in bulk dispensers might include beans, lentils, nuts, and oats. Buying in bulk will save you lots of money in the long run. You can always keep extra food in your freezer or pantry to be used when you’re on a tight budget and can’t afford a trip to the store.
 Frozen organic products tend to be much cheaper than their fresh versions in stores.Frozen fruits and vegetables also tend to last six to twelve months in the freezer, which allows you to enjoy organic fruits and veggies even when they’re not in season., Instead of buying two pre-packaged chicken breasts, opt for the whole chicken. While the whole chicken might cost more up-front, you will also have more meat to use, which will reduce the price in the long run.You could also buy the ingredients needed to make your own salad dressings, kale chips, granola bars, etc., rather than paying for pre-made, pre-packaged foods.
 Maybe you’d really like to be able to take advantage of bulk discounts on organic foods, but you simply cannot use up that many apples or potatoes before they go bad. If so, see if you can get a little help from your friends.


Organize an organic buying group among friends, family, and neighbors. Take turns buying, dividing up, and distributing your bulk organic purchases. Share in the organic goodness and the savings!

, If you simply have too many organic fruits or vegetables to eat before they go bad, and no more room in the freezer, do what your grandparents (or maybe their grandparents) did: learn how to preserve food by canning, drying, or using other time-honored methods.


Make sure you know what you’re doing and take the necessary precautions when canning, though. Canning isn’t all that complicated, but it is easy to introduce unwanted bacteria and ruin those organic peaches you wanted to savor in the middle of winter.