 Always think about where you’re going when you’re making a list of what to pack. You probably won’t need a winter coat if you’re headed to Florida, and you don’t want to wear fancy shoes if you’ll be stomping around in the dirt all day. Think about the weather and terrain of the festival’s location, and make your list accordingly.
 If the festival is in your area and you’re just going for the day, you only need to make a list for that one day (obviously). If you’re traveling out of town for a few days, include all of your vacation essentials on the list, then add in festival-specific items. You may even want to make two lists — one for your trip in general, and one for things you’ll bring to the festival itself.

Some items that you need for extended travel may be banned at the festival venue. Making a festival-specific list will make sure that you leave all your banned items back at the hotel (or your friend’s house or wherever you’re staying).
 There are a few things you carry with you no matter where you go, so don’t forget to add those to your list. These may seem too obvious, but you definitely don’t want to get to the festival and realize you forgot your wallet or cell phone. If you’re on any medications, remember to bring those too. If you’re staying in a hotel, remember things like toothbrushes and deodorant., Definitely check the festival’s website to make sure your water bottle is festival-friendly — there are almost always rules about what kind of water bottles and containers are allowed. But hydration is a must. Spending a full day on your feet outside can take its toll, especially if you’re dehydrated. This goes extra for hot climates.

If you’re pressed for space, look for a water bottle that can be flattened and folded when empty., Rain or shine, you should be ready. Check the weather the day of the festival, and pack accordingly. In case of rain, bring rain boots, a poncho, and an umbrella (but check with your venue first — many festivals ban umbrellas). If it’s going to be hot and sunny, pack sunscreen and extra water bottles. Hats and bandanas are also good options to consider., You’re going to be on your feet all day — this is not the time to break out the heels. Pack comfy shoes that can handle the wear and tear. Brand new shoes that aren’t broken in are probably not a good choice, but neither are old shoes that are threatening to fall apart at any moment., Consider adding some emergency supplies — you never know what kind of problems you’ll run into.Portable phone chargers can be a lifesaver if your phone goes dead during the day. If you have one, add it to the list. If not, you can buy one for fairly cheap.
Some basic first-aid supplies are never a bad idea. You can buy a travel first-aid kit or just throw in a few bandages.
If it’s summer or you’re headed somewhere with a lot of bugs, add some bug spray to the list.
For hot and sunny locales, bring sunburn relief products (that’s assuming you’ve already packed your sunscreen, too).
Throwing an extra pair of socks in your bag is generally a good move. That way if your socks get wet, you don’t have to suffer through the whole day with cold, wet feet.
Layers are your friend. Bring a light jacket or a sweatshirt, even if it’s warm. It may get colder during the night, and you can easily stow your extra clothes in your bag if you don’t need them.
 Getting dressed up for festivals tends to become an event in itself. If you know you have specific things you want to wear, make sure to add them to your list. Maybe it’s your favorite band tee, maybe it’s neon face paint — you do you., Most music festival websites include lists or guides that will tell you what items are/aren’t allowed in the venue. After you make your initial list, check it against the website to make sure you’re not bringing anything that isn’t allowed. It’s much easier to do your research beforehand than being turned away or having your stuff confiscated. Commonly banned items include outside food/beverages, professional cameras, explosives, weapons, and glass or metal containers., Another thing that festivals often specify is what kind of bags are allowed. There may be size limits, or certain styles may be banned. You don’t want to risk being turned away, so make sure to stow your stuff according to festival rules., Last, but not least: check, double check, and triple check to make sure you’ve packed your tickets. What’s worse than getting to the music festival of your dreams and then realizing you forgot your tickets? Nothing; that’s what. Now go have the time of your life.