 They are not only about the product but they also tell you:


How to use a product safely and effectively
How to store the product safely

First aid instructions
Phone numbers to call for help or more information.;
, In particular, the precautions that you should follow very carefully include:


Following the directions on how to use products safely and correctly. This helps keep you and your pets safe.
Obeying all warnings to open windows, wear gloves, and not breathe product dust.
Keeping pets and children away from treated areas as directed on the label.
 Although it might be tempting to rationalize the leftover contents of your product in a smaller, different bottle, this can be a really hazardous move. Reasons why you should avoid doing this include:


It is very dangerous to put hazardous products in food and beverage containers. Mistakes can be made when someone feeding a pet assumes the contents are what the label says, or a pet itself tries to eat out of a familiar container.
Containers without tight fitting lids can easily spill, allowing your pet access to the product.
If you throw away the original container, you throw away important information needed in case of an emergency.
 If you can’t use all the mixture, label the new container clearly for use in the future, as well as adding its expiry date.
 Both in storage and use, be careful to keep the products well away from your pets and their living and eating zones.


Put pets in a box, separate room, or cage temporarily for those occasions when the products are within reach or are being used in your home space but you can't put them outside.
Don’t spray or store cleaning or pesticide products near pet food or water dishes.
Make sure animals can’t get at pest bait products while they are in use.
In the event of a spill, be sure to keep animals out of the area until it is cleaned up. Think "infants and pets out" before attending to the mess.
Store all household cleaning products and pesticides where pets can’t get at them.
 Spraying products on a windy day can carry the product into the water supply for wild animals. And leaving garden sprays, pesticides, and other toxic outdoor products around can attract wildlife who might find the aroma or color tempting. Always put products away after use.


Put car anti-freeze away in secure storage after use. Mop up any spills immediately.
 You should always have your veterinarian's phone number near the phone. In addition:


Many labels contain a phone number to call in an emergency.
Have your local poison control center phone number handy by the phone. In the USA, call the ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center on (888) 426-4435.Have the product label with you when you call! The label provides those helping you with important information about the product.

