 Before you try to give a more-than-platonic hug, make sure that this person is comfortable with your touch. Your partner should be willing and ready to be handled in a romantic or sexual way. If you aren't sure, don't hesitate to ask for consent. The more comfortable you become with a partner, the better you'll be able to read their comfort level., You can hug a crush or a partner for many of the same reasons that you'd hug anyone else – but there may be deeper emotions behind the embrace, and there's likely at least a bit of sexual tension. Hug your partner when you feel a rush of affection, or just to say hello, or when you want to ignite a spark of passion.


A hug can be a great way to acknowledge that the two of you have just shared a moment. Maybe you've just confessed your love; maybe you caught each other staring; maybe you just feel particularly loving today.
 If your hugging partner is into it, you can take the hug a bit deeper. Hold her a little tighter, and gently caress her back with your hands. Kiss her neck or the top of her head, and consider going for a playful butt squeeze. Play with the hair at the nape of his neck, and nuzzle your head into his chest. The more comfortable you are with someone, the easier it will be to show your affection – and the better your hugs will become.
 Don't put yourself in a box – but it helps to be aware of which hugging styles may come across as more masculine or feminine. Be conscious of these roles, and decide how you want to present yourself to the person you're hugging. Feel free to accept or ignore these models – there is no single correct way to hug.


To take a more traditionally masculine role: Embrace your hugging partner around the waist, with your hands meeting in the small of his/her back. Keep them in that position for no more than a couple seconds, and let go as soon as they do. Look them in the eyes when you separate, then continue the conversation naturally.
To take a more traditionally feminine role: Put your arms around your hugging partner's neck and shoulders. Press your chest lightly against his/her chest. Let go as soon as he/she does. There is nothing wrong, however, with simply wrapping your arms around your partner's midriff., If someone is really comfortable with you, try hugging them suddenly. Hug your lady from behind while she's standing and working on something; hug your man while he's looking off into the distance. A surprise hug doesn't need to be aggressive, or sudden – it's just a way to show how comfortable you feel around someone.


If you're feeling playful, try covering the person's eyes and saying "Guess who?" Bear in mind that not everyone likes surprises, especially where the eyes are concerned. Use your best judgment.

