 That can be enough motivation in itself. This will remind you why you want to clean and why cleaning is important to you. When you focus on the end result, you will be motivated to get there.Try to be specific in your visualization. Don’t only focus on the clean room, but imagine yourself enjoying it with people you love. Maybe you see yourself enjoying a meal with your family in a clutter-free kitchen. This rewarding experience will make cleaning worth it., A definite deadline will get you moving, and you will have an appreciative audience for your great work! When you know your house needs to be cleaned by a specific date, you will avoid procrastinating. Knowing that someone will view your work can be very helpful and will hold you accountable.You could even share your goal or document your progress on social media. Sharing this with others will help you get going. A little positive peer pressure never hurts!

, Knowing that you will be rewarded is a great way to increase your motivation. Perhaps if you clean your house, you will treat yourself to a manicure or your favorite meal. Invite someone to celebrate with you!, Write an inspirational quote on your mirror or refrigerator with a dry erase marker. Hang an inspirational picture on your wall. Finding motivation from your surroundings will help get you going.If you aren't sure where to start, you could post a picture of what your room looks like when it's clean.
For a motivational quote, you could use a statement such as this one by Thoreau: "Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined."

, Setting a schedule can be a strong motivator because it makes your task finite and quantifiable. Knowing you will clean for an hour is much easier than just saying you will clean, because there is a definite end in sight. It will also help you to accomplish more by having a shorter, more focused time frame. When you have a set amount of time, you can quickly get to work rather than dillydallying or succumbing to distractions.Try breaking your cleaning up into time chunks that work for you, perhaps in one hour segments.
 This is useful especially if it is a large undertaking. Use a digital camera to take a picture of the room from the same angle every half hour. This visual evidence will give you a sense of accomplishment rather than simply dwelling on everything yet to be done. Seeing how much you’ve accomplished is a powerful motivator.You can even make a written log of everything you accomplished today. This will celebrate your achievement and give you something to look back at to remind you how much you can get done.

