 Hostelling International (HI) is a organization of hostels that meet certain quality standards. You have to be a member (which costs a different amount depending on where you’re from, $18 if you’re a U.S. citizen) or pay an additional fee to stay at Hl hostels. There are three in Paris - Jules Ferry, Yves Robert, and Le d'Artagnan. While staying at an HI hotel does come with some reassurance the the hostel will be adequate in terms of amenities and security, it it not necessarily the best nor cheapest option.Independent hostels of comparable quality are often of comparable cost, if not cheaper. Essentially, whether or not a member is part of the HI network should not factor significantly into your decision.
 There are many different review websites online, in part because they do what they offer a valuable service: helping you decide all sorts of things, including which hostel is the one for you. Foremost, ensure that any hostel you’re considering is well-known. In short, ensure that reviews actually do exist, and that they are most often positive.


More specifically, make sure there are not multiple reviews about security concerns. While many hostels involve staying with strangers, some do a better job of offering you lockers, etc. to stash your goods.
Though it is a U.S. based company, Yelp is used by travelers from around the world. Many Parisian hostels are heavily reviewed on this website, and it can help provide useful information.
 The Lonely Planet website, although popular, is not necessarily the best way to search for hostels. It does offer pretty good reviews though. Look up any hostels you’re considering on Lonely Planet’s website and see if they’ve published a review about it. They usually do a good job of covering the main points you should know about a certain place concisely and accurately.Since Paris is such a popular place to visit, practically every hostel you may be considering has been reviewed by Lonely Planet. You can search hostels by name on the Lonely Planet website.

