 They can occur at any and all stages of stamp production. Design errors, errors from using the wrong paper, colour errors, inverted center errors and perforation errors are only some of the kinds of errors that are known.;
, Errors are often discovered quickly, even before the stamp leaves the printing plant, but some may remain unnoticed for many years. Some are quickly corrected, or the stamp is completely withdrawn from circulation. Other errors affect only one stamp in a large sheet. These result in a relative scarcity of the stamp compared to its normal counterpart. Occasionally both the flawed stamp the normal version are still produced in large quantities to prevent speculation.
 Many old stamps have been extensively studied by specialists, who have found numerous differences that allow a person to determine the exact position of the stamp on the printed sheet. "Flyspecks" because of dust on the printing plates, or "donuts" because of an air bubble on an offset printing plate are not as valuable as more dramatic errors or errors that were constant throughout the stamp's print run.
 Some stamps used to require a second or third manual feed through the printing press after changing the ink in the press. When the sheet was accidentally fed upside-down for its second passage through the press, an inverted centre would result. A very famous example of this type error is the 24 cent United States airmail stamp of 1918, the "Inverted Jenny", which shows the airplane upside down. Only one sheet of this stamp is known to have escaped into the public. Because the position of each stamp on the sheet had already been identified, when one of these suddenly appeared on the market it was proved that it had been stolen many years before.
 Errors and odd quirks can arise due to overprinting. For example, during a time of a change in postal rates and insufficient time to print new stamps, stamps of one denomination may have a figure designating the new denomination printed over the old one. One famous example is that of the "Molly Pitcher" on the regular two cent United States stamp in commemoration of her work at the Battle of Monmouth. This method eliminated the engraving and printing of a new stamp, thereby saving costs and paper.
 Governments and individuals have been known to produce errors intentionally in order to profit from stamp collectors. It can be very difficult to prove but where it has been, you will find this information in reputable stamp guides and stamp catalogues.

