 Evacuation may be the only way to protect your family in a wildfire. Know where to go and what to bring with you. You should plan several escape routes in case roads are blocked by a wildfire.



Make a disaster plan for your family.

Prepare your family for an emergency evacuation.

Prepare an emergency plan for your pets.;
, Are roads leading to your property clearly marked? Are the roads wide enough to allow firefighting equipment to get through? Is your house number visible from the roadside?

, All vegetation is fuel for a wildfire, though some trees and shrubs are more flammable than others. To reduce the risk, you will need to modify or eliminate brush, trees and other vegetation near your home. The greater the distance is between your home and the vegetation, the greater the protection. If you live on a hill, extend the zone on the downhill side. Fire spreads rapidly uphill. The steeper the slope, the more open space you will need to protect your home. Swimming pools and patios can be a safety zone and stone walls can act as heat shields and deflect flames. In this zone, you should also do the following:


Remove vines from the walls of the house.
Move shrubs and other landscaping away from the sides of the house.
Prune branches and shrubs within 15 feet (4.6 m) of chimneys and stove pipes.
Remove tree limbs within 15 feet (4.6 m) of the ground.
Thin a 15-foot space between tree crowns.
Replace highly flammable vegetation such as pine, eucalyptus, junipers and fir trees with lower growing, less flammable species. Check with your local fire department or garden store for suggestions.
Replace vegetation that has living or dead branches from the ground-level up (these act as ladder fuels for the approaching fire).

Cut the lawn often keeping the grass at a maximum of 2 inches (5.1 cm). Watch grass and other vegetation near the driveway, a source of ignition from automobile exhaust systems.
Clear the area of leaves, brush, evergreen cones, dead limbs and fallen trees.
 This zone should begin about 30 feet (9.1 m) from the house and extend to at least 100 feet (30.5 m). In this zone, focus solely on reducing or replacing as much of the most flammable vegetation as possible. If you live on a hill, you may need to extend the zone for several hundred feet to provide the desired level of safety.



Install electrical lines underground, if possible
Ask the power company to clear branches from power lines.
Avoid using bark and wood chip mulch

Stack firewood 100 feet (30.5 m) away and uphill from any structure.






Store combustible or flammable materials in approved safety containers and keep them away from the house.
Keep the gas grill and propane tank at least 15 feet (4.6 m) from any structure. Clear an area 15 feet (4.6 m) around the grill. Place a 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) mesh screen over the grill. Always use the grill cautiously but refrain from using it all during high risk times.
 Any porch, balcony or overhang with exposed space underneath is fuel for an approaching fire. Overhangs ignite easily by flying embers and by the heat and fire that get trapped underneath. If vegetation is allowed to grow underneath or if the space is used for storage, the hazard is increased significantly. Clear leaves, trash and other combustible materials away from underneath sun decks and porches. Extend 1/2-inch mesh screen from all overhangs down to the ground. Enclose wooden stilts with non-combustible material such as concrete, brick, rock, stucco or metal. Use non-combustible patio furniture and covers. If you're planning a porch or sun deck, use non-combustible or fire-resistant materials. If possible, build the structure to the ground so that there is no space underneath.
 Like porches and balconies, eaves trap the heat rising along the exterior siding. Enclose all eaves to reduce the hazard.
 Any attic vent, soffit vent, louver or other opening can allow embers and flaming debris to enter a home and ignite it. Cover all openings with 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) or smaller corrosion-resistant wire mesh. If you're designing louvers, place them in the vertical wall rather than the soffit of the overhang.
 Chimneys create a hazard when embers escape through the top. To prevent this, install spark arrestors on all chimneys, stovepipes and vents for fuel-burning heaters. Use spark arrestors made of 12-gauge welded or woven wire mesh screen with openings 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) across. Ask your fire department for exact specifications. If you're building a chimney, use non-combustible materials and make sure the top of the chimney is at least two feet higher than any obstruction within 10 feet (3.0 m) of the chimney. Keep the chimney clean.
 Use fire resistant materials in the siding of your home, such as stucco, metal, brick, cement shingles, concrete and rock. You can treat wood siding with UL-approved fire retardant chemicals, but the treatment and protection are not permanent.
 Windows allow radiated heat to pass through and ignite combustible materials inside. The larger the pane of glass, the more vulnerable it is to fire. Dual- or triple-pane thermal glass, and fire resistant shutters or drapes, help reduce the wildfire risk. You can also install non-combustible awnings to shield windows and use shatter-resistant glazing such as tempered or wireglass.
 This will serve as a temporary water source if the water is shut off. See our articles on building water features.

Use fire-resistant materials when building, renovating, or retrofitting structures.
Avoid designs that include wooden decks and patios.
Use non-combustible materials for the roof. The roof is especially vulnerable in a wildfire. Embers and flaming debris can travel great distances, land on your roof and start a new fire. Avoid flammable roofing materials such as wood, shake and shingle. Materials that are more fire resistant include single ply membranes, fiberglass shingles, slate, metal, clay and concrete tile. Clear gutters of leaves and debris.
You should also contact your local fire department, forestry office, emergency management office or building department for information about local fire laws, building codes and protection measures. Obtain local building codes and weed abatement ordinances for structures built near wooded areas.







