 Next, peel the bananas and place them in your food processor. Blend them until the mixture is smooth. Add a large dollop of Nutella. Blend the Nutella into the frozen banana and serve it immediately.For a stronger Nutella flavor, add several dollops of Nutella.
Top your scoops of banana Nutella “ice cream” with whipped cream, chocolate syrup, and cherries.
 Hummus is a creamy bean dip that has roots in Mediterranean cuisine. First, add your hummus ingredients into your food processor and run it until the mixture is smooth. Next, transfer the hummus into a serving bowl. Serve the hummus with a variety of chopped vegetables, pita bread, crackers, and olives. If you don’t have a favorite hummus recipe, consider using:


2 cups (80 grams) of drained canned or cooked chickpeas

3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons of tahini
1 1/2 tablespoons of lemon juice
1 clove of garlic
1 teaspoon of salt
1/2 teaspoon of black pepper, Fresh, all-natural nut butters can be easily made in your food processor. First, add a few handfuls of your favorite raw or toasted nut. Next, run the blender until the nuts are chopped into a fine powder. Add a few tablespoons of an unflavored oil, such as safflower oil. Blend the mixture for another 8-10 minutes to create a smooth, creamy nut butter.


You can use peanuts, almonds, sunflower seeds, cashews, hazelnuts, walnuts, pecans, macadamia nuts, or pistachios.
Once your nut butter is ready, transfer it to a jar and keep it refrigerated., Save time chopping vegetables by using your food processor instead. For a smooth salsa, add all the ingredients at once and run the blender until the mixture is puréed. For chunky salsa, pulse the ingredients until the salsa looks the way you like it.Use onions, jalapenos, and tomatoes to make a chunky pico de gallo salsa.

Add dried or canned chipotle peppers to your favorite salsa recipe for a smoky, spicy kick.
Blend salsa vegetables and cheese together to make a creamy salsa and queso dip.


