 Though used as a remedy for indigestion for thousands of years, research into the effects of chamomile on humans is sparse. Animal studies have found that German chamomile reduces inflammation.An analysis of several studies found that combinations of the herb iberis, peppermint, and chamomile may help relieve indigestion symptoms.To make chamomile tea, steep 2-4 grams of dried chamomile flowers in 1 cup of hot water. Drinking highly concentrated chamomile can induce nausea and vomiting, so make sure not to infuse the tea longer than five minutes.
Chamomile is also available as a dietary supplement at most drug stores. If you are allergic to asters, daisies, chrysanthemums, or ragweed, you may also be allergic to chamomile.Ask your doctor before using chamomile if you are taking medication for diabetes, blood pressure or sedatives.
 Slippery elm bark contains mucilage, a substance that becomes a slick gel when mixed with water, which coats the esophagus, stomach, and intestinal lining to reduce irritation and acid reflux. The antioxidants in slippery elm also help protect against stomach ulcers and inflammation.Slippery elm bark is available as capsules, lozenges, teas, and powdered extracts at most pharmacies and nutrition stores.You should take slippery elm two hours before or after other herbs or medications you may be taking as it can slow down the absorption of other medications.To make slippery elm tea, steep 1–2 g (approx. 1 tablespoon) of powdered bark extract in 1 cup of boiling water for 3–5 minutes. Drink up to 3 times per day or as recommended by your doctor.
The recommended dose for slippery elm capsules is 400-500 mg at least 3-4 times daily, for 4–8 weeks or until your condition improves. Take with a full glass of water.Do not give slippery elm to a child without consulting your doctor first., Research suggests that taking 1–2 grams of raw ginger or ginger root powder at least one hour before meals can help aid gastric emptying, thus reducing symptoms of heartburn and GERD.Ginger can also help reduce symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and inflammation caused by acid backing up in the esophagus. Ginger root is widely available at most grocery stores.


Ginger tea can also be made by steeping 1–2 grams of peeled ginger in 1 cup of boiling water for 5 minutes. Strain and drink up to 2 times daily, at least 1 hour before meals.
Ask your doctor before taking ginger if you have diabetes, heart conditions, bleeding disorders, or if you are currently pregnant or breastfeeding. Tell your doctor about any other medications, herbs, or supplements you may be using to avoid side effects.
 Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is often used as a natural antacid to help neutralize stomach acids and help digestion.Baking soda is available as both oral tablets and powder, which can be used up to four times daily at least 1–2 hours after having meals or other medications. Avoid taking sodium bicarbonate on an overly full stomach.Mix 1 teaspoon of baking soda into a glass of water until it dissolves completely and drink it to neutralize stomach acid. Measure powdered doses carefully using a measuring spoon. Add honey or lemon for taste if you want.
Check with your doctor before using baking soda If you are on a sodium-restricted diet, have other heart or digestive conditions, or are currently using other medications, herbs, and supplements.
Take sodium bicarbonate exactly as directed. Do not use sodium bicarbonate for longer than two weeks unless your doctor tells you to. Baking soda should not be given to children under twelve years of age.Take the miss doses as soon as you remember unless it is almost time for the next dose. Then skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule., Chewing a piece of sugar-free gum for half an hour after a meal can reduce heartburn, as it stimulates the production of saliva.Saliva is alkaline, so swallowing saliva neutralizes stomach acid.Sugar-free gum additionally contains xylitol, which inhibits bacteria that cause tooth decay.
Sugary gum can thicken saliva causing a dry mouth and may not be as beneficial as sugar-free gum.
Avoid mint-flavored gum as it can stimulate acid reflux.
 Peppermint can relax the sphincter between the stomach and esophagus, allowing stomach acids to flow back into the esophagus. The lower esophageal sphincter (LES) is the muscle that separates the esophagus from the stomach. By relaxing the sphincter, peppermint may actually make the symptoms of heartburn and indigestion worse.While spearmint does not cause reflux, it may promote mucus and postnasal drip, especially if you have a cold, that can cause irritation in the esophagus.