 Choose a deep-sided pot or pan to keep the seeds inside as much as possible. Set your burner to medium-high heat. Allow the pan to heat for three to five minutes.A small- to medium-sized stainless steel pot or pan will work.Opinion varies on whether nonstick cookware is beneficial for popping amaranth, so use what works best for you.;
, Add a drop of water to the skillet. Watch and listen to the pan. Heat the pan for longer, if necessary.When the pan is hot enough, a drop of water should immediately sizzle, “dance” and evaporate.Making sure the pot is hot enough is one of the most important steps to popping amaranth correctly., Cook one to two tablespoons of amaranth at a time. Pour the first batch into the skillet.Lower the heat to medium.The amaranth should be in a single layer, not piled up., Put a lid on the pan. Alternately, use a large plate or a metal, fine mesh strainer to deflect the popping seeds. Crack the lid away from your face if you use a cover to contain the amaranth.Amaranth seeds literally “pop” and some will fly up into the air when you heat them.
If you’re not concerned about cleaning up afterwards, you can omit using lid or other object to shield the popping amaranth.
 Shake the pot back and forth over the burner. Alternately, use a wooden spoon to stir the amaranth constantly, if you’re not using a lid.If you’re cooking by shaking the skillet: shake for a couple of seconds; hold the skillet still for a couple of seconds; repeat.If you notice a toasty smell, lift the pan from the burner and shake it.Constant shaking or stirring prevents the seeds from burning.
 Continue the shaking or stirring process until the amaranth is finished cooking. Pour the amaranth into a bowl or onto a rimmed baking sheet.Not all of the seeds will pop. When there is no more popping sound, the amaranth is finished cooking.It’s important to remove the seeds quickly, as soon as they stop popping, so that they don’t burn.
 Leave it in the bowl until it’s no longer warm. If you’re not eating it right away, place the cooled amaranth in a jar or sealed bag. Refrigerate it for up to a month., Sprinkle amaranth over diced fruit, like banana. Alternately, pour some popped amaranth over fresh berries. Add popped amaranth to a green salad to accompany your dinner., Combine amaranth with cereal toppings. Spoon over cold cereal with milk, or a hot cereal such as oatmeal. Add sweetness, if desired.Try a scoop of nut butter or roasted nuts over your cereal, topped with popped amaranth.
For sweetness, try cinnamon, honey, coconut, and/or dried fruit.
 Top yogurt or a smoothie with amaranth. Add it into your favorite granola recipe. Sprinkle amaranth on top of soup. Use your imagination!Amaranth can even be used as rice, or in flour.

