 Wrap the end of the deco mesh ribbon around the frame, holding it in place by wrapping floral wire or a thin piece of metal wire around the end.









Fold the end of the ribbon under itself to mask the raw edges.
Use wire that roughly matches the color of your metal frame or one of the ribbon colors.
For standard size wreaths with multiple colors, 6-inch (15-cm) deco mesh ribbon should be a good size., Wrap the ribbon around the frame. Take the length around the starting point, over the top of the frame, and then wrap it around the frame once more.









Each connecting point should be roughly 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 cm) apart. Space the points evenly apart.
The length of the ribbon used to reach the next connecting point should be about double the length of the frame leading to the connecting point. For instance, if the connecting points are 2 inches (5 cm) apart, you should use 4 inches (10 cm) of ribbon to reach that connecting point.
"Fluff" or bunch up the deco mesh ribbon as you go along to create volume.
Tie the ribbon to each connecting point using thin wire.
Finish off the end by bringing the ribbon to the starting point and connect it to your original wire. Fold the end of the ribbon under itself to hide the raw edge., Position the second color ribbon so that it fills in the gaps left by the first ribbon. The metal frame should be mostly hidden by the time you finish.









The connecting points of the second ribbon will fall beneath the "fluffed up" or "bubbled" portions of the first ribbon.
Space the second ribbon in sections that are even with the sections used for the first ribbon.
Attach the second ribbon to the frame by using the same thin wire used to attach the first ribbon.
 Use additional deco mesh ribbon to fill in any remaining gaps on your wreath. Three or four colors will usually look best, but you can use fewer or more depending on the look you want.








You could also fill in the gaps using a color already used on your wreath.
Attach additional layers of ribbon using the same method used to attach the first two layers.
 Use a hot glue gun to attach heavy decorations, like ornaments, directly to the frame. You can use craft glue to attach lighter decorations, like feathers or foam letters, to the frame or to the ribbon itself.







