 Neil will first arrive on Spring 9th of your first year to give you your first animal: A cow. Notice the little black heart on his left side of his chat box. This is his affection for you right now. The affection rises over time with gifts, communication, festivals and heart events.;
, Talk to him every day and give him his favorite gifts.There are lots of things he likes/loves but here is an easy list:


Loved: Yak Milk, Suffolk Wool, Llama Wool, Silkie Egg (Yaks, Suffolk Sheep and Llamas are not able to be purchased at the start of the game).
Liked: Once again there are lots of things he likes. But, one easy item to give him is Fodder (he sells animal products so you could just buy fodder from him and give it, or you can purchase grass seeds and grow it yourself). He also likes any kind of wool from sheep, not to mention cow/chicken/sheep treats and Pet/Chicken feed.
Disliked: Giving Neil a gem or ore, flowers and perfume will result in a loss of FP.
Hated: He hates Poison Mushrooms, and any kind of dessert and Tea.
Horror: This is the worst gift to give him. Giving him Chocolate Cake will result in an anger point being accumulated, along with losing 800FP.
 Earlier, you should have noticed the color of his heart--black. This is the starting color for all bachelors. As you give him gifts and talk to him/win festivals, the color will rise. In fact, it will have a higher rise if you answer the correct answer in his heart events.



Black is 0-9,999 Friendship Points.
Purple is 10,000-19,999 Friendship Points.
Blue is 20,000-29,999 Friendship Points (at this color, you can become his girlfriend).
Green is 30,000-39,999 Friendship Points.
Yellow is 40,000-49,999 Friendship Points.
Pink is 50,000-59,999 Friendship Points; and
Red is 60,000-65,535 Friendship Points. At this time you can get married.
 This happens when you give him his horror gift (Chocolate Cake), ignore him or choose the wrong answer during his heart events. If five are collected, he will not get out of bed for the whole day.
 These determine if you deserve to marry Neil. Here are the events:


Black Heart Event: You see Neil arguing with someone over a sick cow. Soon you will go through the dialogue and be presented two choices. Choose 'What about the sick cow?' and you will not build up AP and lose FP. Choose the other option and you will.
Purple Heart Event: This requires more things. First you must need to have unlocked Rod, who owns a pet shop. You will see Neil playing with a dog, showing he has a much softer side for animals. Then, he sees you and asks how long you've been here, watching him. Select 'I just got here' to gain FP. If you select the option that says you saw him, he will get angry at you. Rod later tells you the better choice could have been pretending to have just gotten there.
There is no blue heart event, but when his heart is blue, you can become his girlfriend. You can give him the commitment ring on Saturday or Sunday, between 8 AM to 11 PM. Alternatively he can ask himself. Rejecting him will cause 1 AP.
For the green heart, He will be chasing a cow. Help him find it and select the answer 'Because I like you Neil'. You can also choose the other option for 1000 FP, but 1 AP will be collected as well.
Yellow heart: This is his final event. He will be gazing at a waterfall with you, and says how he likes to go here to forget about bad things. If you ask him what kinds, he will be angry at you because he's just forgotten them and you want to remind him of them again. Instead, select 'I understand totally.', and he will be glad that you didn't ask about his problems.
 Build the double bed as well.
 This means he will propose to you.
 You can choose if he should wear a Black, Grey or White Tuxedo, and if you should wear a newer wedding dress or a traditional one. After the wedding scene he is your spouse.

