 Driving under the influence is illegal in all 50 states. Even if you haven't consumed enough alcohol to be considered legally intoxicated, drinking alcohol while driving is a dangerous act you should never attempt.In addition, drinking alcoholic beverages while driving is illegal in all states but Mississippi. Even if you aren't legally intoxicated, you still can be charged with an open container law violation.
Mississippi does not have any laws against anyone drinking alcoholic beverages in a car. However, if you are driving you still cannot drink to the point of legal intoxication (or beyond).
If you get pulled over with an open container of alcohol in your car, the officer must connect it to you as the driver.
This means even if your passenger has a can of beer, if she put it in the cup holder where you can easily reach it while driving, you can be charged with the violation.
 If you have previously opened containers of alcohol that you need to transport from one place to another, close them tightly and keep them locked away in a part of your car or truck that you cannot access while driving.Keep in mind that in some states it's illegal to have an open container in the car at all. Even if the open container happens to be in the hand of a backseat passenger, you can still get charged with a violation as the driver for allowing the open container in your car.
There are occasions in which you're merely transporting unfinished bottles from one place to another, and generally speaking this isn't illegal.
However, these bottles must be closed tightly and placed in an area where neither you or any passengers can access the alcohol while the car is in motion. In most states, this means putting the bottles in the trunk.
In some states, you may be able to get away with keeping small opened bottles in a locked glove compartment or other locked storage box inside the passenger compartment of your vehicle.
 The floorboard of your car is not a trash can. If you're pulled over and have empty cans or bottles in your car, you can get a citation for violating the open container law. This is true even if the alcohol was consumed a long time ago or by someone else.If you have an empty bottle that you want to keep for souvenir or sentimental reasons, rinse it out completely before you put it in your car. Put the rinsed bottle in a bag and fold over or close up the top of the bag.
Generally, you can be cited for a violation of an open container law if there is any amount of alcohol in the bottle – even a drop.
If you have to drive empty alcohol containers to a dumpster or recycling facility, put them in a closed bag and put the bag in the trunk.
 The simplest way to avoid open container law violations when driving is not to draw attention to your car in the first place. This means obeying the speed limit and all other traffic laws. Don't give a police officer a reason to pull you over.Keep in mind that if an officer pulls you over for some other reason and observes open containers in your vehicle, they have the ability to cite you for an open container violation as well.
Unless you know specifically that passengers in moving vehicles are permitted to drink alcohol where you're driving, don't let your passengers drink.
When in doubt, keep all alcohol bottles in a closed bag in the trunk of your car.

