 Make sure you call the store beforehand and find out how many of the items they have, what time the store opens, and if they will be handing your pre-order tickets (many places do now, to avoid possible chaos). If there are only a dozen game systems available and you are the 20th person, it's not worth your time to stay out all night.;
, Start preparations as soon as you know what you're getting and what day the pre-order/shipment is. Make sure do not have commitments for the night of the purchase and the day after. No school, work, parties etc. You'll be too exhausted for any of this after the event!

, This varies on where you live and what time of year it is, but keeping in mind it will usually be around the holidays, and most likely cold, you will need to think ahead. See the "Things You'll Need" list for supplies.
 If at all possible, bring a friend, husband, wife, girl/boyfriend, sibling, co worker - anyone! There is safety in numbers and you will have someone to hold your place in line during a food run or much needed bathroom break. If you can't do that, try to seek out a friend in line. Although there can be unsavory people, the chances that hardcore shoppers will stick together in keeping away stragglers cannot be discounted.
 If at all possible, drive to the location the day before. Seek out possible bathrooms, coffee shops and 24-hour locations. If nothing else, you will want someplace to warm up. If there are no 24/7 grocery stores, look for convenience stores.
 When you are ready for the big day, start early and dress warmly! Three layers on top plus a coat (sweater and turtle necks), two layers on bottom (jogging pants/flannel pants and jeans), a hoodie and hat, gloves, scarf, wool or double layers of socks and warm shoes. Bring blankets as well, three at least per person, and sleeping bags if you have them. And get to the location as fast as you can - some hardcore shoppers will camp out the afternoon before the day of the release!

, When you arrive chances are you won't be the first person there. Set up camp, say hello to everyone, and ask what they are there for. Find out your place in the line. Remain kind and respectful to your fellow shoppers - you'll go through a lot together that night!

, Walk around to stay warm. If you're with a partner, take car breaks/bathroom breaks, do a snack or food run and keep an eye on the time.
 As you near 5AM, stay awake and do not leave the line! The manager may be out to hand pre-sale tickets out, and you do not want to miss this - you have been camping out all night for these!

