 Measure 1 cup (236 ml) of heavy whipping cream into a medium saucepan and turn the heat to medium. When the cream starts to bubble a little, turn off the heat and whisk in 12 ounces (340 g) of chopped dark chocolate and a pinch of salt. Keep whisking until the chocolate is melted.This fondue is basically a ganache, so it's important to transfer it to a fondue pot. This will keep it smooth enough to dip foods into.;
, Pour one 13.5-ounce (398 ml) can of full-fat coconut milk into a medium saucepan. Turn the heat to medium, so the coconut milk liquefies. Stir in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract and 2 cups (350 g) of high-quality dark chocolate chips until the chocolate melts. Transfer the fondue to a fondue pot.If you use low-fat coconut milk, the fondue may not thicken enough.
 Pour 6 tablespoons of whipping cream and 3 tablespoons of honey into a medium saucepan over medium heat. Once the liquid is simmering, chop and whisk in two 3.52-ounce (100 g) bars of Toblerone bittersweet chocolate. When the chocolate is melted you can whisk in 1 tablespoon of kirsch (clear cherry brandy), and 1/4 teaspoon of almond extract. Transfer the fondue to a fondue pot.If you don't have Toblerone bittersweet chocolate, you can substitute 7 ounces (100 g) of semisweet chocolate.
 Pour 1 can (12 ounces or 355 ml) of fat-free evaporated milk into a medium saucepan. Whisk 1 tablespoon of cornstarch into it and turn the heat to low. Whisk in ½ cup (50 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder, ½ cup (100 g) of sugar, ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract, and ⅛ teaspoon of kosher salt. Whisk the fondue constantly for about 10 minutes.The fondue will thicken as the cornstarch cooks. You can then transfer the dark cocoa fondue to a fondue pot.
 Measure 2/3 cup (160 ml) of whipping cream, 1/3 cup (110 g) of seedless raspberry preserves, and 1 tablespoon of honey into your fondue pot. Turn the heat on to the warm/simmer setting, so bubbles form along the edges of the pot. Stir the mixture every once in a while to keep it from sticking. Whisk in 2 cups (350 g) of high-quality dark chocolate chips until the chocolate melts completely.You can keep the fondue warm on the warm/simmer setting.

