 Your teen might be initially hesitant to talk about sex with you. It's normal to encounter some reluctance. Just reassure your teen that you are there to help. You can also give them other information.If your teen is curious about a particular aspect of sex, you can try giving them a book to read. For example, there are several useful works on figuring out one's sexuality.






Direct them towards a useful website. For example, Planned Parenthood offers resources on a variety of sex-related topics.
 Having a talk about sex with your teen might be difficult for you. It can be emotional and maybe even a little scary. Don't be afraid to ask for advice if you need it.Ask a close friend or family member to help you out. You can say, "I really need some advice on how to talk to Adam about sex. Any ideas?"
You can also ask a pastor or rabbi. These people are skilled in helping families communicate.
Do some research. There are lots of books and websites available that can help you to figure out the right approach.
 Being open-minded does not mean that you relinquish control in the relationship. Make sure that your teen knows you are willing to listen, but that there are still rules. Clearly outline the boundaries in your house.For example, maybe you don't want your teen alone in your house with their boyfriend or girlfriend. You can make that clear.
Don't be afraid to set a curfew. Just because your teen is sexually active does not mean they are suddenly an adult.
Ask for information. If your teen tells you they are having sex, you should feel within your rights to ask what kind of birth control they are using.
 The most important part of talking to your teen about sex is making sure that they know they can count on you. Becoming an adult can be a confusing process. Your support can make a big difference.Tell your teen that you love them. You can say, "No matter what, I will always love you."
You can also remind them that you can be trusted. Remind them that you will not judge, you are there to help and listen.

