 To open an account, you need to have some personal information before you go into the bank. You will need your social security number. You will also need to present your driver's license and be able to tell them the number, issuing state, and expiration date. You also need your current employment information as well as your last job if you have worked at your current job for less than a year. You will also have to give them a valid e-mail address., To open an account, you need to fill out an application from your bank of choice. You need to request an application from an account manager at the local branch of the bank. Choose if you want an individual or joint account. Fill in the application with the information you collected. Make sure you let them know you want a debit card to go with your account. Once you finish filling in the application, sign it and give it to the bank employee. Once it is looked over and approved, you will have an account and you can get a card.


You can also set up a joint account with someone else. If you want to do this, you need to have all the information you gathered for yourself about them as well.
They sometimes ask you to make an opening deposit by cash or check when you open the account.
You can also open an account online. You just fill out the application online and it is sent for approval.
 If you open an account in person, you should be able to get a card right away. To activate your card, you first need to choose a PIN number for your card. Make sure you chose a number that isn't related to you and can't be easily guessed by others. You just want to make sure that you can remember it. You will need this PIN every time you use the card. Once you chose a PIN, the bank teller will make you swipe your card and then it is activated.


Always use a PIN, even if the bank gives you a choice not to. It makes your card more secure.
Your PIN should not be your social security number, birthday, phone number, or address. Don't keep a copy of it written anywhere and don't tell anyone what the number is. If they ever use your card, you will be responsible for the charges they make.