 Any text editor like Word or Pages will work to design your image. You can also choose to use a graphic design program like Photoshop to make your picture into text.


Simple text editors like Notepad will work too, but they will not allow you to import or paste an image so you will need to be prepared to create your image from scratch.;
, You will want to pick a fixed-width font, such as Courier. Fixed width fonts will make it easier to design your pictures since each letter or symbol will be the same size as the rest., If you would like to reproduce an image file, you can copy the image to the file and open a text box to type letters over the shape of the image. You can also try to make an image from scratch.


When you are first getting started it is easiest to try some simpler pictures. Once you learn more about how to shade and shape your pictures you can move on to more complex images.
 Click on the picture, then place your cursor on one of the corners. Click and drag. The more complicated the picture is, the larger you’ll want it to be. However, if you need the ASCII image to be a particular size for something, resize it now.
 Insert a text box. Adjust your settings if the text box is not transparent and displaying above your image. The text box needs to be a tiny bit larger than your image. Move the text box if necessary on top of the image by clicking and dragging the border. Then, enter your desired text and let your creativity take over.


There are many way to style your image using letters and symbols in various ways. You might choose to make the text cover the entire background and change the colors to form your picture, or you might simply type letters over the shape of the image itself. The possibilities are endless. How you want your image to look is entirely up to you.
Decide what you want to say. You may choose to make your text spell something relevant to the image you are creating. For example, if you are making a picture of the Eiffel Tower, you might decide to use the letters P-A-R-I-S or F-R-A-N-C-E to create the shape.
 Some letters like M and W can make an area look darker when used repeatedly. Other characters like "." take up relatively little space.


To form solid images, shape your design by using a combination of characters to create a silhouette.
Use variations of "heavy" and "light" letters to create your shapes and refine the curves.
Rounded letters like e and u or symbols and punctuation can help shape curved areas of the image.
 Line art is created by spacing letters and characters on the screen to draw just an outline of your image. The end result will be similar to solid art, but the spaces within the outline are typically left blank or other characters are added to create additional detail or characteristics. For example, you can use rounded shapes or zeroes to create eyes for your character., Even though your screen is flat, you can use the space to create a sense of spacial depth. You can use techniques like overlapping objects to give your art a 3D look and feel.


You can also use the space between multiple images and slight differences in image scale to create a sense of proximity to the screen.

