 Write "Dear, (their name), I hope you have a wonderful day and make lots of new friends! XOXO Love, Mommy" on a post-it in pink marker or gel pen, and put it in their lunch box., When she/he is talking on the phone, run around in circles yelling "has a girl/boyfriend."


This only really works with younger siblings. Older siblings aren't as ashamed to have a girlfriend or boyfriend.
 When your sibling is IMing their friends or using Facebook, wait until they get up to go the bathroom or take a break and leave the room. Sneak over there and type some words into the chat or change your sibling's status to something really random like "I like horses shaped like clouds!"

, If your sibling tries to make fun of you without evidence to back it up, like "you're stupid" or "loser," attack them with an embarrassing story or a time when they failed. This is really effective when others are around.


For example: "Remember that time when you went to the dance at school with Emily and you had diarrhea, and when you came back your pants were dripping." Details magnify effect. Tease them about it. You can make up stories too, and if they deny it, it will seem more true.
 If they're snuggling in the living room while they watch a movie, sit down and start watching. It will be a test of wills, so be prepared to outlast them.
 While they're on the phone with their friend, get on the phone secretly to listen. You may get in trouble, but it's all worth it. When revealing you were listening, say it at a perfect time, but not too early.


While they're talking on the phone, try calling your sibling from a restricted number so they don't know it's you. When they answer pretend to be an old grandpa asking for cheese, for example, or something like that.






If an older brother/sister is on the phone with his/her boyfriend/girlfriend and there's an extension phone, make burping sounds down the line.
Pretend one of your parents needs them to do something right away and or is calling them. When they put the phone down to go check what it is they need to do, hang up the phone.
 In the middle of a restaurant, or in front of their friends, embrace them in a huge hug and say "I love you so much!" over and over again. If you want to make it worse, wear bright, bright pink/red lipstick and kiss them all over their face.
 If a friend is coming over, steal their diary or wherever they keep best secrets. Read it and start gushing the secrets in front of their friend.
 Pretend you are their crush and write a letter to them asking them to meet them somewhere at a time of your choice. This mostly works with older siblings and you will have to do some work to find out their crush.
 Do your best to copy their handwriting, to make it look convincing. Again, this mostly works with older siblings and you will have to do some work to decide who has a crush on them.
 They will run.

