 In other words, be attentive to what the person in crisis has to say and maintain direct eye contact, as well as showing your willingness to talk about anything with that person, including their feelings about suicide.;
, Seek to understand their situation without passing your judgement on them as this would only drive them away. Offer them the specific help that they wanted, despite them being dormant or closed-off.
 Let them know that it's okay to be upset, and there's nothing wrong with them for having a hard time. This can help them feel cared about and understood. Use phrases like "I'm sorry to hear that you're dealing with that" and "That must be hard."

, This falls under the category of exhibiting care for their well-being. This is because statistics has shown that 49.9% of U.S citizens committed suicide using a firearm and 26.7% uses suffocation as a means for suicide.In other words, people with suicidal tendencies are at a higher risk of committing suicide should they be exposed to harmful materials.


Offer to manage their medications. If they're willing, you can take their pill bottle and hide it somewhere. Then give them their daily dose, or give them a week's worth in a pill organizer.
Lock up any firearms, and don't tell them the combination. Or, get rid of the firearm.
 This falls under the category of showing that you care for them as a whole. If a person has expressed suicidal feelings has a plan, the means available and has a time set, you should always take them seriously and be sure to never leave them unattended.


If you absolutely must leave them alone for a while, make sure they are set up with something to do (e.g. a movie), ensure that they feel they're feeling okay enough to be left alone, and tell them when you'll be back to check in and say hi.
 Stay with them or arrange for someone whom they trust to stay with them. It is important for them to stay in supportive circle of people that will always remind them that they are important, and give them the sense of belonging. Never let them to be alone and mulling about with their dark thoughts without support.
 For example, if the person suddenly isolates themselves from the society, drops in academic performance, or constantly visits suicide promoting websites, these could be indicators of a problem. It is very important for you to keep a constant awareness and to always look out for their signs for a cry for help. Usually, the people with suicidal tendencies are reluctant to seek for help due to society stigma, so it is important for you to be the one who is in the lookout.
 Help them think about positive things, such as how valuable they are to others, how their loss would be tremendous for the people around them and to look forward for the exciting events that is to come in life, and also help them to love themselves because there’s always a second chance, even for people who feel they've made mistakes in the past.
 Because everyone makes mistakes in certain point of their life, it is good for you to reflect upon your past but it is never good for you to linger without remembering to take a step forward and create a new page for your life's story.
 Get them close with people who have survived suicide acts so they can feel the sense of belonging and eventually they will feel positive and hopeful about life.

