 If you are still in the early phases, you might not have symptoms. But as the disease progresses, your symptoms will get worse. Symptoms include:Abdominal discomfort
Not being hungry
Nausea or diarrhea
Tiredness;
, If you have these symptoms, it is crucial to stop drinking and get medical help to start reversing the damage:Jaundice or a yellow color in the skin and eyes
Fluid pooling in your legs and abdomen
Fever
Itchiness
Weight loss
Hair loss
Vomiting blood or passing bloody stool due to bleeding internally
Personality changes, memory problems, and insomnia
Numbness in your legs or feet
Abdominal distention
Melena (black, tarry stool)
Vomiting blood
Fatigue

, Your liver will not heal unless you stop drinking. Your doctor can help you make a plan that will fit your needs. Options include:Medications, such as baclofen
Counseling
Support groups, including Alcoholics Anonymous
Outpatient treatment programs
Residential treatment programs

, A professional can help you come up with a plan that will improve your health and take your medical history and allergies into account.


If the malnutrition is especially severe, you may need to be tube-fed with a special liquid diet.
 The damage to your liver may mean that it isn’t able to store energy efficiently. If this has happened to your liver, you will need to eat extra to make up for what your body isn’t able to store.Eating five to six small meals with healthy snacks may be helpful.
Increase your intake of simple carbohydrates by eating fruits and your consumption of complex carbohydrates by eating whole-grain breads, potatoes, corn, peas, parsnips, lentils, beans, and nuts.You can also supplement carbohydrates with a moderate amount of fat. This will provide you with extra energy.If you lost weight while drinking, this may be because your body started breaking down muscle tissue to get the nutrients it needed.
 What your doctor recommends may vary based on how severe the liver damage is.


Some sources recommend an increased amount of protein to provide energy.Other sources say that because a damaged liver may be unable to process the proteins, this could lead to the accumulation of toxins. In this case, it may be necessary for you to reduce the amount of protein you eat., B vitamins are particularly important, but make sure you also include vitamin K and phosphate and magnesium.B vitamins are necessary for your body to break down the food you eat and process it into energy. Thiamine, folate, and pyridoxine are types of B vitamins with which you can supplement.
Fish, chicken, turkey, meat, eggs, dairy products, beans, peas, and leafy green vegetables have B vitamins.If you aren’t getting enough vitamins from your diet, your doctor or nutritionist can recommend supplements. Always consult with a medical professional before adding any supplements, even herbal remedies, to be sure that your liver will be able to process it.
 This will help prevent fluids from building up in your legs, abdomen, and liver.Try not to add salt to your food.
Avoid highly processed, pre-packaged foods because these often have a lot of sodium added to them.
 The amount of water that you need will vary with your body size, activity levels, and the climate in which you live. At minimum, drink eight 8-oz glasses each day.


If you urinate infrequently or pass cloudy or dark colored urine, then you are probably not drinking enough water., Exercise will help improve both your physical and mental well-being.


Ask your doctor how much exercise is right for you.
 This includes herbal remedies, supplements, and over-the-counter medications. Your doctor will be able to advise you on whether your liver will be able to handle the demands of processing that medication.Many medications or herbal remedies can be dangerous for your liver. Some common ones include aspirin, jin bu huan, ma-huang, germander, valerian, mistletoe, and skullcap.
Do not take street drugs. They may further damage your liver.
Avoid toxic chemicals such as fungicides, insecticides, aerosol sprays, and other fumes. If you must be around them, wear a mask.
 If your liver is badly damaged, these drugs may be beneficial.They are usually not prescribed for patients with kidney failure, bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract, or an infection.
Doctors usually prescribe prednisolone for 28 days. While on steroids, your doctor will have to monitor your blood glucose.
Approximately two out of five people are not helped by corticosteroids.

Pentoxifylline inhibits the cytokines that lead to more liver damage. This drug may be beneficial for those with mild to moderate liver disease.
Sometimes both corticosteroids and pentoxifylline are used together.
 These medications are controversial because there isn’t a lot of scientific evidence supporting their use.


Anabolic steroids are strong steroids.
Propylthiouracil was originally created as a thyroid medication.
 If your liver is failing this may be necessary. In order to receive a liver, you will need to:Have stopped drinking
Be in good enough health to survive the operation
Agree to abstain from alcohol for the rest of your life
Other treatments have failed

