 Confidence will attract boys (or girls) and make people value what you have to say. Practice walking confidently and "power posing" at home. Make a list of your strongest traits. Surround yourself with pictures of awesome women like you.


Throw out the beauty magazines. These feed insecurity, and you don't need that in your life.
Recognize that your opinions and feelings are just as important as anyone else's. It's good to be nice, but it's not good to constantly defer to others and never express your wants.
 The feeling of gratitude plays a large role in happiness, so keep a journal of the things you're grateful for. Every night, write down 2 things you are thankful for today (e.g. "I'm thankful for my sister helping me with my homework" or "I'm thankful for the sunny weather"). Practice thanking people when they do nice things for you or your community.
 Hang out with your friends, be there for them when they need you, and practice good listening skills. Staying well-connected will improve your mental health, making you all the more confident and beautiful. Consider your friends, family members, and mentors.


If you want to make friends, try doing clubs or volunteer opportunities where you can meet people like you. Or, reach out to a classmate or acquaintance.
Don't be afraid to reach out when you need something! Remember, people like to be helpful, and being vulnerable allows them to show their true colors and be a great friend to you too.
 Volunteering is a great way to give to the community and let your kindness shine. Try joining to help a cause you believe in, like feminism, antipoverty groups, disability rights, environmentalism, et cetera. This will help you feel like a productive citizen, and you can meet other nice people like yourself!

, Intelligence and hard work are very attractive traits. Whether you're nerdy or not, education is an important aspect of your future, and potential significant others will be attracted to a girl who has the knowledge to provide for herself.


Remember that girls can be great at STEM subject areas. There are many incredible women scientists, mathematicians, etc. who are left out of the history books. (Search the internet for "women in _____" and see for yourself!) There are tons of jobs in these fields, so you would be super attractive to employers.
It's okay if you're low on natural ability. Hard work is more important than inborn intelligence in the long run. Do your best, try hard, and you'll be great!

, Everyone stands out in some little way—whether it's the size of their nose or their obvious disability accent. People tend not to care as much as you might think. (They may be too busy with their own troubles!) Don't let mean people make you feel ugly. Your big nose is elegant, your skin color is majestic, your curves are endearing, your body is powerful, your laugh is infectious, and you are worth getting to know.
 Attractiveness is subjective, and nobody has the same definition. Focus most on your own health and happiness, let beauty come naturally, and don't worry if you happen to bump into naysayers along the way. Be the best you can be, and let the rest fall into place.

