 If you want to maintain your home's new beautiful decluttered look, then you have to know that decluttering is only half the battle. Now that your home looks nice, you have to make a concerted effort for it to stay that way by making time to keep your space organized every day and at the end of every week.


Spend 10-15 minutes decluttering your space at the end of every day, no matter how tired you are. You can also think of it as a challenge. Tell yourself you're done once you've put ten items in their place.
Spend at least 30 minutes decluttering your space on the weekends. You'll have a bit more time to do this on Saturdays or Sundays, and can do it while watching television or chatting with friends on the phone. It doesn't have to feel like a chore.
 Decluttering is much easier with the help of others, and so is maintaining a decluttered home. If you really want all of your hard work to pay off, then you have to enlist the help of your roommates, significant other, children, or anyone else who shares your home.


The process will be much easier if the person you're living with is just as committed as you are. If he's not, then you may spend a lot of time just cleaning after him/her.
Set household rules that encourage cleanliness. Say that all dishes have to be washed right after they're used, and that certain toys can only go in certain rooms, and so on.
If your roommate or significant other is just as committed to the process as you, then you can even take turns during nightly mini-decluttering sessions.
 Being a savvy consumer will help you continue to live in a calm and clean space. Pay attention to all of the things you buy and ask yourself if it's something you'll really need or if you won't have a use for it after all. If you're a smart consumer, then you won't be buying too many new items and crowding your home with them.Make a list before you shop. Whether you're going grocery shopping or trying to improve your summer wardrobe, make a list of all the items you really do need, so you come home with only the things you're looking for and don't fall victim to the impulse buy.
If you're not sure whether you should buy something, then resist the urge. See if you really want that thing two or three weeks later.
If you really need new furniture, get rid of old furniture. Don't crowd your space with more furniture. If you really need a new coffee table, don't put the old one in a different room; get rid of it.
Sign up for electronic bills so paper bills no longer crowd your space.
 This old trick will help you continue to declutter every single week, and it can also be a lot of fun. Just go through your things, whether you're looking at an old dress you may never wear after all, your second coffee maker, or a book you'll never read, and find a good friend or family member who will have a use for it.


If you can't think of anyone who will have a use for it, just donate it.
If you're feeling ambitious, you can aim to give away two old items each week, and go up from there.

