 Immediate effects include irritation of the eyes, ears, nose, and throat. These symptoms may present as a common cold, or allergies, but should fluctuate.


Long-term effects include the possibilities of respiratory disease, cancer, and heart disease. Currently, research is underway to determine precisely what level of certain pollutants cause these effects.;
, Potential sources include combustion, building materials and furnishing, heating and cooling devices, products you bring into your home, and products outside that affect the indoor air, too.


Combustion sources of indoor air pollution include oil, gas, coal, kerosene, wood, and tobacco products.
Building materials and furnishings that can cause air pollution include asbestos-containing insulation, wet/damp carpet, furniture made of particular pressed wood products, and formaldehyde in textiles.
Other indoor air pollution sources include: lead, household cleaning products, personal hygiene products, central cooling and heating systems, as well as humidification devices.
Outdoor sources of air pollution include radon, pesticides, and outdoor air pollution.
 Signs of bad air quality in your home include unusual odors, stale or stuffy air, faulty central heating or air conditioning equipment, damaged flue pipes or chimneys, excessive humidity, mold or mildew, and feeling significantly healthier when outside.
 Eliminate or seal sources of radon, lead, and asbestos. Verify that gas stoves have been properly adjusted. Prevent mold through moisture control. Do not use tobacco products indoors.
 Open windows and doors, and run fans in kitchens and bathrooms.
 Clean and change air filters regularly and keep air ducts clear. Empty and clean water tray in air conditioner. Turn on fans when using air fresheners. Schedule a complete air vent cleaning the next time you have your carpets, tile and other areas of the home cleaned.
 Clean any water spills immediately. Report and fix water leakages. The EPA recommends that indoor spaces stay between 30 and 60 percent humidity: you can measure and maintain these levels.
 Air cleaners are usually highly effective in removing air particles. Maintain air cleaners according to manufacturer’s directions.
 Even new homes are subject to air quality issues; the raw materials used in manufacturing, flooring and other products are known to give off volatile compounds for quite some time. Consider having carpets cleaned in new homes to reduce the effects.
 Air quality specialists can test your home's quality and suggest improvements.
 Instead of using dry dusters, use a spray or moist dust towels to pick-up and eliminate dust. Dry dusting techniques fill the air with dust particles that later settle back on furniture, drapes, and flooring.
 Dirt and grime easily collect on carpets and flooring throughout the home. Use HEPA filters when vacuuming to eliminate the spread of particles through the air and mop floors on a regular basis.
 Upholstery, drapes, and other fabrics throughout the home trap dust, pollen, and other pollutants, including tobacco smoke. Have all fabrics cleaned on a regular basis to reduce the incidents of irritants.
 Use fans or open windows put filters on air handling equipment and use an air purifier to keep the air clean. For an even more convenient option, the Realty Guild Blog explains that heat recovery ventilators (HRV) allow fresh air into a house while retaining the temperature of the indoor air.
 Many products on the market actually contribute to poor air quality; heavy fragrances often use harsh chemicals to make the air smell good for a short period of time. Unfortunately, these chemicals become part of the problem in the long run. Headaches, eye irritation, and other health problems have been associated with the use of heavy household fragrances and deodorizers and even the overuse of candles.
 Chemical cleaners can leave a toxic residue that may be harmful to your health. Read labels carefully and avoid using toxic chemicals that can cause breathing problems, eye irritation, skin rashes, or other potential medical problems. Many of these toxins can linger in the home long after the original cleaning took place.

