 Dropped quotes are partial phrases taken from the middle of a piece of text. Dropped quotes are comprised of only a few words and give no direction as to who the speaker is or the content it’s referring to. These must always be introduced within a sentence, and cannot comprise a complete sentence on their own.


Use a complete sentence to incorporate a dropped quote. Ex: As Rembrandt’s skill developed, he began painting landscapes that are “romantic and visionary” (Wallace 96).
Use a tag to incorporate a dropped quote: Rembrandt’s landscapes are “romantic and visionary” (Wallace 96).
 As the name implies, full sentence quotes are created by quoting complete sentences that take up less than 4 lines. Although these are complete sentences, they cannot be used as stand-alone sentences in your paper. Introduce them with an additional complete sentence or a signal phrase.


Use a complete sentence to introduce a full sentence quote. Ex: Over the course of time Rembrandt’s work began to change and focus on different themes, but as Wallace points out: "Rembrandt’s great gift as an etcher lay in preserving a sense of spontaneity while scrupulously attending to close detail” (142).
Use a signal phrase to introduce your full sentence quote. Ex: As Wallace states, “Rembrandt’s great gift as an etcher lay in preserving a sense of spontaneity while scrupulously attending to close detail” (142).
 Block quotes are multiple sentences quoted directly from a source which take up more than 4 lines in your paper. Because these take up a lot of physical space, they should be used sparingly with a maximum of 1-2 for a complete paper. Incorporate a block quote by adding a complete line space between your own content and the quote, and offsetting it by indenting the entire quote to the right a single time.


Introduce your block quote with a colon. Ex: According to Wallace: (add a line break here, and then indent the entire quote).
Block quotes do not use quotation marks. You have already stated who the author is/what is being referred to in the introduction sentence. Add the in-text parenthetical citation after the period at the end of the quote, though.
If your block quote is inside a paragraph, you don’t have to start a new paragraph at the end of it. Simply add another line break and begin writing along the left margin (with no indent)., Indirect quotes, or paraphrasing, is when you use a sentence from a source but change the wording slightly into your own words. This is useful when you cannot meet rubric requirements by quoting, or if you’ve quoted too much. Be careful to avoid plagiarism though by changing at least 50% of the sentence.


Change the structure of the sentence by moving parts around. You can use a thesaurus to exchange words with synonyms.
Paraphrasing should only be done if you are certain that you understand the content you are copying. If you are unclear as to the meaning of the quote, you won’t be able to put it adequately into your own words.
When you write your paraphrase, don’t look at the quote. Keep the meaning in your head and create a new sentence to match.