 For a delicious variation on regular butter, try making this BBQ butter to serve alongside your grilled corn. It will give an extra kick of flavor to your perfectly grilled corn and is sure to impress your guests. You will need:2 tablespoons canola oil
1/2 small red onion, chopped
2 cloves garlic, chopped
2 teaspoons Spanish paprika
1/2 teaspoon cayenne powder
1 teaspoon toasted cumin seeds
1 tablespoon ancho chili powder
1/2 cup water
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, slightly softened
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Add the oil to a medium-sized pan and heat on high. When the oil is hot, add the chopped onions and garlic, and fry for 2 to 3 minutes, until soft. Add all the spices to the pan and stir to combine. Add the water to the pan and continue cooking for a minute or two until the mixture thickens. Take the pan off the heat.
Blend the butter, Worcestershire sauce and spice mix in a food processor until combined. Add the salt and pepper, then transfer to a small bowl and chill in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. This will allow the flavors to develop. Remove from the fridge ten minutes before serving.
 This lime mayonnaise butter will add a zesty twist to your grilled corn and is sure to leave your family and friends clamoring for more. You will need:1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1/2 teaspoon onion powder
1 lime, zested
Lime wedges, for serving
In a bowl or food processor, combine the butter, mayonnaise, onion powder, and lime zest. Place in a small bowl and leave to chill in the refrigerator for half an hour.
When the corn is cooked, generously brush on the flavored butter and serve with a wedge of lime.
 You simply blend all on the ingredients together in a food processor until smooth, place in a small bowl and allow to chill in the refrigerator for 30 minutes before serving. Here are the ingredients:2 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/4 cup chopped fresh herbs, such as basil, chives or tarragon
1 teaspoon kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper

, Garlic and butter are perfect companions, especially when it comes to grilled corn. Simply mash these few simple ingredients together in a small bowl until completely blended, and then brush onto hot corn for a more side dish. Here are the ingredients:


2 sticks of butter, at room temperature
2 tablespoons of freshly chopped chives
2 cloves of garlic, minced
1/2 teaspoon of Kosher salt

