 Find the musical soundtrack that enhances your study time. Often people find that listening to music without words is best for concentration. Try listening to gentle orchestral arrangements, piano solos, light jazz, smooth electronica or easy listening to complement your study.


This strategy won’t work for everyone. Some people are distracted by music while they work.
Experiment with different kinds of music until you find the genre or pieces that work best for you. Some people can drown out music even with lyrics.
 Find a group of study companions and plan regular study together. You might try quizzing each other, or making games from the material that will sharpen your knowledge. Talking to one another about the course material can clarify anything that you didn’t quite understand from the lecture.You’re more likely to learn when you’re motivated to study.
If you’re more likely to be distracted from your studies by working together with other students, it’s important to acknowledge this and spend your study time alone. If this is true for you, keep your social time as a reward for your solitary learning.
 Make a poster and draw out the relationships you’re trying to memorize, for example. If you’re musically inclined, set the words you’re trying to learn to music to help you remember them. Make diagrams to illustrate what you’re learning.


Make your own flash cards, including pictures and words to help you learn.
You can often find video information about the topic you’re studying online. Khan Academy, or Coursera are among the free educational courses and programs can help support and enhance your learning.
 If you’ve put in a long afternoon at the library, or if you’ve turned in a report you’re proud of, it’s time to celebrate! Take yourself out for your favorite beverage, or take the evening off to see the latest movie you’ve wanted to see.Even while you’re still working, keep healthy snacks nearby and take breaks when you need to.
You can use also use these as rewards for reading up to a certain point, or for writing a certain number of words or pages.

