 Before you begin to bake the cookies, first preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (176.66 C). By the time you finish preparing the dough for the cookies, the oven should be fully preheated., Begin making the cookie dough by turning on an electric standing mixer to medium speed. Add 1 cup (236.59 ml) of room temperature butter to the bowl and pour in the 1 ½ cup (354.89) of sugar gradually while the butter and sugar get beaten together.Try to use an electric mixer. If you mix by hand, the cookies will have a denser texture than if you mix them using a mixer.
You can also use an electric handheld mixer if you don’t have a standing mixer.
 After you have added the last of the sugar, turn off the mixer and scrape the butter and sugar mixture from the sides of the bowl into the middle of the bowl. Then turn the mixer back onto medium speed and beat the butter and sugar for 2 minutes, or until it the mixture is fluffy and lighter in color., After beating the butter and sugar, crack two eggs into the bow of the mixer. In a small separate bowl, crack in another egg. Use a large spoon to remove the yolk from the separate egg and add this to the large bowl of ingredients, disposing of the egg white., Once you add the egg, add the teaspoon (4.93 ml) of peppermint extract to the dough to give the cookies a distinctive mint taste. If you want the cookies to be green, add 10 drops of food coloring. Then beat on high until the egg and other ingredients are incorporated into the dough.10 drops of food coloring will give the cookies a light green color. If you want an intense green, add a few additional drops.
 In a separate large bowl, add together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, cream of tartar and salt. Mix with a large spoon until the dry ingredients are mixed together., Mix with the electric mixer until the dough is almost homogeneous and the flour is nearly integrated., Pour in half of the chocolate chips, and place the rest of the chocolate chips on a cutting board. Use a large, sharp knife to coarsely chop the rest of the chocolate chips, then add the chopped chocolate chips into the bowl of dough.Chopping half the chocolate chips will make the chocolate more integrated into the cookie, giving you cookies with some large chunks of chocolate and smaller pieces of chocolate baked into the dough.
If you prefer having only large chunks of chocolate, add all the chocolate chips to the dough whole instead of chopping some of them.
 Once you add the chocolate chips, turn the mixer back on medium speed and mix the dough until all the ingredients are just mixed together. Then turn off the mixer and remove any dough from the blades of the mixer, adding it back to the bowl., Instead of baking the cookies directly after making the dough, you should chill the dough for least an hour to improve the texture of the cookies. Cover the bowl of dough in plastic wrap and place the dough in the fridge for at least an hour and up to 24 hours.Chilling the dough prevents the cookies from spreading out significantly in the oven, and also improves the texture of the cookies, making them chewier and less doughy tasting., While the dough is chilling, you can prepare the cookie sheets for baking by lining two cookie sheets with parchment paper. If you don’t have parchment paper, you can grease the sheets using butter or cooking spray.Try to use parchment paper if you can, as greasing can cause the cookies to spread more than may be desired.
 After the dough has chilled for at least an hour, remove it from the fridge. Use your hands or a 2-inch (5 cm) cookie scoop to form the dough into balls that are roughly 2 inches (5 cm) in diameter. Place the dough balls spread out on the baking sheets, with at least 2 inches (5 cm) of space between each dough ball.These cookies will be on the large side. If you want a smaller cookie, make balls that are about 1 ½ inches (3.81 cm) in diameter.
If you are using your hands, try not to over-handle the dough. Make the dough balls quickly instead of continuously rolling and compacting the dough. Over-handling will change the texture of the cookies.
 Once you have prepared the cookies for baking, place the cookie sheets into the preheated oven and bake the cookies for 8 minutes., After the 8 minutes are up, open the oven and check to see if the cookies are beginning to brown. If the edges are slightly browned, remove the cookies from the oven. If not, bake them for another 2 minutes and then take them out of the oven., After taking the cookies out of the oven, let the cookie sheets sit on the stovetop for 5 minutes. This allows the cookies to solidify slightly so that they won’t break when you try to pick them up., Once the cookies have cooled for five minutes, use a spatula to gently scoop up the cookies and place them on a cooling rack. If you don’t have a cooling rack, place them on a plate or clean surface. Let the cookies cool for at least 10 minutes, then serve and enjoy these tasty confections!

Use a cooling rack if you have one, as it will allow your cookies to cool evenly.

