 While some may not appreciate this approach, asking the other person if they would permit negative feedback is a great method to opening dialogue. It eases potential tension that could arise when the advice or feedback is unsolicited. Try an approach like the examples below:Would you mind if I offered some pointers?
Can I give you a little critique that might help you?

, Before and during the feedback, ask questions that get the other person to see their mistakes or flaws without you mentioning the issue. Prompt them to find ways they could have improved, and they may just give the negative feedback to themselves. Communicate that your motivation for the review is to facilitate progress, and they’re more likely to view it as a learning opportunity.Where do you suppose things went wrong?
What could you have done to improve the outcome?
Was there a decision you could have made to help?

, When positives are more frequent than negatives, the feedback is more likely taken earnestly. Evaluate the situation to find positive things to say in addition to the negative commentary you plan to provide. Do not include feedback or comments derived from other sources. Modify your approach with one of the following suggestions:The final product was pretty good, but there was one small part that needs tweaking.
I appreciate all the time and effort you’ve put into this, but we still need to put in some more work.
You’ve done great thus far, but we still need to make a few changes to get everything perfect.
 Feedback is improved when you understand the other person’s thought process. You may believe it’s better to do thing one way, but the other person may have an entirely different approach or perspective that has been successful in the past. Find out what led them to their actions or decisions.How, exactly, did you come up with the plan to put this in action?
Why did you decide to start the job in such a way?
Did you have a reference upon which you relied when making that decision?

, Keep everything as straight-laced as possible so the criticism is accepted. Remember the goal is the outcome, so focus on identifying problems and finding solutions. Remain completely objective throughout the interaction or meeting, and ensure the feedback is factually based. There may be extenuating circumstances that are hindering the other person from performing or acting in the manner they would normally.Avoid derogatory language wherever possible. This is unprofessional, and is counterproductive to obtaining the desired results.
Do not insult the person receiving the feedback. Remember, feedback is intended to modify behavior. Keep your criticism focused on actions and efforts.
Avoiding using the feedback period as a way to vent or unload stockpiled criticisms. Providing regular feedback, both positive and negative, can help to prevent building up this stockpile.Remain professional and impartial during your conversation.
Avoid comparing the person to someone who you feel is doing a better job.
 The point of the feedback is to improve future outcomes. Research has shown that as someone becomes more proficient at something, they become more accepting of criticism. Temper your negative feedback based on their likely receptiveness.To a beginner: I love your effort, but I'd like you to work on one small correction.

For an expert: The first step in your project is very substandard. It needs to be completely overhauled.

Provide examples of the person's performance you are pleased about, as well as areas in which you believe they fall short, adjusting each towards their level of experience.

