 Whole grain tortillas can serve as a neat wrap for sliced meats, vegetables, and spreads that will give you fuel and energy without making a mess in the car or making it difficult to drive.Choose fresh-sliced lean meats like chicken or turkey for a healthy serving of protein. Add fresh vegetables and avocado or hummus, which won't drip the way salsa or salad dressing would.
Make smaller wraps so they'll hold together easily in one hand, and fold wax paper around them for easy holding.
Keep in mind these snacks are only ideal for shorter road trips (less than 2 hours). Only bring them on longer road trips if you plan to carry a cooler in the car. Otherwise, your vegetables will wilt and your meat may not keep at room temperature.;
, If you're going to be on the road for several hours and don't have room for a cooler, consider buying some turkey jerky. Look for a low-sodium brand to get a healthy helping of protein in a palm-sized snack.There are organic jerky options available as well.


Kale chips also are a healthy snack that won't require refrigeration, or you can bring nuts and seeds for a little protein. Split larger containers into single-serving bags before your trip so you aren't tempted to overeat.
 The flavor of almond butter and bananas goes together well, and the fiber, healthy fat, and protein will keep you energized and alert on the road. Use whole-grain bread to limit your carbohydrates.Keep your sandwiches in plastic containers with a lid so they're easier to access while you're on the road and don't get squished. You might also try cutting them into quarters so they're more bite-sized and you don't have to try to manage a whole sandwich with one hand.
Peanut butter and jelly is another option. Instead of sugar-laden commercial jellies, use preserves or a whole-fruit spread.
These simple sandwiches typically will keep for several hours without refrigeration, as long as you don't have them laying in direct sunlight.
 If you've got a cooler on board, hard boiled eggs are a great snack that doesn't take long to prepare. Peel your eggs before you store them in the cooler so you don't have to deal with egg shells in the car.Make sure to keep the eggs between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit to prevent them from spoiling and making you sick.

