 According to Wikipedia, Sprint All-Star Race is the annual race that is held in Lowe's Motor Speedway. This race is available to all race winners in the 2005 & 2006 seasons up to and including 2006 Dodge Challenger 500 (NASCAR 07's Fight to The Top season starts from 2006), past overall champions and past All-Star Race Winners in the past 10 years.;
, To race in the All-Star Race in 2006, gain an average of Gold in the All-State Qualifiers at the beginning so you can drive for a Sprint Cup team to race as a driver. If you are an owner, upgrade your pit crew even if you are using unlimited fuel and tires and racing in minimum number of laps (which is what this page is assumed). The reason will become clear later.
 Once you have done that, win at least one Sprint Cup race up to and including Dodge Challenger 500. Then on the Wednesday of the weekend, you will be asked to have a qualifying race, which you must win from last place just to get into the race, even when you have won every race in the season thus far. That day will clash with a Truck race. If you also own a team in the Craftsman Truck Series, hire a driver on the Monday of that week.
 The set up should serve you well for the week, and also the week after that. This is a non-championship race that has no championship points at stake, but next week's race at the same circuit does. So set it up well.
 The race proper is split into three segments. The first part is a 10-lap race that you will start from last on the grid (off a field of only about 11), but you must make a 4-wheel pit stop on a green flag lap.
 The best call is to pit earlier than everybody else. Pit after laps 1 or 2 because most never pit until late in the race. Your pit crew (even on perfect upgrade) needs a little more than 15 seconds to change all four tires... and that is not including the time you get into the pit lane at 70 mph (110 km/h) or less (or else you incur a time penalty), and out of it in full speed.
 For extended qualifying session, don't be disheartened if you are a lap down. When the others pit, you'll catch up to them if you drive cleanly. You may not know your track position with all the shuffling going on, but you should win comfortably if you pit early and keep the pace up.
 The field will be randomly jumbled at this point, and you will surely be shuffled back. This is basically the same as a qualifying race you did with a reduced field, but you have only seven laps to get as far up to the front as possible because this is effectively the qualifying session for the segment three: the race proper.
 Passing from the inside is easier than going the long way around.
 If you have unlimited tires and fuel, that's fine; but if you don't, you must make a pit stop, and the position you come out of it is what you'll start your final segment on. You have five laps to finish the job off. Stay inside, and stay out of trouble. Though, since caution flags do not count, watch out for any warnings. Don't go causing any yellow flags yourself.
 If you win, you've guaranteed yourself entry in this event for the next 10 years (so no more Wednesday qualifying), unless if you win again to extend the free pass. However, don't get complacent. As mentioned above, the race has no bearing on the Sprint Championship. On the next week, you will have a proper race weekend here ("Coca-Cola 600"). But of course, with a car nicely set-up, and you knowing the track very well, winning again 'should' be easier, unless if any rivals you made are trying to shunt you off. In this case, it's just like a normal weekend. Qualify well in the two laps given, then stay out of trouble to win. And DO NOT pit. Nobody will in a short race, and you'll be left behind.

