 These are things you will want to find out before pulling together items to pack.;
, Does the school offer a suggested packing list? Are there outdoor activities or field trips on a regular basis? Are there opportunities to dress up? Is there a dress code to tell what is appropriate and when (skirt length, shorts, baseball caps, etc)?

, Either way you will want to know what is going to be provided in terms of towels and sheets and what you are responsible for yourself.
 Is 80% of your clothing falling under the "comfortable with little attention required" category? Then 10% should be what some call "country club casual" dress code- a couple of skirts/pairs of slacks that can be appropriate both for day or evening events, button up shirt/nice top and cardigan, and a pair of comfortable, sturdy dress shoes. Finally the last 10%- fun, durable nightlife clothes, or trendy outfits.
 Consider this carefully based on how much the transportation you will be using to get there may charge for the size of the bags. Two soft duffel bags of less than 50 lbs will cover a lot, if space and choices of clothing sets are managed wisely. Additionally, if your schedule allows for the pick up of a few items once you arrive, you may want to compare the cost of purchasing your hair care items over the duration of your travels to the cost (and weight) of packing as much of these expendable items to last the whole time. If the cost would be too much to purchase at your destination, perhaps consider pre-paying for parcels so a family member or friend can ship the needed items to you (and hopefully some items that will help you if you get homesick).
 A few posters, tape, small items to personalize your home-away-from-home, music, books, small sports items, writing material. Especially if you are living in a dorm, write your name on anything you would hope to bring back with you after your term.
 Who knows? You could make a friend with common interests, or change the world just by showing someone what your normal life is like where you are from.
 if you are nervous about potentially losing a digital camera, then consider taking a package of disposable cameras. Today, some places that develop photos will also have an option for making the photos digital later. It will be nice to have hard copies for frames when you get back.

