 You can request information on transactions from 1 to 10 years for a fee. You may be the order's sender, receiver, or even a third-party. You need to get this form from the MoneyGram website in the Money Order section for service forms.The form is only a two-page PDF file, but you will need substantial documentation along with this form when submitting it.
You may want to print out a couple of copies in case you make a mistake filling it out the first time.
You will need to prepare a $25 fee for requesting information on an order 1 year old or less, a $50 fee for an order 2-3 years old, $75 for an order 4-5 years old, and $100 for an order 6-10 years old.
Pay the fee online on MoneyGram's website or at a physical agent's location. Either service should provide you with a reference number that will go on the historical request form.
Include the appropriate reference numbers you paid the historical service fee with in Part 3 of the form.
MoneyGram does not retain records longer than 10 years.
 You will need to do this for each MoneyGram order you want information on.Include all previous phone numbers, addresses, and any nicknames used.
If you are a third-party requester, you will need to submit appropriate identification. Photocopies proving your identification as next of kin to a deceased sender or recipient of a MoneyGram transaction is acceptable.
Lawyers representing a client will need to send a Power of Attorney authorization with the form and allow an additional 2-3 weeks for MoneyGram's legal department to process the request.
 This should be a photocopy of your identification as the sender, recipient, or third-party.Documents can be emailed to: historicaltrnx@moneygram.com
Documents can be faxed currently to the following numbers: United States customers only - 1-866-954-7475; International customers only - 001-303-586-4660
You may be able to add more documents via the secure file transfer system.
 The historical transactions will only contain basic information. If you want copies of signatures, hard copies of receipts, and more information on senders and receivers then you will have to ask for a "subpoena."Historical reports show the names of senders and receivers, submission and cashing dates of orders, order amounts, fee amounts, and reference numbers.
If you want to get details such as duplicates of signatures, physical receipts, and addresses then you need to ask MoneyGram representatives for instructions. Use the main contact form in this case.

