 Because this is a minimalist style, your part will have more of an impact that can make or break your look. Take both your face shape and your personal style into account before you part your hair. The type of part you want to use will also largely decide the shape of your bangs if you choose to wear them.While your hair is still damp, draw your hair to its chosen part. Comb your hair away from this line.
Use bobby pins or hair gel at the roots to hold the part in place. From there, style your hair as usual, taking care not to mess up your new part.
Remember that it takes some time to "train" a new part. Don't expect it to shift immediately, and don't try a wildly different part right before a major event.
Try sleeping with a few bobby pins in your hair to direct a new part., Bangs are another subtle style choice you must take into account when wearing your long hair down. Like the rest of your look, your choice in bangs will be highly personal, considering both your facial features and hair type.


A classic straight fringe bang perfectly complements long hair. While many stylists suggest that fringes are for straight hair, wavy and curly bangs in this style can also look great. Keep in mind that you will need to trim this style often to keep looking your best.
Middle-parted bangs can go longer and require less upkeep. They are also very versatile and look great with every hair type.
Side-swept bangs can be a dramatic and elegant addition to your style. If you have very tight curls, this will be a very difficult look to pull off without straightening your bangs a little., Like all hair styles, you want to find the products that will both create the look you want and work best with your hair.


If your hair is very straight and fine, wearing it loose can make it look flat. Try using volumizing shampoo to properly cleanse your hair of oily buildup. Add a minimal amount of mousse before drying or curling your hair for some added lift.In general, curly hair dries out easily and benefits from hair oils. This is especially true if yours is prone to frizzing. Try oiling your hair before styling. Be on the lookout for curl cremes and anti-frizz sprays. Try a few to find the right product for your hair.When adding curls with a curling iron, many stylists recommend to hold off washing your hair for a day beforehand. Your hair's natural oils will help your curls hold. Use a styling lotion and a heat-protection product before setting your curls and finish with a gentle alcohol-free hairspray.When straightening hair with a flat iron, wash and deep-condition your hair first.Like the curling iron, however, use heat-protecting products to keep from damaging your hair., The current texture of your hair and how you want it to fall will determine how you prepare it.


Some hair types will take much more time to grow long enough to fall past the shoulders. If you have this type of hair and want to wear it down but don't have the necessary length, you can straighten your hair with either a flat iron or a chemical treatment before moving on.
Long curls can look great when worn down. If you have fine hair, you also don't have to worry about a long style weighing your hair down if it's in curls. However, if you want that silken look, try straightening it with a styling iron.
Likewise, if your hair is very straight and you want to add some volume and texture to it, curl your hair. A quick, easy, non-permanent way of doing this is to use a curling iron.
 Hair accessories are an easy way to spice up a traditional style like this one. The right headband, barrette, or pin can really pull an outfit together when properly matched with your clothing.For more masculine looks, skip the accessories.

