 Go to your library, do internet research, and talk to people who can tell you about the major sources of pollution where you live. Learning as much as you can will help you have a better understanding about pollution.


While individuals can do their part to keep the air and water clean, corporations with environmentally damaging industrial practices are the main culprits. In order to protect the water and air where you live, it's important to find out what's putting them in danger.
 Even though a lot of people are concerned about stopping air pollution, many don't understand the severity of the problem or aren't sure what to do about it. Since you've done some research on pollution, use your knowledge to make a difference by talking about it with other people. The more people know about pollution, the more likely we will collectively find a way to stop it.


Just talking about pollution with other people can lead to interesting discussions. Be prepared with answers for people who don't think there's anything they can do to help stop it.
Pollution and the damage it causes is a very serious topic that some people may be averse to discussing. As someone who cares about this issue, be sensitive to others' perspectives and find ways to help them gain a deeper understanding of what's happening to the earth.
 Spreading the word by publishing information about how to stop pollution is a great way to help others become more aware of the problem. Pen an editorial that discusses both the problem and solutions that people can begin to implement in their daily lives starting right away.
 Is there a certain factory or industry in your area that's contributing to the pollution of your local environment? You can make a difference by being vocal about what's going on and joining up with others who want to keep your environment clean and safe. Do online research and find out more about the state of things in your particular region. Change starts at home, and becoming a local activist is the best way to make a difference.
 There might be an existing group working on stopping pollution in your area. If you can't find one, you and your friends might start a group that meets once a week or more often to discuss issues and brainstorm ideas for what you can do to help.Get others to join by spreading the word on Facebook, Twitter and by posting signs around your neighborhood. Host events that will help spread the word about pollution and give people the opportunity to do something about it. Here are a few ideas for events:


Hold a river or creek cleanup.
Host a screening of a documentary about pollution.
Visit schools to talk to kids about how they can help stop pollution.
Contact your local representative to speak up about your views on keeping water chemical-free.
Join a group that plants trees to help clean the air.
Become a bike activist. Work to have safe paths built in your city.

