 Lemons are believed to have a positive impact on the skin. While empirical evidence is unclear, many people find lemon face masks make their skin feel softer, remove wrinkles, and cleanse the skin of toxins. To make a lemon face mask, you'll need some lemon juice and powdered greens.You can usually find powdered greens at a local health food store. If possible, juice a lemon yourself. Advocates of natural face masks promote using organic ingredients, so go for an organic lemon if possible.
Combine the juice from half a lemon, which should be about 1/4 of a cup, with a tablespoon of powdered greens. Apply the mask to your face, washing your hands before applying. Make sure to avoid the eyes, as lemons can sting.
Let the mask sit for 5 minutes before removing it.
 By mixing strawberries, bee pollen, olive oil mayonnaise, lavender oil, and honey, you can create a refreshing face mask. Strawberries, believed to have a positive effect on the skin, are the primary ingredient. They have an exfoliating agent, which can help unwanted bacteria and toxins leave the skin. You can purchase bee pollen and lavender oil at most health food stores. The other ingredients can be found at a local supermarket.Combine 10 fresh strawberries, 3 tablespoons of raw honey, one tablespoon of olive oil, and a few drops of lavender oil. How you choose to combine the ingredients does not matter. However, it may make sense to use automatic beaters or a blender to get the strawberries to puree.
Apply the mix to your face. You will probably have to lie down during this process, as things can get messy. Lay a towel down where you're going to lie your head. Relax for about 20 minutes and then remove the mixture.
 Yogurt is loaded with vitamins and minerals, which some believe will rub off on the skin when used in a natural face mask. This can help remove toxins and bacteria. Combine a teaspoon of plain yogurt, a teaspoon of dry oatmeal, and a teaspoon of honey. Mix into a fine paste.Apply a fairly thick coat to your face with your fingertips. Make sure to wash your hands first.
Let sit for about 15 minutes. Then, rinse your face with warm water. Make sure you get the entire mask off. Pat your skin dry with a clean towel.
 Beer is also used in some natural face masks. The idea is some of the vitamins in beer, as well as the yeast, help dissolve dead cells, cleansing your skin. Choose any brand of beer. Combine half a cup of that beer with one egg white and 2 teaspoons of fresh lime juice.Combine into a liquid-like paste and then apply to the face. Let sit for 10 minutes and then rinse off with warm water.

