 You can find a PDF of the application you need on the Office of Vital Records website. The application will ask a few basic questions.


Your name, address, phone number, city, state, and zip code
Your relationship to the person named on the certificate
Your purpose for requesting the certificate
Your signature
The full name of the person listed on the certificate, their date of birth, place of birth, and sex as listed on the birth certificate
The full name of both parents listed on the certificate, as well as their place of birth
The number of copies you're requesting, If you're planning on doing a walk-in appointment, you need to decide where to go. Depending on what you need your birth certificate for, different Offices of Vital Records are needed.


If you need to complete corrections on a birth certificate and receive a finalized copy, you must go to the Columbia office. The hours are 8:30AM to 4:00PM, the telephone number is (803) 898-3630, and the address is 2600 Bull St., Columbia, SC 29201.If you need a long or short form copy of a birth certificate, or to initiate corrections, find an office in your area on the previously mentioned online database.
 You will need a variety of documents to receive your birth certificate. Before going into the office, make sure you have:


The completed application form
Cash, check, or a money order for the $12 standard searching fee, and $3 for any additional copies
A valid form of a government, school, or employer issued photo ID#Plan for a wait, if you walk-in. The average processing time for a birth certificate is 30 to 45 minutes, and there's a good chance there'll be a wait. Be prepared for this. Bring a magazine or book to read, or an electronic device to listen to music or podcasts, or a book of sudoku and/or crossword puzzles.
 The average processing time for a birth certificate at a walk-in clinic is 35 to 40 minutes. Make sure to bring something, like a book or iPod, to entertain you during the wait.
 If going into an office is inconvenient for you, you can mail in the application and the necessary documents without the hassle.


Mail your application to DHEC Vital Records, 2600 Bull Street, Columbia, SC 29201.
Include your completed application form.
Include a check or money order for the $12 fee, as well as $3 for any additional copies.
Include a photocopy of a government, school, or employee issued photo ID., You should be aware of how long it will take to get your copy, especially if you are planning to travel.


For walk-in, you should get a copy before you leave. It generally takes 35 to 40 minutes.
For mail orders, the average processing time for this method is 2 to 4 weeks. 