 Anytime you have your blood pressure checked, your pulse is checked as well.


You can have this done at your doctors office, or do it with a blood pressure cuff that you purchase at the pharmacy.
You may also stop by any fire station and have your blood pressure and pulse checked.
Many stores and pharmacies have blood pressure check machines; these machines check not only your blood pressure, but your heart rate as well.
 Electrocardiography is a graphic recording generated by reading the heart muscle using 12 leads while you are lying still.


It is a safe and simple procedure and takes 5 to 10 minutes to perform.
First, expose your chest, arms, and legs.
Color-coded electrodes will be attached to you and to the recording machine.
The electrodes are coated with conductive gel and applied to the skin surface on your wrists, ankles, and chest.
Make sure you are not wearing any metallic jewelry, and inform the person taking your ECG if you have a pacemaker or any other implants.
The ECG will be interpreted by your physician.



The holter monitor is worn on a belt or carried as a shoulder strap, and consists of a tape recorder connected to ECG leads on your chest.
During the test period, you will keep a diary of activities and associated symptoms.
Record all your activities, including brushing teeth, climbing stairs, bowel movements, eating, etc.
At the end of the recording period, return the monitor to the hospital or physician.
They will analyze the tape, comparing it with your diary.
This information can help detect cardiac arrhythmias and myocardial ischemia that occur sporadically during activity or rest.
Do not remove the electrodes, and try not to get the electrodes and wires wet.
Wear a loose fitting shirt during the test.
 Portable pulse monitors can aid athletic training, and look like a watch with buttons that switch on and off.


It records your pulse and blood pressure at timed intervals according to your settings.
It can also recall previous readings and times to match the current readings.
Some models are safe for use in extreme temperatures and underwater.
Some are rechargeable, while some use small batteries.
 During stress testing, the electrical activity of your heart is assessed with an ECG monitor while you walk on a treadmill, pedal a stationary bike, or climb up and down stairs.


A resting ECG is taken as a baseline before you begin the activity.
During the test, the speed of the treadmill, the force required to pedal the bicycle, or the pace of stair-climbing is gradually increased. The goal is to increase the heart's workload until a predetermined target rate is reached.
Your heart rate and rhythm are monitored continuously and ECG waveforms are recorded.
Your blood pressure and respiratory rate are also monitored.
You should report the onset of chest pain, dizziness, leg cramps or weakness, to avoid any injury.
The readings of the ECG tracings will be interpreted by your physician.
 A cardiac monitor continuously records the electrical activity that produces your heart rhythms. This type of monitoring is usually implemented in ERs for patients with cardiac problems.


Electrodes will be placed on your chest and connected to a machine that displays the cardiac rhythm.
A paper strip of the cardiac rhythm will be printed and attached to your medical record.
Some units include the option for the signals to be sent to a central station for continuous observation, to allow you to walk around the nursing unit.
Most cardiac monitors sound an alarm and automatically print out abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias or dysrhythmias).

