 Many of the English Bulldog’s defining characteristics are part of their distinct face. Take a look at the skull shape, the forehead, the nose, the shape of the ears, and the jawline.English Bulldog skulls tend to be large and round, with broad foreheads and a short, straight line running from the top of the head to the nose. Their foreheads aren’t usually round and their faces are generally flat.
English Bulldog ears generally have short, pointed, floppy ears, sometimes called “rose ears.” English Bulldogs do not have long ears, but unlike other short, pointy-eared breeds, their relaxed ears fall to the side of their head rather than standing upright.
English Bulldogs tend to have a pronounced, turned up jaw despite their short muzzle. This can sometimes lead to an underbite, though not always.
 An English Bulldog should have a broad, round body with wide shoulders and a full chest that makes its front legs appear somewhat shorter than the back. Behind the ribs, the belly should be tucked up rather than rounded, and the back should follow a curve with the head and hindquarters higher than the middle of the back.English Bulldogs are generally rounder and closer to the ground than other bulldog breeds. They should look stout and muscular, but are not necessarily inherently lean dogs.
 An English Bulldog has a short, flat, smooth coat with little to no feathering or curling. English bulldogs can have many different colors or markings, but generally predominantly feature white and brown marks across the body.In addition to the coat, the loose skin around the head, neck, and shoulders is a good indicator of an English Bulldog, as other bulldogs do not always possess such rolls.
English Bulldog coats can come in many colors, but are most commonly white with large brown spots or patches across the body.
 Most English Bulldogs do not have long tails. Rather, they have short, low-hung tails that follow the curve of the spine down toward their hindquarters. Bulldog tails may be straight, or have a slight upturn, or “screw,” to the end of them.While English Bulldog tails may have a screw, rarely do they actually curl. A curled tail on an English Bulldog might be an indicator of cross-breeding.

