 There is so much more to a professional signature than just your name. The general elements you may wish to consider include:


Your name
Business/Company Name and/or logo
Email address
Website address
Telephone and mobile number

Other additional elements could be:
Social media links like Linkedin, Facebook, twitter
Disclaimer (if required)
Tag line describing your business and service offerings

;
, As an individual or a business, you will be using your signature for external promotions, legal protection (the disclaimers) and communicating internal information to staff. Some might prefer a simple signature, while others rely heavily on images. A typical signature has a mixture of two types of content:



Information. The basic details that fall into this category of information are:

Sender’s name
Job title
Contact details (telephone, mobile, email address)



Imagery. The aesthetic aspect of the signature. This includes:

Logo
Social media buttons
RSS feeds
Other ways you've maintained an online presence



, When composing your signature on a professional note, it is recommended to keep a minimalist approach. This is adequate for most business needs. You should not assume that if your email signature has more contact details, you'll be more likely to be contacted. In many situations, an email and telephone number will suffice.


A minimalist approach is considered professional since it enables the reader to quickly get back to you via your email or number instead of taking time to decide from a long list of contact details. It is equivalent to hitting the bull’s eye in terms of approaching you.
Keeping everything to a minimum dictates that these contact options are those which you most frequently use. The recipient of your email will not have any issues as to your unavailability when they contact you.
 Though ultimately the format of your signature is up to you, there are basic guidelines you should follow to make it easy to scan and seem professional. Here are a few things to keep in mind:


Put your company logo above your slogan on the left, if applicable.
On the right, put your first and last name.
Below your name on the right, add the following in this order:

Phone
Mobile
Email
Website
Social networking icons (in a row)



, Your entire organization should be following one standard format to communicate a consistent personality of the business, whether your organization is 1000 people or just you. What devices use your signature? Make sure they all represent you the same.


Ensure that consistency is achieved over all your devices including smart phones or any other device or client. This can be done through using software to manage your signature and through applying updates on every device for every user.
Vary branding between departments, if applicable. A variation in signature for sales and customer service departments may exist but the main details will stay uniform. For example, a specific department may have their own slogans or service offerings, though they may use the same logo, etc.
 Some people may benefit from your Twitter, Facebook, and other superfluous information while others will want to get down to the brass tacks of your phone number and email. Just make sure the important information, like your name and email, are still front and center.


When the graphical elements of your signature stand out more than the actual details, the recipient, instead of being informed, gets overwhelmed due to the high degree of unnecessary overtones. This undermines your credibility, putting a negative spin on your method of information exchange, making you seem unprofessional. Keep it appropriate for the audience you're trying to reach.
 A number of software solutions are available in the market that allow you to create your email signature in a highly professional manner. However, the right solution totally depends on your preferences. Here's a list of software extensions, utilities and add-ons for Microsoft Exchange servers that are available:


CodeTwo Exchange Rules
Exclaimer Signature Manager Outlook Edition
Symprex Email Signature Manager
Exclaimer Mail Disclaimers
Red Earth Software

Furthermore, in case you have an on-premise Microsoft Exchange Server (2003, 2007, 2010, 2013), Policy Patrol Disclaimers is a good option. mySignaturesOnline or Policy Patrol Signatures works well for hosted email systems like Office 365, Google Apps or hosted Exchange.
 The first step, regardless of program, is entering your contact details. This pertains only to the contact details that should appear on your email signature. This is a detailed list that may include a number of options like your company name, official address, telephone, fax and website link etc.


You can choose to show or hide each field.
Save the entries to proceed to the next step.
 If you would like to include social networks in your signature, this step allows you to add the URL paths or links that you want to be accessed in your signature. Likewise, you can choose to hide or show the field.


This step also allows you to select the color of the icon and its size for a wide range of networks like Linkedin, Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, etc.
Be sure to hit save and proceed to the next step.
 This refers to the message you may intend to add into your signature like a disclaimer, any privacy entry or something like "going green," for instance. Similarly, save and click on the next tab.
 You can choose from the available options and go for a template, font size, text size, base color, etc. Click save and then hit the next button.


In certain cases, you'll be able to have more of a hands-on approach to your signature and create your own template. Just remember to keep it simple.
 This is the final step which allows you to add an image to your email signature. This usually supports multiple image extensions, including jpeg, png, gif, etc. Upload an image from your computer for this purpose.


Once you are done with this step, you get an option to download your email signature file which will then be ready for use.
 There's a fine line between lively colors and colors that are, well, obnoxious. It should not be distracting, aggressive or over-toned to the extent of aggravating the eye. Here's what to keep in mind:


For RGB values, avoid using pure colors – a single color not combined with any other color. These hues are too sharp for an email signature. The brighter the colors are, the more aggravating they appear to the naked eye.
Keep saturation at a range of 100-150 when brightness falls around 15-40. This works well for the color display of both computer screens and smart phones.
When using a primary color, support it with a varying tone of the same color to make it visually appealing and to put it in alignment with the white background of your email.
Avoid certain colors that change hue across screens. Gold looks khaki on certain monitors, darkest reds appear muddy and pastel green and yellow appear tinted.
Use software to quickly test and compare the slightest changes in color. A merely simple standalone signature with its own color may seem good but you must check it against the white plain background of the email.
 There are many reasons to keep your signature on the small side: the resolution of the image you are using might not open with certain mail clients, the quality of an image is lost if it’s shrunk to fit the size of the email body, and simply enough, large images take longer to load. You want a signature size that works across email clients.


Scale your signature so that it fits the size of the viewing window. This implies your signature is rightly sized to suit the size of your computer screen or phone’s display. This can be done by scaling the image through using an HTML “Width = 100%” or similar code.
 Images behind text rarely work in email. Yahoo supports background images whereas some standard other clients like Gmail, Outlook or Hotmail, don’t render them properly. Background colors do give your email a personality – only if they are not overwhelming. Here's what you need to know about background color:



Avoid setting a distracting color. Restrict background colors to only the contact details section of your signature if you are interested in using them. This will not detract the reader from the overall message
Use background color cleverly to draw an eye towards the content. This can be done if you create an impression that that content and image are all part of one consistent message.
Avoid using large images. Good image size varies with client and the device they use to read them. Also, if you use a photo editor like Photoshop; for the sake of understanding, reduce it from 1850x370 pixels to just 600x120.
You may consider using a relatively large image for a new client to create an impact; however, long term clients usually prefer a gentler style since they are already familiar with you.
 To increase the visibility of your contact details in order to ensure that the recipient is well informed, you must tone down the graphical elements of the signature. Here are a couple things to keep in mind:


Either you brand above or below the message. The combined size should not be beyond 200 pixels. Simple branding is no more than 100 pixels.
If you are using software to create a signature rendering a branded margin, width should be no more than 50 pixels. The ideal margin should be 20-36 pixels that will not clutter your message.
 It is simply overwhelming for your audience if you include all methods of contact. This gives the impression that you are desperate to be reached. It could also be confusing if you include your physical address amongst a long list of social networks.


Commonly made mistakes let people totally overlook your emails. In doing so, you will be in no position to communicate your intended message and the chances of creating a long term relationship will be limited.
 This is not practical because certain email clients have been designed to block images altogether. In case your signature is an image it would be equivalent to receiving an email from a person whose address is unknown – you cannot contact them back. An unreadable signature is a worst thing that can happen to you if you want a response.
 A large number of people now check their emails on their mobile devices. If it’s not readable, the reader is likely to do away with it. Remember that functionality is more important than the design. When people are on their phones, they're mainly looking for something then can read quickly.
 If you include a link to a blog for the sake of earning readership or a social network account that hasn’t been updated for ages, this is irrelevant information. It does not benefit your client in the slightest. Instead, it just gives the impression that you are not serious.


Additionally, avoid temptations like adding your favorite quotations (this may include quotes from religious sources as they may offend someone) and choosing multiple font types, font colors and sizes in your signature. This is considered highly unprofessional.

