 You must become your own protector, and you have to prove to yourself that you will and can make choices within your control to allow yourself to feel safe.Begin to reconnect with what feels safe to you. How do you feel safe in your home? Who are the people in your life who make you feel safe? What are things you do that make you feel safe? This can even simple things like curling up with your favorite blanket, or familiar movies that comfort you, cuddling with your pet or places like the library, a museum or a favorite coffee shop?
You have the power to shape your life around safety, and once you start to intentionally create safety in your life, it will be easier to ingrain messages of healthy self esteem into your identity.
 Survivors of abuse often have poor boundaries when it comes to their personal and professional lives. If you are a survivor, it can be difficult to learn to stand up for yourself. However, you deserve to have your needs met in a healthy, safe way just like every other human being. Begin to tune in to the new wants and needs of your self-esteem and nurture yourself as you let go of the negative thoughts that have been ingrained in you. For example, become comfortable saying "no" if someone asks you to do something you don’t want to do. Give yourself permission to be assertive and make your opinion, wants, and desires known.Some research has shown that assertiveness training can have positive implications for the survivors of some types of abuse and assault. Acting assertively can also help you feel better about yourself and heighten your self confidence.Try reading books about co-dependency to get a feel of what healthy boundaries feel like. Relationships should be mutually reinforcing and beneficial, not purely "give" on one side and "take" on the others. Take time for yourself to do whatever YOU want to do, like watch a movie or going to your favorite restaurant.
 Focus on all of your accomplishments and achievements. You'll see that you have lots to be proud of and that you offer real value to the world and to yourself.Consider writing down your achievements, positive attributes or things you value about yourself, and the ways in which you have helped others. You can write in a freestyle manner or create a list of different categories. See this exercise as never-ending; always add to the list as you do new things, such as graduate from school, rescue a puppy, or win an award. Also draw attention to things that make you happy with yourself; maybe you like that you are goal-directed or are good at making people laugh.Return to your list whenever you have doubts or feel that you are not measuring up. Recalling all of the things that you have done and continue to do will help you build a more positive self-image. This is an exercise in retraining your thought patterns and it will not happen overnight.Remind yourself that you are worthy of love regardless of your positive attributes, successes, and achievements. All of these things are fantastic, and you should be proud, but even if these things faded away, you would still be worthy of love because of who you are as a person. Your abuser’s mistreatment of you does not dictate your value.
 You will have to take a firm stance in combating negative thoughts. One of the most powerful statements to tell yourself is "I will not continue the legacy of my abuser."This sentence gives the power back to you. It enables you to make the decision to move forward even though you have been hurt and abused. It takes the power away from your abuser. Make this one of your mantras. Use that pledge like your shield and sword against negative thoughts that reduce your self-esteem.


For example, when negative thoughts arise, you can say “I will not continue the legacy of my abuser” either softly to yourself or in your head. You could also write down the statement on a piece of paper that you keep in your wallet or purse. You deserve to live a free and healthy life of your own choosing. You have survived and no one can take that away from you.
 Transforming the negative things you think about yourself into positives is one method to fight back against negativity. Confronting and challenging your negative belief patterns as a survivor of abuse is a key step in regaining your power and self esteem. Once you can dispute the messages of abuse that you have internalized, you can begin to free yourself from endless cycle of feeling helpless.For example, if you tell yourself you are ugly, you could tell yourself that you look nice today. If you tell yourself you never do anything right, tell yourself that you do lots of things right and give some specific examples. Instead of focusing on how stupid you are because you forgot your phone/keys/wallet, tell yourself that you're just a normal person who makes mistakes. Consider doing this exercise in a journal to keep track of your positive thoughts. Read them before you go to bed and when you get up.
Alternatively, make signs on post-it notes with these positive statements and put them where you can see them, such as on the bathroom mirror. This can help reinforce these statements and ingrain them in your mind. Over time, the positive thoughts will supplant the negative ones.
 Some of us feel so bad about ourselves, particularly after experiencing a trauma, that we think it's pointless to put time and effort into caring for ourselves. Ultimately, taking care of yourself can also help improve your self-esteem. The healthier you are in mind and body, the better the possibility that you will be satisfied with yourself. Make healthy changes to your life, like diet and exercise.


Research has shown that exercise can give a real boost to self-esteem. This is because exercise causes the body to release the "happy chemicals" called endorphins. This feeling of euphoria can be accompanied by increased positivity and energy. Try to get up to at least 30 minutes of vigorous exercise at least three times a week. At the very least, set aside time for a brisk walk every day.Try to incorporate more fresh fruits and vegetables into your diet. Eat at least three meals a day that are based on healthy and nutrient-rich foods, such as whole grains, poultry and fish, and fresh vegetables to keep yourself energized and nourished.Taking care of yourself can help to remind your body and mind that you are in charge, that you are taking care of yourself, and that you are treating yourself the way you deserve.
 Set aside time to do something that makes you happy every day, whether that means cooking, reading, exercising, gardening, or spending an hour just talking on the phone with a friend.Experiment with new activities; you might learn about talents or skills you didn't know you possessed. Maybe you take up running track and discover that you are really good at long-distance running, something you'd never thought of before. This can help increase your self-esteem.Consider taking up artistic activities such as painting, music, poetry, and dance. Artistic endeavors often help people learn how to express themselves and attain a sense of 'mastery' of a subject or skill. Lots of community sentences offer free or reasonably-priced classes.
 Consider "paying it forward" and helping other people. There is significant research indicating that people who actively help others or volunteer have higher self-esteem and feel happier than those who do not. As an added bonus, not only will you be happier, but someone else might also be as well.There are so many ways to get involved with others and make a real difference. Consider volunteering at a soup kitchen or homeless shelter. Offer to coach a children's sports team or your local chapter of girl guides. Volunteer at your local animal shelter or other non-profit organization.
 Deep breathing relaxes the mind and body. If you begin to feel scared or anxious, place your hands on your belly, plant your feet firmly on the floor and breath all the way down to through your belly to your feet. Imagine your breath to be like a wave coursing through your body. Do this ten times.


As you breathe, remind yourself you are safe. Imagine someone, something, or even a place that makes you feel safe. This will be your "safe place" that you can go to when a flashback or memory floods your brain. Imagine that safety, that feeling of relaxation and warmth all around you.
 Mindfulness is a technique that helps you observe your emotions without heightened emotions, like judgement or shame. The principle of mindfulness is that you need to acknowledge and experience all of your emotions - even the negative ones - before you can let them go. Mindfulness is not easy because it means becoming aware of your negative self-talk. However, the task is to acknowledge and recognize those negative thoughts without getting caught up in or giving power to them Research shows that mindfulness-based therapy can facilitate self-acceptance.Try to find a quiet space to practice mindfulness. Sit in a relaxed position and focus on your breathing. Count the inhales and exhales. Your mind will wander. Let it. Take note of what you are feeling. Don't judge it; just be aware of it.By acknowledging but de-centering your thoughts and not letting them take over, you are learning how to cope with negative feelings without actually trying to change them. In other words, you are changing your relationship to your thoughts and feelings. Some people have found that in doing this, eventually the content of their thoughts and emotions changes (for the better) too., Be generous with yourself as you navigate your way through changing your perspective on who you are and boosting your self-esteem. Research has suggested that self-compassion has numerous benefits, including mental well-being, increase life satisfaction, and decreased self-criticism, among others. The road to transformation, particularly after a trauma, is not a straight, perfect path. You will have good days and bad days. Remember that doing your best does not mean being perfect, feeling perfect, or acting perfectly. Doing your best means doing the best you can in context of how you are feeling in that moment.Healing is a process that has ups and downs. If you are having a difficult moment or day, then acknowledge it without shame or guilt. Engage in some gentle self-care. Give yourself a break, lay on the couch, watch TV or read a book, rest your body and mind by taking a soothing bath, doing gentle stretching or yoga, getting extra sleep, and nurturing yourself.
Come up with a mantra or habit that you can draw on when you feel an emotional spiral about to happen. Try putting your hand on your heart and saying, "May I be safe and kind to myself. May I have ease of both mind and heart."

