 You can make your cupcake in any colors you like, but to make them seem more realistic, try using cupcake-like colors. You will need a color for your base, a color for your cupcake bottom, a color for the rim of your cupcakes, and a color for the cupcake frosting. Some good options include:Grey for the base. It will work well as a background color that won’t distract from your cupcakes.
Tan, beige, or brown for the cupcake bottoms. Cupcakes usually come in chocolate or vanilla varieties, so choose a color that reminds you of a cupcake you have eaten.
Pastel pink, dark pink, or light purple for the dividing rim. This will help to differentiate your cupcake bottom and frosting and add a pop of color.
White, cream, or tan for the frosting. Choose a color that is similar to frosting.;
, Start by making a slipknot with your base yarn.To make a slipknot, make a loop in the yarn and then make a smaller loop and insert that through your first loop. Pull the tail to tighten the larger loop and secure the slipknot. Then, slide the loop onto your crochet hook., You will need to make a foundation chain to begin your cupcake stitch. The foundation chain has to be a multiple of six plus three. For example, you could make a chain of 12 and then add three for a total of 15 stitches, or you could make a chain of 60 and then add three for a total of 63.To make the first chain, loop your yarn over your hook twice and then pull the first loop through your slipknot. Then, loop the yarn over your hook again. Pull it through the other loop on your hook. Continue until you have the desired number of chain stitches., Your first row will be all single crochet stitches. Single crochet one time into every chain in the row.To single crochet, insert the crochet hook into the stitch and then yarn over. Pull the yarn through the first stitch on the hook to create a new loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through both loops to complete one single crochet stitch., You will need to switch over to the color you have chosen for your cupcake bottoms now. Cut your working yarn a few inches from the hook. Then, tie the end of the new yarn to your working yarn as close to the hook as possible., After you have switch your yarn over, turn your work around and then chain four stitches to begin the next row. This chain will serve as your turning chain and your first double crochet stitch., Next, skip the first two stitches in the row and then double crochet two times into one stitch. This will begin your first cupcake bottom.To double crochet, loop your yarn over the hook, and then push the hook into the stitch and loop your yarn over the hook again. Next, pull the yarn through the first stitch on the hook, and then loop your yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the next two stitches on the hook, and then loop the yarn over the hook again. Pull the yarn through the remaining two stitches on your hook to complete one double crochet stitch., Repeat the double crochet stitch in the next stitch in your row, but only double crochet once into this next stitch. Then, double crochet twice into the stitch after that. This will complete your first cupcake bottom., To work over to the next space to make your next cupcake bottom, chain one and then skip the next three stitches.Repeat the cupcake bottom sequence of double crocheting twice, then once, and then twice again in the next stitch after the ones you skip.
Finish the row with one double crochet stitch in the last stitch.
 Your cupcake tops will have two colors. First, you will need to switch over to your pink or purple color. Cut the yarn a few inches from the hook and then tie the new yarn to the old yarn as close to the hook as possible., Begin your cupcake tops by single crocheting across the row, but only single crochet into the front loops rather than going through both loops.Also, when you reach a gap from the previous row, crochet around the chain rather than into the front loop only.
 To start your next row, you will need to change colors again. Do this the same as before and then chain six to start the new row. Turn your work around as well so you can start the new row., Bring the end of the chain to the beginning of your first cupcake and start working in the cluster stitch. The cluster stitch is similar to the double crochet stitch, but you will be continuing it across the top of your cupcake and then pulling all of the stitches together to give the look of a frosted cupcake.To do the cluster stitch, yarn over your hook and insert the hook into the first stitch. Then, yarn over again and pull through the first two loops.
Next, yarn over again and insert through the next stitch. Yarn over again and pull through two loops.
Continue to yarn over, insert through the stitch, yarn over, and pull through two to the end of the cupcake top. When you get to the end, yarn over and pull through all of the loops on the hook. Then, finish your cluster with one chain stitch., To work over to the next cupcake space, chain five and bring the chain over to the edge of the next cupcake top. Then, do another cluster stitch., When you are near the end of the row and have no more cupcake tops to work on, chain three and then bring the chain down to the end of the row. Double crochet into the last stitch in the row one time.
 To complete your cupcakes, you will need to switch colors one more time. Do this the same as before and then single crochet across the row., After you complete the single crochet row, chain three and then double crochet across the next row. This will create a foundation if you want to continue making cupcakes, or it will provide a border if your project is finished., If you want to add an extra decorative touch to your cupcakes, try using some red yarn or a red bead to top your cupcakes. This will resemble a cherry and provide an extra pop of color.To use yarn, thread a darning needle with red yarn and stitch in and out of the area at the tops of your cupcakes until you have a small red circle.
To add a bead, thread a needle and sew the bead into place at the top of your frosting mounds.

