;
, Call your local police and fire station, as they will have the answer.
 Write down what fireworks you want to buy before buying them. Contact local stores to find out what fireworks they will be selling. Be sure to also ask the price of each item. Set an amount of money you plan to spend (this might be anywhere from £75 to £250 or about $150 to $500). Try to buy your fireworks 1-2 weeks before the event, so you know you are able to get them.
 After buying your fireworks, you need a rough plan of your show. Scope out your show area and draw a sketch on a pretty big piece of paper. After that put where your fireworks will be in the area. Remember that small items go in front and your biggest items furthest away from the audience. Draw several plans, one for each of your mini-shows. Give a copy to each of your helpers and go over it so they know what to do.
 You'll need a display area. Look for a flat, open area free of dry grass. Once you’ve found that, buy some cheap plywood and set it down on the ground. Figure out what you want your show to be like. You should only fire a few fireworks at a time, and this should last at least 2-5 minutes. Each mini show should have a variety of fireworks; for example, each show could consist of 2 smoke balls at the beginning, immediately followed by two different fountains spread out, then a few bottle rockets and at the end a rocket or two. Once you’ve determined what each show will consist of, put the fireworks back in boxes in the order of your show.
 Let it get fairly dark before letting your fireworks spark. Once you’re done setting up for your first mini-show, make sure the audience is at least 50 feet (15.2 m) back. Have two people light each side of the show in the order you made. Remember, if any fireworks do not go off, let them sit and then douse them with a full bucket of water. And remember, have fun!

, This may seem like overkill, but it can help to have a small butane torch on hand, there is nothing that kills a show like a dead punk. Also if using artillery shells (you will if you want a good show, keep all shells in locations shielded from sparks. If you don't, you could have a catastrophic accident on your hands. Also make sure artillery shells canisters are well secured, do not let one tip one over.
 Make sure you have distractors, These can be used to keep peoples eyes in the air as you light off something big. And lastly, go all out in the grand finale. Last impressions are the most important for a firework show.

