 This illness affects each area of the gastrointestinal tract. Its symptoms can include nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, and general malaise. You may have one or all of the symptoms if you have a stomach virus.


The illness is self limited, meaning the virus usually runs its course in 2-3 days.This means that you should have physical symptoms for under a week.;
, Have you come into contact with someone who has a stomach virus? Do you have any of the symptoms of a stomach virus? If your symptoms are mild-moderate nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, you most likely have a garden variety stomach flu caused by the three most common viral pathogens, norwalk, rotavirus, or adenovirus.


Those suffering from this type of stomach virus usually do not need medical care in order to recover unless two things are present: you have severe or localized abdominal pain (this could indicate appendicitis, pancreatitis or other serious medical conditions) or you have the signs of dehydration, which are feeling faint or lightheaded, especially upon rising, or racing pulse.
In infants and children decreased tear production, decreased wet diapers, sunken skull, and skin tenting (if you pinch the skin it hold the shape) are all signs of dehydration.
 This is especially important if your symptoms don't lessen over time. Call a doctor or visit a clinic if you're experiencing the following symptoms:


Increased or constant vomiting for more than a day
Fever over 101ʡF (38ʡC)
Diarrhea for more than 2 days
Weight loss
Decreased urine production
Confusion
Weakness, Dehydration can become a serious medical issue. If you experience the following symptoms of severe dehydration, visit an emergency room or call for emergency services immediately.


Fever higher than 103ʡF (39ʡC)
Confusion
Sluggishness (lethargy)
Seizures
Difficulty breathing
Chest or abdominal pains
Fainting
No urine in the last 12 hours., Infants and toddlers are at an increased risk complications such as of dehydration as are diabetics, the elderly or those with HIV.Babies and children are at a higher risk of severe dehydration than adults. If you suspect that your child is suffering from dehydration, seek help immediately. Some common symptoms include:


Dark urine
Drier-than-usual mouth and eyes
A lack of tears during crying