 You should know some information about the company culture and hiring practices before you go in. If possible, learn examples from employees about the type of person that fits in well, so you can explain what a good match you will be.Use the internet to find out information. You may be able to find past employees to talk to through social media. Check the company's social media and financial reports.Look over the company's website to find out what they value; a great place to look for value's is in the company's mission statement.Also, look at recent news to find out what the company has been up to recently.;
, Several days ahead of time, take a good look at the job description. Use a another piece of paper to break the description down into groups.Break it down into a list of skills and experience the company wants. Match up your own skills with each of those on the list.It may be difficult to decipher what exactly the company wants from an employee because the company uses obscure language. You need to learn to read between lines. For instance, "dynamic" generally means someone who can tackle problems and project with confidence, while "self-starter" means someone who is able to take initiative when something needs to be done. A "team player" is someone who can work well with a wide variety of people.
If possible, divide it into two categories of "required" and "nice to have." Put most of your attention on "nice to have," since if you get the interview, you likely have the required skills., Write out a detailed response next to each qualification the employer is asking for in the job description. Remember that you must describe why you are the solution to the employer’s problems. For example, if the job description lists managing a small team as necessary experience, list out the positions you’ve held and any achievements that you’ve earned.
Use any relevant experience, including jobs outside the industry. For instance, if you worked in fast-food restaurant in college and managed other people, that shows relevant experience.
You can also mention experience that wasn't for a paid position, especially if you hadn't had many jobs. For instance, running a club on campus or even acting as coach for an intramural sports team also counts as management experience.
 Once you've matched up your skills to the job description, choose the top 3 or 4 to focus on when you're giving your answer. You don't want your answer to be all over the place, so pick the ones where you experience best matches the most important parts of the job description., Try giving an answer in front of the mirror. Next, move up to a family member or friend. Just run through it a couple of times so you remember the main ideas. You don't want your answer to sound rehearsed, but the main ideas should be thoroughly committed to your memory., Don't think your preparation is done when you get to the interview. Have a piece of paper with you to take notes. Write down specific keywords, and identify specific traits and skills the company is looking for based on what the person interviewing you is saying., Maybe you haven't had a chance to highlight your people skills. Alternatively, maybe you haven't had a chance to talk about your computer skills. Make a note on your paper about these lapses, so that you can address them in an open-ended question later, such as "Why should I hire you?", For instance, you may notice the interviewer thinks you are overqualified if she keeps asking about your years of experience and how you would do with people younger than you being in charge. Alternatively, maybe the interviewer thinks you don't have the skills of the job, which you may have noticed when she asked about a specific skill that you're not strong in., If the job description wasn't particularly detailed, feel free to ask some questions yourself. That way, you have a better idea of what the job entails, so you can answer the question more directly.


Ask questions such as "What goals will the person who’s hired be asked to focus on immediately?” or “What qualities do you usually look for in a new hire?”
You can also ask a question such as "What is a typical day like in this position?"

, As you begin to answer the question, focus on how you match with the company overall. That is, talk about your years of experience and the objective ways that you can talk about how you were valued at your last company. For instance, you could talk about how you were the youngest person in a managerial position at your last company, as it shows the company that you could handle the position., Three achievement-based examples will show that you are uniquely suited to the task. In addition, this approach will give your answer structure instead of letting your ramble through an answer.Use the preparation you did before the interview to answer the questions.
Try not to get flustered. Take a deep breath and give a brief but thorough answer.
 Don’t give canned answers. Once you know the facts of why you should be hired, try to approach it specifically, rather than generically.For example, skip a generic answer, such as “An experienced manager will be better for employee morale and company growth."
Instead, try an answer like this one: “You should hire me because I have managed a team for 10 years. During my time managing, I have lowered employee turnover and increased productivity by 10 percent.” This response lists specific reasons why you're a good fit, matched up to what the company is asking for in the job description.
 When answering, don't focus on why you want the job or why you think the position would be good for you. Instead, put the attention on what you can give the company. That's what the interviewer wants to hear.For instance, you may be tempted to say, "It's always been my dream to work for an art gallery."
Instead, say something to this effect: "I know many people want this position, but I have worked hard to be the best person for this job. From my degree in art history to my extensive internships in art galleries, I have the skill set needed to be useful to you." Follow that statement with some of the skills you have picked up over the years.
 Take this time to use what you've learned in the interview. Connect your skills to what the company wants. Similarly, use the time to highlight aspects of your skills that the interviewer has overlooked.For instance, maybe you heard that the company is really people-focused. Use the time to highlight your people skills with specific examples from your previous jobs.
You could say something such as: "At my previous job, I handled all the service calls, and the numbers showed that customer satisfaction was up during my time there."

, If the employer thinks you're overqualified, underqualified, or don't the right experience, take this time to reassure the interviewer that you're the right person for the job.For instance, if it's evident the interviewer finds you overqualified, note that you are trying to make a new move in your career, and you're willing to start from the bottom.If the person thinks you're underqualified, highlight other skills you have that would be relevant to the job.If you haven't proven you have enough experience for this position, highlight other experience in your past that is relevant. In fact, you can make almost any experience relevant. Say you worked as a sales clerk at a store in the past. That may not seem relevant to an office job, but it gave you the skills to work diplomatically with a wide range of people., An elevator pitch is a sales pitch that will sell someone on your cause, even in the most limited of time frames. This question is usually asked at the end of the interview and possibly your last appeal to show you are a good fit. Sell yourself as if you have been designed to solve the company’s problem. Stay on point. You may be tempted to tell everything you've ever done. However, tailoring it to the company will help you stay on task in addition to keeping the interviewer interested. Make sure your pitch isn't longer than two minutes.