 Visitors have access to almost every type of food imaginable. Use this as an opportunity to try things you wouldn't normally eat. You may have access to some buffets for free with your stay in the hotel and this is okay for days that you're in a hurry, but if you can, take your time to seek out restaurants that are new and exciting.;
, Las Vegas is an entertainment hub, so there are numerous shows you can see every night. Choose from comedians like Chris Rock and Jerry Seinfeld, or check out musicians like Celine Dion, Bon Jovi and Beyonce. There are also performances by magicians like David Copperfield, musicals, ballets and operas. Find out about show selections through the concierge at your hotel or via the Internet. A quick search for 'fabulous Las Vegas shows' should provide you with more than enough recommendations - from Britney to Barbara and even gay friendly shows.
 Notable landmarks include the fountains at the Bellagio, the memorabilia display at the Hard Rock and the lion habitat at the MGM Grand. The Mirage has several attractions including a volcano that erupts nightly, an indoor rainforest and a 20,000 gallon (75,708.2 L) saltwater aquarium.
 From relaxing massages to luxurious body wraps and refreshing Vichy showers, Vegas visitors can receive a head-to-toe pampering, sometimes without even leaving the hotel. These treatments can get pricey, though, but if you're not gambling, you'll likely have the extra money to spend.
 There are 10 hotels and casinos in this area but the main draw is the light and sound display every night. There are over 2 million lights and 28 speakers that work in tandem to create a show for Vegas visitors; the canopy over the street is nine stories high and four blocks long. The Experience starts at dusk and goes until midnight.
 The Hoover Dam, Grand Canyon, Red Rock Canyon, Bonnie Springs and the Colorado River all have activities geared toward Vegas visitors and often have shuttles to and from hotels on the strip. These places offer sightseeing as well as outdoor adventures like whitewater rafting and hiking.
 There are art galleries and museums that you could visit to get a feel for the real Las Vegas.

