 Extensions will last longer if you apply them to clean hair. Before applying your extensions, wash and dry your hair as you normally would., About an inch from the nape of your neck, use your finger or a comb to make a horizontal part. You will apply the extensions near the line made by the part. This way, your upper hair will hide the clips., You can use a hair tie or hair clips to secure all the hair above the part line. Just make sure it's completely secured. You do not want any hair falling down and getting in the way while you're securing your extensions., The idea is to sandwich a thin strand of hair below your part line between top and bottom extensions. However, the strand of hair you're sandwiching needs to be very thin. This is so the adhesive tape on both extensions can stick together through the hair. Grab a very thin strand of hair from the hair below your part line about the length of one extension. Make sure the hair is thin enough your fingers can feel one another through the hair., Take your strand of hair and lift it up a little. Remove the strip covering the adhesive on the bottom extension. Press on the bottom extension underneath the thin strand of hair you're lifting., Take the top extension. After removing the adhesive tape covering that extension, press on top of your strand of hair. The top and bottom extension should stick together. Hold the two together for about 20 seconds to secure.If the extensions are not sticking, you used too much hair in your strand. Gently brush some hair off the bottom extension.
 Move across your side part, repeating this process until you have added all the extensions. The precise number of extensions you are adding depends on the size of your head. You will likely use about five rows of hair extensions., Hair extensions tangle easily and extra hair means you'll take longer in the shower. Make sure to account for having more hair in the morning. Give yourself an extra 10 to 15 minutes to get ready every day., Extensions are prone to tangling. To keep your hair looking fresh and natural, brush your hair at least twice a day while your extensions are in place.Remember, hair care may take extra time when you're wearing extensions.
 As hair tangles easier, you should secure your hair overnight while wearing extensions. Pull your hair into a loose ponytail or braid it before bed. It can also help to sleep on silk pillows.