 At the top of any Pottermore page, you should see a Potions circle just to the right of the main logo.


Note that in order to access Potions, you must explore the chapters of the first book until you get to the Potions lesson in Hogwarts.;
, Cure for Boils is the easiest and fastest, but it also earns the fewest House Points. Other potions are more difficult and time-consuming, but earn larger rewards.
 Some ingredients can be collected in Moments, but others must be purchased in Diagon Alley.


If you are out of an ingredient you need, it will have a button labelled "Buy" next to it, which will take you to the Apothecary. Remember that if you use, say, a bezoar, you can go back to where you found it and re-collect.
 You can view your cauldrons on the Cauldron tab of the Potions book. If you do not have any cauldrons, you will need to buy one before you can make a potion.


Note that different cauldrons will brew at different speeds. Pewter is the slowest; brass is faster, and copper is fastest.
 This will bring up a menu where you should confirm your choice of Potion and Cauldron, and click Continue.
 You will see a page of instructions for the potion, which includes pictures of the ingredients. Read the first step and close the instruction book. This will take you to the Potions Bench. The Potions Bench contains a cauldron, a mortar, the instruction book, your wand and the ingredients for your potion, as depicted in the instructions. (You can reopen the book if you need to, but the clock is still running when you do. Instead, try writing down the instructions before you close the book.)

,


Add ingredients to the cauldron or mortar by clicking on them and dragging a pinch over the desired receptacle before releasing. Add ingredients in bottles by lifting the bottle from the top of the lid to keep it upright. Lean the bottle against the side of the cauldron to tip it over slowly and pour.
When adding ingredients, use the counter to the left of the receptacle to check you have added the correct amount.
To crush ingredients in the mortar, repeatedly click the pestle until the progress bar is between the two markers.
To heat ingredients in the cauldron, use the buttons underneath the cauldron to turn the heat on high, low and off. Keep the heat level between the two markers until the time runs out.
To stir the cauldron, click the spoon and circle your mouse in the correct direction. Use the counter to measure the number of stirs.
 You can bring up the instruction book again by clicking the book on the desk. After each instruction you complete, open the book and check that the task has been crossed off, then proceed to the next instruction.
 When you have completed all of the instructions, click your wand to wave it. It's located just below the potions book.
 If you have successfully followed the instructions, you will be asked to return to your potion after it has finished brewing. (For more complicated potions on a slow pewter cauldron, this can take up to 100 minutes, or even 24 hours for Polyjuice Potion Part 2.) While the potion brews, you can close the page and log off Pottermore if you wish. The progress of your potion can be checked on in the Cauldrons tab.
 When the potion has finished brewing, open your Potions Book again. Underneath the potion you are making will be a button labelled "Brewing". Open this in a new tab or window, keeping the Potions Book open. You should see a countdown timer; click "Next" to return to the Potions Bench.
 You will be given some more instructions to follow to complete your potion. Follow these in order and wave your wand again.
 If you have been successful you will be told so and told how many House Points you have received. A blue button labelled "Brew another potion" will appear - don't click it. Instead, use the Potions link at the top of the page to return to your Potions Book.

