 For the four-strand braided bracelet, using two strands of one color and two strands of another color will create the best effect. But you can also use four strands of four different colors or even four strands of one color. Pick a color combination that appeals to you, like blue and purple.
 You'll need to use three strands of each for each of the four main threads. In this case you'll need two combinations of three strands of blue and two combinations of three strands of purple. Measure the string so that it is as long as the distance from your wrist to your elbow. This will create a comfortable length for you to braid the string and to the tie bracelet together when you're finished.
 You can tape the strands to a surface or pin them to a cloth. You should tie the strands together so that two strands of one color are on the inside and two strands of another color are on the outside. In this case, the two blue strands are on the inside and the two purple strands are on the outside.
 Cross the left purple strand over the left blue strand, and cross the right purple strand over the right blue strand. The purple strands should be crossed over each other as well. Now the outer strands are blue and the inner strands are purple.
 Cross the left blue strand over the left purple strand and cross the right blue strand over the right purple strands. These two strands should also be crossed over each other.
 Keep crossing the outer strands over the inner strands, alternating between the two colors, until you've braided the length of your entire bracelet. Wrap it around your wrist to see where it should end. It can be a bit wider than your wrist.









Once you tie your bracelet together, you should be able to comfortably slide it on and off, unless you want to keep tying and untying it every time you want to put it on or take it off.
 Once you've found your length, tie the other end of the bracelet in a thick knot. Cut off the excess string, but leave at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of string so that you can tie the bracelet together.
 Wrap it around your wrist and start showing it off.

