 Mouthpieces vary in design. Make sure your saxophone is compatible with the mouthpiece, since older saxes may not work well with more modern mouthpieces. Check the baffle, the size of the chamber, and the width of the tip, all of which may effect your sound. Baffles in particular make a tremendous difference in sound,so sample various kinds to find the right one for you.



Straight baffles are known for their steady sound. They are ideal for older saxophones and sopranos.

Roll-over baffles, which are popular with jazz players, add a bit of a bang with growl effects and a suggestion of brightness at the beginning of a note, while still maintaining a loud, steady sound throughout.

Step baffles may be the easiest barrel to work with. Their ability to project sound makes them popular with R&B and rock performers, who have to pierce through a lot of other noise in order to be heard over their bandmates.

Concave baffles lack projection and are hard to hear unless you’re right up close. Because of this, they're hardly ever used except to produce very specific effects.
 Choose a type of reed to play with: hard or soft. If you are a beginner, consider using a soft reed. Although they tend to produce flat sounds at first, you will have an easier time manipulating the sound between sharp and flat than you would with a hard reed. Whichever one you choose, stick to it, since switching from one to the other will result in drastic changes in sound.Along the same lines, if you tend to use a lot of vibrato when you play, be sure to add vibrato when you tune your sax, as well.
 The colder the sax, the flatter the sound. If your sax has been stored in a cold area, move it somewhere warm so it can reach room temperature before you start tuning. If you don’t have time for it to warm up on its own, use your body heat and blow warm air through it.Be sure the whole sax is of an even temperature. The top of the sax may feel warm over time, thanks to the body heat from your hands and fingers, while the base remains cold. If the temperature between top and bottom is inconsistent, play long notes to circulate warm air throughout the whole instrument.
 If it refuses to play the correct notes no matter what adjustments you make to the mouthpiece or your embouchure, find out how old it is if you don’t already know. Low-pitch saxes are considered standard these days, but before that was established, manufacturers made high-pitch saxes as well. Unfortunately, there is nothing you can do to tune the latter precisely to other, more modern instruments.If you are unable to find out for yourself as to whether your older sax is high- or low-pitch, bring it into a music store. A repairman should be able to tell the difference, as well as repair the sax if it turns out to be a standard low-pitch model that simply isn’t working right.
 Saxophones are known to be very temperamental in terms of tuning, since the slightest imperfection or deviation in design can alter its sound. Relax. Strive less for perfection and more for proficiency with each individual sax. If one or more notes sound incredibly off, take it in for repairs to make sure everything’s where it should be. Otherwise, alter your technique to produce the right notes (or close enough) rather than stubbornly demand your sax to work the way you want it to.Rest assured that you’re in good company even if you can’t quite coax perfect notes from your sax. Several jazz legends famously had the same trouble.

