 After class, ask your teacher if you can meet with them after school. If they are unavailable that afternoon, plan to meet them at a time when you can both talk. Meeting them in their office before or after school is ideal.


You can ask, "Is there a good time when we can meet to discuss my work in this class? I want to go over some comments that you have given me." Offer some times when you are available to meet. You do not have to discuss specifics with them yet.
If you are nervous about approaching your teacher, try to take a deep breath before you go over. Remember that meeting with students is part of the teacher's job.;
, When you do meet, you should start off by saying exactly where you are struggling in their class. You may feel as though the teacher is unfairly picking on you for a particular essay, or you may think that they ask you too many questions in class. Regardless, try to avoid blaming them for the behavior. This may make them defensive.Instead, say you are frustrated with the class, and you feel as though you cannot meet their expectations.


Use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. For example, say “I feel as though I can’t understand the questions you are asking me” instead of “You keep making me answer hard questions in class.”Sometimes teachers tease as a way of bonding with students, but don't realize that some students consider it embarrassing or even critical. Try saying, "I feel really embarrassed when you mention my work/writing in front of the class. I don't like all the attention on me."
Try to be calm and rational. You can say, “I keep getting C’s on my papers, which is frustrating because I work very hard on them. I usually think I'm doing well, but then I always get points taken off.”

, While you may not feel as though you have done anything wrong, there is a chance that you are missing a key piece of information or instructions in your coursework. Asking your teacher will show that you are willing to put in the effort to improve. You can ask:


”How can I better prepare for your class?”
“How can I improve my essays?”
“What am I missing when I turn in my assignments?”

, Most likely, your teacher has given you criticism that will help you improve. Carefully consider the type of comments you receive in your meeting. This can tell you if the teacher is giving you valid criticism or if they are bullying you.


Is this criticism justified? Have you actually made the mistake that the teacher is coaching you about? If the answer is yes, then no matter how much you are annoyed by the teacher pointing out your mistakes, you should accept the criticism and fix these specific problem areas.
Your teacher should never call you names or insult you. If your teacher is telling you that you are stupid, dumb, or annoying, you can complain to the administration.
 If you are irritated, this is probably the last thing that you feel like doing, but your teacher will not respond well to arguing, yelling, screaming, or insults. Just be polite, smile, and agree. This will get the teacher off of your back, and it will make life easier for you.


Instead of arguing, ask what you can do to fix the problem. For example, if the teacher says you do not have enough sources on your bibliography, you may disagree. Instead of challenging them, say “I have ten sources. How many more do I need?”
Avoid threatening your teacher. Even if you are not serious about the threat, schools will have to take it seriously, and you will be punished.Avoid phrases like "yYou'll regret this," or, "I'll show you."

