 Orthostatic hypotension can range from mild to severe. If you have a mild case of it, you probably don’t need to go to the doctor. However, if you experience the symptoms frequently, or you are at risk, you may want to visit your doctor.Mild cases are when you feel the occasional dizziness after standing after sitting in a hot tub or sitting for a long period of time. A moderate case is when you experience it almost every time you stand up.
When you go to the doctor, try to let your doctor know what symptoms you’ve experienced, how often they occur, and how long they lasted.
They will also ask you for a medical history.
 The first thing your doctor will do is measure your blood pressure. They will take your blood pressure while you are lying down and while standing. Generally, your BP will be taken after five minutes lying down, and one minute after standing and then three minutes after standing.Your heart rate will be measured at the same time as your blood pressure.
Orthostatic hypotension will be diagnosed if your systolic blood pressure drops 20 points or your diastolic blood pressure drops 10 points within two to five minutes of standing up.
 Blood tests may be needed to determine the cause of the condition. Blood tests can check for electrolyte imbalances, low blood sugar and anemia. These two conditions can lead to orthostatic hypotension.Skin tests may be done to determine if you are dehydrated., An electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram can be done to check your heart. Both of these tests are noninvasive tests. An ECG tests the rhythm of your heart. It looks for any irregularities to that or the the structure of your heart. It will also monitor the blood and oxygen supply in your heart.An echocardiogram is an ultrasound of your heart. This test produces an image of the heart. This test is used to look for structural problems or heart disease.
 If the doctor needs more evidence, you will go through other tests. A stress test monitors your heart rate while you are exercising, like walking on a treadmill. This is done sometimes in conjunction with an ECG or echocardiogram.A valsalva maneuver test is when you take deep breaths as the doctor monitors your blood pressure and heart rate.
A tilt table test is given if you faint due to the condition. This test monitors your body’s response when you are put into an upright position after lying down for awhile. You lie on a table that gradually goes from horizontal to vertical. The doctor monitors your blood pressure during this test.

