 Before you can find positive peers, you should figure out what you value. This helps you determine what you are looking for in other positive people. Ask yourself what your values are, what you are interested in, and what you look for in positive interactions.For example, you may want to write down your top five values, along with your top five characteristics you look for in other people.
Values may include family, getting good grades, being honest, making positive career choices, integrity, or helping others.
You can also write down what you don’t want in people so you know what separates a positive from a negative person.;
, When you are looking for peers that can be positive influences, try to find people who you admire. Determine what characteristics you respect and strive for, like honesty, integrity, good sportsmanship, kindness, or determination. Look for people with those qualities.You may not always be able to tell if people have the characteristics you seek. Watch what people do and listen to what they say. You should be able to tell if people are kind, positive, or motivated.
 People who share interests with you can be a positive and motivating influence for you. Not only will you have something you both are interested in, but people who share interests with you are less likely to encourage you to do something you do not want to do.You can try to join clubs or organizations to meet people interested in the same things. You can try social meet ups for activities, or take a class or lessons.
If you meet someone who is better at an activity that you, that person can be a positive motivation to encourage you to improve. You may even be able to work with the person and ask them to help you.
 Surrounding yourself with people who are negative and unmotivated can cause you to underachieve and be apathetic. If you surround yourself with people who are motivated and have goals, this can encourage you to achieve your own goals and succeed. When you are choosing people to hang around, go for the ones who are focused on their goals.If you see others working hard towards their goals, it can be a positive influence for you. For example, if your friends are studying hard and paying attention in class, this can influence you to stay focused on school. If you see your peers training hard for the season, you may feel inspired to train and do better, too.
 You can find positive influences by tracking how other people make you feel. When you are around someone, pinpoint what your mood is during the interaction and afterwards. It won’t take you long to figure out who makes you happy and energized, and who brings you down.After you interact with someone, write down their name and your mood. If someone brings you down, try interacting with them once or twice more just to make sure the person wasn’t having a bad day.
If someone criticizes you, makes you feel bad, or is harmful towards you, the person is not worth pursuing.

