 Stop wandering around so your stomach isn't shaken. Being disturbed can randomly upset it. Letting it calm down should help. And remember - gurgling sounds are a good sign!;
, Give your stomach a complete break from liquids and solids right away. If you really need to eat, go with small portions of non-acidic foods like grains (crackers, rice, oatmeal), non-sour fruits and vegetables (potatoes, bananas, leafy greens).
 Take an antacid to neutralize the acidity in your stomach if you feel the stomach ache is related to indigestion or you are experiencing heart burn.


Tums and Milk of Magnesia (Magnesium Hydroxide) are the most common brands, but you can find other brand names with similar ingredients at the drugstore.
 If you feel bloated, simethicone is an over-the-counter anti-bloating remedy that should help clear out any excess gas.


To find out if gas is your problem, try massaging your stomach and listening for gurgling sounds. Hear them? You probably have some excess gas in there. Simethicone can help clear it out.
 Pepto-Bismol is the most common brand, but you can find other brand names with similar ingredients sold over-the-counter at the drugstore.
 It may seem impossible, but sometimes all a stomach ache is asking for is a good, solid bowel movement.
 Resting your body, warming your organs and calming your mind can all help with a stomach ache. Sometimes stomach pain comes as a reaction to a stressful day.
 Sometimes the reason for a stomach ache (or heartburn) is because your stomach acid has gone up into your esophagus. Sit upright in a comfortable position and give your stomach acid plenty of time to go back to where it belongs.
 If you don't have a heating pad, wet a washcloth with hot water and then place it on your stomach. Keep it there as long as needed.
 Slowly apply pressure with two fingers in a circular motion along your lower and upper abdomen.
 If you are able, take a nap. In most cases, your stomach ache will be gone when you wake up. If you can't fall asleep, try to rest on your back, letting your stomach stretch out.
 Yogurt is a great line of defense against upset stomachs. It is full of healthy probiotics that soothe your stomach. In a study by University of Manchester, women with irritable bowel syndrome saw a decrease in bloating by 78 percent when they consumed yogurt daily.
 Probiotics come in many forms and have been reported to significantly reduce stomach trouble. Kombucha, yogurt, kefir and lacto-fermented vegetables are all good sources of probiotics.
 Mix an 8 oz. glass of drinking water with two tablespoons of baking soda.
 A number of herbs are particularly effective at reducing stomach pain. Try these:


Make cinnamon tea. Gently boil two cups of water and two cinnamon sticks together for 15-20 minutes. Remove cinnamon sticks and pour into a mug or glass. Add a tablespoon of honey for sweetness.
Make peppermint tea. Some people prefer peppermint tea to cinnamon tea. Both will help to soothe your stomach and help you relax.
Make caraway tea. Gently boil two cups of water and two teaspoons of caraway seeds together for 15-20 minutes. Strain the liquid into glass and add a tablespoon of honey for sweetness. Or, consume caraway oil. Caraway oil is often used for digestive ailments including stomach and intestinal spasms.
Consume fennel. Ever wonder why Indian dishes often use fennel seed? It works to get rid of gas and aid indigestion. Try eating a spoonful of fennel seeds or making a fennel seed tea.
Consume ginger. Upset stomachs can benefit from ginger, which is used as a way to treat nausea and relieve indigestion. Eat it raw, make a tea or buy ginger capsules.
 An old folk recipe with a lot of modern praise, it may not work for everyone, but, if you feel up for it, give it a shot — it might be just what your stomach needs. Try mixing a tablespoon of honey and a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water. Drink up!

, The enzymes in these fruits have been taken orally for centuries to relieve stomach pain. However, don't overdo it. These same fruits, in large quantities, are known to cause stomach aches.
 Carbonated beverages can work to settle the stomach by initiating a burp which vents built-up gas.
 Dry bread or crackers make you feel stuffed, at the same time give your peristaltic rhythms a way to keep going and prevent ionic loss.

