 Even if you don't like a certain person, doesn't mean you have to treat them like dirt. People don't like others, who treat them wrong. Remember the Golden Rule: Treat others the way you want to be treated.;
, If someone is being mean to you, or, bullying you, don't say or do anything rude back. Just accept it and walk away. Or, go tell an important adult for more help. Or, you could just say "Thank You!" if someone is still bullying and calling you names. Yeah, it could hurt a little for someone to call you a certain name, but, just ignore them and stay away from that person. If someone catches you bullying another person back, they will think that you are just like them. So, be kind.
 Again, with the Golden Rule, "Treat others the way you want to be treated." If someone is being hurt, then go over there and try to help them, even if you don't like the person, or the person doesn't like you. Say something nice like "Are you okay?" You can earn trust from someone if you say kind things like that to them.
 Say for example, your friend wears dress to school, and it looks like they came from the 1700's, and she/he asks, "What do you think of the outfit?" don't lie and say, "It looks, great!" Be honest and don't be mean and say, "No, that looks hideous." If they are wearing one of your favorite colors, then complement them and say "I like your colors. If you are confused, then do a quiz yourself on these challenges:


Example: Your friend comes back as Red as a Lobster. And asks: Look at my tan does it look great? What would you say?
Example: Your neighbor paints his door Hot Pink and you don't like it, but you don't want to hurt his feelings and he asks, "Does my door look great or what? What would you say?

, Gossip is the main thing that stops a persons friendship. Say for example, you hear someone talking really bad about someone else, would you:

,,,, Gossip is 100% preventable. If someone tells you something that sounds really personal about someone you know or someone you don't know, do the right thing, and ignore it. And, there is a lot of sad stuff teenagers do, relating to bullying., If you friend tells you a secret that is very close, and personal, don't go telling other people about it. It will get around to your friend, and, sooner or later your friend will, find out. And if she/he was the only person that told you that secret, they will probably find out that was you since you were the only person that they told. Earning ones trust, can take a very long time to develop.
 Bribing others, often lead to broken, and sad friendships. Buying things for other people just to be friends with them isn't cool. And you really can't buy your way into friendship. If someone is making you buy you them stuff, just so you can be friends with them, don't do it. Ask yourself these questions before you think about buying stuff for that person:


What if they just rip me off just to get to my things or even me?
What if they were lying to me, just to get something out of me?
Am I really going to buy something for someone, just to be their friend?

, And doing stuff the easy way so you can be their friend. But, a true friend doesn't make you give things to them, just so they can agree to your "Friendship." Just, walk away. There are plenty of kind, caring, carefree friends out there that will be welcome to be your friend. And if someone wants to be your friend, and you make them buy you something, just because you don't like them, or you see that they are weak, help someone, and people will see the kind, and thoughtful person you really are, and you will really gain friends. Remember, you can't just buy your way into friendship.
 Say, you saw a person at your school and that person was very popular. And asks, would you like to be my friend? And, of course, you would probably be happy to be their friend. That's fine to be friends with other people! But, say, that person didn't like your friend that you are friends with, right now. And said something like, "If you are friends with that girl, we can't be friends anymore! She makes me sick!" Would you just continue to be friends with that person and lie and say that you aren't friends with your friend anymore? Would you just end your friendship because you want to be friends with that cool kid?

,

, If you agree to not being friends with someone else and you end up with the cooler, more popular friend, you will never know what will happen. You will lose everything, and realize, all that you had and you threw it all away.
