 Aries need to feel that they are free to do anything they want, even if that's not strictly the case. Don't cling to her like a squid to its prey. Keep her in your sights and engaged, but never smothered. As soon as you complain that she hasn't made enough time with you or is hanging out with another guy too much, you've stifled her sense of freedom. Lover beware.


Don't rush her into the relationship. If you two are doing things together but haven't begun calling yourselves a couple, don't sweat it. It'll take her time to come around, most likely. Even if she isn't calling you a boyfriend, you're benefiting from the arrangement. Don't forget that.
 Aries women tend to know what they want. They don't debate the intricacies of sex like other signs do, even if they enjoy it very much. Aries women will be straightforward with you. They'll tell you want they want and expect to get it, unless you can give them a really good reason why it's a bad call.


Aries can have an emotional selfishness which can sometimes detract from the spiritual nature of sex. If you're expecting sex to be a tantric fusing of two persons' souls, expect again. Aries probably has a different idea of what it is.
On the other hand, many Aries have a romantic side to their personality, one that juts out from their other tendencies. If you learn to nurture this romantic side, which you will as time goes on, you can generally expect sex to look a lot different from how it was in the beginning.
 Aries is nothing if not uncomplicated. An Aries won't try to play mind games with you. An Aries won't expect you to know something without first telling you. An Aries won't belabor the meaning of love if it doesn't mean something practical to her at the end of the day. Learn to understand this part of her personality, and be the same way with her. Keep things simple without boring the heck out of her.
 Tap into that adventurous, inner-child spirit that she gets along with so well and don't be afraid to take risks. Consider:


Traveling with her. Nothing says romance more to an Aries than the adventure of travel. Being in a novel place, with different sights, sounds, and customs, will help fuel the fire of her passion. Just make sure she's ready to take the jump with you.
Start a whole new career path or direction in life. Although this is more for you than for her, it can feel like it affects her more than usual because she likes to experience adventure vicariously when she's not experiencing it firsthand. Just be sure the new change in direction is good for you, too.
Be selectively liberal with the money that you spend. The key word here is "selectively." Aries are notoriously spendthrift, so you also want to balance out her freewheeling wildness with a little bit of tact. But you don't want to scare her away with any penny-pinching either, so learn to let loose on occasion. It'll help make her feel validated.
 Since Aries are often bold, bossy, and boisterous, you're inevitably going to get into arguments with her, or see things a different way. Try to be calm and forgiving throughout the entire argument. If you reach an impasse, give her an out: Say something like "Let's talk about this when our tempers have cooled." Don't take any wrenching personal attacks to heart; she's impulsive and wants to win at any cost, even if it means winning the argument.


What you'll have to deal with is teaching her how to compromise. She'll see compromise as "losing" and stay away from it at all costs. Your goal will be to explain to her that compromise isn't the same thing as losing — in fact, that it's essential to a relationship.
Learn to communicate your needs in order to keep the relationship humming. Aries can be blissfully unaware of what your needs are if you don't explicitly let her know. She's extroverted and communicative, so she expects you to be the same.

