 Tweet at least 10 times about things that matter to you, so that people can see what you are likely to tweet in the future.;
, One of the main ways to get followers is to start following other people. Many people reciprocate immediately.
 As soon as you follow people, you will have access to these tweets in your Twitter feed. Use the “quote” option to comment on the tweet and recommend it to your followers.
 When you chat with someone, they are more likely to look at your profile and follow you.
 Depending upon the time you can devote to Twitter, you should aim to tweet between two and 14 times per day. If you can’t make it to a device to tweet, schedule your tweets using an app like Hootsuite or Sprout Social., This increases your engagement by about 18%., Whenever one applies to your interests or industry, tweet and become part of the discussion.
 Use those same hashtags so that your tweets are included when people search using those hashtags. Tweets with hashtags get twice the engagement than those without.
 These chats are linked together by a chat hashtag. You are likely to get retweeted during these chats and raise your profile so that new people follow you.
 Tweet recommendations of your favorite Twitter accounts. People are likely to reciprocate and recommend you to their followers.
 Try to space out your tweets throughout the day.
 Whether you wrote it or someone else did, this is how you build your credibility as a follow-worthy account.
 You are given more leeway with reposting your own blog links and information on Twitter; however, make sure your frequency could not be considered “spamming” your followers.
 Repost other content and include account names in your tweets whenever you can. Community-focused tweets are usually the ones that have the farthest reach and earn the most followers.
 Your current friends are the best source of followers. They will help you find new followers by sharing your tweets.
 The people who use it the most have the most followers. If you are unable to manage it, consider hiring a social media manager who can help you schedule and tweet consistently.

