 It is curiosity that breeds new knowledge. The process of observation, sometimes called "defining the question," is simple. You observe something that you can't readily explain with your existing knowledge, or you observe some phenomenon that is explained by existing knowledge but which may have another explanation. The question, then, is how do you explain that what causes it to occur;
, Suppose you observe that your car won't start. Your question is, why won't it start? You may have some knowledge about cars, so you'll tap into that to try to figure it out. You may also consult your owner's manual or look online for information about the problem. If you were a scientist trying to figure out some strange phenomenon, you could consult scientific journals, which publish research that other scientists have already done. You'd want to read as much about your question as possible, because the question may have already been answered, or you may find information that will help you form your hypothesis. 

, A hypothesis is a possible explanation for the phenomenon you observed. It is more than a guess, though, because it is based upon a thorough review of the existing knowledge of the subject. It's basically an educated guess. The hypothesis should posit a cause-effect relationship. For example, "My car won't start because I am out of gas." It should suggest one possible cause for the effect, and it should be something that you can test and which you can use to make predictions. You can put gas in your car to test the "out of gas" hypothesis, and you can predict that if the hypothesis is correct, the car will start once you add gas. Stating the effect like a fact is more like a real hypothesis. For those who are still stuck, use the "if" and "then" statement: If I try to start my car and it doesn't, then it is out of gas.
 Make sure that all of the tools that you'll need to do this project are listed. If some one else wanted to do your idea, they would need to know ALL of your materials.
 List step by step exactly what you did to test your hypothesis. Once again, this step is important if someone else wants to repeat your experiment. 

, Design an experiment that will either confirm or fail to confirm the hypothesis. The experiment should be designed to try to isolate the phenomenon and the proposed cause. In other words, it should be "controlled." Going back to our simple car question, we can test our hypothesis by putting gas in the car, but if we put gas in the car and change the fuel filter, we can't know for sure whether the lack of gas or the filter was the problem. For complex questions, there may be hundreds or thousands of potential causes, and it can be difficult or impossible to isolate them in any single experiment.


Keep impeccable records. Experiments must be reproducible. That is, other people must be able to set up a test in the same way that you did and get the same result. It's important, therefore, to keep accurate records of everything you do in your test, and it's essential that you keep all your data. Today there are archives set up which store the raw data gathered in the process of scientific research. If other scientists need to find out about your experiment they can consult these archives or ask you for your data. It's critical that you be able to provide all the details.
 Hypothesis testing is simply a way to collect data that will help you either confirm or fail to confirm your hypothesis. If your car starts when you add gas, your analysis is pretty simple--your hypothesis was confirmed. In more complicated tests, however, you may not be able to figure out whether your hypothesis is confirmed without first spending considerable time looking at the data you gathered in your hypothesis testing. Furthermore, whether the data confirms or fails to confirm the hypothesis, you must always be on the lookout for other things, so-called "lurking" or "exogenous" variables, that may have influenced the results. Suppose that your car starts when you add gas, but at the same time the weather changed and the temperature increased from below freezing to well above freezing. Can you be sure the gas, and not the change in temperature, caused the car to start? You may also find that your test is inconclusive. Perhaps the car runs for a few seconds when you add gas, but then dies again.
 Scientists generally report the results of their research in scientific journals or in papers at conferences. They report not only the results but also their methodology and any problems or questions that arose during their hypothesis testing. Reporting your findings enables others to build upon them.
 If the data failed to confirm your initial hypothesis, it's time to come up with a new hypothesis and test it. The good news is, your first experiment may have provided you with valuable information to help you form a new hypothesis. Even if a hypothesis is confirmed, further research is necessary to ensure that the results are reproducible and not just a one-time coincidence. This research is often performed by other scientists, but you may also wish to further investigate the phenomenon yourself.

