 Choose a picture frame based on your desired chalkboard size. The size of the frame will be the finished size of your chalkboard.









Any frame will work, so you can recycle an old frame you no longer have a use for or go to a second-hand store to purchase a cheap, thick wooden frame.
When selecting a frame, it is best to use one that still has its backing. The backing is not necessary, but it will help you to keep the chalkboard in place later on.;
, Take the glass or plexiglass out of the frame and put it away.









You will not be using the glass for this project, but if you enjoy crafting, you might want to save it among your crafting supplies so that you can use it for another project.
If working with a standard size frame, you could also save the glass to act as a potential replacement in case the glass from another frame breaks.
If you do decide to dispose of the glass, take precautions to ensure that it doesn't hurt anyone. You can either recycle it or throw it away, but if you throw it away, wrap it in several layers of cloth rag or plastic bag. These layers will prevent shards of glass from cutting anyone handling the garbage if the glass breaks.
 If the frame is in ragged condition, lightly sand it down with fine-grain sandpaper.









Temporarily remove the backing to prevent it from getting dirty or damaged.
After sanding the frame, wipe away particles and other dirt with a clean, dry cloth. Even if you do not need to sand the frame, you should still wipe it down with a clean cloth to rid it of dust and dirt.
 Use a sponge brush to apply a coat of white primer over the wooden frame.









Primer prevents the color underneath your paint from showing through and also prepares the surface for paint.
If you do not plan on painting your frame or just want to paint a fresh coat of the same color, primer is not necessary.
Primer is, however, essential if you plan on painting the frame a light color, especially if a dark color lies beneath it.
Lay out newspaper or plastic sheeting to prevent yourself from accidentally getting primer on the floor.
 Use a sponge brush or traditional paintbrush to apply several coats of paint.









You could also use spray paint for faster, easier application.
You could apply wood staining, too, as long as the frame is made with natural wood. Do not prime the wood before staining it and use a soft bristle paintbrush to apply it.
Apply paint or staining over a newspaper or plastic sheeting to prevent paint from accidentally getting on the floor.
Apply the paint or staining with the grain, not against it.
Allow the paint or staining to dry in between coats.
 Draw the outline on the board using a pencil instead of a pen.









If using a new frame, take out the paper insert that comes with it and trace the outline onto your board. You could also trace the inside glass window.
If you have an old frame with no glass, use a ruler or tape measure to measure the back opening of the frame. Draw a rectangle with the same dimensions on your board. Do not use the dimensions from the front opening of your frame.
Plywood would also work if you do not have medium-density fiberboard.
 Use an electric jigsaw or manual hand saw to cut along the outline you traced.









If you are unable to do the work yourself, bring the dimensions to the hardware store and ask a worker in the lumber section to trim the board down for you.
After cutting the board, use rough sandpaper to remove any splintering edges. You may also need to use the sandpaper to shave away some of the board if it will not fit into the frame.
 Apply one coat of white latex primer to one side of the board.









The primer will make it easier for the paint to stick to the surface of the board.













Use a large sponge brush or standard flat painter's brush.
 Use a painter's brush or roller to apply two even coats of black chalkboard paint to the primed board.









Chalkboard paint is formulated to develop the surface texture of a chalkboard upon drying. It can then be written on with chalk. Applying two coats will make the effect stronger.
Even coats will reduce the amount of ridges that develop on the surface after the paint dries.
Allow the paint to dry in between coats.
 Fit the chalkboard into the back of the frame with the chalkboard side facing the front.









If the backing will fit inside the frame with the board in place, insert it behind the board in order to help secure the board in place.
If you cannot use the backing, use masking tape or packing tape to fix the back of the board to the back of the frame.













Hang the chalkboard by the hook attached to the frame's backing. Alternatively, you could use heavy staples to attach thick twine or thin rope to the top two corners of the frame and hang the chalkboard on a hook using this string.
 Coat the metal with several layers of chalkboard spray paint.









The metal should be the same size as your plywood would be if creating an ordinary chalkboard.













Make sure that you use gloves when handling the metal to avoid getting cut.
Use the backing of the frame or another piece of board to secure the sheet metal in place.













Do not attempt to spray the chalkboard with magnetic paint before applying the chalkboard paint. The two cancel each other out, so the magnetic paint will be ineffective after you apply the chalkboard paint.
 If you plan to hang the chalkboard on a magnetic surface, fix moderately strong magnets to the four corners of the frame.









Use super glue or another strong adhesive.










Lightly sand the surface, if necessary, and apply painters tape to cover any area you do not want to get paint on.
If you need ideas for creative surfaces, consider using enamel bakeware, old cabinet doors, an old mirror, a glass window pane, or a dustpan.
 Cut it out as usual and paint it with two coats of chalkboard paint.









Note that this will not be a very durable chalkboard. It is best to use this method only if you plan on using the chalkboard infrequently.

