 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the bars, set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius) and allow it to preheat. Next, use a piece of foil to line a 13-inch (33-cm) by 9-inch (23-cm) baking dish and set it aside.Make sure that the ends of the foil overhang the sides of the baking dish so you can lift out the bars when they’re finished baking.
 Add 25 chocolate wafer cookies that have been finely crushed, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar, and ¼ cup (57 g) of melted butter to a small bowl. Stir the ingredients together until they are fully combined.If you prefer, you can substitute another type of cookie for the chocolate wafers. Graham crackers, chocolate cream sandwich cookies, and vanilla wafers are good options.
 Once the cookie crumb mixture is fully combined, use clean fingers to press it into the bottom of the lined baking dish. Make sure to form as even a layer with the cookie mixture as you can., Add 4 8-ounce (226 g) packages of softened cream cheese and 1 cup (200 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric mixer to blend the two together on medium until they are fully mixed.A stand mixer also works well to mix the cheesecake bar filling.
You can mix the filling by hand with a whisk, but it will take a little more time and effort.
 When the sugar and cream cheese are blended, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract and ½ cup (118 ml) of coconut milk to the bowl. Mix the ingredients in on medium-low until they are fully incorporated., After the vanilla and coconut milk are blended in, mix 4 eggs into the bowl, one at a time. Blend the eggs in on low speed until they are fully incorporated.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 Once the filling is completely mixed, spread it over the cookie crust. Place the bars in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for 45 minutes, or until the center is almost set., When the bars are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Allow them to cool for about 30 minutes, and then chill in the refrigerator for 4 hours until fully set.Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap before placing it in the refrigerator.
 To prepare the bars’ topping, add 2 ounces (57 g) of semi-sweet chocolate that’s been broken into pieces and 1 cup (60 g) of whipped topping to a large microwave-safe bowl. Microwave the mixture on high for 1 minute or until the chocolate is mostly melted.If you prefer, you can substitute milk or bittersweet chocolate for the semi-sweet.
 After you’ve heated the chocolate and whipped topping, use a whisk to blend the two together completely. Next, pour it over the cheesecake bars in an even layer., When the topping is on the cheesecake bars, sprinkle 1 cup (60 g) sweetened, flaked coconut and ¼ cup (26 g) of toasted, sliced almonds over the top. Use a sharp knife to cut the cheesecake into bars and serve.Store any leftover cheesecake bars in the refrigerator. They should keep for 5 to 7 days.

