 If you want vote—in person, absentee, or otherwise—you’ll need to be registered. Thirty-one states allow citizens to register to vote online, and every state has printable voter registration forms online that can be mailed in or dropped off at a county board of elections.If you would like to register, simply go to https://vote.usa.gov/, and indicate which state in which you would like to vote. The website will take you to the appropriate state website, where you can register online if your state allows.
Make sure that you register within the deadline, which is usually 15-30 days before an election, although some states have Election Day voter registration. You can see a list of deadlines at https://www.usa.gov/voter-registration-deadlines.;
, At least some voters can cast an absentee ballot in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. In many other states, voters can vote in person before Election Day. Of course, all registered voters can vote on Election Day.In twenty-seven states, a voter needs no special reason to vote absentee. In twenty others, a voter needs a special reason. These reasons can be more or less restrictive depending on the state, and the voter will have to determine whether they fit into an eligible category. Find out more about absentee voting at Vote-by-Mail.
There are thirty-two states allowing early voting. Each state has different dates and times governing when people are allowed to vote early, however. The National Council of State Legislatures has a record of early and absentee voting rules by state. Find out more about early voting at Vote-Early

See what your state’s rules are at http://www.ncsl.org/legislatures-elections/elections/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx, which is a listing maintained by the National Council of State Legislatures.
 No matter how you decide to vote, make sure that you keep the dates in mind. There will be deadlines for registration, requesting an absentee ballot, and of course, election days. You don’t want to miss a deadline and lose your voice in that election contest.


Remember, the Presidential Primary, state primaries, and general elections are held on different days. Make sure that you’ve marked the correct date for the election you want to vote in.
If you don’t know the deadlines already, they will be listed on the website for your Secretary of State. You can find a portal that links to all 50 of the various secretary of state websites at http://www.canivote.org/. This portal is maintained by the National Association of Secretaries of State.
 Regardless of whether you’re voting early, voting absentee, or voting on Election Day, you’ll need to mark your ballot clearly and carefully.


If you are voting in person and need assistance with your ballot, ask the poll worker. If you are voting absentee and need assistance with your ballot, call or visit your county board of elections.

