 Once you delete the files from your computer, getting them back will be nearly impossible. You can use a USB drive or an external hard drive to back up your files.

You can also use a CD-RW to back up your files, but these typically have less space available than a standard USB drive or hard drive.;
,

If you no longer have your XP install disc, you'll have to buy a replacement.
You can also download an XP installation file and burn it to a CD, though you'll need the accompanying purchase key.
 Click Start, click Turn Off Computer, and click the green Restart button when prompted., The key you're prompted to press might also be different; most computers will display a message on startup that says "Press to enter setup" or something similar.

You can look at your computer model's manual or online support page to confirm your computer's BIOS key.
 Use the arrow keys to move the selection box over to Boot.

The Boot tab may instead say Boot Options, depending on your computer's manufacturer.
 Press ↓ until this option has a box around it., Press + until CD-ROM Drive is at the top of the list.

You may have to press a different key here. Check the key legend on this screen to confirm.
 You should see a key prompt (e.g., F10) at the bottom of the screen that correlates to "Save and Exit"; pressing it will restart your computer, using the CD drive as a reboot point.

You may have to press ↵ Enter to confirm the changes.
 This will begin the setup process., If you're prompted to press a different key, press that key instead of F8., Doing so bypasses the repair process., This line of text will say something like "Partition 2 (Windows)". Press the ↓ key until this line of text is selected.,

You may see slightly different key prompts at the bottom of the screen. If so, use those instead.
 There should be a blank space where the partition used to be; make sure it's selected., This will create a new, empty partition in the space where the old one was., Doing so will select the partition as the location to install Windows XP., Select the Format the partition by using the NTFS file system (Quick) option using the arrow keys, then press ↵ Enter., This can take several hours. Once this process is complete, you'll follow the on-screen instructions to reinstall Windows XP; however, your files, programs, and any other user-installed items will be gone.

You will need your product key to finish installing Windows XP.

