 Find out before attending your date where it will be, so that you know what sort of clothes will be appropriate. For example, if you're going to the local sideshow and taking rides, your jeans and a colorful sweater or t-shirt would work well, whereas going to a posh restaurant would require an elegant evening outfit.


Accept that clothes send out signals. What are the signals your presentation will be sending out should the question at the foremost of your mind when selecting the clothes.;
, It may be that both are one and the same but if not, prefer a color that you know brings out the very best in you.
 It can be fun to invite a girlfriend to come over to help you select which clothes to wear but it can also be confusing if she doesn't have the same dressing style like you. You could end up dressed in a way that doesn't reflect your own style or that is an image of what she thinks you should look like.
 You don't really know each other well romantically yet and being suggestive or provocative on a first date is a definite no-no. Worst still, looking too vampy can cause your date to relegate you to the one-night date rather than treating you as a serious long-term prospect. There will be plenty more time to see more of you as the dates progress, and if the date doesn't work out, well then, he didn't deserve to see anything more! Clothing to avoid on a first date includes:


Anything too low cut, low slung. If you wear a low-cut top, don't pair it with a short skirt, or vice versa. One slightly suggestive item of clothing is more than sufficient; don't ruin it by making an overall statement.
Your butt sticking out of your jeans. He doesn't need to see your underwear yet, in any shape or form.
A tummy roll over your jeans. Unpleasant and unlikely to garner further interest no matter how much you think it's your right to dress this way. Save it for non-date occasions.
Short, figure-hugging clothing. The shorter it is, the less appropriate it is for a first date.
Lace-up tops, bodices that evict your bust, anything see-through.
 If you don't, then ask your mom or a sibling to be honest about the clothes they like you in. You are in charge of your destiny where self-presentation comes into it, and part of this is knowing what sets off your own assets to greatest advantage.
 You don't want to asphyxiate your date with your fragrance, the poor man could faint. Instead use just enough perfume to caress and seduce his senses in a subtle way

, You can wear those sexy high heels shoes as long as you can walk in them. High heels shoes will make you look taller, give you a nice posture and make your legs look longer. But if you're not used to wearing high heels don't put them on for your first date. It could make you look insecure, walk clumsy and you could even hurt your ankle; that's not the best scene for a successful date. Make the right choice.


There are also shoes with small heels (kitten heels) that might give you that sexy look.
Can't find a shoe that fits the occasion and you are low on budget? What are friends for? Take a look at their shoe collection. They may have just what you need.
Make sure the shoes fit you well and feel comfortable. It might have worked out for Cinderella to lose a shoe but it could spoil your date and make you feel embarrassed.
 It's fine to try to make it look nicer as long as it doesn't give your date a wrong impression of who you are or smell like a firebomb of hairspray. For the first date keep it simple and real, same thing goes for your make-up.


Elaborate hairstyles that cause you pain during the date will have your mind focused on overcoming the pain rather than on your date. Forget anything that twists and pulls your hair in strange new ways and wear your hair in a way that you know feels good.

