 Border Collies (also known as BCs) exceed almost every other dog breed in intelligence and energy, and are only good matches for responsible, dedicated, informed, and experienced dog owners. Never buy a Border Collie because of their cute appearance, or because your friend has a really nice one. And always dedicate a large amount of research time before purchasing or adopting a Collie.Border Collies are high energy and require a lot of exercise and room to roam freely. They don’t do well in apartments or confined spaces. They really need a large yard or some land to roam around., Responsible breeders are the best source for those who desire a show or competition dog; however, if you are interested simply in a quality pet, consider adopting from a specialized breed rescue. This will allow you to give a home to a dog in need while still getting the breed that you want.You can sometimes buy a Border Collie from a pet store. But this is not really recommended, as you will generally have no idea of the puppy's health, breeding, or history, and will most likely be supporting a puppy mill.
You could also consider buying from a "backyard," or casual, breeder. This is also unadvised for the lack of information you will receive about the dog.
Consider adopting from a shelter. This is a preferred route for those wishing to help dogs in need. But this is often unadvised due to the lack of information and because shelters are often unable to provide for the Border Collies’ special needs, resulting in a badly behaved dog. Adopting from a breed-specific rescue, however, is a reasonable and kind way to acquire your dog.
 Once you have found some Border Collies, go meet them and see if you like any of them. Remember that this is a big decision and you shouldn’t make it lightly.Never adopt a dog sight unseen, no matter how cute it may seem in pictures. You need to interact with the dog in person and make sure there is a connection between you two. You also need to make sure the dog seems healthy.
Consider bringing your other family members to meet your potential new dog. It is important to gauge how the dog will interact with the whole family.
You may also want to bring any existing pets to make sure they will get along. You don’t want to accidentally create a situation in which none of your animals can coexist together.

