 Here are the main ingredients you'll require for your mixture:


Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper is recommended for its spiciness and ability to irritate the eyes. You won't need a lot of it to get it to work; two tablespoons of it will give you enough for several sprays' worth of mixture.
92% alcohol and vegetable oil. These will be used to mix with the cayenne pepper into a sprayable substance.;
, Add two tablespoons of cayenne paper to a small cup.A small, clear glass is best in this case because it will allow you to mixture proportions more easily.









Alternatively, instead of using powder, you can grind peppers up yourself and add them to the mix.Even if you want to make more than two tablespoons' worth, it's a good idea to begin with this set proportion. That way, you'll get a hands-on idea of a good pepper spray's texture and consistency.
 Pour rubbing alcohol over the cayenne pepper until the pepper has been completely submerged. Stir constantly to get a better idea of the mixture's progress.
 Add one tablespoon of vegetable oil for every two tablespoons of cayenne pepper you've dished out. Stir the mixture well.









Baby oil is a viable alternative to vegetable oil., True to its name, pepper spray's active ingredient is pepper. If you want a more intense mixture, you should replace the cayenne pepper with a pepper that scores higher on the Scoville Hotness meter.In addition, because you're making this pepper spray from home, there's not necessarily any rule to state what you can and can't add. Citrus is a natural irritant on the eyes, so squeezing in a lemon will add to the sting your spray causes.









Soap is a known irritant that many add to their homemade pepper sprays.If you're considering adding anything else into your pepper spray mix, you should make sure that it won't cause permanent damage if it comes in contact with someone's eyes. Pepper spray is intended solely as a non-lethal method of self-defence.
 Let it sit at least overnight for the mixture to properly settle. After enough time has passed, take off the wrapping.
 When a filter is in place, gently pour the spray mixture through the filter. This will pick up the solid matter, leaving the spray a liquid.









Filtering the mixture as such will help prevent clogging the nozzle with sediment after use., Keep an eyewash station nearby if you have the option. Most importantly, be very careful while you prepare the mixture.

