 ACV is an astringent, meaning it constricts body tissues.It serves as a great base for mixing kitchen ingredients that can battle the bugs.


Add 32oz of apple cider vinegar to 2 Tbsp each of the following herbs sage, rosemary, lavender, thyme and mint. Shake it each day for two weeks, then strain the herbs and dilute the oil mixture with water.Use sparingly, this is supposed to be a strong one!

, If the vinegar base is too dense, or has too strong a smell for you, distilled water works well. Boil water with 3-4 Tbsps of any of the following dried herbs: peppermint, spearmint, citronella, lemongrass, or catnip. Use whichever combo you prefer. Once it’s mixed, let it cool down before straining. Add in a bit of rubbing alcohol and you have a great mix., The spice comes from the turmeric plant, commonly found in curry. Sometimes it’s used in powders, mustards, and butters for its strong flavor and taste.In lab studies, adding just 5% vanillin to various ingredients, including turmeric, increased ability to repel mosquitoes for up to 8 hours.Try combining the two ingredients, 95% turmeric and 5% vanillin, to replicate the mixture. Or experiment with varying combinations until you gain the greatest effectiveness.
Turmeric has been used as an insect repellent in Indian families for generations.Make the repellent by grinding turmeric together with navadhanya grains and water. Once that paste is combined, add some slaked lime, which is essentially limewater, until the color turns red.Use pure turmeric sprinkled where you want to deter pests. The high curcumin content in turmeric hinders the insects’ access to oxygen, and the antimicrobial aspects create an unendurable environment for bedbugs.Mix turmeric powder and neem leaf powder together. Mix with water to form a paste. Smear over uncovered flesh. The neem leaf has shown the ability to not only repel insects near the tree, but also disrupt insect breeding nearby.This natural insect repellent combo will keep insects at bay for an hour or more. Reapply as needed., Simply combine 5 drops of dish washing liquid and 5 drops of essential oils – particularly citrus-based oils – to keep the eight-legged pests away.

