 If a bladder is overly full during sleep the chances of wetting the bed increase. To lower the likelihood of bedwetting caused by a full bladder it can be useful to urinate more frequently during the day. Keeping the bladder empty will make bedwetting less likely.Try to use the bathroom more frequently before bed.
Children should go to the bathroom every night just before bed.
Make sure you or your child feel no urges to urinate before sleeping.
 Drinking a large amount of liquid before going to be bed can be a likely cause of bedwetting. Consuming too much liquid before bed can cause the bladder to become overly full. Avoid drinking too much of anything before bed to lower the chances of wetting the bed.Try to drink fluids earlier in the day and reduce the amount in the evening.
Some drinks like soda, coffee, tea or hot chocolate can increase the need to urinate. These should be avoided at night.
 If bedwetting becomes a persistent problem you may consider using a bedwetting alarm. These alarms are worn near the underwear and will constantly monitor for rises in moisture levels. If the device senses an increase in moisture it will sound an alarm and wake the person up.


Hearing the alarm can retrain a person to awaken before or just as bedwettingoccurs.Some systems will make use of a pad on which the person sleeps. This pad measures moisture levels and alarms if it detects a rise in those levels.
Alarms may vibrate instead of making a loud sound to awaken the sleeper. This might be ideal if the child or adult sleeps near other people to avoid waking others up.
 In serious cases medication may be prescribed to help manage bedwetting. Currently, there are three types of medication that are commonly prescribed to treat bedwetting. These medications will either increase the amount of urine the bladder can contain or reduce the amount it produces. The following three medications are the most commonly used:Desmopressin will reduce the amount of urine production.
Oxybutynin will relax the bladder to avoid bedwetting.
Imipramine will allow the bladder to contain more urine.
 Using an alarm clock to wake up at night to urinate can help with bedwetting. However, the body may get used to a regularly set alarm which can make this method less effective. To counter this, set the alarm for a different time each night that will wake someone up to use the bathroom, lowering the chances of bedwetting., If most other methods have failed and bedwetting still persists, your doctor may suggest surgical treatments. These treatments are operations that will physically alter the bladder to reduce or eliminate the occurrences of bedwetting. Talk with your doctor to learn more about the following procedures:Sacral nerve stimulation will work to reduce the nerve response in the detrusor muscle, resulting in less issues with incontinence.
Clam cystoplasty will place a piece of intestine between two halves of the bladder.
A Detrusor Myectomy will remove the surrounding muscle near the bladder to reduce the amount of contractions in favor of stronger contractions.
 If conventional treatments fail or are undesirable there are alternative and complementary treatments that might be considered. These treatments can be used by themselves or in conjunction with other methods. The following list details some of the more common alternative treatments:Hypnosis
Psychotherapy
Acupuncture
Chiropractic treatment

