 Sometimes when you have known people for a long time, you can start to take them for granted. This doesn't have to be the case.


Always thank your friend when he or she does something for you.
Return favors when your friend goes out of his or her way to help you.
Do nice things like getting their favorite candy at the grocery store, buying them lunch, or getting them a card and gift for their birthday.
Tell your friend how much you appreciate them. This doesn't have to be an awkward or long-winded speech that you have prepared. It can be as simple as, "Hey, thanks for always being there for me. I appreciate it.";
, A good friendship should be two-sided — and hopefully, you have a friend who shows interest in you as well.


Be a good listener. When your friend talks to you about something that's going on in his or her life, really listen. Good relationships are built on communication, so don't ignore your friend.

Take the time to really hear what they're saying, and offer advice only if they ask for it.
Don't fidget or play with your cell phone while they're talking to you.


If your friend is involved in an activity that they care about, show your support and interest. Offer to go to their events. For example, if your friend plays a sport or is acting in a play, go to a game or performance to cheer them on.
 This seems simple, but you have to both constantly show each other that you can be trusted and depended on as friends.


Don't gossip about your friend. Gossip spreads quickly, and you do not want to hurt your friend's feelings and damage the relationship.
Keep your promises, even if it's something as small as showing up when you are supposed to meet.
Don't go behind your friend's back. This includes flirting with their significant other or inviting other friends out without including them.
Keep secrets safe. If your friend tells you something personal, don't share it with other people. They need to know that they can trust you with their secrets.
 This might be obvious, but sometimes we can get into the trap of just using our friends for emotional support and not taking the time to enjoy their company. Do things that you both enjoy together.


Learn something new. Take a rock climbing or pottery class, go on a sailing trip, or try out Zumba together. The experience will bring you closer.
Make an open invitation. Call up your friend and ask them what they've been wanting to do. You can say, "I think we should hang out this weekend. What do you think would be fun?"
Throw a party together. Celebrate your friendship, a birthday, or nothing in particular.
Plan a fun evening. Invite your friend over for dinner and spend the night eating, drinking, playing board games, or watching your favorite movies.

