 You can find lots of helpful information here: http://www.lamaze.org/. This website provides access to emailed weekly pregnancy advice, online classes, and tips. The website also describes what to expect from a typical Lamaze class.
 Use Lamaze’s online locator tool to find a certified instructor close to you: http://www.lamaze.org/FindALamazeChildbirthClass. Once you have your list of potential options and their contact information, speak with several teachers and ask them questions about themselves and the course. You want someone who makes you feel comfortable and open, as they’ll be helping you through an intimate and important process in your life.The locator tool will allow you to search by the name of a specific instructor who may have been recommended to you, or to enter your desired proximity up to 50 miles (80.47 km) away from your zipcode.
 Classes can be held in hospitals, birthing centers, healthcare providers’ offices, homes, or community centers. Lamaze’s online locator tool lists the locations of various courses along with the instructors. The website also provides a map showing the distances from the course locations to your home. If you’re taking a weekly class, you may want to prioritize convenience. Be sure, however, that the space you choose is one in which you can relax., Typical Lamaze classes include comprehensive, 12-hour coverage of labor, birth, early baby care, breastfeeding, and healthy lifestyle tips. These classes should also teach you relaxation, breathing, and massage techniques for pain management during labor and delivery. Check to make sure your instructor’s course plan adheres to these standards.Many expectant mothers appreciate Lamaze for its non-judgmental approach to medical intervention during labor. Lamaze classes will not encourage you to choose one birth plan over another. Lamaze instead fosters confidence and communication skills so that pregnant women can make safe and calm decisions during delivery., It’s important to ensure that you’re learning from a person who has the necessary training. Lamaze International offers the only internationally recognized childbirth education certification. If you found your instructor using the Lamaze website, you can rest assured that they’re fully certified. If you found your instructor on your own, ask the instructor to provide a record of their certification.If you’re taking your course at a hospital or healthcare provider’s office, you’ll likely receive instruction from a registered nurse (RN) who has also been certified to teach Lamaze.
 Most Lamaze classes include 12 hours of instruction spread over six weeks in two-hour class sessions. Some instructors may also offer an intensive weekend session of two classes lasting six hours per day.While some expectant mothers might appreciate quickly finishing the course, weekly sessions may be better first-time parents who need time to absorb all the new material., If you are looking to meet other women or couples who are also experiencing pregnancy, a group class may be right for you. These classes will offer less one-on-one instruction, but they will also usually be more affordable., This type of instruction is generally more flexible because the classes are arranged around your needs, and the course may even be held in your home. Private classes will be totally focused on you and your partner, and you can ask any personal questions that you might be afraid to introduce in a group setting. However, this option will almost certainly be more costly., Be sure that your instructor has a maximum class size. Smaller class sizes of no more than 24 students are best. If you’re able to find a course with 10-12 students, this will provide you with the optimal level of individual and group instruction., Various courses will differ in cost. Popular Lamaze instructors with a well established following may be able to charge more than newer instructors. Smaller classes may also be more expensive than those open to larger groups. Try to balance your needs with your budget., Your loved ones will be familiar with your personality and birthing needs. They’ll be able to provide targeted advice that combines their likes and dislikes of their past Lamaze classes and instructors with what they know about your preferences.Remember to put your desires first. Don’t allow advice from those who are close to you to drown out what you want from your classes.
 Since Lamaze classes don’t typically start until you’re about seven months pregnant, you shouldn’t worry about scheduling a course as soon as you get pregnant. Your doctor can suggest the appropriate timeline for reaching out to instructors, making your choice, and finalizing your reservation. Consider the course an exciting indicator that you’ve reached your last few months of pregnancy., It’s important to have a support network in place during pregnancy, labor, delivery, and after you give birth. Choose a partner, friend, or family member and make sure they’re fully prepared to invest their time and energy in these classes. You can work with them to make sure the classes don’t clash with their other obligations. Taking this class together will help you both build a relationship of trust you can rely on when it counts.Be sure to ask instructors whether they expect and allow partner participation.
 Your instructor will likely offer a variety of options to fit their students’ scheduling needs. Try to pick a time that doesn’t clash with other events on your schedule, as you don’t want your classes to feel like an obligation.Most instructors will expect that at least some of their students work during the weekdays, and they should be prepared with several options to fit into a full-time work schedule.
 Once you’ve decided on a course, contact the instructor and reserve your spot. They may send you some paperwork to sign, and they may require payment in part or in full when you make your reservation.