 For informal dances, such as a gym dance, you should be able to wear a more casual outfit. Your school will likely allow most casual clothing, with a few exceptions.For casual dances, you should be able to wear a short dress or a top and a skirt. However, your dress should be no shorter than 3 inches above your knee. Your dress should not be skin tight or made of spandex and should have an appropriate neckline. If your midriff is exposed, you should be showing no more than two inches of skin.
You may also be able to wear jeans and a top, as long as the jeans do not have any holes in them or hug your hips very tightly. If you wear a top with jeans, the top should not expose your chest area inappropriately.
 You can wear casual shoes like sneakers, sandals, and flats to an informal dance. If you plan to dance, you may want to wear shoes that are comfortable with walk and dance in.You may want to skip the high heels for an informal dance, as you may appear overdressed for the event.
 For informal dances, you can add accessories like jewelry to your outfit. You may wear a fun pair of earrings, a necklace, and/or bracelets.You may also bring a small shoulder bag, as you likely will not be allowed into the dance with a large purse or a backpack.
 For an informal dance, you may want to stick to your normal hair routine, where you curl, straighten, and/or blow dry your hair. As long as your hair looks polished and put together, you may not have to add too much to your existing routine.


You can always add something extra to your look by putting your hair in a messy top bun or a side braid. Try to match your hair to your outfit by going for a more casual outfit with a particular hairstyle or keeping your hair casual if your outfit is a little more formal.
 You may want to keep your makeup minimal and simple for an informal dance. Follow your normal makeup routine and then add a fun detail like a bright lip gloss or lipstick or eyeliner in a fun color on your eyes. Adding one or two fun details to your normal makeup look can elevate your look so it looks polished but still casual and appropriate for an informal dance.

