 One of the simplest ways to have fun at home is an old fashioned movie night. Invite friends over for a movie marathon at your place.


Pick a genre of movie. You can watch movies that you loved as a kid growing up, watch classic films, or pick movies that are recently popular. Get a few DVDs or online downloads ready before the big night.Snacks can be a fun addition to movie night. Make some popcorn or buy some chips from the store. Make sure you have enough seating as well. You may have to bring in some chairs from the dining room or kitchen.;
, A bucket list is a list of things you want to do before you die. These can include big dreams, such as kayaking through the Amazon or writing a bestselling novel, and smaller desires, like watching the sunset with your future boyfriend. You and your friends might have fun writing bucket lists together and then comparing and contrasting. For added fun, see if there are any items on your bucket list you could easily do at home. Then, do those activities and cross them off your list., Decorating can be a great way to have fun at home. Consider using some craft supplies to decorate clothing, accessories, and more.


Decorate purses with sequins, glitter, and other craft supplies. Ask your mom or older sister if she has any purses she's no longer attached to and then decorate these bags. Your friends will have fun and be able to leave your house with a fun new accessory.
Get white t-shirts and write on them with black markers. You can have all your friends leave a personalized signature or drawing. That way, you'll all have a cute new shirt commemorating your friendship.
 If you're unsure what to do when going out for the weekend, consider yourself a tourist. Where do people from out of town usually congregate? What museums are popular? What sights are there to see? Is there a local zoo or other tourist attraction? Being a tourist in your own town is a fun way to pass the time., Just as staying in to watch movies can be fun, going out for a movie night can also be entertaining. Going to a theater allows you to see the latest releases and watch movies on a big screen. If you're unsure of what to do on a particular night, consider seeing a film.
 It can be fun to try and build an outfit on a budget. You'll also end up saving money if you or your friends are short on cash. Go to a local shopping mall with the goal of building an entire new outfit with only $20. This can be challenging but also entertaining. Look for sale and discount items or shop at store with generally lower prices.

