 If you have not reached Level 5, you will not be allowed to join a team or go to the gym.;
, There are three teams in Pokémon GO: Team Instinct (yellow), Team Mystic (blue), and Team Valor (red).These teams battle for control of the gyms. Right now, there is no way to change teams in Pokémon GO.
 Since Pokémon GO is based off of GPS location, you and your friend will need to be physically together in order to go to the same gym. You can only battle other Pokémon at a gym you’re physically close to.
 Look on the map screen for gyms. Gyms are huge towers that rise higher above the ground than anything else in the game. Sometimes you will see a Pokémon on top of the gym. The gyms will be blue, yellow, or red. If you are on the blue team, look for a blue gym, etc.
 To find one, you may need to walk around your area for a while or go to a more populated area, like a town center.


If you and your friend are on the same team, you should try to find a gym of that same color. This way, you can engage in friendly battle, where your Pokémon will give up the fight with 1 HP (hit point) rather than “passing out.”

, You will see options for choosing which Pokémon you want to battle. Choose the Pokémon you want to battle. Your friend should do the same.
 Either you or your friend should battle the existing Pokémon at the gym in order to own the gym. Whoever has the stronger Pokémon out of the two of you should do this.
 Either you or your friend should do this. The idea is to “claim” the gym with a powerful Pokémon and then, either you or your friend, whoever does not claim the gym, should challenge that person in a battle afterwards.Once you are in the battle with another Pokémon, tap the screen to attack. You can dodge your enemy’s attack by swiping to the left or right.
 It may take a little bit of time for your friend (or you) to fight off the existing Pokémon in the gym. You may not be able to do this, in which case you will need to come back another day with more powerful Pokémon.
 However, you will not actually be battling your friend in real time. You will be fighting in real time, but your friend will not. Your Pokémon will benefit from this “training” in a friendly gym.


In a battle at another team’s gym, your Pokémon will faint if you lose. But in a friendly training battle, where both you and your friend are in your home gym, the battle will stop when he has 1 HP (hit point) left, so he can heal.