 Your boyfriend would expect you to write "I love you" at the end of a letter or a text message, but he won't expect to see it written in the steam after his shower, in the hot sauce on his morning omelet, or on a blank page of his notebook that he sees when he's about to take notes for class. Finding a creative and unique place to write "I love you" will make him think even more fondly of you when you're not there, and will make him feel more romantic because you've made a special effort to let him know that you care.


Just doing this once or twice a month can really show your boyfriend that you care. You don't have to overdo it.;
, This can be a CD that reminds him of "your songs" or one that really takes his musical tastes into account and is a mix of things you actually think he likes. Don't recommend your favorite bands if you know they aren't his thing; but if you really know what he would like, then make him a mixed CD and pop it into his car's CD player when he's not looking. When he turns on the car, he'll get a pleasant surprise.


Make sure you know what music he listens to, what music he already owns, and what he likes before you go and do this.
 Put together a scrapbook of all of your most meaningful memories. Put together photos of you together, tickets from your favorite concert, a menu from the restaurant where you first said "I love you," or notes that you wrote each other throughout the course of your relationship. This can make a great anniversary or birthday gift, or you can give him the book just because.


This book will make him see how far you've come in your relationship, and will make him appreciate you even more.
 Who says Valentine's Day is only for February 14th? If you're both busy that day, or if you just want to be romantic on a random Wednesday, then you should plan an celebrating Valentine's Day on whatever day works for you two; you can use this time to shower each other with love and affection, dress up, and eat something delicious.


This fake Valentine's Day will be extra fun because you both will feel like you're in on a joke.
 Little kids have an infinitive amount of wonder at the state of the world, along with a healthy dose of hope and optimism. So, take a day to just act like a kid with your boyfriend, and see how much your love for each other and the world grows when you do the silly things you loved to do as a kid. You two can go to a carnival, make balloon animals, finger paint, mud wrestle, or just do anything fun and silly that makes you feel more romantic and more alive. Here are some other things you can do:


Blow soap bubbles
Bake cookies
Make macaroni and cheese
Watch fireworks
Eat cotton candy at a baseball game
Go to a water park
Make S'mores

, Taking a pottery class with your boyfriend will be just as romantic as that one scene in Ghost -- except it'll be even better because you'll both be alive. You'll be getting your hands dirty, learning something new, and creating something that you can bring home and put on your coffee table, however lopsided and misshaped it may be.


Not only will you have fun doing this, but you'll be developing even more affection for one another.
 If you've spent a lot of time apart and have sent long emails to each other, or if you're just the kind of people who love sending each other emails, you should print out all of your sweet, funny, and romantic emails and put them in a book for your boyfriend. He'll read over all of your love notes and will remember all of the great times you've had and all of the memories you've shared.


An affectionate email can be just as romantic as a love note. Just punch holes in the emails and bind them together with thick colorful string and hand 'em over.

