 Visit the Tumblr home page and, if necessary, log into your account. You should be redirected to your dashboard as soon as you log in.


If you're already signed into Tumblr, you should be redirected to your dashboard as soon as you try navigating to the home page.
Access your Tumblr dashboard directly at: https://www.tumblr.com/dashboard
;
, Look for the post bar at the top of your Tumblr dashboard. Find the "Text" option and hit it once to start a text post.The post bar should be at the top center of your dashboard, directly next to your avatar. Within the post bar, the "Text" option should be first and should be marked with an Aa icon.
As soon as you hit the "Text" option, the text post editor should open up.
 Hit that plus button to open additional options, then hit the camera icon from the new options that roll out.


The plus button should be to the left of the post editor and beneath your avatar, and the camera button should be the first new option displayed.
As soon as you hit the camera button, an "Open File" dialog box should pop up.
 Within the “Open File” dialog box, navigate through your computer's folders until you find the exact GIF you want to post. Click on the GIF once and hit the “Open” button to select it.


Alternatively, you can double-click the desired GIF to select it instead of hitting the “Open” button.
Note that you must have the GIF file saved to your computer before you can post it to Tumblr.
 After opening the GIF, you'll need to wait for Tumblr to upload it. You should see a blue bar notifying you that Tumblr is “Processing” during this time.


The exact speed can vary depending on the size of the GIF and the strength/speed of your Internet connection, but usually, the process should only take a few seconds.
Once Tumblr finishes the upload, the GIF should appear within the primary text box of the post editor.
 If you want to edit the GIF and make it smaller, you'll need to do so from the HTML view of the post editor.


Hit the gear icon in the upper right corner of the post editor box. Find the "Text editor" field in the resulting drop-down box and hit the downward arrow beside it. Select "HTML" from the possible options.
Look for the file name of the GIF. Immediately after the file name, type "width=###" and exchange the "###" for your desired pixel size. Doing so should resize the GIF to scale.
View the new size by switching your "Text editor" back to "Rich text."

, You can post the GIF as it is right now, but it's more common to include a title and tags before you do.


Click in the "Title" field and type your desired title.
Click in the "#tags" field and type any desired tag. Use the # symbol at the start of each new tag to separate it from the others.
You can also include additional text in the text box itself, placing it before or after the GIF as desired.
 Now that the details of your post are in place, hit the "Post" button in the bottom right corner to finalize the post and make it public.


The GIF should be viewable from your Tumblr blog as soon as you finalize the post.

