 Remove all bottles, soap, razors, and accessories from your shower. Wipe down the items to remove any grime that may be transferred back into the shower, especially mildew. Mildew on the bottom of the bottles can immediately rub back onto your freshly clean shower surfaces.

If you have any empty or worn-out items, throw them away.
If you have a shower curtain, it’s best to take it down and clean it.;
, A pre-rinse will ensure that you do not accidentally grind dirt or debris into the surface of your tub. It also allows the cleaning product to work directly on the stuck-on grime., Open the bathroom door to prevent the air from building up. Then turn on your fan. If you have a window in your bathroom, open it as well. While you’ll be using a natural cleaning solution, it’s still strong and will release fumes that you’ll want to air out., The dish detergent will cut through the oils and grease that make up your soap scum, making it easier to wipe away the stuck on grime.You can use any dish detergent that is formulated to cut through grease.
If you use too much detergent in your cleaning solution, it will not ruin your cleaner; however, the cleaning solution will be harder to wash away.
 In addition to attacking bacteria and mildew, white vinegar is great for clearing away soap scum and lime deposits.While the smell may be off-putting, it evaporates away once the vinegar dries.

If the smell of the vinegar really bothers you, try adding a few drops of a pure essential oil, such as lemon or orange oil.
 Set the timer for 1 minute to warm the vinegar. Warm vinegar is easier to mix than cool vinegar, so it will help you create a better cleaning solution.You don’t need to boil your vinegar.
Depending on the strength of your microwave, you may want to warm your vinegar in 30 second intervals to make sure that it reaches a slightly warm temperature rather than getting too hot or not getting warm enough.
 Blend the two ingredients using a swirling motion. Continue moving the bottle until they are completely blended. Avoid shaking the bottle because it will cause excessive sudsing. Your end result should be a slightly foamy substance that is lightly tinted the color of your detergent.You can increase or decrease the quantity of cleaner that you prepare by adjusting the amount of the ingredients as long as you maintain the 3 to 1 ratio of white vinegar to detergent.
If you’d prefer, there are several non-abrasive commercial options available that are safe for fiberglass. Check the label to make sure that the product does not contain abrasive cleaning agents or bleach.
 Spray your vinegar-detergent mixture onto the shower and tub surfaces. Allow it to set for 10-15 minutes so that the ingredients have time to penetrate the dried on soap scum, mildew, and mineral deposits.If your shower doesn’t have soap scum, mildew, and mineral deposits, then you don’t need to let the product set.
 Scrub your shower surfaces with your non-abrasive applicator, paying special attention to areas with thicker grime. As you clean, apply additional cleaning solution as needed. For example, if your cleaner dries before you get to that section, you can apply additional cleaner.Do not scrub with hard-bristle brushes, scouring pads, or metal pads because they will scratch your fiberglass.
 Use a cup to splash cold water onto all of the surfaces to remove the cleaning solution and the grime. You will likely need to rinse areas more than once to remove all of the product.If you have a handheld shower head, you can use it instead of a cup.
 Pour 1 cup (237 milliliters) of baking soda into a bowl. Add a few drops of water at a time, blending until you have a paste. Your paste should be spreadable but still sticky enough to stick to shower surfaces., Smoothe on a generous amount of the paste to any remaining soap scum, which includes tub rings or rings around the drain in your shower pan.Pretend you are icing a cake. Your paste should be spread on in a thin layer.
 The baking soda needs time to break down the soap scum. While it dries, avoid spraying water or other cleaners in the shower., Add a little water to the paste to re-moisten the baking soda. Make tight, circular movements with your scrubber as you work in the paste., Use your cup to splash water onto the paste. With a clean cloth, wipe away the baking soda. Rinse the cloth frequently to remove the baking soda residue.When all of the baking soda is gone, do a final rinse with cold water.

If you have a handheld shower head, you can use it instead of a cup.

