 One of the main causes of hemorrhoids is obesity, which also affects numerous Americans. This happens because of the extra weight exerting pressure on the anal and rectal areas, causing the veins to swell, forming hemorrhoids. In order to avoid obesity, take a 15-30 minute jog or walk every day, and try to do more physically strenuous exercises if you're already facing this kind of problem.


Aside from getting rid of obesity, exercising will improve circulatory and respiratory functions, as well as the muscles. It will also make you feel more confident in the long run.;
, Regardless if you're doing so at your office, school or gaming chair, sitting down for more than eight hours a day will pose numerous health risks, including hemorrhoids. Sitting for prolonged periods will put a lot of pressure on your anus and rectum, which could cause hemorrhoids to form. It also increases the risk for diabetes, heart disease and obesity. To avoid this, simply sit correctly and take a few minute walks after every hour.
 It is imperative to go to the toilet and let all the waste out everyday. Doing so is not only healthy, but it will prevent hemorrhoids in the long run. When you delay potty sessions, your stools will get harder, thus making it more difficult for you to push them out, causing you to strain. Difficulty in emptying the bowels is called constipation and in turn, it causes hemorrhoids.
 This is responsible in aiding digestion and softening the stools, avoiding constipation and making waste disposal a lot easier. Rich fiber sources include:


Vegetables like broccoli, artichokes, kale and brussels sprouts.
Fruits like raspberries, apples, pineapples and oranges.
Beans and legumes are the richest sources. These include baked beans, chickpeas, pistachios, black beans, split peas and haricot beans.
High fiber foods like raisin bran or shredded wheat cereals are good, too.
 Simply put, fiber is useless if you don't supplement it with water. Eight to ten glasses of water will aid in digestion and improve bodily functions: you can last for weeks without food, but die within three days without water. In the context of hemorrhoid prevention, water aids fiber in softening stools, thus making waste disposal easy.

