 If you’re new to wearing patchwork prints, you may feel more comfortable if you avoid bright or colorful styles. Instead, opt for a patchwork prints that feature neutral or dark colors so the effect is subtle and more wearable.Black, white, and gray patchwork prints are a good option if you want to ease your way into wearing the pattern.
If you prefer to wear more vivid colors, opt for patchwork prints that use dark shades, such as navy blue, maroon, hunter green, or plum.
A patchwork print will be more subtle if you choose a design that features the same two or three colors so there’s less contrast.;
, Because a patchwork print often features several different types of patterns, it can be tricky to wear it with other patterned clothing. Instead, pair your patchwork print with solids for a look that’s polished and not too busy.If the patchwork print is particularly colorful, it’s best to pair it with neutral solids, such as black, white, brown, or gray.
If the patchwork print is made up of solid color blocks, you can try pairing it with patterns. However, it’s best to stick to simple patterns, such as stripes or checks.
If you want to mix patterns with the print, it’s best to incorporate small patchwork touches, such as a purse or pair of shoes, so your outfit still looks polished.
 Patchwork prints are extremely eye-catching, which means they’ll likely get most of the focus in your outfit. That’s why you should wear the print in areas that you want to draw attention to and avoid wearing it in areas that you don’t want to emphasize.For example, if you want to emphasize your upper body, choose a patchwork print top.
If you want to draw attention away from your hips or thighs, avoid wearing a patchwork print skirt or pair of pants.
 Patchwork print dresses tend to have a ‘70s inspired look that makes them perfect for a boho look. Pair a floral patchwork print dress with sandals or suede boots in a natural color. Add dangling beaded earrings, a corded necklace, and a fringed purse to finish off the look.You can opt for a flowy or more fitted dress depending on your preference. If your dress is loose-fitting, you may want to cinch the waist with a suede or braided belt.
You may want to pair a large, floppy hat with your dress to complete your boho look.
 If you prefer a more modern look, choose a patchwork pencil skirt that features solid color blocks. Pair it with a black tank top, tee shirt, or button-down blouse, and knee-high black boots for a chic, sophisticated look.You can finish off your outfit with a cuff bracelet and a geometric necklace for a fresh modern look.
 If you usually wear a suit to the office, a patchwork blouse can add some personality to your look. Pair the top with a suit in a neutral or dark color, such as black, navy, or gray. Add your favorite pumps or ballet flats and simple, classic jewelry, such as a pearl necklace or studs, for a polished, professional look.If you don’t usually wear a suit to work, you can pair the blouse with a simple pencil skirt or pair of trousers.
For a more subtle look, you can layer a V-neck sweater vest over your patchwork print blouse under your suit jacket.
 Patchwork denim is often an easy way to try out the print because it features all subdued shades of blue. Wear a pair of patchwork jeans with a classic white tee or tank for a chic, casual outfit. You can pair the look with your favorite boots, sandals, tennis shoes, or ballet flats.You can also pair patchwork jeans with a denim or chambray shirt because the patchwork design means you won’t be wearing all the same color denim from head to toe.
Patchwork jeans can also work for an evening out. Wear them with a corset or halter style top, pumps or heeled boots, and a statement necklace for a look that’s sure to turn heads.
In addition to patchwork jeans, you can find patchwork denim shorts, skirts, and dresses.
 Shoes that feature a patchwork design are an ideal option when you want to add flair to a simple outfit. Wear a pair of patchwork shoes with an outfit featuring all neutral colors to add some color and visual interest.For example, you might wear a pair of colorful patchwork pumps with a little black dress for an evening out.
Add a pair of colorful patchwork tennis shoes to a simple white tank top and denim shorts.
 The right purse can help complete an outfit, and a patchwork print bag is ideal for adding color and texture to your look. Choose a colorful patchwork bag to pair with a neutral or simple outfit.A clutch with a patchwork design featuring bright colors can be a perfect addition to an outfit for an evening out.
For work, you might prefer to choose a large shoulder bag that features a patchwork design in neutral colors so it will work with a wider variety of outfits.
 Another way to work a little patchwork print into your look is to add a patterned scarf. Dress up a plain suit with a silk patchwork scarf in neutral shades for the office, or add a colorful patchwork scarf to a simple sweater and jeans for a casual look.You can also use a patchwork scarf in your hair or as a belt over a loose-fitting blouse or dress.

