 Do you want to travel in the early morning? Late evening? Early afternoon? There are both north and southbound trains that will fit your scheduling needs.;
, On the Amtrak Cascades, the further you buy your tickets in advance, the cheaper they are. For example, if you're going to Tacoma, WA and are purchasing tickets a month (or more) in advance, you'd only spend $26 each way. If you were purchasing a day before your trip, you might have to spend up to $45 each way. Look at different dates and different trains to get the best deal.
 Reservations are required on the Amtrak Cascades. The 3 ways to make a reservation are either online (http://www.amtrakcascades.com), over the phone (1-800-USA-RAIL), or at a ticket counter with an agent.
 The process is somewhat similar to purchasing e-tickets from an airline. Once your reservation is confirmed, you will receive a confirmation email with an e-ticket attached as a PDF. You can print this out at home, pick up your e-ticket at the station, or of course, if you're that type of person, load it on your smartphone. ONE e-ticket will be issued per reservation, no matter how many people are traveling in your party. Lost your e-ticket? No problem. Just reprint it, or go to a ticket agent and they can reprint it for you. Of course, if you purchased (paper) tickets prior to July 30, 2012, these can still be redeemed for travel without a problem.
 If you are checking baggage, Amtrak recommends at least 60 minutes.
 In the other stations along the route, your e-ticket will be scanned on-board and you might get to choose your own seat The exception is when the train is sold out, in which case the conductor will most likely tell you at the door where to sit. No matter how your ticket is checked, you will be given a slip of paper called a seat check. Put this in the slot up above your seat, otherwise your seat might be reassigned, and you'll need to ask for a new one. As the train approaches your final destination, a conductor will come through the train to collect them.
 Find your assigned car and seat, if you were given one, then settle into your seat. Hold on to your e-ticket, as it is proof that you paid for you ride. If you purchased a round-trip itinerary, the same e-ticket will be scanned for your return trip.
 The conductors will make an announcement when the train is a few minutes from your final destination, and what doors will open at that stop. At this time, collect all of your personal belongings and prepare to de-train. Stand in the vestibule and wait for a conductor to come through and open the door. Use the step stool and be careful when stepping off the train, as the platform may be slippery.
 Listen for the train whistle and watch as your former train begins to roll slowly away, and speed off into the distance.
