 Is it in the Maritimes of Canada, the West Coast of New Zealand or Tasmania or somewhere that has a regular deluge? If yes, expect rain and be prepared in advance. For other camping destinations, still expect some nights and days of rain and be appropriately prepared. It's always a good idea to look into the forecast for the area in which you'll be staying before you head out.






;
, While there are many considerations that go into choosing a tent, there are a few more specific things to take into account when anticipating rain:









The tent should have a full fly sheet with sufficient overhang to prevent upwards splashing of mud from being a big problem.
 You don't want water seeping through the cracks somehow!









The entrance way must form a lip, like a bathtub, and not be as flat as the rest of the floor (this is actually known as a "bathtub floor"). If the floor slopes down or is simply sewn flat into the tent wall, this will let water in.
The coating of the tent must be waterproof – read the labels carefully for the product's virtues and drawbacks.
If you are camping for a short time, a small tent might be okay if you can stand being in close proximity with your camping buddies. If you're staying for 3 or more days, take the big tent for your own sanity!

, If you have to pitch the tent in the rain, put up a tarpaulin over you first to stop the inner part of your tent from turning into a bath before you even start. Put down a groundsheet matching the tent to provide additional protection. The groundsheet should not be visible under the tent, fold under the sides of the groundsheet so water running down the tent will not catch on the groundsheet and be directed between the groundsheet and tent floor. Multi-pitch tents such as Macpac, Montbell and Hilleberg brands can be put up with the fly and inner already attached so the inner won't get wet from the rain. If it is stormy you can try staking out the waterproof fly first and working under it as a crude shelter until the inner tent is setup.
 The newer bathtub floors don't leak even in a pool of water. It does damage to the camp site and leaves a mess for everyone if you ditch around your tent. However if your campsite is gravel or sand you may want to ditch around the tent. If you don't have a choice as to where to camp ditching around the tent may be necessary. As bathtub floors eventually leak you will want to carry a ground sheet to place inside the tent to keep dry.
 Look for slopes, angles, indentations, soft earth and avoid pitching in these if you possibly can. Look for the highest part of the ground on your camp-site. Be wary of selecting as your site an absolutely flat area of dried sediment which has formed as it becomes a puddle in rain! Avoid any places with signs of old flooding (washouts, debris, narrowly enclosed areas, etc). Water can be channeled to these areas and flood them in minutes during a storm.
 If possible, tie a tarpaulin to trees, poles, anything high around your camp (even onto your car), to create a "roof" over your tent. Make sure the sides are running over the edges of the tent and allow the water to run away from the tent. This will help prevent rain from directly pounding on your tent. This solution is usually easiest for car camping. The tarpaulin can also be placed on the ground at the entrance. Here you stand, deposit wet boots, shoes, sandals and jackets before dragging all that into the tent. (You will want to bring plastic bags so that you don't get the muck from your shoes in the tent.) Use sticks or other spare waterproof camp items that fit in the entrance as something to hang jackets over to dry. As an aside, your jackets should be hydrophobic, quick-drying to ease drying time – invest in one or two good outer layers for the sake of keeping warm.
 Living in your tent causes moisture from your breath to condense into water droplets, which may then fall down onto you and your possessions. Adequate ventilation is the key to minimizing condensation. Remember, the more ventilation, the less condensation. It helps if your tent has peak vents that you can open.
 If the dreaded water flow appears in your tent despite everything else, mop it up with these towels, wring them outside and hang up to dry again. The sooner you mop up, the drier you'll stay. It is also a hint to get out of your cosy bag and investigate the cause of the dripping – perhaps the fly or guy ropes need tightening or more airflow is required.










Keep a spare change of clothes in a waterproof bag, just in case everything in the tent gets wet by some terrible misfortune.
Keep a pair of flip-flops or easy slip-ons at the front door. If you're back country, choose the shoes that seem most likely to be easy to slip on and off and share this pair between you. Rubber boots can be good for just walking around camp, but bring hiking boots for hikes.
Raincoats should always be placed in your tent at night. It may be a delightful evening under clear skies but if that storm ambles on in overnight and you left the raincoat under a tree, in a locker or in the car, you'll be cursing. For those car camping, always toss in some spare umbrellas.
Have hand warmers and lightweight gloves handy. Even in summer, lightweight, water phobic gloves can prevent your hands from freezing when pitching and un-pitching your tent during the rain.
 Bring along books, games, drawing materials, diaries – anything that you can manage in your pack or car that interests you. Games that are useful to have on hand include a pack of cards (many, many ideas!). These are small and compact. It is also useful to write down ideas for word games, games that can be made from sticks and stones (e.g. Tic Tac Toe) etc in a small notebook (or memorize them if you're good at that), so that you will have plenty of entertainment. Also a sleeping pad that converts into a camp chair can make a huge difference in comfort when stuck in a tent for hours. Being able to sit upright when reading is far more comfortable.
 If you can take down the tent under the fly, then do so and put it away before taking it out into the rain. If you are camping again in a dry area, pitch the tent at the first possible opportunity to give it plenty of time to dry in the sun and breezes – this will make your night more comfortable. And if you have the luxury of calling it quits and going to a hotel or going home, pitch the tent at the first possible opportunity to dry it out. Even if that means the hotel car park. Never store a tent when it is wet, it can develop mildew.








