 Decide beforehand how much money you are willing to invest in your instrument. If you are a beginning player, perhaps plan to spend a bit less. If you are a professional player, you likely will want a high quality instrument. In that case, your purchase is an investment in your career and future.


If your child is in a first year music class, you might consider spending less money on her first instrument and then if she sticks with it, buy her an upgrade later.
For children starting to play, renting an instrument is also an affordable option. Even pianos are available to rent. Check your local music stores or ask your child’s music teacher for more information.;
, Based on your budget, think about the pros and cons of buying a previously used or brand new instrument. For example, a new instrument should be in excellent condition, not be tarnished or scratched, and function well. It also will cost more than the same model that is used. Used instruments might have slight cosmetic defects but could function just as well.


Some used instruments, such as valuable, historic violins are actually considerably more expensive than new violins.
If you are a period player (e.g. play mainly Baroque music), you might seek an instrument from that period. This likely will be more expensive but can be worth it if you play at an intermediate or professional level.
If the instrument in which you are interested is vintage, you likely will pay a higher price.
For beginner players, used instruments are a great idea. Children particularly will feel less pressure if their parents have not invested a significant amount of money in an instrument for them.
 When looking to buy an instrument, there are numerous manufacturers, models, styles, and materials. Based on your budget, available space, and living situation, seek the best option for you. When deliberating, the following considerations might help:


If you live in a small apartment, you might prefer to buy an electric keyboard that you can place on a table.
If you plan to place your piano in the living room, see how much available floor space you have. If you have a very large room, you could potentially purchase a baby grand or grand piano. For smaller rooms, an upright piano might suit you well.
For pianos, you can purchase regular upright pianos with the option of listening to the sound via headphones. These pianos are ideal for dense living situations.
When purchasing a drum set, consider whether you have space and sound protection for a full set. If you live in an apartment building and have lots of neighbors, you might buy an electric drum kit instead.
Silver trumpets are more valuable than brass trumpets. Similarly, flutes with gold mouthpieces also have a higher value. If you want to resell your instrument in the future, consider the values of the materials.
 In order to get the best product and price, look at all the available options. Check for online retailers that specialize in your instrument. Also, visit local music stores and consignment shops. If your area has a service like eBay or Craigslist, inquire into listings there as well. Your local flea market also might have some instruments on offer.


If possible, always try out an instrument prior to purchase.
If buying a more expensive used instrument at a pawn shop, flea market, or through an online site, ask for a certificate of authenticity.
Do not send any money for an instrument through an insecure format (like international money transfers).
Ask your child’s music teacher for a recommendation.
Inspect instruments before purchase if possible. For brass instruments, check the valves. For pianos, lift up the lid and check the strings. Check for any noticeable defects.
For tips on buying a piano, see Buy a Piano.
To learn more about buying a violin, read Buy a Violin. For a cello, see Buy a Cello.
For advice on buying a beginner's trumpet, see Buy a Beginner Trumpet.

