 If you find yourself in class or at work and experiencing math anxiety, start by writing down a shorter, simpler problem and solving that. To draw another parallel to sports, think of it as taking a few practice swings before getting up to bat. Get your body warmed up for the task at hand.Solving a simpler problem can help you shift gears into a mathematical mindset.
With a few shorter problems solved properly, your confidence will increase and allow you to take on harder problems.
 Working with friends is a great way to overcome your anxiety. By putting your heads together, each member of the group can learn from one another. Working in groups has been shown to help people overcome more complex problems that they could have on their own.Groups give you an opportunity to exchange ideas and ask questions frequently without feeling singled out.
Working in groups increases confidence and reduces anxiety during the learning process., Playing math based games like Sudoku or KenKen can be a great way to help you learn to enjoy math while improving your skills and understanding. There are lots of free math based games you can play online and many more books and magazines available at your local bookstore.The anxiety you experience when presented with a math problem may not be present when you come across it in a recreational setting.
Mathematical games like Sudoku have been found to have many cognitive benefits as well as helping to ease math anxiety.
 Studies show that one of the most effective ways to overcome math anxiety is to force yourself to begin working. Even if sitting down at your desk and forcing yourself to dig into your text book seems awful, the mere act could help you get past the negative mindset you have about math.Being nervous about doing math has no relation to student’s success at doing math itself. Just being nervous doesn’t mean you’ll do poorly.
Overcoming math anxiety has little to do with knowing how to do the math in question, and much more to do with being willing to dig into it.
You must practice this prior to high-stakes situations like exams in order to make it the most effective.
 Math anxiety and stress can present itself with physical symptoms just like any other form of stress. Taking good care of your body can help alleviate the worst aspects of your math anxiety and help you feel more at ease with getting through it.


If you begin to feel overwhelmed, take a timeout to regain control.Eat well and get enough sleep. Being hungry or tired can make feelings of stress and anxiety worse. Being well fed and rested will make approaching math easier.
Accept that you can’t control everything and that you’ll make mistakes. There’s nothing wrong with getting a math problem wrong, just try to learn from your mistakes.
 Math may be intimidating, but with a positive mindset you can overcome your anxiety and frustration. Changing the way you think about math can have a huge effect on how you actually feel about it.


Make an effort to identify negative or non-productive thoughts and replace them with positive onesVisualize yourself accomplishing your school or professional goals and mastering the math techniques that you struggle with. This will ease your stress and help you relax.Believing in yourself has been proven to improve performance in things like mathematics. Accept that you need to put in effort, but believe that you can.