 A good personal image can cause the respect of others and also the respect for others. A child's clean body, keep health, which can prevent bacteria from invading the body and also can give a good impression to others.;
, If the children do not rely on mom, they can form a good habit of self-cleaning.
 Wash hands before the rice then empress. Do not grasp food dishes with your hands, wash raw fruits before eating and so on, which are all belong to good health diet, which can effectively prevent the diseases caused by bad eating habit.
 Do not spit and urinate in front of them in order to keep the public environmental health. Small children as a social citizen, also should pay attention to public health so as to win more respect of others. Children are particular about being publicly clean, which is also the performance of social morality. As the owner of the future society, a mother must help her develop a good habit of being clean.
 Healthy, neat household environment is what the mothers provide for the family. Children should also learn to pay attention to all sorts of health details at home, making the floor of the house, curtains, bedding, tableware, and sanitary ware clean.
 Children’s good habit of hygiene learn more from mothers. Mothers can provide children with a neat, clean household environment, which will influence a child’s health habit as well.
 Mothers, in helping children to develop practical and feasible system of life, should clearly stipulate accommodation, food, games, learning and working time. In daily life, pay attention to cultivate their independent living ability, such as wearing clothes can accord to certain order, dressing neat, washing the taken off clothes in a timely manner, putting the dry clothes in a fixed place; Wash hair, bath, frequently change clothes, trim the nails on time; Brush your teeth in the morning and evening; In the morning after getting up, tidy up the bed. After homework, put away the stationery on the desk; Deposit the toys in the original place, etc.
 The love of beauty of heart that all people have. From an early age, the children have beautiful pursuit of love, but their cognitive development has not yet matured. In the pursuit of beauty, they lack appreciation ability and necessary knowledge. They just show the surface imitated. Therefore, parents should set a good example and pay attention to their manners and dress up. Use your health, correct aesthetic concepts to subtly influence children. Pay attention to the family environment beautification, room decoration should tidy, clean, simple, and family life atmosphere should be close. Also, pay attention to the child’s clothes and their speech must conforms to the requirements of beauty. Children dress neatly cleanly, simply and also suitable for age and children’s identity. It is forbidden to wear dirty and ragged clothes. Dirty clothes should change in time and when broken they should be sewed.
 When we are children, what interested us most is toys. Choosing the right toy could contribute to the development of the body and mind. Children are innocent, therefore, as parents we should help them choose the right toys that are suitable for them. Once they choose a toy which is bad to the their inner heart, then in the future what will happen to the children? We just can’t imagine. Thus, it is the crucial step to cultivate children. A good toy is the remote control plane. An RC helicopter is beneficial to the development of children’s right brain. It has super memory ability and other divine functions, such as, the ESP-super feel (touch force, our responsibility, telepathy, etc). Model plane is full of fun, which is different from ordinary brain exercise. In addition to let you enjoy the pleasure of fly freely, more importantly, due to absorption and dedication which can relieve stress, it can bring a feeling of release.

