 To effectively clean any bottle, it’s important to take it apart. However, Dr. Brown’s bottles have more parts than traditional baby bottles, so you must be sure to fully disassemble it. Separate the cap, nipple collar, nipple, vent insert, vent reservoir, travel disc, and any insert components from the bottle so you can clean each part.If you’re not sure how to take apart your particular Dr. Brown’s bottle or how many parts that your bottle has, consult the manufacturer’s insert and instructions.;
, The easiest place to clean the bottle by hand is in the kitchen sink. Make sure that the sink is clean, and then fill it with hot water from the tap. Squirt some dishwashing liquid into the sink and agitate the water slightly to create a hot, soapy solution.If you prefer, you can fill a bucket or basin with the soapy water to clean the bottle.
 Once the sink is full of hot, soapy water, place the bottle pieces into the mixture. Allow the bottle to sit in the water for 15 to 30 minutes., After you’ve allowed the bottle pieces to soak in the hot, soapy water for several minutes, use a small brush to thoroughly scrub all of the pieces. Pay special attention to any holes, grooves, or other nooks and crannies to ensure that the bottle is completely clean.Many Dr. Brown’s bottles come with at least one brush for cleaning. You can also purchase brush sets from the brand that feature brushes in different sizes to make scrubbing all of the different components easier.
 After you’ve finished scrubbing all of the bottle components, drain the soapy water out of the sink. Turn on the faucet and rinse the pieces with hot water to ensure that there is no dirt or soapy residue remaining.When rinsing the bottle parts, taking care to ensure that the nipple hole is completely clean and clear.
 After washing the bottle, it’s important to allow the pieces to dry completely before putting it back together so mold doesn’t grow. Set the pieces out a clean towel or in a drying rack, and allow them to dry overnight.Dr. Brown’s sells a drying rack designed specifically for their bottles and components, which make it very easy to separate the pieces as they dry.

