 Once you've given the person a bit of space and have an idea of why the person may be mad at you, then you should try to initiate a conversation. Don't confront the person in public or in the middle of the day when the person is likely to be busy or easily frazzled; instead, ask the person if you can meet later and pick an appropriate place and time to have a conversation. If the person really doesn't want to engage with you, then you can pick a time when the person will be alone and when you can talk without making too much of a nuisance of yourself.


Tell the person that you've been hurt that you've been ignored and that you want to talk about it. Let him, or her know how much the relationship means to you, and how much you want to be able to talk to the person again.
If you're genuinely confused about why it's happening, then you can ask the person. Say that you both will feel better if the reasons the person is ignoring you are out in the open.
If it's someone you like romantically, be prepared for the fact that the person just may not like you anymore or may not return your feelings. Sure, this will hurt, but it's better to know than to wonder what the person thinks.
 If you know or have been told why the person is ignoring you, then make eye contact, look serious, and tell the person that you're sorry about what you've done. Tell the person that you regret what you did and that you'll never do it again. Show that the relationship means a lot to you and that you've done a lot of thinking and wish that you hadn't done it. Don't be distracted, let the person see the pain on your face, and show how sorry you are.


If the person is upset about something that you did, but you don't think it was a big deal or that it warrants an apology, then you have to decide. Do you want to stick to your guns and not apologize because you don't think you've done anything wrong, or would you rather just apologize so you can return to your relationship instead of being ignored?

, Okay, so you've apologized, and the person isn't budging, or he or she is just still hurt. If you've done something pretty hurtful, like cheating on the individual, gossiping, or just making the person feel bad, then an apology won't magically restore your friendship. Maybe the person tells you that what you did was so unforgivable that you can never return to your relationship; maybe the person says that he or she still wants to be friends, but that he or she needs some time to heal. Whatever you hear, you need to respect the person's needs and back off.


Of course, you may just want to jump right back into the friendship, even if the person says he or she needs space. But that's not going to make the person heal any faster. In fact, it'll only prolong the process.
No mountain of "I'm sorry" can undo what you did to make the person mad at you. Now it's time to give the person time and space to figure it out. This won't be fun, but it's the best way.
 Maybe the person is stubborn. Maybe he or she is mad at you for a ridiculous reason. Maybe the person just doesn't feel like being your friend or significant other. If you feel like the person is the one with the problem and that you've done everything you could to try to win him or her over and nothing has worked, then maybe it's time to move on without caring about the person anymore. That may sound harsh, but if you get the feeling that the person is just trying to cause you harm, then why bother with trying to fix things?


You have to do some careful thinking here. If the person isn't worth your efforts, then you'll know it in your heart.

