 Defroster lines and sometimes radio antennae run across the rear windshield. These are easily damaged if you try to scrape off the tint, so they require a more gentle process. Even this method can be difficult with some types of tint, so take it to a professional if you are not willing to risk damaging the wires.
 A warm or hot day is best, but if you're patient you can try this on a cool day with full sun and not much wind. Get started in the late morning or early afternoon, while the sun is most direct.


If there are no sunny days coming up, you can apply the heat yourself with a heat gun or hair dryer. This less even heating method risks leaving strips of tint on the glass, which can be a pain to remove, but in winter it may be the only DIY method available.
 Lay down tarp or cloth to protect upholstery and other interior surfaces from stains.
 Choose a glossy, black plastic trash bag, as this will trap the most heat. Cut it open so it's a single sheet, then lay it along the outside rear windshield. Cut out an outline the shape of the windshield. Repeat with the interior of the windshield to make a second plastic rectangle.
 Sponge the outside of the window using soapy water. Stick the sheet of plastic over the window and flatten it as much as you can.If it doesn't stick, use more soap.


The only purpose of this step is to trap more heat in the window, so you can skip it if you are working on a hot day in full sun.
 Formula 409, Simple Green, or Windex all contain enough ammonia to dissolve the adhesive attaching the tint. Pure ammonia will also work, but because it gives off harmful fumes, it should only be applied while wearing a face mask., Stick the other plastic sheet onto the inside of the rear windshield, flatting it as much as possible.
 Leave the car in direct sunlight for at least 30 minutes on a hot day, or up to 3 hours on a cool day. If there is no direct sunlight, use a heat gun on low to heat the entire windshield as evenly as possible.


Some professionals recommend letting the window heat up for 15 minutes, then spraying more ammonia under the interior trash bag and letting it heat another 15.
 Remove the trash bags and start peeling off the tint slowly from the interior of the glass, starting at one corner. If the tint doesn't remove smoothly, leaves a solid layer behind, or looks hazy, stop immediately and soak the glass again for another 15–30 minutes before trying again. Once the adhesive is full removed, the tint should peel off in one piece.
 The tint usually leaves some adhesive on the windshield. Use more ammonia-based cleaner and a squeegee to remove this, using gentle pressure only around the defroster lines. Extra fine steel wool (grade 0000 or 000) may be necessary for stubborn adhesive, but never use this around defroster lines, and never use coarser grades of steel wool that can scratch glass. Once all the adhesive is removed, wipe the window with paper towels before the ammonia dries on.

