 If your hair is black or very dark brown, you can bring out these natural colors using sage. If your hair is graying, sage can also serve to hide gray hairs.


Use dry sage, which you can buy at most supermarkets. Steep about a handful of sage in a quart of boiling water for at least 30 minutes. Allow it to cool.Strain the sage and water. Then, pour the mixture over your hair 15 times. Make sure to catch the mixture as it falls through your hair, using a bowl or basin. You'll want to re-use the same substance. Allow it to sit in your hair for 30 minutes before washing it out with cool water.This is a method that takes awhile to work. It will not dye your hair instantly. Rather, the effect will build over the course of a few weeks. Repeat this process weekly until you get the shade you want. From there, re-dye your hair once a month to maintain that shade., If sage does not work for you, you can try using alder bark. This is a botanical substance that produces a slightly lighter shade than sage. It can be used to lighten graying locks or darken naturally blond hair.


Obtain bark chips from a health food store or buy them online. Simmer an ounce of the chips in a quart of water for about half an hour. Cool, drain, and use the mixture the same way you would use a sage mix., Simple walnut hulls are something many swear by when it comes to darkening hair. Walnut hulls (the nuts' outer casings) stain easily, so be careful when using this method. It's a good idea to wear gloves. Walnut hulls also require a lot of preparation before they can be used on hair.


Crush the hulls into a paste. How much you use depends on how much hair you have. You want to be able to coat your hair completely, so you'll need more for longer hair. Cover the paste with boiling water and a dash of salt. Allow the paste to soak for three days. Then, add 3 more cups of boiling water and simmer for five hours. Make sure to simmer the walnut paste in a non-metal pan.Strain the liquid and place the remaining bits of walnut hulls in a cloth sack. Twist the sack very tight, making sure to strain out any remaining juice. Place the remaining liquid in a pot and boil it until it's about a quarter of its original volume.Add a teaspoon of ground allspice to the remaining water. Place the mixture in your refrigerator for about a week. Then, apply to your hair as you would a sage or alder bark mixture.