 Once you get to your party or gathering, go check out the food options. Take a round going to each table or looking at what foods or snacks are being served.


Before you grab a plate and start loading up with foods, you need to make sure you have a clear idea of what's available. This will help you be able to make the best choice.
When you're looking for items to try, don't only look for health or diet foods. There might not be a lot of "diet" foods there.That doesn't mean that there's nothing you can eat.
Specifically look for lower calorie options or "free foods" like raw or cooked vegetables or a fruit tray. Also, look for protein-based options (even if they're higher in calories or fat). These can help fill you up and keep you satisfied more than grain-based foods.;
, After you've surveyed the area, head over to the beverage section. Grab a no- or low-calorie drink and start sipping. This can help you manage your food choices over the course of the evening.


Drinking a beverage right before consuming a meal can help provide your body with a sense of fullness and satisfaction. If you drink a low- or no-calorie beverage, you can help fill yourself up with little to no extra calories.Look for beverages like: water, sparkling water, diet sodas, diet iced tea or coffee.
Avoid grabbing an alcoholic beverage first. Drinking on an empty stomach allows the alcohol to go to your head a little more quickly. This can result in overindulgence since alcohol can reduce your inhibitions.
 If the party is a buffet or just appetizers, grab a small plate to serve yourself. This can help you contain how much you're eating and keep portions a little smaller.


Always grab a small plate at any type of gathering. Studies have shown that if you use a smaller plate, you're more likely to to eat less at meals compared to if you used a bigger plate.Small plates make smaller amounts of food look like more to your brain. If there is excess white space (typically on a larger plate), you're more likely to fill that up with food.
Look for small salad plates or appetizer size plates to use. Don't use the larger dinner plates or ask the host if they have something smaller you can use.
 If the party has foods out like a buffet, you will have complete control over your food choices and portions. While many parties are served buffet-style, some may be plated meals. If you're at a party or gathering where the host is serving the food, you can quietly ask them to serve you smaller portions or not serve you certain foods. They want you to enjoy yourself, so don't feel uncomfortable asking.


If you're in control of what foods are on your plate and their portion sizes, you're more likely to stick to your desired diet.Try to make half of your plate a fruit or vegetable and the other half some sort of protein-based food. Limit how many grains you serve yourself or how many sweet treats you indulge in.
 Another trick to keep you on track when you're at a party or social gathering is to fill up on lower calorie items first. This can help tame your hunger and manage your choices for the rest of the evening.


Some foods, like fruits and vegetables, are naturally low in calories. These foods are also higher in fiber and can provide bulk to your meals without many added calories (just don't go crazy with high-calorie dips).Before having any other foods, grab a plate full of vegetables or fruit and nosh on those as your "appetizer" or first round.
You're more likely to feel a little satisfied and full and may have an easier time saying "no" to unhealthier or higher calorie items.
 Some parties will have a lot of tempting dishes to choose from. If you're having trouble saying "no" to food, consider leaving the room.After a bite or two of something delicious, it can be hard to refuse another serving or walk by it without grabbing a little more.
Instead of constantly saying "no" to yourself or risking overindulging, consider just leaving the area where the food is.
You can go outside, go to the living room or offer to help clean up in the kitchen. Anywhere you can get away from foods can be helpful.
 It's not uncommon for party hosts to suggest tasting their freshly baked dessert or go back for seconds; however, you'll need to be firm and stand up to these suggestions so you can stay on track.Many people just want you to taste their food and enjoy it. They're not necessarily coming at you with these suggestions to ruin your diet.
Even with the best and most innocent intentions, your diet can be sidetracked pretty easily.
Be polite and say something like "Thank you so much! It was all so delicious, but no thank you." Or you can be totally honest and say, "I'm afraid if I have these amazing treats in my house I will completely derail my diet! Thank you for the offer, though!"

, One important trick when you're planning to head out to a party, is to have a game plan in mind. It's not wise to show up without considering your diet options.


You need to have a fairly detailed and clear idea of how you're going to manage yourself and your diet at the party.
The day before or day of your party, review your food options. Are you going to bring food with you? Are you going to use a small plate? Are you going to skip dessert?
Also consider whether or not you'll want to tell the party hosts about your diet. You may want to keep it quiet, but letting them know may make it easier for you to stay on track and even have them on your side.
 Showing up to the party with an empty stomach will make it very difficult to stick to any type of diet plan.To prevent being hungry, have a small snack or meal an hour or so before heading out to the party.


Even if you're at home or going out to dinner with your spouse, if you're feeling overly hungry you're more likely to eat bigger portions or indulge in higher calorie foods.
Also, make sure you drink water (or other no calorie fluids) so you can also fill up on a no calorie item and tame your hunger a bit.
 Although it's next to impossible to exercise off every calorie you eat at a party, you can use exercise to help prevent you from overeating. Schedule in an exercise session the day of your event.


No run or spin class will burn off all the calories from your entire day. Instead of trying to overdo it on exercise, use exercise as a motivational tool.Get yourself pumped up, feeling motivated and energized from exercise. This can also help put in you in a good mindset for staying on track at your party.
Stick to your normal exercise routine or plan to be exercising on the day of your party. Even a quick 20 minute walk can help get you into the right mindset.
 If you can, consider bringing a healthy dish with you. This can help make sure there is something you can eat at the party.


If you're going to a buffet-style party or somewhere they're just serving appetizers, offer to bring a dish with you. The host or hostess will probably be excited to have some help.
Bring something that you can eat and that will fit into your diet plan. Choose something that has a lot of vegetables, fruit or lean protein in it.
Bringing a main dish is a great idea so that you know that a good portion of your meal will be a healthy choice.
 Another way you can keep yourself on track is by inviting someone to go with you and ask them to help keep you accountable. Choose a person that can help keep you on track with your diet and eating pattern.Choose a close friend, spouse or family member that you know is also either on a diet or generally eats healthy and well-balance meals.
You can ask them to help keep you on track during the party. They can suggest healthier options, remind you to eat smaller portions or split things between the two of you.
Make sure to ask the party host if it's OK to bring a friend with you. It might not be appropriate to bring a friend without giving the host a heads up.
 Regardless of how much planning and thought you put into staying on track, there will be times when you overindulge at parties and events. But get back on track as soon as possible.


One way to help get your mindset refreshed and feel a little better is by going right back to the gym.
Even if you don't feel like going to the gym, or feel sluggish, this can be the first step to getting yourself back on track.Get up and get back to your regular workout the next day. Try not to skip this day or wait until your diet is "back on track" to go to the gym.
 Whether you overindulged in alcohol or higher salt foods, one important part of getting back on track after a party is drinking adequate fluids.


It's easy to overdo it on foods and beverages that can cause some mild dehydration. This may make you feel tired and sluggish the next day.
The day after you attended your party, get started with drinking a lot of hydrating clear fluids. Try: water, sparkling water, flavored water, decaf coffee or tea.
Although the general recommendation is to drink about 64 oz of clear fluids, you may need 80 oz or so to replenish after a night out., Regardless of how "bad" it was at the party or how much you ate, you can still recover after your party. You have to get back on track immediately to help prevent any further backsliding.


The day after overindulging might not feel great. You may feel discouraged, upset or angry at yourself for overdoing it at your party. You may see this as an excuse to give up on your diet. Stick with it!
Instead of wallowing in everything you did wrong, focus on what you can do to feel better the day after.
Get back on track with your diet immediately. Whether it's measuring portion sizes, following a specific calorie recommendation or limiting carbohydrates, its important to restart your healthy habits soon.
After a day of being on track, you'll feel much better about yourself and you'll feel more motivated to stay on track.
 It might be tempting to go on an overly strict diet after a day or evening of overindulgence; however, this tactic can backfire and is best left unexplored.Avoid going on an extreme diet or eating pattern after going out. Don't go for liquid diets, fasting, juice diets, cleanses or overly low calorie diets.
Many of these restrictive diets, especially after a day of overdoing it, can make you feel worse. You might feel more tired, have a headache or have increased hunger. It may also cause you to overindulge once again by being too restrictive.

