 When choosing a professional for income tax preparation, you have three basic choices. An independent tax preparer is likely to be the least expensive alternative.
Tax preparation companies, such as H&R Block and Jackson Hewitt, are used by the masses for income tax preparation and filing. While their fees may be slightly higher than the independent tax preparers may, some people are more comfortable using a large tax preparation company for tax filing assistance. Keep in mind that the people who work at these centers have typically only taken a short tax prep course, so they may not be able to help you with more complex tax scenarios. Also, these centers often offer an advance on your refund, but keep in mind that there are usually fees associated with these advances.
A Certified Public Account, or CPA, is a person qualified by education, experience, and the passing of the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination. He or she also must meet the required licensing and continuing education standards in his or her state.
 The IRS now requires all tax preparers to have a Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN). A PTIN is a special code that is given to certified tax preparers. When they prepare your taxes, they will have to input this number on a line on your tax forms.
Ask if your preparer is a member of a professional association and if they pursue continuing education about changes in the tax code.
The IRS is starting to require that preparers pass a test to ensure they have the minimal skill set to file taxes if they aren't already certified as an accountant or attorney.
 Look to see if there are any complaints with the Better Business Bureau or other consumer resources.


Check for any disciplinary actions and licensing status through your state board of accountants, bar association (for attorneys).If your preparer is an enrolled agent, check with the IRS Office of Enrollment.
If your preparer has consumer complaints or disciplinary sanctions, consider another option.
 Never choose a preparer that takes a percentage of your refund or boasts being able to get a higher refund than other preparers.Make sure any tax refund you get is deposited in your name only.
Never allow your refund to be deposited into a preparer's account.
Have the refund deposited in your own personal or business account and pay the preparer separately.
 A reputable tax professional will require you to submit all documents for your taxes so they can examine them personally.Most reputable tax preparers will also require you to bring a copy of your return from the previous year for them to look over and use as a reference.


These include W2 forms, statements of interest income, business receipts, any receipts from donations that are tax deductible, tuition payments etc.
Don't use a preparer who will use your last pay-stub in lieu of a W2 form. This is against IRS regulations.
Remember you are ultimately responsible for providing all the necessary documentation and information for your return. If you don't know what you should give your preparer, ask them for a list of what you need.

