 Most headaches are tension or lifestyle induced and aren't harmful, even though they're painful and can prevent you from fulfilling your tasks. If you experience frequent headaches, a severe headache, a headache that won't respond to analgesics, or a headache that is accompanied by other symptoms, consult your doctor or health professional for immediate investigation and a proper diagnosis.There's a wide variety of possible causes, which is why it's so important to seek further treatment if your headache issue doesn't resolve.
 Tension headaches are the most common type of headache. Usually, they aren't as painful as other headaches, but they can last for hours or even days. A tension headache tends to form as a result of muscle contraction, and is commonly felt like a band behind the eyes and across the forehead.A headache may be dull or recurrent if the source is not dealt with, and can be accompanied by feeling generally unwell, especially if the sufferer also has anxiety or depression. This type of headache tends to respond well to painkillers, rest, and alleviation of the source of stress.Massage, acupuncture, yoga, and relaxation therapies are good ways of preventing tension headaches."Talk therapy," where you work on your anxiety and stress with a mental health professional, can also help prevent and reduce tension headaches., Migraines may be genetically linked, although researchers are not certain exactly what causes migraines.Migraines cause throbbing pain accompanied by severe nausea and possible vomiting. There are sometimes visual problems—called "aura"— such as seeing stars, flickering objects, and even partial loss of vision. Some migraines also cause numbness or weakness. Migraines can be caused by reactions to food, stressors, hormonal changes, an accident, medications, or other unknown triggers. Migraines require special medical attention If you frequently experience them, see a doctor.Regular exercise, especially aerobic exercise, can help you prevent migraine headaches by reducing tension in your body. Obesity may also be a migraine trigger, so exercise can also help prevent migraines by helping you stay at or reach a healthy weight.Warm up gradually before you exercise! Intense or sudden physical exertion without a gradual warm-up period can trigger migraines. Even brisk sexual activity can trigger a migraine in the very sensitive.Migraine headaches can also benefit from increased water consumption and a balanced diet.
 Researchers don't know exactly what causes cluster headaches, so you can't prevent the first onset of a cluster headache.Cluster headaches are one of the most painful headaches, with intense pain around your eye area (usually on one side of your head). They can also involve drooping eyelids, nasal discharge and watery eyes.If this type of head pain is occurring, take it seriously and see your doctor for advice and treatment. There are some drugs and treatments that can alleviate the symptoms.Avoiding alcohol and nicotine can help reduce your risk of future cluster headaches, although it may not have any effect on your pain while a cluster headache is occurring.Oxygen therapy, where you breath in oxygen through a mask, has proven especially helpful for cluster headaches.Studies have shown that taking 10 milligrams of melatonin before bed may reduce the frequency of cluster headache onset.This may be because cluster headaches can occur when your sleep cycle is disturbed., The medication overuse headache (MOH), or "rebound headache", stems from withdrawal symptoms from the long-term use of pain relief medication (usually for tension headaches). MOH headaches are treatable. In most cases, just stop using the medication and your headaches should stop within a few days. The symptoms of an MOH headache are often similar to those of tension headaches.Avoid using headache painkillers, even over-the-counter types, for more than 2 or 3 days per week. If your symptoms are severe enough to require more frequent medication, see a doctor.Use over-the-counter painkillers no more than 15 days per month.Avoid painkillers that contain opioids (codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, etc.)or butalbital (Fioricet, Ezol, Phrenilin, etc.).
 Hangover headaches are very common, and they're estimated to cost the US about $148 billion a year in lost productivity (from sufferers who call out sick or do a terrible job at work because they're hungover).Symptoms include throbbing pain, nausea, and feeling generally lousy. The only guaranteed way to prevent a hangover headache is not to drink, but staying hydrated by drinking plenty of water can help you avoid the pain of an alcohol-induced headache the next day.


A good rule of thumb is to drink four times as much water (or other non-alcoholic, non-caffeinated liquids) as you do alcohol. Since many cocktails contain between 1-2 ounces of liquor, you should plan to drink a full, large glass of water for each alcoholic beverage you consume.Other liquids, including sports drinks or even broth, can also be helpful. Avoid alcohol (obviously) and beverages that include caffeine. Alcohol and caffeine both dehydrate you.
 Allergies and sensitivities can cause nasty headaches that often include a runny nose, watery eyes, and an itching or burning sensation as well as headache pain. Some allergies are seasonal, such as pollen allergies, and can be treated with antihistamines. You might also have a food allergy or sensitivity, which can trigger headaches. If you have frequent headaches with symptoms like itching or watery eyes, consider having an allergy skin test done by a medical professional. These tests expose you (safely!) to a variety of allergy triggers and can help determine whether your headaches are caused by things you're exposed to.MSG can sometimes induce headaches. Someone with an MSG sensitivity may also experience facial pressure, chest pain, burning sensation on trunk, neck and shoulders and throbbing head. Nitrites and nitrates in meat can induce a moderate to severe headache.If you eat ice cream or drink a cold drink too quickly, you can induce a temporary "brain freeze", or "ice cream headache" which is severe but passes quickly.
 Headaches can sometimes be caused by eyestrain, hunger, strained neck or back muscles, and even by things like wearing your hair in a certain style (such as in a tight ponytail or wearing a headband that puts pressure behind your ears). These headaches are likely to have similar symptoms to tension headaches. Making minor changes to your routine, like setting up an ergonomically correct workstation or not wearing your hair in a tight ponytail or bun, can help prevent these headaches.Eating on a regular schedule can also help prevent everyday headaches. If you don't eat regularly, your blood sugar drops, and this can trigger intense headaches and nausea.Avoiding processed foods may also help reduce your headaches and make you feel better in general.
Be sure that you follow a regular sleep schedule and get at least 7-8 hours of sleep every night.