 During their first month of life, most babies poop every day.But as babies get older, they can go anywhere from one day to one week between having bowel movements.Keeping in mind that a baby’s normal poop schedule can fluctuate depending on a variety of factors can help put you at ease if you’re concerned your child may be constipated.


Be aware that breastfed babies can often go a week without pooping.Formula fed babies can also have similar swings.Use the following frame of reference for your baby's bowel movements: 0–4 month old babies poop three to four times a day on average. After babies start eating solids, that decreases to about one bowel movement every day.;
, You might suspect your baby is constipated if he isn’t pooping. This can be a sign of constipation, but it isn’t the only one. If you notice any of the following physical symptoms, your baby might be constipated:Firm belly that is painful to the touch
Hard stools
Stools that are difficult to pass
Small streak of bright red blood in the stool
Straining for 10 minutes without success
Pellet-like stools
Arching the back
Tightening buttocks

, Constipation can be very painful and distressing for your baby. In addition to physical symptoms, she may also exhibit behavioral signs of constipation. If you observe any of the following behavioral signs, your baby might be constipated:Making straining faces
Refusal to eat
Crying

, It can be dangerous to give a newborn, or a baby up to three months, water or juice of any kind. Instead, if you suspect your newborn is constipated, call your pediatrician and let her know. Provide the doctor any necessary details and listen to whatever advice she gives you to help relieve the constipation without medical intervention., If you suspect that your baby is constipated, give him little bit of water in addition to regular feedings. Start off with 2 to 4 ounces (or 60 to 120 milliliters) and figure out from here if your baby needs more or less water to relieve his constipation.Use regular tap water or still, bottled water if you like. Put the water in one of your baby’s clean bottles.
Only give water once a day, as too much water can be dangerous for babies.
 If water doesn’t help your baby, switch to fruit juice. Give the baby 2–4 ounces (or 60 to 120 milliliters) prune or pear juice once a day in addition to daily feedings. Determine from this amount if you need to give your baby more or less juice.Dilute one part juice to one part water if the juice seems to be too much for your baby. You can also give your baby a little apple juice if she doesn’t like pear or prune juice., If your baby is eating solids, you can also give him foods that are high in fiber. This can loosen stools and may stimulate the baby’s bowels.Give your baby pureed peas or prunes for his meal.
Substitute barley cereal for rice cereal.
Try the “P” fruits: pears, plums, and peaches. In addition, the “B” vegetables may also help: broccoli, beans, and Brussels sprouts., Movement and activity can help stimulate your baby’s intestines. Moving her legs in a bicycling motion can get your baby’s bowels moving and may produce a bowel movement.Move your baby’s legs gently and talk to her to comfort and distract her from any pain and discomfort.
 Tummy time is an important part of any baby’s development. But tummy time can also expel gas and may stimulate a bowel movement.Put your baby on his tummy either on a clean floor or across your lap for 20 minutes to see if it helps stimulate the bowels., A massage can calm and comfort any baby. It may also move trapped gas in your baby’s belly and help move her bowels. Try rubbing your baby’s belly in a clockwise motion to see if it helps the constipation.Consider massaging your baby during a warm bath. The water should be up to his chest. As the baby relaxes, it may also release his bowels. This is messy, but may be effective at relieving his constipation., If dietary changes and movement don’t relieve your baby’s constipation, schedule an appointment with her pediatrician. The doctor can diagnose the problem and offer alternative dietary or medical treatments.


Sometimes your baby's doctor may prescribe medications such as MiraLAX or Lactulose for constipation. These medications bring fluid into the colon to make the stools softer and easier to pass.
Provide your doctor any relevant information necessary to diagnose and treat the problem. Let him know about dietary changes and what measures you’ve taken to relieve your baby’s constipation.
Ask any questions you may have about your baby’s constipation, treating it, and preventing future bouts.
 If your baby hasn’t pooped in a few days, try a glycerin suppository. Inserting one in your baby’s anus may help quickly relieve constipation. Be aware that glycerin suppositories are only meant for occasional use.Get the suppository at your local pharmacy. These are available without a prescription.You can also get liquid glycerin, which you can drop into your baby’s rectum.Make sure you are using the right type and size for your baby's age.
Insert the suppository as far into your baby’s rectum as you are able. Hold the baby’s buttocks together for a few minutes while the suppository dissolves. Make sure to talk to and comfort your baby so that she doesn’t get scared when you’re inserting the suppository or holding her buttocks together.
 There is conflicting information about using anything other than glycerin suppositories to relieve infant constipation. Talk to your doctor about whether other medical constipation relievers are okay for your baby before using them., Some doctors may suggest giving your baby corn or Karo syrup to relieve constipation. This product has a similar effect to eating fruits or fruit juices. Try giving your baby 1–2 tablespoons of either corn or Karo syrup every day to relieve constipation., Flax oil may help relieve your baby’s constipation. In addition, it can facilitate the absorption of vitamins and nutrients your baby may be losing as a result of the constipation.Give infants one teaspoon of flax oil every day for constipation.
 Babies can get constipation for a variety of reasons ranging from changes in diet to emotional distress. Identifying possible causes may help you figure out a way to relieve and prevent constipation in your baby. The following can cause constipation in children:New foods or milks
Emotional distress
Insufficient water consumption
Insufficient fiber consumption
Dairy products like cheese or yogurt
Too much of the ABCs—applesauce, bananas, cereal
A more serious problem, such as thyroid condition, cystic fibrosis, or Hirschsprung's disease (though this is rare)

, Starting your baby on solids or using a new milk or formula can cause constipation. Watch your baby closely for a couple of weeks when changing his diet to detect signs of constipation before they become a painful problem.


Notice any changes to your baby’s stools or behavior when making these change. Even something like a few hard pellets instead of a runny diaper can signal the onset of constipation.
 Certain foods that a baby eats can make her more prone to constipation, especially if the child eats them a lot. If you are breastfeeding, you should be conscious of what you are eating — try to skip dairy for a while and try soy products instead.Limiting how much of the following foods your baby eats may prevent a painful bout of constipation:Yogurt
Cheese
Applesauce
Bananas
Cereal, especially rice cereal
White rice
White bread
White pasta

, Fiber helps waste move through the intestines. Giving your baby plenty of foods high in fiber as a part of his normal diet may minimize the chances of getting constipation. The following foods are high in fiber and can help prevent constipation in your baby:Bran
Fiber-rich cereals
Whole wheat pasta
Brown rice
Pears
Plums
Peaches
Prunes
Broccoli
Beans
Brussels sprouts

