 It's not possible to easily download YouTube videos on your iPhone, but you can use your computer to download music from YouTube with just a few clicks.


You can turn any YouTube video into an audio file file which can be played on your iPhone, including music videos, songs, remixes and more.;
, Make sure to copy the entire address for the video from your browser's address bar.
 These sites take YouTube videos and convert them into video files and MP3s that you can play on your computer and iPhone. Popular sites include:


keepvid.com
savido.net
clipconverter.cc
savetube.com

, Paste the address into the text field in the video downloader site. This is usually right in the center of the page.
 Make sure you click the real Download button, as many of these sites include deceptive ads that look like Download buttons.
 You'll find several links, including video and audio-only. You'll typically find MP3, M4A, and AAC links. All three of these formats are supported by iTunes, so you can choose any of them. Use this link to download the audio file to your computer.


Make sure to name the file something recognizable so that you know what song it is. The default filename will usually not be very clear.
 Once you have a bunch of songs downloaded that you want to send to your iPhone, open up iTunes so that you can add them to your library and then sync them.
 Click the "Music" button and then drag and drop the audio files into the iTunes window. This will add the files to your iTunes library.
 Once the music files have been added to your iTunes library, you can sync them with your iPhone using either a USB cable or a Wi-Fi connection:


USB - Connect your iPhone to your computer using the USB cable. You should see it appear at the top of the iTunes window. Select all of the files you just added in iTunes, and then start dragging them. Your iPhone will appear in a sidebar on the left side of the window. Drop them on the iPhone to begin syncing the new music files to your iPhone.
Wi-Fi - Ensure Wi-Fi syncing is enabled by connecting your iPhone via USb and checking "Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi" in the Summary screen. You can then disconnect your iPhone and sync wirelessly with Wi-Fi. You'll need to be connected to the same wireless network as the computer, but you don't need the USB. Drag and drop the music files onto your iPhone in iTunes and they will be copied.
Apple Music - If you're an Apple Music subscriber, you can add the music files to your iCloud Music Library. Make sure you're signed into the iTunes program with your Apple ID, and that "iCloud Music Library" is enabled in the Preferences menu. iTunes will upload your local library to your iCloud Music Library, which will be accessible on all of your connected devices, including your iPhone.

