 There are multiple reasons why a fluffy towel can become stiff. However, one of the most commonly-cited reasons is the use of excessive detergent. Over time, the chemicals in detergents can build up in the fibers of the towel, making them stiffer and less absorbent. To avoid this, use a little less detergent than you're directed to use for each load. This makes it slightly easier for your machine to wash the soapy residue away with each rinse cycle.Don't be afraid to cut back on your detergent use. Odds are, you won't be left with dirty clothes — studies have shown that most Americans use more detergent than is necessary to get their clothes clean.An added benefit of reducing your detergent use is that you will also save money!;
, If you're looking for fluffy towels, resist the temptation to stuff all of your laundry into a single load. To get the best results, you'll want to leave plenty of space in the washer for them so they can be properly rinsed and agitated. This means:


Using medium-small, manageable loads. Your machine should be about 1/2 full of loosely packed clothes. This goes for your dryer as well as your washer.Washing your towels on their own (without other clothes in the load). In addition to crowding the washer, clothes with things like zippers and buttons can wear the fabric of the towels.
 If your washing machine gives you the option to set different wash and rinse temperatures, use a hot wash followed by a cold rinse cycle. Many online sources recommend this. Hot water loosens the fibers of the towel and helps remove dirt, grime, and soap residue that can cause stiffness. Cold rinse water makes the fibers of the towel contract, making it less likely that they will "clump" together.


Check the care label on colored towels before washing. Most whites will be safe for hot wash cycles, but hot water can make colored fabrics fade., Tumble dryers can be a double-edged sword. While they make towels fluffier in the short term, repeated tumble-drying can wear down towel fabric, leading to towels that are less fluffy in the long-term. Luckily, there are several ways to avoid this problem:Use gentler settings in your dryer — lower heats and slower speeds
Alternate between line-drying and tumble-drying.
Line-dry towels, then "freshen them up" with a short cycle in the tumble dryer.
 Some online sources stress the importance of knowing when to wash your towels — not just how to wash them. If you have a top-loading laundry machine, try adding a small amount of detergent, letting the chamber fill with water, and then adding your towels.Avoiding direct contact between the detergent and the towels will help reduce the amount of soapy buildup and preserve the towels' fluffiness.
 Don't forget that the process of doing laundry doesn't end when the towels come out of the dryer. The way you fold and store your towels can also have some effect on their texture. Try using the tricks below to help keep your towels fluffy.


Use loose folds to prevent stiff creases in the towel's fabric. Alternatively, loosely roll your towels. One good folding method is as follows:



Hold your towel lengthwise (so that the short edge is pointing to the floor). Fold the towel in half to make a long, skinny strip.
Loosely fold the towel into thirds. Fold one edge toward the center, then fold the other edge over the top and line up the edges so they form a tidy bundle.
Fold the bundle in half once more and store the towel.




Store folded towels side-by-side (like books) rather than in stacks. This helps prevent the bottom towels from being flattened by the ones above.
If you're hanging towels from a rack, don't hang multiple towels on top of each other — this, too, can make the bottom towel stiffer.

