 If your child is feeling sad, try playing with him. It will remind him that you love and care about him, and it might help take his mind off his problems.If your child still plays with toys, then join him in playing with his favorites. If he's moved on to video games, try joining him for a few levels.
Make sure your child has access to toys/activities that engage the senses. Some experts have found that playing with tactile materials, like clay, play dough, sand, rice, and even water can help sad children work through their emotions., Depending on your child's age, gender, and personality, he or she may be interested in a number of things. No matter what your child is interested in, try engaging with him in that interest. It will help him connect with you, and it might open the door to deeper, more meaningful conversations about other aspects of his life.If your kid likes comics, ask him about his favorites, or ask if you can borrow one of the comics he likes the most.
If your child is interested in cartoons or TV shows, ask if you can watch with him. This can give you a better idea of his sense of humor at his current age, which might make it easier to cheer him up when he's sad.
If your child is into sports, watch a game with him, or buy tickets to catch a game in your hometown.
No matter what your child is interested in, you should develop some degree of interest in those things too. It will help you bond, and you'll know how to engage with him the next time he's feeling down.
 This may not interest all children, but many kids want to act out or play pretend with issues they're interested in. This might be a current family issue, like a recent death, or it might be something your child is exposed to but doesn't fully understand, like church services or job responsibilities.Playing pretend is a great way for children to explore a concept in a safe, inquisitive environment.
Make sure you're supportive of your child's choice to act out what's going on. You may feel a little upset if your child is playing funeral shortly after a death in the family, but it's probably his way of trying to understand loss, death, and mourning.
Participate if your child invites you to, but give him space if he wants to play pretend alone or with other kids.
 Exercise releases endorphins that make you feel happy. This is true no matter what age you're at. If your child has been feeling sad or otherwise upset about something, try getting some light exercise together to work through stress and feel better., Sometimes children feel overwhelmed by being around other people all the time. This might even happen from being engaged with electronic devices all day long. If your child wants to sit with you, then you should let him, but make sure he has the option of spending some alone time without any electronic distractions.Don't let your child spend more than two hours a day watching TV, playing on the computer, or playing video games. That should be two hours total for any combination of electronic devices, not two hours each.
Spending some quiet time alone teaches children to be self-reliant. Over time, your child will learn how to process his emotions and relax or feel better without resorting to video games or other distractions.
 It may sound obvious, but hugs are an important way to comfort your child when he's feeling sad, stressed, or otherwise upset. Give your child a hug when he's feeling down, and don't let go until he does., Fun surprises can be a great way to help your child forget his troubles temporarily. However, you'll need to be careful so that your child doesn't come to expect gifts/surprises any time he's feeling down. You should also be careful about how often or to what extent you use distractions instead of dealing with the underlying issue, as this can be damaging for developing children.Choose a fun, easy surprise that won't cost too much. Don't recreate his birthday or Christmas, but a small gift or a fun activity can help brighten his day.
Try to save surprises for your child's worst days. Don't use them every time he's feeling down or he may avoid dealing with his problems in the future.
 A calming bedtime routine is important for children, especially if your child is going through a sad or difficult time in his life. Make sure your child gets enough sleep and has plenty of downtime to unwind before bed so that he can wake up feeling refreshed and happy.Help your child unwind and de-stress before bed. Read a book together, talk about your respective days, or have him take a warm bath.
Keep your child's room a comfortable temperature for sleep. Aim for somewhere between 65 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3 to 22.22 degrees Celsius), but go with whatever is most comfortable for your child.Remember that children need more sleep than adults. A child between the ages of 5 and 12 needs 10 to 11 hours of sleep each night.

