 If you’re a teacher or childcare worker, it’s natural to want to help a child who is struggling with depression. However, how you can help may be governed by federal and local laws as well as organizational policies. Keeping yourself abreast of any laws and protocols related to providing depressed children with help can ensure that you assist the child in a way that doesn’t violate his or her rights. It also minimizes the risk of a lawsuit for you or the organization.Ask your school principal or other legal administrator what you are able to do. Make sure to inform the principal, school nurse, or counselor if you’re trying to help a depressed child. They may be unaware that the child is depressed and need to file for something such as an Individualized Educational Plan.Avoid telling anyone other than someone in authority about your suspicions or knowledge of the child’s depression. Keep in mind that depression is a medical condition and falls under medical privacy laws in most countries., Even just telling a child who is depressed that you will help him or her can give comfort to get through the day. As far as you are able, tell the child that you are open to talk or will give him or her consideration when it comes to work, chores, or other activities and tasks.


Assure the child that there is no pressure to talk or ask for help. Just let him or her know that your door is always open to listen to problems and give help where you can. For example, say, “I know you’re struggling, Sara. You can come to me and talk any time you like. I’m also handy at helping with homework if you need that or a quiet space to work.”Offer to allow the student to stop by and help you with something during the day. This gives him or her the opportunity to address any problems in a safe environment but also gives you a chance to bolster the child’s confidence with some positive feedback., A depressed child may feel like the world is working against him or her and any little sign of impatience from another person may aggravate the depression. Reminding yourself that the child is depressed and needs a bit of a break can help you remain patient and understanding if he or she slips up occasionally.Take a deep breath if you feel like you’re going to scold the child. This can help relax you and the situation.
 When a child is depressed, he or she may focus on negative comments rather than on anything positive.That is why it is important to avoid making negative comments and to deliver constructive criticism in a positive way. If you have constructive criticism for this child, then make sure that you “sandwich” it between two positive comments.For example, “Riley, you’ve done such a great job with these problems. Do you think you could try one or two more? That would give you the chance to show the other kids your knowledge!”

, Depressed children can become easily overwhelmed and anxious in situations such as school or intramural activities. Giving the child regular breaks to rest and relax can help calm him or her and boost confidence.Allow the child to put his or her head on a desk in the back of the room. You can also let the child leave the classroom and go to the nurse if he or she asks. If you have assemblies, fire drills, or other activities that may make the depression worse, give the child a chance to take a break from them or go somewhere else.
Give the child a colored card or something else to indicate he or she needs a break without drawing attention to him or herself. The child can put it on his or her desk, or even on yours.
 Some children with depression will have Individualized Education Programs, but others may not. Make sure to follow the IEP if you have it—these are specifically tailored to the child’s condition. If the child doesn’t have an IEP, make appropriate accommodation to help the child. This can be a broad range of things such as:Seating the child in a place he or she is comfortable
Calling on the child only when it’s a topic with which he or she is confident
Giving the child an alternative location in which to take tests
Giving them alternative homework and testing assignments
Offering extra support when the child has missed school

