 It is important to consider not just the amount of clothing that you wear to bed, but the materials the clothing is made of as well. Some materials, such as cotton, breathe much better than other materials, such as polyester or Lycra. When your clothing doesn't breathe, it holds in the temperature and will continue to keep you warm throughout the night. Try loose-fitting cotton pajamas.Sleeping nude may keep you cool by allowing for optimal air flow, but some people believe that sleeping in clothes is actually more effective because the material wicks away the moisture that can accumulate on your skin as you sleep. Try both if you like and see what works best for you.
 It may seem counterintuitive, but warming your skin with a warm shower or sauna before bedtime may actually help you cool down. This is effective because it triggers your body's natural cooling response.If a warm shower or sauna will raise the temperature and/or humidity in your bedroom, you may not want to do this.You can try a cool shower also, but don't make it too frigid, or your body may compensate by raising its temperature., To help cool yourself down and keep yourself hydrated, drink plenty of cool water on warm days. You can also keep a glass or bottle of water next to you bed as you sleep. That way, if you wake up overheated, you can sip a little cool water and reduce your body temperature to help you get back to sleep.Try not to drink too much water before bed. You don't want to interrupt your sleep with bathroom breaks all night.
 When you eat large amounts of food later in the day, your metabolism has to work harder to digest the food. This can cause your body temperature to increase during the night goes because your body is still digesting the food. Try eating smaller meals so your body will have less to digest and your body will be cooler as you sleep.Raw fruits and vegetables require less metabolic energy to digest than proteins and fats, so these are great choices for evening snacks.
 Whether you sleep alone or with someone else, skin on skin contact causes your body heat to rise.If you sleep alone, try sleeping spread eagle, with your legs and arms spread apart. Your skin will have as much access to air on all sides as possible.
If you sleep with a partner, avoid cuddling or spooning while you sleep. This increases your body temperature, especially if you both run hot at night.

