 A pillowcase bed is a long mattress-type cushion that you can spread out on the floor to lay on. By sewing some pillowcases together and stuffing them with pillows you should have a cushion long enough to accommodate your whole body. You’ll need at least five pillowcases for this project, but depending on how tall you are and how big the pillowcases are, you may need to add more. Lay them out end to end on the floor and measure them to be sure you are making a pillowcase bed that is big enough.


You can use pillowcases you have around the house or buy new ones from the store. They should be standard size and relatively sturdy.
Consider going to a thrift store if you don’t want to use the pillowcases in your house or buy brand new ones.
Ask family and friends if they have any old pillowcases they would like to get rid of.
You can also use a twin sized bed sheet. This will require a little extra sewing., Line them on all four sides and make sure that the open ends are both facing the same direction. Pin them together on one of the long sides. This will be the side you end up sewing together., Try to stay as close to the edge as you can, sewing the cases together about half a centimeter from the edges. You can do this by hand or use a sewing machine.
 After you have sewed the first two cases together unfold them on a table. Make sure your stitch is straight and close to the edge. Then, take the next pillow case and lay it out on top of one of the two connected ones. Pin it on the long side again like you did the first time and sew.


Repeat this process until all five pillow cases are connected edge to edge.
Make sure all the open sides are facing the same way.
Make sure you are always sewing on the same side. The side with the stitching will be the bottom, leaving the top looking clean.
Always unfold the pillowcase bed after attaching each case. You should only be adding the next case on top of the one preceding. Otherwise you will end up stitching more than two together and ruin your pillowcase bed., You can buy strips of velcro at hardware and craft stores. Sew it into the openings lengthwise all the way across. Since you’ll be putting more pressure on your pillow bed than a normal pillowcase, it will help to have something extra in place to keep the pillows from sliding out.If you are a little craftier you could also sew large buttons at the openings.
Including a zipper would make it even more secure.
 Once everything is assembled, stuff each of the five cases with pillows. Try the pillow bed out. If you are using old pillows, they may not all be even. You can experiment with which pillow feels best in which position.


Some larger or fluffier pillows might make it difficult to close the ends of the pillow cases. This is fine, just keep it in mind.