 If you would rather give Barbie an afro, you follow a similar process. Before beginning, gather the supplies you'll need.


You will need end papers, which are sold at beauty supplies shops.
In addition to end papers, you'll need pipe cleaners or twist ties, scissors, and boiling water., Get your supplies read before beginning the process. As with the above method, you'll need to cut the pipe cleaners or twist ties in half and fold them into a v-shape.Once again, as twist ties are shorter it may not be necessary to cut them in half before use.
 Before you begin, section off a piece of Barbie's hair. Use smaller sections of hair for tighter curls. The smaller your sections, the more Barbie's hair will resemble an afro.
 Once you've sectioned off a small section of hair, twist that hair into a tight spiral. Then, use your end papers to wrap up the spiral.
 Place the bended end of your pipe cleaner or twist tie on Barbie's scalp. Tightly zig-zag the doll's hair around the pipe cleaner or twist tie until you reach the end of the strand.
 Once you've zig-zagged the doll's hair to the end of the twist tie or spiral, you'll need to make sure it stays secure. This is important as you'll be leaving it in overnight. Twist the ends of the pipe cleaner or twist tie around the lock to secure.
 Repeat the above process until all of Barbie's hair is in twist ties or pipe cleaners. This can take a long time. To make an afro, the strands of hair you use will be smaller. The smaller the strands, the frizzier and bigger the afro.
 Once all the pipe cleaners or twist ties are in, dip Barbie's head in boiling water. Hold for 10 seconds.
 Try your best to get Barbie's hair as dry as possible. You should blot dry the exterior of the doll's hair with a towel. Try to get it dry enough that it's no longer dripping wet., You'll need to let the doll's hair dry overnight for best results. Set the doll aside and leave the twist ties or pipe cleaners in until the following morning.
 After letting Barbie's hair dry overnight, remove the pipe cleaners. Using your fingers, separate the curls. Comb the curls out, back combing as needed, to create fluffy, afro-style hair for Barbie.








If you notice any loose ends on Barbie's hair, simply snip these away with a pair of scissors.