 Some dryers come with two different types of attachments. One is a nozzle concentrator that is good for straight looks; another is the diffuser attachment, which will be your go to for accentuating waves. A good diffuser will gently dry your hair without blowing out the cuticle.This attachment is bell-shaped with many holes that spread and soften the air from your dryer.

Purchase a universal diffuser, if your dryer doesn’t come with a diffuser attachment. These have springs around the part that attaches to the nozzle of a blow dryer; so that it adjusts to many sizes.Measure the diameter of your dryer nozzle to make sure the diffuser you buy fits properly.
Look for a diffuser that has many finger-like plastic pieces around the holes. These help scrunch hair.
 All diffusers are not created equal, and this is important to keep in mind, if your blow dryer came with a diffuser already. If you attach your diffuser and air still blows as strongly, or almost as strongly, as if you didn’t attach it; this is not a good diffuser.The point is that air blows softer to contain your hair cuticle and prevent frizz.
 Drying your waves from the ends up will help cut down on any weight that could pull your hair straight. Tilt your head to the side or upside down and scrunch hair with the diffuser. Hold the nozzle horizontal to your locks or at a 45 degree angle. Do not point the nozzle directly up the hair shaft, because this will open your cuticle and cause frizz., As you work towards the end of your blow dry, you will want to maximize volume. To keep hair lifted off the scalp and as wavy as possible, place the plastic finger-like pieces attached to your diffuser on your scalp and massage with small circles. If your diffuser doesn’t have these plastic pieces, you can claw your hand and use your fingertips to massage in a circle., Most blow dryers come with a cool setting on the temperature controls. The cool air will lay your cuticle down, if the hot air opened it, and smooth frizziness. It will also help lock in curl, giving you longer lasting waves.
 Sometimes your waves may not cooperate, even after properly diffusing them or scrunching them. In this case, take a curl rod, or iron about an inch wide, and wrap unruly pieces around it. Wrapping pieces around a curl rod, instead of clamping and rolling curls in, will mimic your natural, loose wavy texture.