;
, To remove the back panel you must unscrew 12 screws. Note: The four screws near the front of the laptop are shorter than the others.
 You will have to move the screwdriver around the perimeter of the computer due to several internal latches holding the panel in place.
 Remove the four screws, disconnect the hard drive, and set it aside.
 Remove the four screws, disconnect the battery, and set it aside. Note: If the battery is connected with tape, disconnect at your own discretion.
 Remove the two screws, disconnect the fan, and set it aside.
 Remove the two screws, disconnect the speaker, and set it aside.
 Remove the three screws and gently lift the SD card off. Note: It is attached via a clip on mechanism.
 Remove the four screws. Note: One of the screws is hidden under the plastic tab. Identify the 10 motherboard connections:


6 ribbon connections
2 clips connections
2 terminal connections

, Use the smallest possible flat head screwdriver to remove the grill-like locks that hold the ribbons down. Note: Be very gentle, as the plastic material of the locks is soft compared to the metal screwdriver.
 With your flat head screwdriver, gently pull sideways., Use a flat head screwdriver to lift them off vertically.,, Remove the individual screw and set the WiFi receiver aside.
 Remove the two screws and set the soundcard aside.


Do not use any liquids as this might cause permanent component damage.
 Shoot the compressed air in all dusty areas away from the rest of your components.


Using compressed air minimizes all possible rubbing and scratching of a rag on these components. It also minimizes hand contact (oil) on these components which contain delicate circuit boards.
,, A fixed motherboard will facilitate the reattachment of the various connections. Note: Do not use the middle screw hole, this hole is meant to screw down the back panel.
, The click is due to the clip-on mechanism and confirms a correct assembly.
 Rescrew gently to prevent the rubber dampers from coming loose.
, Note: One screw is smaller than the others.,,