 In order to be sure that a given fungicide will actually work, you’ll first need to verify that you’re using the right product. Inspect your plants closely to look for symptoms like rotting, discoloration or a strange powdery residue. You can then conduct a quick search to find out the specific infection and how best to treat it.Rotten or blackened areas are typically a symptom of blights and leaf spots.
Cankers most often appear as cracked, dried patches on the trunk or stem. Tiny spore-producing structures may sometimes spring up around the affected area.
A mildew is likely to blame when fungal growth or discoloration begins to form on the leaves of the plant.
Wilting occurs when an infection begins to kill a plant. Most of the time, wilted plants will need to be carefully pruned to remove the diseased sections.;
, There, you’ll be able to find an extensive selection of fungicides, including organic formulas. You’ll also have a chance to describe your problem in greater detail to knowledgeable garden experts who can help you find a solution.Organic fungicides are also typically sold in the gardening departments of superstores like Walmart.
If you’re unable to find the product you need in stores, try an online retailer that specializes in organic gardening supplies., However, this doesn’t necessarily mean that they’re organic. Products that are truly organic must be made up of at least 70% organic compounds.It will be in the best interest of your garden to only use products that are certified organic.
While shopping, check each product’s packaging to see if it’s been certified by the USDA. This means that the product was made using only organic active ingredients., Fungicides that come in powdered form can be sprinkled over the foliage, which will fight the infection without harming the plant. Liquid products, on the other hand, tend to work faster because the antifungal compounds have already been dissolved in water. There’s also less chance that they’ll be carried off due to wind or rainfall.While all fungicides are designed to do the same basic job, the method of application can make a big difference depending on the type of plant you’re treating, current weather conditions and other factors.
Powdered fungicides tend to contain more concentrated amounts of chemicals, and aren't recommended for treating young or delicate plants., Copper has mildly acidic properties which make it useful for killing invasive bacteria and fungi. It can be used to clear up almost every type of infection, including blights, powdery mildew and anthracnose. For this reason, copper is a go-to solution for many organic gardening enthusiasts.Most commercial organic fungicides contain some amount of copper.In high concentrations, copper can be toxic to humans and animals. It should therefore be used sparingly to avoid creating deposits in the soil or runoff water.
 Like copper, elemental sulfur is naturally antifungal. Plants displaying symptoms of leaf spots, rust or botrytis can benefit from regular application of the diluted chemical. Sulfur is more potent than other organic compounds, however, so it should be handled with caution.Never apply sulfur-based fungicides to young growth, or in extremely hot temperatures. If you’re not careful, it can burn right through the foliage.
Avoid using sulfur on “sulfur shy” fruiting plants like grapes, gooseberries, currants and apricots., Bordeaux mixture is a special fungicide solution made from a combination of copper sulfate, lime and water. Gardeners have been using Bordeaux mixture for centuries to fight a multitude of botanical diseases while preserving the health of their plants.When putting together your own Bordeaux mixture, it’s best to follow the 4-4-50 rule—4 pounds (1.8kg) of copper sulfate and 4 pounds (1.8kg) of lime diluted in 50 gallons (189L) of water. This will produce a solution that’s strong yet safe.You can also purchase premade Bordeaux mixture. Commercial varieties are available in either dry or wet form to give you more control over their application.
 Items like grain alcohol, apple cider vinegar, oil soaps and baking soda are readily available and helpful for eliminating infectious growth. Most of these substances can simply be diluted with a few ounces of water and applied using a spray bottle.Try whipping up a basic DIY fungicide solution by infusing alliums (pungent plants like crushed cloves, garlic and onions) in a small amount of water or citric acid.
Homemade organic solutions will be most effective for dealing with slow-moving diseases such as blights and leaf spots. More serious infections like wilts should be pruned to keep them from spreading.Natural ingredients are generally mild enough to be used on plants of all species and ages, including seedlings and offshoots., The most important thing to remember when purchasing a fungicide is to select one that’s capable of killing the specific disease affecting your plants. The best way to do this is to compare a product’s active ingredients to the compounds recommended for treating a particular disease. Think of it as prescribing medicine to cure an illness.You can usually find a list of plants and diseases that a product can be safely used on somewhere on the packaging.In general, it’s a good idea to start with a gentle fungicide, such as apple cider vinegar or a bicarbonate spray (a mixture of water and baking soda). If that doesn't work, you can move on to more a intensive method like elemental sulfur.
 Fungicide manufacturers provide specific directions for how to apply their products. Always go by these directions rather than attempting to figure it out yourself. If you use too much or too little fungicide, or apply a product under the wrong conditions, you could end up doing more harm than good.Different products will come with different instructions. Some organic fungicides like Soil Guardian are meant to be applied directly to the soil or to new seedlings. Others, like sulfur and lime, can cause damage to plants if applied in hot temperatures.If you're using a homemade remedy, it's best to apply the solution once or twice a day, then observe the plant's health after a couple days. If it doesn't appear to be working, you may need to increase the frequency or try a more potent fungicide.
 Once you’ve determined the correct amount of product to use (diluting it as needed), load the sprayer and spray it lightly and evenly over the plant. Try to cover all affected parts of the foliage. For your own safety, be sure to wear gloves, goggles, a breather or ventilator and protective long-sleeved clothing.Wait for clear, dry, windless weather to prevent runoff and keep the fungicide from blowing back on you or other unaffected parts of your garden.When applying a powdered fungicide, spray the plant lightly with water beforehand to help it stick.
 Diseases won't typically clear up over night. It may be necessary to regularly reapply the fungicide to keep an infection under control. Only use as much fungicide as directed for each application and make sure the plant receives plenty of water and sunlight in the meantime. With proper care, you should notice an improvement within a few short weeks.Most experts recommend applying fungicides every five days for roughly three weeks. Be sure to follow the specific instructions included with the fungicide you select.
It will help to keep the plant pruned, dry and separated from other plants while you attempt to combat the disease.