 Successful campaigns often draw support from a broad base of people. Try to diversify who’s working on your campaign.Diversity can mean people coming from different geographical areas, labor unions, ethnic backgrounds, faith traditions, or age groups.
Try to find one person from each group or area you’re recruiting from and make them that area’s captain. They can take on the responsibility of recruiting others from their area and communicating about the campaign to their community.
 Once you have your captains, make a clear list of what you expect from them and how they can contribute to the campaign. Also, listen to their suggestions and concerns. Now that you’ve started an organization, you need to take others’ voices into account in your organizing. Goals can include:Recruiting a certain number or volunteers
Turning out specific communities on election day
Organizing events or rallies in specific communities
Polling a community to determine opinions on an issue

, Start a page for your organization. Try to build up a presence through a variety of platforms so that you can reach the most people. Post compelling photos and update the accounts so that people have something to follow.


Some platforms will allow you to advertise in order to reach more people.
You may want to hire someone or draft a specific volunteer to manage your social media accounts. It can be a large job.
 Having a headquarters gives your organization somewhere for people to meet. Volunteers may not have the space or resources to do organizing work from home. However, if you have a comfortable office with supplies and resources, your volunteers can make use of it for meeting their goals.The best offices for political campaigns are on streets with plenty of foot traffic where people can walk in. This gives you a visible presence in the neighborhood and makes the campaign accessible.
Keep the office clean and well stocked with the supplies your volunteers need. There should be informational pamphlets, paper, computers, stickers or signs, coffee and snacks.
 Once you’ve got an organization started, hold a party or another fun event for volunteers. This is a great way for the different people in your campaign to meet and get to know each other. If the party is fun enough, people are likely to invite their friends, who may become volunteers as well.Even if you’re operating on a shoestring budget, holding the occasional party should be a budget priority. The money you spend on pizza will come back to you in the form of enthusiastic, dedicated volunteers.
If you truly have no funding for a party, make it a potluck, or ask a local business sympathetic to your cause if they would sponsor or cater the event.

