 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.;
, It's at the very top of the Settings menu.

If you're already signed in to your device and you see your name at the top instead, tapping on your name will take you to a page that displays an email address bellow your name. That email address is your Apple ID.
If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap iCloud and check to see if you are signed in to your device at the top. If you are signed in you will see an email address displayed under your name. That email address is your Apple ID.
 It's below the password field.

If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap Forgot Apple ID or Password?


, It's in the center of the pop-up menu., It's below the "Apple ID" field., Type your first name, your last name, and your email address into the labeled fields., It's in the upper-right corner., Type in the phone number associated with your Apple ID, ending in the last two digits displayed on the screen., It's in the upper-right corner., It's at the bottom of the screen.

A verification code will be sent by text message to your number. If the verification code doesn't autofill, enter it on the screen and tap Next.
If you don't have access to the phone number, tap Don't have access to your trusted number? at the very bottom of the screen and follow the on-screen prompts to recover your Apple ID.
 Enter the passcode you use to unlock your phone's screen., Type a password into the labeled space and re-enter on the next line.

Your password must have at least 8 characters (including a number and an uppercase and lowercase letter) with no spaces. It also shouldn't have three consecutive characters (ggg), be your Apple ID, or a previous password you've used in the last year.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., If you're not automatically signed into iCloud, enter your new password into the labeled field.

Your Apple ID will be displayed in the field labeled "Apple ID."

, It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.

The screen will intermittently display the message "Signing into iCloud" as it accesses your data during the sign-in process.
 This is the unlock code you established for your device when you set it up., If you'd like any calendars, reminders, contacts, notes, or other data already stored on your iPhone to be merged with your iCloud account, tap Merge; if not, tap Don't Merge.

Your Apple ID, which is an email address, will be displayed under your name at the top of the screen.

