 Stretching will help you loosen muscles and prevent injuries. Make sure to stretch major muscles such as arms, legs, neck, sides, and abs.;
, Do jumping-jacks, take a short jog, a brisk walk, climb stairs, etc.
 Make sure to stretch anything that felt sore while doing the warm-up or is sore currently.
 of water about 10 minutes before next step to make sure you are hydrated.
 If you start to get cramps, stop, and rest where you are. Don't start walking the cramp off because it is taking less time out of your running. If you don't want to run, take a 30-40 minute power walk. But the run is recommended for quicker results.
 Make sure to keep hydrated while you are doing the workout. Keep a water bottle close by as you continue.
 Do at least 15 push-ups and increase the amount as you get stronger.
 Lift a weight that gives you a challenge but that isn't impossible for you to lift. Lift the weight 10 times per arm.
 Do 20 squats. Increase amount as your legs get stronger.
 Do about 20 basic crunches and make sure to get your shoulder blades off the floor. Then do 10 side crunches on each side. Do 30 bicycle crunches. For a challenge, do 20 more basic crunches.
 Lay on your back and put your legs in a right angle (with shins facing the ceiling and top of thighs facing behind you). Put your hands behind your head and have your elbows face the ceiling. Have your elbows touch your knees (like crunches). Do 20 and increase amount as you get stronger.
 Lay on your back and position your legs like you would with basic crunches. Squeeze your butt muscles and lift your hips so your knees, hips, and shoulders are aligned. Lace your fingers together under you. Hold for 30 seconds and increase to 2 minutes as you get stronger.
 Stand with your feet a little more than shoulder width apart. Raise up onto the balls of your feet without bending your knees. Return to starting position. Do 20.
 Lay on your stomach with your hand stretched out in front of your head. Squeeze your butt and lift your hands and feet of the ground, pulling your legs and chest off the floor. Hold for 30 seconds and increase to 2 minutes as you get stronger.
 Lower yourself into the squat position so your legs are forming a right angle. Hold for 30 seconds and increase to 2 minutes as you get stronger. To help time pass, listen to your favorite song.
,