 The best tool you can have when playing Words with Friends is your own knowledge of different words. You can expand this through a few different routes.


Play the game more often. While you may need to cheat now, over time you will likely rely on these methods less. As long as you are paying attention to the game (rather than using automated cheating software), you will start to memorize words you may use in the future.
Use vocabulary-building tools and software. There are many tools available online designed to help students of all ages actively broaden their vocabularies.
Read more. Studies have shown that the best way to improve your vocabulary is through reading. Every time you come across a word you don't know, look up its meaning. Soon, you will pick up words you can use to play Words with Friends without even noticing., Bonus tiles are the colored blocks labeled DL (doubles the value of the tile), TL (triples the value of the tile), DW (doubles the value of the entire word), and TW (triples the value of the word).Putting your words down on these spaces often makes or breaks the game for a player.


Remember that the effects of these tiles stack, so try getting multiple tiles with one word. For example, the word "TAG" would normally be worth only 5 points. However, if you managed to play this word with the three-point G over a TL and another letter over a TW, you would end up scoring a respectable 33 points instead.
 As previously mentioned, bonus points are crucial for a high score. If you can't come up with a word to reach the nearest bonus tile, put down a word that can't be added to that runs up right next to it. This will prevent your opponent from snagging those extra points during his or her turn. Additionally, try to avoid playing words that can be built off of onto bonus tiles., This is a great strategy if you can't think of a word but happen to have an S tile in hand. You will both net a ton of points and give your opponent less to work with during his or her turn. Without much to build off of, your opponent may need to pass on his or her turn.