 To create a group, you will need a rank of Builder's Club and 100 robux. You must think of an original country. If you cannot think of a country yourself, check out a map! Some examples of what not to do are Britain, Spain and France. These are common countries that do not attract interest.

If the name of your country is taken, you can add various symbols to bypass this. An example is " • The British Empire • ".;
, Try to avoid getting flags off of the internet, rather get the general flag without any or little shading and shade it yourself.



 

, This is the area below the group title. This can be a first impression for experienced players, so try to avoid grammar or spelling mistakes. An example of a good group description may include symbols like "♜" or "▬"., It is very attractive to make group ranks in the same language as the country it represents. For example, if you ran a German group the rank for Enlistment might be "Anwerbung". Also, add titles to the front of the name. You can have LR (low rank), MR (middle rank), HR (high rank) and R (royal) or HC (high command). This can be good for distinguishing who wears what uniform., Uniforms are very complicated. You can watch advanced tutorials or hire someone to make them for you. If you do make them yourself, avoid solid colors and rather shade like you did for the flag. You should distinguish ranks (LRs, MRs, HRs etc.) with the uniforms. You can use things like sashes, gold or silver colors, etc.
 A fort is a place where you can train your troops and host raids and rallies. To create your fort, it will require a lot of time and skill. You can either learn complex building techniques, or you can hire somebody to make a fort for you. If you do a fort yourself, avoid free models. You can ask any friends you might have that have interest in the colonial era to borrow weapons such as muskets and cannons., Remember, friends can recruit their friends, and they can recruit their friends, etc. Just don't try to give too high of ranks away., After you have a few friends in your army, arrange a recruiting session at the popular Group Recruiting Plaza. Remember to dress well, everybody in uniform. Also, you can try recruiting in colonial cities such as the popular City of London by CapnDom.
 Make sure your ads are very professional, no vibrant colors. You can have group members pose for epic-looking ad pictures., Host daily trainings, promote trustworthy people and tell officers to host their own trainings as well. You can also create a city of your own to patrol and recruit at. Make sure to let civilians buy weapons and have some sort of rebel team. Soon enough, you will have a powerful, successful army!