 Mental and emotional stress can cause your Lyme disease symptoms to flare up, so avoid it as much as you can. Reserve some quiet time to relax every day, and don’t take on more responsibilities than you can handle.Meditation, yoga, and reading are a few tried-and-true relaxation strategies.
Don’t apologize to others or feel guilty for respecting your limits. You don’t have to make yourself sick for people who don’t understand your illness.
Avoid comparing yourself with people who do not have Lyme disease. You shouldn't try to judge what you are reasonably able to do against what it seems like other people can do.;
, Reach out to your loved ones when you need some company or a listening ear. Avoid isolating yourself, which can lead to anxiety and depression.Try to call or text one person a day to check in.


Educate the people close to you about Lyme disease, so they understand what you’re going through.
 Although friends and family may try their best to empathize with your condition, there's nothing like connecting with others who are in the same shoes. Find support groups in your community, in a neighboring city, or online.In support groups, you can hear the trials and triumphs of others with your condition. You might also get handy strategies for better managing your disease.
 When you’re feeling sad, frustrated, or alone, get your emotions out on a piece of paper. Journaling can be very cathartic, and it’s a good way to process thoughts and feelings that you don’t want to share with others.If you don’t like journaling, consider expressing yourself through blogging or writing fiction.
Activities like drawing or painting may also help you express and manage your emotions.
 Do your best to find or create little pleasures in your life, even on days when you’re feeling sick. Something as small as opening your window on a warm day or watching your favorite funny movie can lift your mood and take your mind off your illness.Remember that happiness is not always a natural state of being. Sometimes, it takes conscious effort to feel happiness. By understanding this, you can make happiness a priority for yourself.

