 Most visitors spend 3 to 4 days at the park and surrounding area, although Glacier offers enough activities to keep visitors busy for a week or more. The amount of time you spend will be determined by your budget and what other activities you've planned for your trip.;
, The U.S. National Park Service Web site has pages devoted to all its national parks, including Glacier. The Glacier National Park home page is http://www.nps.gov/glac/index.htm; you can obtain PDF brochures about various aspects of the park at http://www.nps.gov/glac/planyourvisit/brochures.htm.


If you need more information about the park and its activities once you arrive, you can visit one of the bookstores run by the Glacier Natural History Association for their selection of books and maps. The bookstores are at the Apgar, St. Mary and Logan Pass Visitor Centers, as well as the Many Glacier Ranger Station.
 As noted earlier, Glacier National Park offers a mixture of sightseeing, outdoor and history-related activities. The National Park Service has stationed webcams at several locations around the park, allowing you to view several areas you may wish to see in person when you visit. The webcam images can be viewed at http://www.nps.gov/glac/photosmultimedia/webcams.htm.


Glacier National Park has over 200 lakes and rivers, several of which feature boat rentals and tours. Its two largest lakes are located adjacent to the park's main road, Going-to-the-Sun Road, which also crosses the Continental Divide and features a number of scenic stops along its 50-mile-long (80-kilometer-long) route.
The Logan Pass Visitor Center offers an exhibit on mountain ecology, which can be seen along the park's 700-plus miles (1120-plus kilometers) of hiking trails, many of which can be used for cross-country skiing or snowshoeing in the winter. One trail, the Trail of the Cedars, is equipped for wheelchair access. Current trail information is available onsite from the Many Glacier Ranger Station and in advance by mail. Guided backpacking and day trips are available, as are guided horseback trips at Many Glacier, West Glacier and Lake McDonald.
Glacier National Park was originally home to the Blackfoot and Kootenai Indians. Members of those tribes, along with the Salish, present campfire talks about their tribal history, and the East Glacier and St. Mary Lodge each serve as starting point for tours by van of Blackfoot culture.
 Glacier National Park is open year-round, but the main tourist season is from around Memorial Day through Labor Day weekend. After that time, facilities begin shutting down for the winter, although the St. Mary Visitor Center stays open until mid-October and the Apgar Visitor Center remains open until mid-December. Lake McDonald Lodge remains open year-round, with the road between it and park headquarters maintained throughout the winter.


You can view a schedule of events at http://www.nps.gov/glac/planyourvisit/events.htm.
 Lodging for Glacier National Park starts filling early in the year, with reservations starting as early as September of the previous year. You can book ahead more than a year in advance if you wish, or you can check to see what's available just before your trip, although doing so may mean staying in several different lodges over the course of your trip.
 While many people drive to Glacier National Park, you can also visit by airplane or train if you wish. You can fly to either Kalispell, 30 miles (48 kilometers) away, or Missoula, 150 miles (240 kilometers) away, rent a car at the airport and go to the park's west entrance, or to Great Falls, and take a rental car to one the park's east entrances, a distance of up to 165 miles (264 kilometers). You can travel by Amtrak train to either East Glacier or West Glacier and use the shuttle service to get to the park. (A shuttle is also available from the Kalispell Airport.)

, Glacier National Park's varied landscape also means a variety of weather conditions. Valleys can reach temperatures of 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius) in the summer, with mountainous areas up to 15 degrees (8 Celsius degrees) cooler above the treeline. Nighttime temperatures can plummet to 20 degrees, however, and snow can fall even in summer months. The east side of the park is noted for strong winds. You'll want to bring clothes for a variety of weather conditions and dress in layers while you're there.

