 You may feel numb or in disbelief for some time. You may feel like you should feel sadder. You may feel like you couldn't ever feel sadder than this. You may want to scream and shout. You may want to lock yourself away alone. All of these are normal feelings and it's perfectly ok to feel this way. Do not put pressure on yourself to feel a certain way.;
, It may not always be easy to put into words but try to explain to others around you how you are feeling. Close friends and family will want to help you as much as possible but won't always know how, so telling them how you feel and how you need them to act around you will help them to figure out how best to help you.
 Whilst it is good to keep talking to others as much as possible, you may also need some time to yourself to process your own thoughts and feelings. This is perfectly ok. You may find that going to a particular place helps you to focus your thoughts - this may be a place that was special to your sibling, your brother or sister's resting place, a quiet park, or even your own room. You may also find writing down your thoughts and feelings helps you to get things a little more straight in your mind.
 This could include getting involved with their funeral arrangements by helping to pick the songs or readings. You may even want to read something out yourself. You may not feel up to contributing to the ceremony much and it may only be later on that you feel you can start remembering your brother or sister without it seeming too painful. There are lots of ideas for items you can make to help you keep their memory alive; scrapbooks, memory boxes, photo albums, poetry, playlists. The more personal they are, the better they will be for you when you want to spend some time remembering your sibling and the good times you had together. You may also find spending time doing projects with other members of your family can help you cope - these projects may be totally unrelated to your brother or sister but can help give you something else to focus on whilst still in an environment where you are still surrounded by other people who know what you are going through.
 Other siblings, your parents, cousins, grandparents, friends, aunties and uncles will all be touched by your brother or sister's death in different ways. Remember this and treat their wishes and emotions with the same respect you want yours to be treated. You may get asked a lot how your parents are coping, and this may seem hurtful and disrespectful if it feels like people are ignoring your feelings over that of your parents. These people are just trying to help and may not feel comfortable asking you directly how you are feeling. But always remember that your emotions, and your ways of grieving and coping, are just as valid as anybody else's.
 This is a serious event to happen in your life and there is no shame in seeking outside help. There is lots of support out there and many people find comfort in speaking to people outside of their friends and family. From group meetings to one-on-one sessions, telephone lines and internet forums, there are plenty of places to go to if you feel you need to. Your doctor will be able to point in the best direction.
 Sympathetic glances every once in a while are okay, but most people who have just been through such an ordeal don't appreciate pity like most people mistakenly think they do. If you make it clear right away, people will try to avoid doing something to displease you, especially at a time of suffering.
 That results in pity, which is something you absolutely do not want.
 This also includes not wallowing in self pity.
 Don't throw it away or rid of it any other way. Later on, when the grief has gone away a little more, you'll crave memories, and a gift that reminds you of your sibling would be the perfect thing to take out right then.
 These include scrapbooks, photo albums, dedication websites, etc. Keep your late sibling in your heart constantly.

