 Some autistic people prefer to have their backs to busy areas, while others prefer to have their backs to a wall (to avoid surprises). Let your child choose which side they'd like to be in., Especially in an unfamiliar place, an autistic child may attempt to run away (especially if stressed) or simply wander away, distracted by the novel surroundings. Keeping a close eye on your child will help lessen the likelihood of this occurring.

Seating can prevent eloping. In a booth, have your child sit next to the wall, with other people in between them and the restaurant. People in between them and the exit will prevent eloping, and make them easier to catch if they start running.
Notice signs of stress. If your child is getting overwhelmed or ready to run, a five-minute walk in the parking lot may help. This way, your child can have a much needed break, while supervised by an adult for safety.
 If you know your child is hungry, order an appetizer immediately—this will lessen the chance of a meltdown occurring. Make sure that the appetizer works with your child's sensory issues., A lot of autistic children have no interest in lingering after a meal. Leaving quickly is the best plan, and will make things a lot easier on both you and your server if you have to leave abruptly.

If other children eat more slowly than your autistic child, have something for the child to do. Maybe they'd like to play with a tablet, or take a walk outside with an adult who has finished eating.
Get takeout boxes if you need to leave early. That way, you can finish the meal at home.
 If you are afraid that your child may spill their drink, ask the waiter for a kiddie cup for their drink. Or, bring a sippy cup or other such drink container from home.This will help avoid a huge spill if your child drops their drink or knocks it over., You may hear other customers call you a "bad parent", or roll their eyes at you, but as hard as it may be, it is important to simply ignore them. They may not know enough about autism to realize what your child is going through.

Plenty of children, autistic and otherwise, have screaming episodes in public places. It's not fun, but it's normal. This doesn't reflect negatively upon you as a parent.
 This does happen, so if you or your child notice that the order is missing something, or something is wrong with it, flag down your server. When they take it away, if your child gets upset, explain to them that something was wrong with it, so they are going to fix their food and it will come back., Many autistic children have sensory issues, and a sprinkle of cheese may be as disgusting as if the meal were charred to a crisp. If your child does not like the dish, tell your server. They will most likely be aware that your child is autistic (inform them politely if they are unaware), and they will allow your child to pick a new dish, or have their dish prepared a different way if needed., Whether it be with some simple words of encouragement, or through a tangible reinforcement if your child enjoys receiving them, be sure that you give your child some sort of praise if they made it through the entire restaurant visit.