 Before you can set up Google Voice, you need to have an existing Google account. If you have one, sign in before you begin. If you do not have one, create a Google account now.;
, There are certain requirements your computer and phone must meet in order for Google Voice to work. Run through these requirements and update your system as needed.


You must have a touch-tone phone. This phone can either be a mobile phone, work phone, or home phone.
You must use either Windows XP, Windows Vista, Mac, or Linux.
Your Web browser must be Internet Explorer 6 or above, Firefox 3 or above, Safari 3 or above, or Google Chrome.
You must have Flash 8 or above.
Google Voice is only supported in the United States.
 The five Google Voice account options are Google Number, Sprint with your Sprint Number, Sprint with a Google Number, Number Porting, and Google Voice Lite. Review what each offers and determine which is best for you.For Google Number, you get the full range of Google Voice services: a new phone number from Google, Google voicemail, call forwarding, call recording, text, international calling, voicemail transcriptions, custom voicemail greetings, call block, and conference calling.
For Sprint with your Sprint number, you can access all of the same Google Voice services except for Google voicemail and a new Google phone number. Instead, you use your existing Sprint mobile number.
For Sprint with a Google Number, you have all the services offered by Google Voice and your existing Google Voice number is displayed when making calls and sending texts from your Sprint handset.
For number porting, you have access to all Google Voice features except a new Google phone number. Instead, you use your existing phone number.
For Google Voice Lite, you use your existing mobile phone number and only get a Google voicemail, international calling, voicemail transcriptions, and custom voicemail greetings.
 The Google Voice page can be accessed at: https://www.google.com/voice


Note that you might need to sign into your Google account again once you get to this page.
When you go to this page for the first time, the set-up process will automatically be initiated.
 Before you can do anything further, you will be asked to read Google Voice's Terms and Google's Privacy Policy. Click on the links provided to access both documents, read through them, and check the box next to the “I agree” statement.


After checking the box, you should notice that the faded “Proceed” button becomes active. Click on this button to officially start your account and set up your Google Voice inbox.
 For the rest of the set-up, you will be guided by a series of prompts that will allow you to choose the type of Google Voice service you want and any accompanying features. The easiest, surest way to set up Google Voice is by following these prompts.


If you accidentally click out of the page or out of these prompts, you can still set up your Google Voice details at a later date. Following the prompts now is simply more convenient.
 After agreeing to the Terms and Privacy Policy, you will be asked whether you want to create a new Google Voice phone number or use an existing number. If you want a new number, select the "I want a new number" option to proceed.


If you clicked out of the prompts, either on purpose or by accident, you can still get a new Google number by clicking on the blue "Get a Voice number" button in the Google Voice inbox.
A Google number can be set up to work with up to six different compatible phones.
 A search box will appear, and you can search for a new number by area code or zip code. Once you select one, click the "Continue" button.


You can choose a number located in your area or one that is local to friends, family, or business associates so that your calls to those contacts are local.
Alternatively, you can also enter a word or phrase you would like to include in the number. For instance, if your name is "Bill," you can search for Google numbers with "Bill" in the number.
 When prompted, you need to provide a secure PIN number you can use to retrieve messages and access your Voice settings from any phone or other location.
 When prompted, you need to provide a current phone number that your Google Voice calls will be forwarded to. When someone calls your Google Voice number, the phone connected to the number you enter here will ring.


Also select a "phone type" from the drop-down menu.
You can set up your account so that up to six different phones ring when your Google number is called.
 At this point, you should see a numerical code and a button labeled "Call Me Now." Click on this button to complete the process.


Once you click this button, your forwarding phone will be called. Use the keypad to enter the numerical code on the screen so that Google Voice can verify that the number you provided for forwarding purposes is correct.
 After agreeing to the Terms and Privacy Policy, you will be asked whether you want to create a new Google Voice phone number or use an existing number. If you want to use an existing number, select the "I want to use my mobile number" option.


If you clicked out of the prompts, either on purpose or by accident, you can still port your current number in.

Visit your Settings page by clicking on the Gear icon in the upper right corner of your inbox.
Choose Change / Port under your Phones tab.
 Type in your phone number and click the "Check for available options" button to view your options.


Your two main options are "Get Google Voice Lite" and "Port your number into Google."
If you have Sprint, you will also have the "Use your Spring number with Google Voice" option.
 You can select any of these options, but if you want the full features of Google Voice regardless of your current phone service provider, select the "Port your number" option.
 The heading will read "Things to understand before porting your number to Google voice." You need to check each box beside each point to proceed.


There is a one time fee of $20 to port your number.
Your mobile phone service plan will end once you port your number to Google Voice. Note that your carrier may charge you an early termination fee.
You must set up a new mobile service plan with your current provider or a new provider.
This new plan must be connected to your account as a forwarding phone.
Do not cancel your mobile service plan before porting your number.
 After confirming your understanding of the conditions, click the "Next: Phone Verification" button. Follow the prompts to verify your phone number.


You should see a numerical code and a button that says "Call me now."
Google Voice will call the mobile number you provided. When you answer, you will be prompted to type in the code provided by the on-screen prompts.
 Since there is a fee involved with this process, you will need to sign in securely using your account information to verify, once more, that you are who you claim to be.


After doing this, click the Next: Confirmation button.
 Review the receipt for the transaction and click on the Next: Checkout button. Once you pay, your old number will work with your Google Voice account.


You will be asked to checkout with Google Wallet.

