 The English springer spaniel needs a high-quality, well-balanced dog food. To find such a food, look at the dog food ingredient list on the label. Meat and vegetables should be the first three or four ingredients in the dog food as opposed to meat by-products and grains.Follow the feeding recommendations on the dog food label to make sure you aren’t over or underfeeding your English springer spaniel. Most spaniels are fed twice a day.Avoid feeding your dog avocados, alcohol, chocolate, grapes and raisins, various nuts, onions, garlic and chives, yeast dough, and xylitol, which is found in sugar free foods.;
, If you want to feed your English springer spaniel some good snacks, try the following foods in small amounts:


Rinsed canned beans
Small slices of cooked sweet potatoes
Baby carrots
A few frozen peas or blueberries, The English springer spaniel is a very active dog. Keep yours well hydrated by always having fresh, clean water available.


Clean the water bowl frequently to reduce the bacteria load in the bowl.
 The English springer spaniel sports a beautiful coat with feathering at the legs. Because of this, many people chose to have their English springer spaniel professionally groomed to accentuate the beautiful coat. You can groom your dog at home, however. You can trim the fur around the head, neck, ears, tail, and feet. This can help keep your dog looking neat and keep the hair healthy.Some will have their springers shaved during the warmer months.
 Make sure to brush your dog’s coat one to three times a week to remove loose hairs and tangles from the feathering. This helps avoid matting in the fur.A good brushing encourages skin circulation and gives you a chance to check the skin for problems like fleas, ticks, cysts, lumps, and bumps. Treat any fleas or ticks promptly with a topical spot on treatment. It is actually a great idea to treat your dog with it once a month as a preventative.
 Because the English springer spaniel has such long, floppy ears, you need to check them and clean them. This helps prevent ear infections. Just gently wipe out the part of the ear you can see with a cotton ball. Your vet can recommend a good cleaning solution.Don’t stick anything down into your dog’s ear. If your dog’s ears smell bad or are red and tender, or the dog is favoring the ears, take her to the vet to get them checked for infection.
 You will need to also check your dog's nails once a week to see if they need clipping. Many active larger dogs are able to keep their nails short by wearing them down, but some aren’t able to or as they get older and less active they don’t wear as well.Do not to trim the quick. If you aren’t sure how to clip the nails, ask your veterinarian or the vet technician or nurse to show you how to do so on your dog so you are comfortable doing so at home. You can also get the vet to trim them for you.
 Brush your dog’s teeth on a daily basis to remove plaque and bacterial build up. Make sure to use dog toothpaste; never use human toothpaste on a dog.You can supplement the teeth brushing with dental formulated foods and treats which help to remove bacteria and plaque.

