 To marry in Washington, you must meet certain eligibility requirements.


You must both be at least 18 years old to apply for a Washington marriage license.
A 17-year-old must have a parent or legal guardian present, or possess a notarized letter from the parents or legal guardians attesting to consent. You need an official statement of consent form which is available at any marriage licensing location. A legally emancipated 17 year old can apply with a "court certified copy of the emancipation document."If you are 16 or younger, you must have approval through the courts.You cannot marry in Washington if you are closer than second cousins.Same-sex marriage is legal in Washington. If you have a domestic partnership, you can apply for a marriage license. The process is the same as for heterosexual couples.
Marriage license applicants also do not have to reside in Washington State.;
, The application process may vary slightly by county. Visit this website and click on your county. Read what the requirements are.


You are not required to apply in the county in which you reside (though this may be easier.) A marriage license from any county is good for a marriage anywhere in Washington.You must, however, return the signed license after the wedding to the county office which issued it., Generally, you will need the following:


A valid ID. This ID does not have to be a Washington ID since you do not need to reside in Washington to get married in the state.A Social Security Number, if you have one. If you don't, you must have signed a declaration that you do not have a US social security number. If you fail to submit the SSN or the declaration your license will be rejected by the county.You do not need a blood test, birth certificate, or divorce papers (though any divorce must be finalized). You can apply for a marriage license the day after your divorce is finalized. There is no waiting period.
 Generally, you have three ways to apply for a license: in person, online, or by mail.


Apply online (if the county allows it). Visit your county’s website for more information. In Pierce County, you can use the computers at the Auditor’s office to complete the online application.Not all counties have online applications.
Visit in person. Stop by your county’s Auditor’s Office and fill out an application. You and your future spouse must stop by together.
Apply by mail. You can print off an application and fill it out. You may download a form from any county. If you apply by mail, your signatures must be notarized.
 The applications are simple. They ask for your name and address, date and place of birth, your current relationship status (single, divorced, in a domestic partnership, etc.) and a previous address.


Use legal names, not nicknames when completing the application.
 Both parties must sign the application. A witness is not required for the application, but at least two witnesses must be present at the ceremony.
 The fee is $64 and is set by the state legislature.Each county may accept different methods of payment.


King County, for example, accepts cash or local check (no credit or debit cards).Call ahead to see what types of payment are accepted.
 After a license is issued, you must wait three full days before getting married. There are no exceptions.


You cannot circumvent the waiting period even by court order., You must marry within 60 days of issuance. After the license expires, you must start the application process all over again.


You can get married in any county in Washington. You are not limited to the county from which you received the marriage license.
You must be married by a proper officiant, which is prescribed by state law.These include active and retired supreme court justices, judges of the appellate and superior courts, superior court commissioners, any regularly licensed or ordained minister or any priest of any church or religious denomination, and judges of courts of limited jurisdiction.
 The officiant should sign the license.


You also need two witnesses to sign. They should both be over age 18., Within 30 days of the marriage you must return the signed license to the county office which issued it to you.


You can purchase certified copies from the Auditor’s office.

