 Summer is a great time to enjoy doing the activities that you don’t always have time to do during the school year. To ensure that you and your kids get to do everything you want over the summer, sit down with them and make a list of all the places you want to visit, the people you want to see, and the activities you want to do.For example, you might want to see a new exhibit at the art museum, check out a new restaurant, or spend some time with your cousin. Your kids might mention that they want to go to the beach, play with certain friends, and make their own popsicles.
Post this list somewhere that everyone can see it, such as on the refrigerator. You can use the list to decide on your activities each week or even day by day.;
, There may be times when your kids come to you and say that they are bored. This can be frustrating, so it is helpful to have a game plan. To ensure that you always have a suggestion for your kids to entertain themselves, try making a list of necessary tasks and other activities that your kids can do at home.For example, you might include necessary things on the list like cleaning up toys, unloading the dishwasher, or sweeping the kitchen floor. However, you could also include some activities that your kids enjoy, such as coloring, watching a favorite movie, or talking with a good friend on the phone.
Keep this list somewhere that your kids can see and check it. You might call this list something like the “boredom list” and tell your kids that this is where they should look for something to do if they are feeling bored.
 During the summer, some communities host free activities for families with kids, so try to find out about these ahead of time. This can be a great way to get out with your kids and keep them entertained.Try checking your community’s calendar for information about upcoming events. If you can, print one out and post it on your refrigerator. You might also highlight the events that you and your kids are interested in.
For example, your community might host free concerts in the park, cultural festivals, garden tours, and parades that you can attend with your kids.
 Another great way to keep your kids occupied during the summer is to seek out a special class or other activity that they can participate in. This might be a martial arts class, an art class for kids, or a day camp.Check out the local businesses and organizations in your community for information about summer programs or classes that you can enroll your kids in.
You can also try asking other parents if they know about any good summer classes or programs in your community.
 It is important to get out and enjoy the nice weather during the summer months, especially if you live in an area where nice weather is a luxury. Try taking your kids to visit the park on one day every week or any day that it is nice and you do not have other plans.If the park is in walking distance, then you and your kids can walk there for a little extra exercise.
You could also ask a friend to meet you at the park so that you can chat with someone while your kids play.
 To structure your weeks a bit more, you might find it helpful to have theme days or designated activity days. This may make it easier to keep your kids occupied and provide some structure for your summer.For example, you could designate Thursdays as “park” days and visit the park on this day of the week. Fridays could be “art” days where you and your kids sit at the kitchen table and do a special art project, such as making collages or finger painting. Then, Tuesdays could be “movie” days where you go see a new movie or watch movies and eat popcorn at home.
Don’t feel like you have to have a special activity planned for every day of the week. Just picking a few activities that your kids love and repeating those will help to add some structure to your days.
 In addition to all of your daily activities, it is also a good idea to schedule in some daily quiet time with your kids. This can give you a chance to unwind and relax while also providing some much needed rest for your kids.Try setting aside two 30 minute blocks of time every day as quiet time. During this time, tell your kids that they can do anything that is a quiet activity. They can read a book, color, play quietly with a toy, or take a nap.
You can schedule quiet time after meals, such as right after breakfast or lunch, or schedule it when your kids are usually a bit tired anyways, such as late morning or mid-afternoon.

