 Keys are named after the musical notes they represent. Musical notes use letters from A to G. Each white key is called by a single letter name, with letters repeating every eight white keys.


Moving up the keyboard, the next white note after G is A, but then the pattern continues normally (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, A, B…) and vice versa when moving down.
One of the easiest notes on the keyboard to locate is C. Look for a grouping of two black keys (there will probably be several). The white key to the immediate left of these black keys is always C.
The C at the center of the keyboard is called middle C. The C directly above is high C, and the C directly below low C. This pattern holds for other notes, too.
 As a beginner, you might not know which finger to use to play a note. This is why fingering notation is included with many beginner songs. Numbers above notes correspond to the finger you should use to play, as follows:

1 represents your thumb.
2 represents your pointer finger.
3 represents your middle finger.
4 represents your ring finger.
5 represents your pinkie., It’s no joke, the better your posture is, the better your playing will sound. Good posture allows you to use your full body when sitting at the keys, which will create a fuller, richer sound.

Keep your back and neck straight and in alignment. It may help you improve slouching if you set up a mirror to the side of your keyboard.You should be sitting high enough that your elbow and upper arm hang freely from your shoulder with your forearm parallel to the floor.
Adjust your distance from the keyboard so that your elbows are a little in front of the center line of your body when playing., When resting fingers on the keys, hold your wrists so they are level with your hands and relaxed. Your fingers should be slightly curled. Press keys with a soft, fluid motion, similar to how a cat kneads.Some keyboards may not change volume when keys are pressed soft or hard. This feature is generally referred to as “key action” or “weighted keys.”Even if your keyboard doesn’t have action, you should practice proper key attack anyways. This way, when you sit down at a keyboard with weighted keys, you’ll still sound great.
 Keyboard music is generally represented with two sets of five lines. The top set represents notes played by your right hand and the bottom your left. Each line and space for each of these sets represents a note.

In most beginner music, the leftmost area of the top set of lines will have a symbol that looks like an “&” sign. This is called a treble clef. Similarly, the bottom is usually marked with a backwards “C” and called the bass clef.
Treble clef lines, from bottom to top, are E, G, B, D, and F. Starting again from the bottom, spaces represent the notes F, A, C, and E.Bass clef lines are G, B, D, F, and A, starting from the bottommost line. Moving up from the bottom space, the notes are: A, C, E, and G., It’s time to put all these basic skills together and play something. An octave is a span of eight notes on the keyboard, and you’re going to scale up this distance on the keyboard. Middle C is a good central note to start your scale:

Spread your fingers so each is on a single key, with your thumb on middle C.
Press the keys smoothly. When you release one key, follow with the next white key up.
When you reach the third note up (E), tuck your thumb under to play the next white key (F).
Scale up, pressing notes until you reach your pinkie (high C).
Move down from high C. At your thumb (F), cross your middle finger over to the next key (E).
Finish the scale at middle C., For this scale, you’re going to start a little lower on the keyboard. Find the C right below middle C (low C). Remember you can find C notes easily on a keyboard by looking for groupings of two black keys. To scale with your left hand:

Arrange your fingers one finger per key, with your pinkie starting on low C.
Scale up, pressing keys one at a time until your reach your thumb (G).
Cross your middle finger over your thumb to play the next white note (A).
Stop scaling up at your thumb (middle C), then move down one white note at a time.
At your third finger (A), tuck your thumb under to play the next white key (G).
Scale down until you end at your pinkie (low C).