 Spray foam insulation is more expensive than foam board and fiberglass insulation, but it can be preferable since it yields a higher R-value. Remember, you can use either open-cell, closed-cell, or a combination.
 At a minimum, you should wear a disposable coverall suit with hand and foot coverings as well as a respirator. (While a simple mask might work for fiberglass installation, you’ll need a respirator when dealing with foam.) You’ll also want a hood and goggles that fit securely around your eyes and temples., Make sure your frame is set off of the wall about 4 inches. This will allow you to spray a continuous foam barrier behind the 2x4s that is uniform throughout the basement.As the foam expands and as you continue to spray, you’ll want to examine the walls to ensure this uniformity.
 Spraying foam insulation is usually a job for professionals, but if you do it yourself, you will need closed-cell insulation’s two main ingredients, often called components A and B. Use a heated hose to send the components through a mixture gun (a chemical reaction will begin immediately upon mixture), and spray onto the surfaces that need to be insulated.Spray about 2 inches (5 cm) on walls. Consult your energy codes, if any, but 2 inches (5.1 cm) on walls and 3 inches on rooflines is customary.Spot check in various areas to see ensure that the foam thickness is uniform throughout.
 Closed-cell foam will expand to about 25 times its liquid size and form a moisture barrier. Since it also has a higher R-value than open-cell foam, you’ll get more insulating power for a smaller amount.
 If you plan on spraying with open-cell foam, which also expands considerably, you’ll want to insulate your band board and basement joists first.Here, you can save money by applying closed-cell foam just to the band boards and joists. Before spraying the open-cell foam, spray small amounts of closed-cell foam onto these areas. You’re just trying to seal up the cracks to reinforce the insulation. Then, spray the open-cell foam upon the insulation areas.
Alternatively, you could use caulk or Great Stuff, a polyurethane-based insulating foam, on the band boards and joists.Again, you’re just trying to form a seal to prevent air and moisture from seeping through the cracks.
 After your band boards and joints are insulated, you’re ready to spray. Apply open-cell foam in the same way that you apply closed-cell foam: with a heated hose and mixing gun. However, you’ll likely use a thicker layer of open-cell foam since open-cell’s R-value is lower.Use about a 3 to 5.5-inch-thick layer of open-cell foam.Fortunately, open-cell foam expands and fills framing cavities better than closed-cell foam. So, it will be easier to track your spraying progress.