 This step is as obvious as anything but you might as well check to see if you have enough for your needs before you go rifling through everything else. If you use various handbags or wallets, check each one of them. Don't forget evening bags either - often we forget these after the event.;
, Maybe you think you emptied your piggy bank a long time ago but look in there again––some might be left over or you may have forgotten to completely empty it.
 You might have forgotten you have some money left in there.
 Suitable places to check include:


Behind and under the cushions and seat cushions of your couch or sofa.
 Likely places include:


Under your bed, especially in corners under dust bunnies
Rifle through all of your drawers
In your closet
In jewelry boxes or "special things" tins.
 Places to look include:


In all of your pockets, jackets and jeans. Check winter coats and winter sports gear especially, as they often have many pockets.
In your accessories, such as handbags, purses and small carrying cases.
 If you've been traveling in the last year or so, check the suitcases and bags you went with. You may have left coins inside pockets and linings of such bags.


Check infrequently used bags and backpacks too.
 Look in your table drawers, cabinet drawers, in jars meant for savings.
 Often coins are stashed away in the coin catcher, or roll under car seats.
 Coins roll. There are places in your house that will often return coins - look behind the fridge, behind bookcases, behind any furniture with narrow slits underneath that backs onto a wall space. Check storage spaces too, in the attic and basement. Look under rugs and doormats.
, If you've a good eye for spotting detail, a walk outside might provide you with some spare change. Look in a parking lot, your backyard, bottom of the pool etc. It's a bit of a wild goose chase but it never hurts to be on the look-out.


Keep your eyes looking downward near where people might drop money, such as near snack machines, snack vendors, cafes, stores, in the park, public transportation stations, etc.
Check change rooms (of your own sex only!). Money often rolls out when people change for swimming, etc.
Check public phone booths, parking meter coin chutes and vending machine chutes. You never know. (And good luck finding a public phone box!)

