 One sign of periodontal disease is bad breath, which comes from the raised level of bacteria in the mouth. If you notice an increase in your dog's bad breath, it's a good idea to have its teeth checked for periodontal disease by a veterinarian., For example, the dog may ask for food but then refuse to eat. Additionally, it may have become a very messy eater and drop food out of the mouth onto the floor. Some dogs may also paw at the mouth or rub their muzzle along the ground.


Some dogs with mouth pain may drool saliva more heavily than is usual. That saliva may also be blood-stained., A severe infection will affect the dog's mood, making it lethargic or moody, and it may have physical implications as well. For instance, if wobbly teeth are partially dislodged, the dog may have difficulty fully closing its mouth. Additionally, a tooth root abscess can cause facial swelling of the face or jaw bone, depending which tooth is affected.
 "Peri" means "around", and "dontal" means "teeth." Thus, periodontal disease is a process affecting the tissue surrounding the teeth. This includes the gums, the boney socket the tooth root sits in, and the fibrous ligaments that anchor the root into the socket.If you neglected to brush your teeth, you too would rapidly develop periodontal disease. This problem is not a "dog" problem as such, but related to poor oral hygiene because of a lack of tooth brushing.Periodontal disease exists on a sliding scale from mild to severe. The earliest stages are associated with a weakening of the attachment of the gum to the tooth, while the severe forms include tooth root infections, inflamed bleeding gums, and loose teeth., The vet will lift your dog's lips and visually inspect the teeth to get an idea of the severity of the problem. If tartar deposits are present, then this needs to be dislodged and the depth of the gingival pockets assessed.In the earliest stages of periodontal disease, you'd need to use a disclosing solution (just like for our teeth) to visualize the sticky plaque deposits. Only once the plaque is mineralized does it become evident to the naked eye. Thus, a dog can have periodontal disease without showing any obvious outward signs.
It is not possible to do a detailed examination with the dog awake, so the vet will schedule another examination, which will include an anesthetic to fully assess the extent of the problem., With the dog under anesthetic, the vet uses a gingival probe to measure the depth of the pockets around all the teeth. The goal is to identify any that are dangerously deep. It may also be necessary to x-ray the tooth roots to check if the infection has tracked down the roots and identify teeth damaged below the gum line which need extraction.Tartar is cleaned from the surface enamel using an ultrasonic descaling device. The enamel is then polished with a very fine grinding paste, which removes any micro scratches on the enamel surface. This makes it more difficult for bacteria to reattach.
 This treatment will vary depending on what the vet finds, so you need to rely on their expertise and agree to whatever treatment they deem necessary. This allows the dog to only be put under anesthesia once.Unless a tooth is grossly wobbly, and can be easily pulled, the vet surgically extracts any problem teeth. This means using a sterile surgical kit to lift a flap of gum to expose the bone in which the tooth sits. The vet then gently burrs some of the bone away to give improved access to the root, and breaks down the ligaments holding the tooth in place using a sharp instrument called a dental elevator. Only once the tooth is loose, does the vet use dental forceps to remove the tooth. The gum is then sutured back in place to cover the hole left by the tooth., Your dog may be sluggish and nauseous while recovering from anesthesia. In addition, it takes around 2 weeks for the gums to heal after extractions, so your dog's mouth will be sensitive during that time.


Overall, follow your veterinary surgeon's suggestions for post-surgical care.
Only once your dog's mouth is healed can you instigate home strategies to clean the teeth and prevent plaque and tartar from reforming.
 Periodontal disease is caused by a buildup of food deposits and the action of bacteria, which cause hard mineralized tartar to form on the teeth, which then causes gum recession. The first stage is food deposits forming a sticky layer over the tooth enamel. This layer is called plaque. Bacteria from the mouth then colonize the plaque. The bacteria react with minerals in saliva and the hard, yellow-brown deposit known as tartar is laid down on the tooth's surface.As well as the tartar you can see on the crown, there are also small deposits laid down in the tiny pocket where the gums meet the tooth. This pocket is known as the gingival sulcus.
Unfortunately, the bacteria also release toxins, which cause tissue inflammation, so the gum margin becomes red and inflamed. This swelling pushes the gun away from the tooth and leads to deepening of the gingival sulcus. The tartar is then able to track further down the tooth root. In a vicious circle inflammation causes further separation, until eventually the periodontal ligaments which anchor the root in the socket are damaged and the tooth becomes wobbly and may fall out.
In addition, the bacteria may set up a full scale infection in the gums or tracking downwards to cause a tooth root abscess.
 To brush your dog's teeth, use a soft toothbrush or a dog toothbrush, plus pet toothpaste. Gradually introduce your dog to the toothpaste by putting a little on your finger and letting your dog lick it off. After the dog is used to this, this could be a few days, move your finger with the toothpaste toward your dog's teeth and rub the teeth. Once the dog is used to this procedure, switch to using the dog toothbrush instead of your finger.In an ideal world you would brush your dog's teeth at least twice a day. However, do what you can. Even if you brush once a week, this is better than nothing.
Never use human toothpaste, as the fluoride content is too high for dogs. This can cause an upset stomach when swallowed.
 These comes as gels or liquids, which you rub over the outer surface of the teeth, twice a day. These work by decreasing the number of bacteria in the mouth and reducing the rate of tartar formation.Liquid forms can be squirted into the cheek pouch, so that the dog's tongue smears the solution over the teeth.
These pet products are safe if swallowed, and some are pleasantly flavored to make them attractive to dogs.
 These have a mechanical action to scrub the surface of the tooth as the dog chews up and down. These work best on the molars, which are the large crushing teeth at the back of the mouth.They are often less effective on the canines at the front, as these teeth are used for grasping and manipulation, rather than chewing.
 Dental foods that are certified by the VOHC (Veterinary Oral Health Council) can go some way to slowing the rate of plaque formation. Look for a dental food with the VOHC seal of approval on the bag.These foods typically contain fibers which are arranged in such a way that they have a scrubbing action on the tooth enamel as the dog chews on them.

