 If you notice any symptoms of ear infection in an infant, take him or her to the doctor immediately.Infants at this age have not fully developed their immune systems. They are at a much higher risk for serious infections and will likely need immediate antibiotics. Do not try home remedies on infants and very young children. Always consult your pediatrician for the most appropriate route of care.
 If you suspect that you or your child have a serious ear infection, prepare for tests such as:A visual examination of the eardrum using an otoscope. It may be difficult to get your child to sit still for this exam, but it’s an important test to determine if the child has an ear infection.
An examination of any blockage or filling of the middle ear using a pneumatic otoscope, which will blow a little air at the eardrum. The air will cause the eardrum to move back and forth. If fluid is present, the eardrum will not move as easily or readily, which indicates a likely ear infection.An examination with a tympanometer, which uses sound and air pressure to check for any fluid in the middle ear.
If the infection is chronic or a severe case, an audiologist may perform a hearing test to determine if there is any hearing loss.
 If you or your child becomes quite ill as a result of ear issues, your doctor may make an opening in the eardrum and draw out a sample of fluid from the middle ear. S/he will then send these samples to a lab to have them tested., Many ear infections go away on their own without treatment. Some ear infections may disappear within a few days, and most ear infections will disappear on their own within 1-2 weeks, even if you don’t treat them. The American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family Physicians suggest a “wait-and-see approach” with the following guidelines:Children 6 to 23 months old: Wait and see if the child has mild inner ear pain in one ear for less than 48 hours and a temperature less than 102.2 F (39 C).
Children 24 months and older: Wait and see if the child has mild inner ear pain in one or both ears for less than 48 hours and a temperature less than 102.2 F (39 C).
Past 48 hours, it is important to see a doctor. Often you or your child will be started on an antibiotic to prevent the infection from spreading and reduce the chance of rare life-threatening infections.
Rarely, more serious complications may develop, including mastoiditis (an infection of the bones around the skull), meningitis, infection spreading to the brain, or hearing loss., Children with active ear infections are at a higher risk of a painful condition called barotrauma, which is experienced when the middle ear attempts to adjust to the changes in pressure. Chewing gum during ascent and descent can decrease the risk of this.If you have an infant with an ear infection, bottle-feeding during ascent and descent can help regulate the pressure in the middle ear.

