 Most fake Oakley sunglasses don’t come with proper documentation. The certificate of authenticity and the warranty card should be the first two things you should look into when purchasing a pair of designer sunglasses. This verification method is incredibly reliable and is recommended for individuals who aren’t confident with their ability to detect a fake pair from construction alone.;
, All Oakley sunglasses come in a hard case or pouch. If the case appears to be flimsy and lacks quality logos, chances are you need to reconsider your purchase. Genuine Oakley shades are always encased in quality packaging.
 One of the more notable markings is the one that states where the sunglasses were made. It is no longer true that the only country that manufactures real Oakley sunglasses is the United States. Some if not most Oakleys are assembled in the US. Military sunglasses made by Oakley are made in the US. Additionally, you may also look for the serial number on the inside of the arm that indicates the model number of the sunglasses.
 Like most expensive sunglasses, Oakley shades will be made of nice materials. Moreover, they are put together extremely well. There should not be any loose ends or gaps between the hinges., When it comes to stickers on the lenses, real Oakley shades do not have any. This is a common mistake that counterfeiters make. Don’t let a vendor tell you that all sunglasses are required to have the UV protection or polarization sticker.
 A real pair comes with a soft cushion that almost molds or conforms to the bridge of your nose when worn. A rough or hard rubber nose piece is a sign that you may need to look for a different seller.
 An online search for “fake Oakley” sunglasses will list tons of foreign websites that sell them. These sites are not denying the authenticity of the sunglasses based on the keyword search terms and their price of $10 or $15. Specific styles of Oakley sunglasses do not fluctuate to much in price. The company that owns Oakley also owns many of the retail stores such as Sunglass Hut. If Sunglass Hut sells a pair of Straight Jacket's for $130, then other retailers will not be far from that price in either direction. A red flag is when a site or individual is selling, for example, a new pair of Straight Jackets at $60 or $70.
 When in doubt always turn to an authorized Oakley dealer such as Sunglasses Hut, Oakley.com or Lens Crafters. An online search will give you other dealers as well.

