 Rejection can tank your confidence, so try to find ways to remember how great you are. Sit down and make a list of all the reasons you are incredible. Don’t feel shy! No one has to see the list but you.Your list might include traits like, “good listener,” “artistic,” and “compassionate.“
If you have trouble coming up with traits, ask your best friend or your parents. These people will probably recognize all of your great qualities.
 Counteract a bruised ego by doing something out of the box. When you try something new, you become aware of hidden talents and abilities. It doesn’t have to be anything extreme, just something a little different from your typical activities or hobbies.For example, you might sign up for a Flamenco dancing class, or plan a short trip to a nearby city on your own.
 The aftermath of rejection may bring lots of negative thoughts. Crowd out the negative by increasing the positive thoughts you have. Repeat positive affirmations throughout the day. If you can’t think of any, you can find some by doing a quick search online.Examples of positive affirmations may be “I am good at many things,” “Lots of people love to be around me,” or "I am a lovable person!"
Repeat these affirmations each morning after you wake and periodically throughout the day when you feel down on yourself.
 The best fix for a bruised ego is feeling loved. Make an extra effort to be around all the people in your life who cherish you. Spend more time with your close family by languishing over meals or having a game night. Plan to hang out with your dearest friends, too.
 You shouldn’t count on others to make you feel good about yourself. Still, it can help to bounce back after a rejection by putting yourself on the market and trying again with someone else. This isn’t the time to get seriously involved with anyone while you’re still nursing your wounds after the rejection. But, it can take your mind off things and be fun to date someone casually.Go up and talk to the girl who tries to catch your eye at the coffee shop. Or, finally say “yes” to a movie with the guy who’s been asking for weeks.
Let the person know up front that you’re getting over someone else and not looking for anything serious. Just have fun and see where it goes.

