 Even if you view an action taken by your employer as unfair, it may not fall within the NLRB's jurisdiction.


Unfair labor practices generally relate to employer interference with your right as an employee to organize with other employees and discuss work-related issues.One way it does this is by prohibiting employers from making rules regarding communication among employees about the union that differ from the rules for other communication about anything else.For example, suppose you have an employee bulletin board in the break room where employees can post fliers and signs about things they think would interest their co-workers. If your employer allows fliers about yard sales or lost dogs, it can't forbid signs about unions or employee organizing.
Employers also cannot refuse to engage in good-faith collective bargaining with employees, or discriminate against employees on the basis of their union membership.If your employer has committed an unfair labor practice under the NLRA, you can only enforce your rights by filing a charge with the NLRB – you cannot file a private lawsuit.;
, In some cases your union representative may be able to help you alleviate the issue in a quicker and more efficient way.


The charge process with the NLRB can take months or even years to conclude, and in the meantime, your employer may continue to violate your rights.If the problem isn't widespread throughout the company, your union representative may be able to negotiate and settle the issue with your employer more quickly.Keep in mind that you only have six months after the date of the incident to file a charge with the NLRB. This deadline won't be extended because you're taking other action to attempt to resolve the dispute., An information officer can provide insight into the charge process and answer any questions you may have.


The information officer can listen to your report of the incident and let you know whether it actually constitutes an unfair labor practice, which potentially saves you a lot of time and wasted effort if it turns out the action isn't covered by the NLRA.Information officers also can walk you through the steps to filing a charge and help you make sure your charge form is filled out and filed correctly., Before you file your charge, talk to co-workers and find out if anyone else is willing to support you.


Although you don't have to include any of this information on your initial charge form, it's a good idea to get the information together ahead of time.
You also want to get a good sense of whether anyone will stand with you and make a statement in support of your charge. If you can't find co-workers who are willing to support you as witnesses, you'll have a much more difficult time persuading the NLRB to act in your favor.
 The NLRB uses a standardized form for employees filing unfair labor practice charges against their employers.You can download the form from the NLRB website and fill it out on your computer, or you can get a paper copy of the form at your nearest NLRB office.You can locate a regional office using the NLRB's map, available at https://www.nlrb.gov/who-we-are/regional-offices, or by calling 1-866-667-NLRB., Your initial charge form should include basic information about you and your employer with a brief description of the incident that forms the basis of your charge.Provide the date of the incident and a brief description of what happened. Your description should only be a sentence or two – you aren't expected to provide extensive detail about the incident in your charge form, or a comprehensive list of the evidence or witnesses you've lined up in support of your charge.Include your name and contact information. Although a summary of the charge will be published on the NLRB website once your form is accepted, your name and contact information will not appear.If you're filing your charge as an individual, you should include your own name and contact information. However, if you're filing on behalf of a union, you may want to use the union's name and official contact information., You will need at least one copy to serve on your employer and another for your own records.


Review the information you entered carefully and make sure all your answers are complete and accurate before you sign it. Double-check addresses, dates, and names.
When you sign your charge, you are declaring that you have read it and that the statements in it are true. If you intentionally make a false statement on the form, you may be subject to fines, imprisonment, or both., NLRB rules require you to have your charge served on your employer so it has notice that a charge has been filed against it.It is illegal for your employer to fire you because you filed a charge with the NLRB.Some regional offices have your charge served on your employer for you. The information agent will be able to tell you if the office will take care of this or whether you must do it yourself.
 You can either file your charge online or take it to the NLRB field office in person.


If you file your form online, it will be forwarded to the regional office that has jurisdiction over your employer.Although additional documents aren't required, you can submit any evidence you have in support of your charge along with your form.When you file online, you'll receive an email confirming receipt of the charge and assigning an Inquiry number. Make note of the number, because you'll have to include it on any supporting documents you later upload to the NLRB's online system., An agent will contact you to find out details about the incident that formed the basis of your charge.


The investigating agent has the responsibility of reviewing the incident that serves as the basis of your charge and determining whether it constitutes an unfair labor practice under the NLRA.You can generally expect to be contacted within a few weeks after your charge is filed. If you haven't already submitted any evidence or documentation that supports your charge, the investigating agent will ask you to do so.
 The investigating agent should know everything you know about the incident, including any documents you have or names and contact information of co-workers who witnessed the incident.


As the agent investigates your charge, he or she will take testimony from you and named witnesses and compile written affidavits. Make sure you get a copy of your affidavit for your own records.If the agent determines your employer has not violated the NLRA, you will be asked to withdraw your charge. If you refuse to do so, the NLRB will dismiss it.
 If the agent finds enough evidence to support your charge, he or she will mediate between you and your employer in an attempt to reach a settlement of the issue.The regional director will only file a complaint in federal court if you and your employer are unable to reach a settlement of your claim.Depending on the subject matter of your charge, the regional director may ask the federal district court to issue an injunction ordering the employer to take certain actions, such as reinstating employees who were wrongfully terminated., After the investigation is complete, the regional director will decide whether to file a complaint against your employer.


Typically a decision will be made within 7 to 12 weeks of the date you file your charge, although it may take longer if your charge is more complex.If a complaint is filed, the case will go for a hearing before an administrative law judge. At this point, the NLRB becomes your representative throughout the hearing and any settlement negotiations that transpire after the complaint is filed.Keep in mind that the NLRA does not grant the NLRB authority to assess penalties against employers for violating the act. It can, however, seek remedies designed to make you whole, such as back pay or reinstatement if your employment was terminated for acts the NLRA protects.