 The dogs are found by walking through the high grass, just like any other Pokémon. Find a route with a lot of grass and weak Pokémon, such as Pewter City, Route 2, or Route 7, and start walking randomly through the small shrubs.You can also ride the bike to move around faster.
 Repels keep weak Pokémon from attacking you, but the Legendary Dogs will ignore it. This means that the only Pokémon you will encounter, if you encounter anything, is a Legendary Dog.


Max Repels work for roughly 250 paces before you need to use a new one., Go to your "Team" and set it so that your first Pokémon is lower than level 50. All of the dogs are level 50, and Max Repel scares away any Pokémon with a level even with or lower than your starter.Your best bet is to set a Level 49 Pokémon first. This way you will only find Pokémon level 50 and up, which only includes the dogs.
 Remember, the dogs move randomly each time you change regions. You can test the same patch of grass for hours, but if you do not ever change regions that the dog will stay where it is.
 The easiest place to do this is in the house on Route 2 above Viridian City. After you've checked the grass out front for 10-20 seconds, walk into the house and them leave immediately. This will force the dog to pick a new location, which is hopefully your little field of grass., Keep checking the grass with your Max Repel on until the dog appears. This may take some time, as the dog's location is chosen randomly. Remember, however, that the dog can move anywhere. You will need to be patient to get your chance.
 Once you see a Legendary Dog for the first time your Pokédex will automatically update the location of the dog after that. This makes it much easier to find it again if you cannot capture it the first time. Open your Pokédex, scroll down to the dog, and check the "Area" section to find it.If you accidentally KO the dog it will not appear again later in the game.
Remember, however, that as soon as you try to go to the dog's current location it will move. Check your Pokédex every time you enter a new area to see if it is in the same place as you.

