 Whether it’s a spray tan or a natural one, tanned butts and legs don’t show cellulite as much.


If you already have a dark complexion, you’re lucky because darker skin doesn’t show cellulite as much as pale skin does.
Always take caution when tanning, though. The sun’s rays can lead to skin cancer, so it's usually a better choice to get an authentic looking fake tan. There are many ways to do this: airbrush or booth spray tanning at a salon and home products such as foam, lotion, or spray.
When applying tanning lotion, start by exfoliating the skin with a body scrub, as well as shaving any areas where you don't want hair. Then, using gloves, apply the lotion all over your body, starting with the head area, and taking care not to get it into your eyes. Apply petroleum jelly to your eyebrows to prevent them from becoming discolored.When spray tanning, it’s very important that you wear recommended protective gear (over eyes, nose, and other body openings) so you don’t ingest the tanning particles during the process.If using a booth, you will be instructed to turn inside the booth as a nozzle sprays you with the solution.;
, While genetics might make you more susceptible to cellulite, toned legs with strong muscle definition tend to show cellulite less.


Run up a staircase, go for a long walk or jog, and use a stair master or elliptical trainer. All of these exercises and equipment target the leg and butt areas where cellulite resides.
Contrary to popular myth, cellulite is not caused by toxins in the body. It’s caused by a lack of exercise and muscle tone, excess fat, poor circulation, genetics and hormones.
Leg lifts and squats are among the exercises that can help you tone your legs., Although running and other cardio can reduce your weight, which can make cellulite less obvious, strength training will be best at getting rid of the dimpled look.


Yoga routines help tone the body and reduce the appearance of cellulite, as do strength-training routines that build muscle.
Studies have shown that people who combine cardio with strength training (weight lifting, some circuit training routines) added muscle in addition to losing fat, and improved the overall look of their bodies.
As little as 15 minutes of cardio (such as running) and 15 minutes of strength training (such as weight lifting) three times a week can make a difference over time (at least eight weeks).
 It doesn’t work for everyone, but some clothing manufacturers make clothing marketed to reduce the look of cellulite.


These pieces of clothing, such as capri leggings, are designed to generate heat that in turn helps break down cellulite cells.
Elastic underwear has the opposite effect; it can make cellulite look worse. Wear non-elastic undergarments made of smooth fabric.
Loose fitting clothing helps reduce cellulite because tighter clothing impairs blood flow throughout the day.

