 Getting rid of your fear to talk to her is the most difficult part, but just remember:


We are all equal, we all get nervous, and we are all human.
Most girls aren't mean or rude, so if they don't want to talk to you, they won't hurt your feelings
It's better approaching her and knowing the outcome, than never doing it and being left wondering what would've happened.;
, Find some natural reason to introduce yourself. A good conversation starter is just getting to know her if you don't already. If she's talking to a friend, listen (but don't stalk!) their conversation a bit, and then jump in with a witty comment like, "Hey, you like Harry Potter too!" If the girl is not talking to anyone, comment on her outfit or the book she is holding or the class she's in. Then start the conversation!


If you've talked to her before, and she knows who you are then it shouldn't be too difficult. If not, all you've got to do is introduce yourself and have a conversation.
 Making small talk is a great way to get a feel for if the girl likes you or not. Making small talk could be as easy as asking about the weather, a homework assignment or commenting about a school event. Based off her reaction and response length, you can get a pretty good idea if she is interested in you.


For example, if your school football team won a sectional title, you could say "Hey, did you see the game last night?". This will open up for a great conversation. If the girl says she didn't see the game though, don't press her with details about what happened and give her a play-by-play synopsis. Instead, turn the conversation toward her and ask her if she plays or follows any sports.
 For example, in class if your teacher is handing out a writing assignment, say something funny like "Geez, I'm scared. This looks like a lot of writing." Make it loud enough for her to hear. If she engages in conversation about your comment, that's great news! It means she was actually listening to you. If she doesn't, this could possibly mean that you were too quiet and she didn't hear you, or she was surprised you were talking to her. Keep trying though, and sooner or later she will respond.

