 BitTorrent is a method for transferring large files across the internet. It differs from cloud storage because the other person will be downloading the file directly from your computer; it is not uploaded to any server first. BitTorrent can also provide much faster transfer speeds for the recipient than cloud storage.


If you're trying to share the large file with as many people as possible, BitTorrent may be the best bet. Anyone that has a part of the file will share it with others that are trying to download it. This allows large numbers of people to share a file without putting strain on a server. As long as one person with the file is running a torrent client, anyone can download the file.
BitTorrent requires a little more work than cloud storage or file-sending services, because it requires all participants to have a BitTorrent client installed, as well as a basic understanding of how torrents work. It also requires that at least one person with the whole copy of the file be connected at all times.
 This is a program that facilitates the connection between you and anyone else sharing the file.


qBittorrent is one of the most popular, lightweight clients. You can get it from qbittorrent.org.
 Open the torrent creation tool in your torrent client. You can usually press Ctrl+N to open the torrent creation wizard.


Add the file that you want to share with others. If you want to share multiple files at once, consider creating a folder and then adding that folder to the torrent.
Paste a few trackers into the "Trackers" field. Trackers are URLs that are required for new connections to the torrent, as it contains the updated list of all the current connections. There are several free trackers that you can use, and including more will help keep your torrent alive longer:

udp://open.demonii.com:1337
udp://exodus.desync.com:6969
udp://tracker.leechers-paradise.org:6969
udp://tracker.pomf.se
udp://tracker.blackunicorn.xyz:6969
udp://tracker.coppersurfer.tk:6969


Save the torrent file. You will be asked to give it a name and pick a spot on your computer to save it to.
 Now that the torrent has been created, send the torrent file to everyone that you want to share the files with. Remember that each person will need their own torrent client in order to download the file from you.


Torrent files are very small, and can easily be attached to email messages.
 Now that you've distributed the file, you'll need to keep it available for people to start downloading. This means keeping your computer on and your torrent client open.


If you move the file while you're sharing it, no one will be able to download it. This is because the file is being downloaded straight from its location on your hard drive.
 Depending on how many people you're sharing with, you may not have to wait long for at least one other person to have the entire file. This will allow you to stop sharing, or "seeding", if you'd like. Of course, if you want to ensure availability of the file, you should continue seeding.


When a torrent is shared with a lot of people, it quickly becomes seeded, as all of the parts are available from a wide number of different users. This is how torrents survive without having a central server.
For more detailed instructions on creating and sharing torrents, click here.

