 Some states have outlawed the practice of being a private bondsman. If you live in a state where bondsmen are illegal, you will have to find another way to post bail. Fortunately, in those states, you are more likely to be able to post a percentage of bail on your own and be released. The following states do not allow private bondsmen:Illinois
Kentucky
Maine
Nebraska
Oregon
Wisconsin;
, A bail bondsman deposits the amount of your bond with the court so you can be released from jail while you await trial. In return for posting bail for you, the bail bondsman will charge you a nonrefundable fee. A bail bond is essentially a contract between the government and the bondsman. If you fail to show up for court, the government will collect the bond amount from the bondsman.


In general, the fee you will be charged will be 10% of the total bond amount. For example, if your bond is set at $20,000, the bondsman will charge you $2,000 to post the total bond on your behalf. If you fail to appear, the bondsman will lose $18,000. At this point, the bondsman will come after you, or any co-signors, to try and recoup their loss., You can get a second bond in much the same way that you got your initial bond. First, you should Find a Bail Bondsman. There are online databases you can search, including the following:


www.bailbond.com
bailbondsnetwork.com

, If you’ve been recently arrested and returned to jail, it is probably difficult for you to find a bondsman on your own. You should call your friends or family and ask them to find a bondsman.Often, bail bondsmen have offices near the jail or the police station. Your friend or family member could stop in and talk with them.
 You should only work with licensed bail bondsmen. Bail bondsmen are typically licensed by their state’s Department of Insurance. You can ask any agent for their registration number.


Write down the number and then double check that the agent is registered. You can usually check by visiting your state’s Department of Insurance website, which usually has a “Look Up” feature you can use., You want to make sure that the bond agent is reputable, so you should do some preliminary research. You can check your local Better Business Bureau (BBB) and look to see if any complaints have been filed., You can call up the bondsman and explain that you would like to get a bond. You should explain that you had your prior bond revoked and answer any questions the bondsman has. You should also discuss the following details:Whether you will pay the fee upfront or if you can pay in monthly installments.
Whether interest will be charged. If so, find out the amount and how it is calculated.
Whether you need to put up property as collateral. You might not have put anything up as collateral on your first bond. However, a bond agent might require collateral for the second. “Collateral” is property you pledge to secure the bond. If you violate the terms of your bail, then the bondsman has to pay into court the full amount of the bond. In return, he or she can then take your collateral.
How long the bondsman waits before closing on collateral. Should you fail to obey the conditions of your bail, then the bondsman can close on the collateral. Find out how much time you have before they close on the property.
How the bond agent provides receipts and other proof of payment.
 Generally, the bondsman has the right to take you into custody and turn you over to the police if you violate any term of your bond contract. However, some bondsman will only put you in jail if the judge revokes the bail.You should ask for the bondsman’s practice.


Definitely try to avoid any bondsman that will take you into custody because of minor violations, such as failing to call them one day. This type of bondsman could cost you more than they are worth.
 When you find a bail bondsman you want to work with, they will give you the terms of the agreement in a written contract. Make sure you read this contract carefully and understand it before you sign it. Bail contracts can be incredibly harsh on clients and you need to make sure you can meet the terms of the contract. In general, the contract will indicate:How the nonrefundable fee is to be paid (e.g., one upfront fee or monthly payments)
Whether any interest will be tacked on to your normal payments
If collateral needs to be put up (e.g., your home)
Who the co-signor is, if you have one
Any other conditions the bondsman sets for posting bail on your behalf

