 Unfortunately it’s not possible to spot reduce body fat; however, adding moderate to high intensity cardio for 30 minutes to one hour four times per week will help shave off total body fat.






;
, People often cycle, run or walk which strengthens underlying leg muscles without improving the arms. If you like to walk for exercise, try Nordic walking or the elliptical to improve the strength in your arms.
 A gym rowing machine will burn fat and strengthen arm muscles. Ask a personal trainer to teach you the correct posture.









Always workout for at least 20 minutes at once, so that your body stops burning carbohydrates and starts burning fat stores.
 HIIT training burns fat more efficiently than most exercise. Work out at a moderate intensity for three to four minutes, and then sprint or kick up the intensity for one minute.









Repeat one to six times with any type of cardio exercise you perform.
 You will need a non-slip exercise mat to perform most of these exercises.
 Get onto all fours on your exercise mat. Reach your feet back one at a time and get into a push-up position.









Your body should be a straight line from the top of your head to the ankles.
Contract your stomach muscles while you do a plank. Most of your stabilization muscles, including those in the arms, have to work hard to keep this position.
 Move your hands in closer, so that the thumbs and index fingers are touching. Your fingers should make a triangle right below your chest.









Bend your elbows and move your body as close to the floor as possible.
Pause, and then push your body up.
Repeat 10 times.
Studies have shown that this is the single best exercise you can do to strengthen the upper arms., Get into your plank








Balance on your left foot and extend your right arm up, as if you are trying to touch the ceiling.
Hold the position for five seconds. Return to your plank.
Repeat five T push-ups on each side.
 Lay face down on your exercise mat. Reach your arms out to the side to ready yourself for a back extension.









Contract your stomach muscles and lift your chest and arms out to the sides.
Lift your thighs up off the ground.
Hover your arms off the ground and move them above your shoulders.
Hold for five seconds, return to the starting position and lower your legs and arms down.
Repeat 10 to 15 times.
Don’t raise your legs if you have lower back problems.
 Sit on top of your exercise mat with your knees bent. Place your arms right behind you, and shift your weight into your arms.









Your fingertips should be faced directly behind you and your hands should be directly behind your shoulders.
Pick up your butt from the ground. The more weight you put into your arms from your butt and legs, the harder your triceps will have to work.
Start with straight arms, and then bend your elbows directly behind you.
Lower them as far as you can go, pause and straighten them.
Repeat 15 times.
 Grab two to five lbs. hand weights in each hand. Stand with feet hip width apart.









Keep your back straight and lean forward, while you bend your knees.
Reach your right arm straight back, as high as it will go. Turn your palm so that it faces up.
Bend your right elbow and turn your hand parallel, moving the dumbbell until it almost touches the front of your upper arm.
Straighten it backwards. Repeat 15 times with each arm.
 Step your left leg forward into a lunge. Make sure the back heel is facing forward. Keep your back straight and let your arms fall at your sides toward the ground.









Bend your right arm and lift the back of your upper arm toward the ceiling. Pause for two seconds.
Lower it until it is straight.
Repeat the lifts with a two to five lb. dumbbell. Then, switch the leg and the arm you are working.
Aim to lift your elbow as far toward the ceiling on each movement. Repeat two to three sets of 15 reps on each side.
 Rest your arms at your sides holding your dumbbells. Stand with feet hip width apart.









Keep your arms straight. Raise them until they are parallel to the ground.
Keep your arms out in a “v” shape, just on the periphery of your vision.
Hold for two seconds. Lower down slowly.
Repeat two to three sets of 15 reps.
 For best results, do them on the same day you do your bodyweight triceps exercises, and then give your arms a day to rest and rebuild.








