 You will need to acquire a rubber block or linocut block, some paint or ink, a brayer, linoleum carving tools in a variety of shapes, a non-porous surface to spread ink or paint on, and an item to print on.Most of these items can easily be found and purchased at any craft store.
 For your first project, try making your lines at least a quarter inch thick. This will make cutting our your design easier than if you had very thin lines.









The lines you draw will be what actually appears once you use your stamp. This means that you will be removing all of the surface that has nothing drawn on it. Keep this in mind when drawing your design.
 Remember that you are cutting away the negative space, in other words all of the surface area that was not drawn on. This may take some time, depending on your design, but it's important that all the negative space is below the surface of the block.









Cut down deep enough so that, when stamping, a buildup of ink in the negative space does not accidentally transfer to the surface you are stamping onto.
Utilize the various shapes of carving tools you have. Small straight edged cutters are good for detail work, while wide rounded tools are good for taking away larger pieces of surface area quickly., You should not need to apply much paint to the surface. Simply apply enough paint or ink so that a thin layer of paint can be spread out in a space a bit larger than the surface of your stamp.









For a multi-colored stamp design, put dots or stripes of several colors of paint or ink on your non-porous surface and smooth them out with the brayer so that they meet each other and create a solid thin layer.
 You need to cover the design completely with paint or ink but avoid getting a lot of paint into the negative space.
 If there are voids where ink or paint should be but isn't, simply dab a bit of ink onto those areas with a paper towel or your finger.
 Remember to set the stamp directly down onto the surface, keeping the stamp horizontal and steady. This will alleviate the danger of smearing your design.


Keep in mind that if you are printing onto fabric the paint or ink might bleed through. Protect the surface underneath with a piece of cardboard or several pieces of newspaper.
Lift your stamp straight up and off then let your print dry completely. If you are impatient you can use a hairdryer to dry the ink or paint quickly.
