 “Next of kin” has no standard legal definition in the United Kingdom. Instead, it simply means the person someone would like contacted in case of an emergency.To find someone’s next of kin, get their emergency contact information. People usually fill out this information when they attend a school, rent an apartment, or enter a hospital.
Look to see if there is place on the form for an emergency contact. This person will be the “next of kin.”
If nothing is listed, then you will need to ask the person’s family members if they know who is the next of kin.
 Although “next of kin” has no standard meaning, the 2007 Mental Health Act amendments created a “nearest relative” list. This is like a next of kin hierarchy. The list is used by mental health professionals to find the nearest relative to consult about a patient’s treatment. The list reads as follows:spouse
child
parent
sibling
grandparent
grandchild
aunt or uncle
nephew or niece

, Some people might be worried about what would happen if they are in an accident and their domestic partner tries to visit them in the hospital. Unless this person is listed as your next of kin on any emergency contact card, then there could be confusion about whether the person can visit you or play any role in determining your treatment.To clear up any confusion, you can use a next of kin card. On this card, you write your name and then identify your next of kin. Carry this card with you in your wallet or purse.
Visit http://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/files.royalfree.nhs.uk/next_of_kin002.pdf to download a card.
Realize that you can nominate anyone as your next of kin. This person can be a family member, partner, or a non-relative., Once you have chosen a next of kin, then you should tell other people, including family and friends. They should all know who you want making decisions for you in the case of a medical or other emergency.If you are trying to find a next-of-kin for someone else, ask others who might have access to that information. Try asking family, friends, doctors, and other people close to the person.

