 Many babies get upset when they are in need of a diaper change. The feeling of the dirty or wet diaper against their skin is uncomfortable. Waiting too long to change a baby’s diaper can lead to diaper rash, which is very uncomfortable.If you are using disposable diapers, the diaper will begin to sag or appear full.
If you are using cloth diapers, feel the outside of the diaper to discern if the diaper is full.
Some disposable diapers, like Pampers Swaddlers, have an indication strip that turns blue when the diaper is wet.
Check for leaking near the legs or above the top of the diaper.;
, A baby’s nutritional needs change several times in the first two years of their life. Signs you should watch out for in a newborn include smacking their lips, rooting, or sucking on their fists. You can tell if your newborn baby has had enough to eat by their fists. If a newborn’s fists are closed and near their face, they have not had enough to eat. If their fists are open and relaxed, they are satisfied. An older baby may try to get into a feeding position or yank on your clothes if you breastfeed. They may become fussy, hit you, or turn their head from side to side., Babies, at any age, become fussy and cranky when they are tired. If they become too tired, they are inconsolable and difficult to put to sleep. You can also look for signs of sleepiness like yawning or eye rubbing., You should always be aware of signs that your baby is sick and not just fussy. If your baby shows signs of illness, you may need to seek medical attention.Take your baby to the doctor if they have a fever over 100.4°F (38°C) and they are under 3 months or 102°F(38.9°C) if they are between 3 months and 3 years old.
Seek help if your baby will not eat or drink. Look for signs of dehydration like less than 6 diapers per day or crying without producing tears.
Make your baby an appointment if they have a cough that lasts more than a couple of days.
Seek help immediately if your baby is having trouble breathing.
Pulling on ears or a hoarse cry could be signs of a bacterial infection that may need treated with antibiotics.
Trust your instincts. If you think something is wrong with your baby it is best to take them to a doctor.
 Teething often mimics signs of sickness in babies. It is not unusual for a baby to run a low grade fever, have a runny nose, or pull on their ears if they are teething. You may be able to see your baby’s gums become swollen or start to break where the tooth is emerging. Try to make them as comfortable as possible for the next couple of days until the teething pain subsides.Provide them a teething ring or toy for them to chew on.
Talk to the child’s pediatrician about giving them Tylenol or Motrin to alleviate pain.
Provide them cold drinks or food to help with the pain. A bottle of cold water or a frozen banana might help. Only give solid foods to babies who are able to sit up and reach for the food on their own. Always make sure that they are being supervised by an adult when they eat.

