 Find out what your horse seems to take interest in doing. Spend time without riding, just loving on and grooming, and walking with your horse.;
, Send good and happy messages to your horse.


Try sitting on the ground a good distance from your horse and wait for him or her to come over to you.
 In particular, talk in your "happy voice". Horses can sense human emotions and recognize how humans feel by viewing the body language. This is why it's so important to always angle yourself so as to avoid giving the impression of predatory behavior.
, This doesn't mean using a whip or yelling when your horse does something wrong. It means using a firm voice to say "no" and asking the horse to try again.
 The horse needs to understand such commands as: Come here, stop, turn away, and focus. Most importantly, the horse needs to understand how to move his or her feet on command.
 Instead, interact in other fruitful ways. At all times, make sure your horse is comfortable before you try new things, as it can be very scary for the horse.
 This is fun for the horse and can be a nice mix of from the usual routine. Some fun tricks include: kiss, paw, bow, smile, etc.


Always start with small tricks. Don't attempt harder tricks until you are positive that the horse can handle it and has absolute trust in you.



Don't force the horse to walk but don't let the horse not do it.
Bring treats as a reward, but don't make it so the horse is working for treats. This means using them sparingly, if at all.
 It may take time to get to this point so just keep working and the horse will learn. Just work at a walk, so you are not throwing too many things at the horse at once.
 Just do light riding and learn how to feel and move with your horse. Riding bareback is a physical connection for the rider and horse.
 You could even try trotting and cantering with him. After you have been doing liberty with you horse for a year or more, it's likely that you'll both be comfortable playing tag and chasing each other around!

, There is no certain point in which your horse is at liberty with you. Similar to many religions, this is a spiritual level. Your horse needs to be at one with you.
 You can never be fully finished working with your horse. There are always new possibilities.
 The whole goal here is to achieve a strong bond with your horse; the goal is not to worry what other people think about it. This is about growing a spiritual, physical, and mental connection with your horse.


You need to understand that you won't ever be doing this the wrong way; it is your decision and there is no strict way to do it.

