 If someone calls you and wants you to post bail for them, learning why they were arrested can help you better evaluate what's happening and how likely they are to show up in court.Generally, the more serious the charges and the more that's at stake, the more likely the person may be to flee.
This is especially true if that particular person stands to lose a lot if convicted, or even if tried. Some types of crimes can mean a person losing their job or losing significant respect in their community, even if they ultimately are acquitted.
Another thing to think about is whether the charges are extremely out of character for that particular person.
For example, if you knew the person was involved with illegal drugs and suspected they were bound to get arrested for it sooner or later, learning of their arrest may not be much of a surprise.;
, You're unlikely to get an unbiased account of what happened, and the person often will proclaim their innocence. However, understanding their perspective can give you more insight into their thought processes and how likely they are not to skip bail.Think about the person's demeanor over the phone. Being arrested and being in jail may be a scary and traumatic experience, and the person may understandably be angry or fearful or frustrated.
However, evaluating the person's demeanor can give you some insight into how likely they are to flee once they're out of jail.
Someone who is relatively calm and accepting may be more likely to make their court dates, giving you a better chance of getting your money back.
Keep in mind it's also possible that the person won't want to tell you what happened while they're still behind bars. They may be worried about their conversation being overheard or recorded.
 It might seem cold to simply ask the person this question straight out, but you need to assess their resources. If they know someone who is closer to them than you are, or who is in a better position to help out, maybe they should ask them first.Keep in mind that typically if someone's in jail, they'll call the first person that comes to their mind. Additionally, the fact that they called you may have less to do with their relationship to you and more to do with the fact that they remembered your phone number.
Depending on the person's background and history, they also may be ashamed to call a family member or closer friend for help.
Who they call also may have something to do with what they allegedly did. For example, if they have a history with drugs and were arrested on a drug charge after having completed rehab, they may call you because they think you'd be more understanding and forgiving.
However, you shouldn't feel obligated to bail someone out simply because you're the one they called. If it makes more sense for their parents or spouse to bail them out, you can get in touch with that person for them.
 On one hand, when you post bail for someone you risk losing your collateral if the skip bail. But beyond that, there may be other risks you face if you insert yourself in the situation.In some situations, it may not be the best idea to help the person get out of jail. For example, if you get called by a friend who was arrested for domestic violence, you have to consider whether that person will go back home and continue to abuse or harass their partner if they get out.
Sometimes, bailing someone out can be seen as taking sides, which could cause problems with other friends or family members.
If the person indicates that they don't want to call a spouse or family member and ask for bail, you might want to ask yourself why.
 Before you can accurately assess your financial ability to post bail for them – even if you've more or less decided to do so – you need to know how much money will be needed.Finding out the total amount of the bail can also help you assess whether you want to pay the full amount of the bail directly to the court or work through a bail bond agent.
If they don't know how much their bail is, or if bail hasn't been set yet, advise them to hire an attorney who can represent them at arraignment.
 Sometimes it can be a good idea to talk to an attorney before you bail someone out of jail. An attorney may be able to get the person released on their "own recognizance," which would make bail unnecessary.The criminal defense attorney also will have the experience to evaluate the case and understand whether the bail might be raised – which would mean you wasted your money unless you can somehow come up with the higher amount to bail them out again.
Even if bail is required, you typically can get a lower fee from the bail agent – a practice known as "attorney referred bail."
Speaking to an attorney doesn't mean the person is obligated to hire them. You're not necessarily looking for an attorney to represent them on their behalf.
Attorneys typically will offer you initial advice on something like this free of charge, although it also may cost you a few hundred dollars.
 At a minimum, you need to know the person's full legal name, their home address, and the addresses of any places they regularly frequent such as work or school.This is information you'll need to provide to the bail bond agent so they can take care of the bail for you.
Legitimately, though, you typically shouldn't make such a commitment to someone if you don't even know this basic information about them.
You can offer to contact someone for them who is in a better position to bail them out than you are, and who would feel more comfortable about making that commitment.
 If the person who wants you to post bail for them has helped you out in the past, you may be inclined to help them to pay them back. However, what you really need to look at is whether you've helped them in the past, and what happened afterward.For example, if you've let the person borrow money from you in the past and they've paid you back on time and without problem, that fact could weigh in favor of you helping them now by posting bail for them.
The help you've given the person in the past need not be financial, however. What you're looking for here are general indications that the person is reliable and will do what they say they will.
When you bail someone out, you are essentially promising that they will attend their court hearings. Apart from any financial issues, you should have a strong sense that they will do this.
 It's possible the person has never asked you for help or leaned on you for anything. Whether you decide to post bail for them ultimately comes down to how much you trust them not to skip out on their responsibilities.Typically, this is what your decision is going to come down to. If you trust the person, you're going to do what you can to help them.
This covers both your belief that they will show up for court dates as well as believing them if they have sworn they are innocent and will be acquitted of the charges.
In some situations the person may not have told you they were innocent. They may even have confessed that they committed the crime with which they've been charged. In that case, the important thing is whether you trust them to stand trial and attend other required court hearings.
 In most cases, you're not going to be willing to post bail for someone unless they have some way to pay you back at some point. If you do agree to help them, you should get that promise in writing.Any agreement you make with the person will be between the two of you. All of the other aspects of your relationship, particularly your trust for that person, will come into play.
Keep in mind that even if you both signed a written contract through which the person agreed to pay you back, it might not be worth it to sue them if they fail to meet that obligation.
You also have to consider what happens if the person is ultimately convicted, or makes a plea agreement that involves jail time. In that situation, even if they've agreed to pay you back and intend to do so, it will be awhile before they can make good on that promise.
 Especially if you've never bailed someone out before, you need to understand how a bail bond works. You may want to speak to a licensed bail bond professional before you make the final decision whether to bail the person out.Most likely you're going to go through a bond agent to bail the person out. When you do this, you'll end up having less money tied up than if you paid the bail directly to the court.
However, it's important to keep in mind that whatever amount you pay to the bond agent is gone – you won't get that back, even if the person appears for all court dates or if the charges are dismissed.
The fee a bond agent charges you – typically a percentage of the total amount of the bail set by the court – pays the bond agent for their services.
For example, if bail for your friend has been set at $5,000, you can pay $5,000 to the court or you can pay a percentage (typically between 5 and 10 percent) of that total to a bond agent.
If you pay the $5,000 to the court and your friend appears for all court hearings, you will eventually get your $5,000 back when the case is closed – less court costs or fines.
However, if you went to a bond agent and gave them $500 to secure your friend's release from jail, you would not get that $500 back.
 Before you can post bail for someone, you must have enough income or assets to pay the bail bond professional. Since it may be months before you get your collateral back, don't part with more than you can afford.Typically, you won't get your collateral back until after the person's case is closed and they've made all court appearances. At that point, it can sometimes take a month or two before your collateral is released.
If you post a cash bond, it may be used for the person's court costs, fines, or other fees even if they make all required court appearances. This would mean you wouldn't get your money back.
Look over your budget carefully. Unless you have savings that you can tap, avoid removing a substantial amount from your normal cash flow if it would cause you to have difficulty paying your regular bills.
 Particularly if you think it's possible the person could skip bail, you need to make sure that the bail you post is something you're willing to completely lose.If you decide to go through a bail bond agent, this won't be as much of a loss as it would if you paid the amount of the bail directly to the court. However, it's still something to keep in mind.
Talk to the bail bond agent if you do decide to go that route, and make sure you understand the contract and your responsibilities should the person for whom you're posting bail decides not to show.
You also want to keep in mind that if you pay bail directly to the court, that money may go to cover the person's court costs or fines after their case is closed. This means you may never see that money again, even if they do make their court appearances.
 If you do agree to bail the person out, you need to keep in close contact with them until their court date and make sure you know where they are and what they're doing.Keep in mind that if you pay the bail directly to the court, you'll be the one responsible for making sure the person you bailed out makes their required court appearances.
Even if you go through a bond agent, you want to make an effort to keep in touch with the person until their case has closed. You need to keep tabs on what's going on with their case.
If the person is someone you're unlikely or unwilling to keep in touch with, you probably shouldn't post bail for them.

