 If you are going to pretend to be sick, tell your parents that you don't feel well a couple of days beforehand. Your sickness will be more believable if your parents see some symptoms before the actual sick day.


To fake a stomach ache, tell your parents that you may have eaten something bad at school.
To fake a cold, say that your throat has been feeling a little scratchy.
Amp it up the night before by waking up in the middle of the night and telling your parents that you’re feeling bad. Either mimic your stomach/cold symptoms from earlier in the day, or just say, “I feel like I’m getting sick” or “my body just doesn’t feel right.”;
, Get up a little later than you should. Tell your parents you’re not feeling so great. Act like you’re sick.


Walk around slowly, like your muscles are achy. Don’t fix your messy sleepyhead hair.
If you’ve been faking cold/flu symptoms, cough and sneeze a little and say you’re feeling dizzy. If you’ve been faking stomach symptoms, rub your stomach and moan that it hurts.
Don't eat too much breakfast. Sick people often lose their appetites, so this will help with the illusion.
 Your parents will probably want to check if you have a fever or not, since a fever can be the sign of true illness. To convince them you’re really sick, you’ll need to make them believe you have a temperature.


Before your parents ask to feel your forehead, wet a cloth and then heat it in the microwave for thirty seconds. Make sure that it’s cool enough not to burn you, and then put the towel on your forehead for a minute or so. This will heat up your head and body, and your forehead will be nice and warm.
Boil some water on the stove (this is only recommended for older kids). Pour the boiling water down the sink, and when steam rises, stand with your face over the sink until it feels flushed. This will warm up your face, and when cool air touches you, you’ll also feel clammy.


Do not put your face directly over a fire, stove, or boiling water to fake a fever. These methods can be unsafe and may result in burns.


Warm a mouth or underarm thermometer by rubbing it in your hands until it reaches about 99–101 °F (37–38 °C) (any higher and you might risk a trip to the hospital). You can also warm the thermometer under running hot water until it reaches a high temperature. , If your parents ask if you want to stay home, don't say yes immediately. You need to act like missing school is a really hard decision to make.


Think about it for a minute or two and say something like, "But I want to go to PE." Then tell them, "On second thought, I'm not sure I can make it all day at school."
When your parents agree to let you stay home, you are free to do whatever you want.
 Even though you have a day to yourself, you’ll still have to pretend to be sick all day long, at least while your parents are around.


Act really sick all morning long, then slowly pretend that you’re feeling a little better throughout the day.
The next morning, act like you still don’t feel your best, but are just strong enough to go to school.

