 This project works best for pipes lying in or near a corner. It also works well for pipes running along one wall seam.


You will need to box in the pipe from two sides, so there needs to be two nearby walls. Even if the pipe does not lie directly in a corner or along a wall seam, it should be relatively close.
 Use a combination square to determine the depth, width, and length of the pipe space you'll need to hide.Place the square portion of the measuring tool against one of the walls. Measure out from the wall to the exterior side of the pipe to determine the necessary depth. Repeat this procedure by measuring from exterior of the pipe to the other wall. This should give you the necessary width.
Make sure that you are measuring at the widest point of the pipe.
Measure the length of the pipe, as well, so you'll know how long your boxing will need to be.
 Cut three battens so that the length of each one matches the length of the pipe from wall to wall (or ceiling to floor).Note that if one or two of the battens will be placed over a wall with skirting on either end, you will need to make these battens a little shorter than the full length one. Measure the wall length again, this time working from skirt to skirt, to find the altered length.
These battens will be used to support the box sides. Use plywood roughly 2 inches (5 cm) wide by 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep to create each one.
 Screw the battens to the wall so that they surround either side of the pipe.


Measure out from the corner seam of the wall when placing these battens. The placement of one should match your previously measured pipe depth, and the placement of the other should match your previously measured pipe width.
Use screws and wall plugs that will work on the type of wall or ceiling you're dealing with. If you're fixing the battens onto masonry, you'll need to use 5.5 to 6 mm drill bits, 2 inch (5 cm) number 8 screws, and red wall plugs set to fit holes and screws of this size.
Space the screws apart by approximately 15.7 inches (40 cm). Drill a pilot hole into the wall, hammer in the wall plug, then gently twist the screw into the plug.
 Measure and cut two plywood boards. These will become the sides of your pipe boxing.


The length of each board needs to match the length of the pipe space and the length of the battens.
The width of one board must match the distance between the wall and the outside edge of one batten. The width of the other board must match the distance between the other wall and the outside edge of the other batten.

Note that these distances should also match your pipe width and depth dimensions from earlier, but it can be a good idea to measure the space again before cutting the plywood boards to size.
 Attach the edge of one box side to its corresponding wall batten using sturdy wood glue.


The plywood side should rest on the outside of the batten with the width side of the board sticking straight out from the wall. Make sure that the length of the board covers the length of the batten and the pipe.
After gluing the plywood side in place, further enforce the bond by inserting heavy-duty construction staples or nails into both the board and batten. Space the staples 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) apart.
 Use wood glue to attach the remaining third batten to the other end of the plywood box side.


Position this third batten so that it runs parallel to the first. It should be to the inside of the plywood box side and on the opposite side of the wall.
Reinforce the bond with wood staples or nails placed 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) apart.
 Place the second measured and cut plywood side so that it covers the remaining exposed side of the pipe.


One side of this piece of plywood should lie to the outside of the open batten. The other side of this piece should form a corner with the opposite piece of plywood (the one previously attached to the wall).
Attach the plywood to both connecting battens using both wood glue and nails or staples.
 If desired, you can minimize the appearance of the boxing by painting or staining it to match the color of the wall.


Before painting, remove furniture from the room and cover the floor and all fixed appliances with plastic sheets. Doing so should prevent paint from splattering onto other surfaces.
 After the paint dries, seal the seams with decorator's caulk or silicone. Squeeze a small, steady bead of caulk across each seam and let dry.


Sealing the seams will prevent unwanted moisture from getting into the pipe boxing. If moisture does get into the boxing, it could create mold or cause the wood to rot.
Once you seal the seams, the project is complete.

