 Use old books laying around your home or ones that you are not interested in reading. If you do not have any, visit a thrift store, rummage sale, or your local library's book sale. These outlets allow you to buy books for extremely low prices. Make sure you choose hardcover books, as those are easier to paint.;
, You can keep the paint job simple by coating a book in a single color. You can also get elaborate and paint a pattern or landscape. It just depends on what kind of look you want to achieve. Search online for different examples or just go with what feels most natural to you.


Tape the binding so books appear older and well-worn.
Utilize tools like stamps and stencils.
Tie a ribbon around the book to add a decorative touch.
 Acrylic paint is extremely versatile and applicable to many surfaces. But before you start painting books, take the time to prepare your work space and materials.


Put down newspaper or scrap paper to prevent paint from getting on your table or carpet.
Gently clean your books with a cloth or paper towel to remove dust, grease, and dirt. As a water-based paint, acrylics will not adhere to oily surfaces.
Open each book and lay it down on the scrap paper so that the cover side is up.
Grab whatever design tools you will use such as stamps, stencils, and ribbons.
 Though you can use the paint directly out of its tube or jar, you may want to consider mixing it to create different colors. You can also thin the paint by watering it down.


Use your palette to mix colors or to thin paint. Keep paint wet by adding a retarding medium, which makes the paint dry more slowly.
For the base coat, use a large, flat brush. You may need to use other paint brushes for small details and intricate designs. Keep brushes wet to prevent paint from drying on them.
 Varnishing helps protect the paint and makes it last longer. This is especially important since your painted books will be out in the open (not behind glass, like some acrylic paintings). Wait until the paint is dry and then paint the varnish on. You can use either a gloss (shiny) or matte (dull) finish.
 Stack a pile of painted books on your coffee table or fireplace mantle. Add them to a bookshelf. Set them on your nightstand or on top of a piano. Create a centerpiece for the island or dinner table in your kitchen.

