 This procedure is done to quickly test for allergies. A small portion of a liquid containing an allergen is put on your skin. The doctor will then prick your skin and wait to see if you have any rash that forms around the area.Common allergens that are tested this way include:


Dust, pollen, animal hair, and food products.
The controlled food challenge is another test that is similar to this one but is only used for food allergies. The test is only done in a doctors office and it can be dangerous. You would be given a small amount of food that you might be allergic to and observed for signs of an allergic reaction.
 If you think you may have food allergies, you can talk to a doctor about eliminating certain foods from your diet to see if you are allergic to them. The way the process works is you focus on eliminating one food group each week to see if your allergies clear up. You rotate eliminated foods until you figure out the food that is causing your symptoms.Foods that commonly cause allergies include eggs, nuts, wheat, milk and soy.
 Throat swabs are used to figure out what virus is causing the cold. A doctor will take a sterile cotton swab and gently run it along the inside of your throat. This can be uncomfortable but will help to figure out what kind of treatment you need if you do in fact have a cold rather than allergies.Once the doctor has gotten a large enough sample on the swab, he or she will send it off to a laboratory to be tested.
 Like a throat swab, a nasal swab is when mucus is collected from you by sticking a swab in your nose. Again, this can only be done by a doctor. When the doctor has collected a large enough sample, the swab will be sent off to a lab for testing.


You will generally get your results back 48 hours after your visit to the doctor’s office.
 When you go into the doctor’s office, a nurse will take a sample of your blood. That sample will be sent to a lab for examination. Different types of allergens will be exposed to your blood so that the doctor can figure out what you are allergic to.


This test generally takes a few weeks and is usually reserved for really severe allergies.

