 What have you done to make the person, or women in general, feel this way about you? Even small things can make a person intimidated and scared of you.


Do you tend to shout or talk just a little too loudly? You can control this by thinking carefully about the volume in which you talk.
Do you have a short temper?
Are you rude or intimidating without even realizing it? (Try asking some trusted friends if you come off this way.)
Are men intimidated by you too?;
, If you swear obsessively, tend to make snide/rude remarks, then more cautious women might feel wary of you.


Cut out any bad habits in your language. Cut down on excessive swearing, or language that could be viewed as sexist (e.g. b*tch, c*nt, or sl*t).
Watch the volume of your voice. Projecting is absolutely fine. If you are clearly the loudest person in the conversation, or if you are shouting over people, you might want to tone it down.
 If your body language is domineering or aggressive, people might especially shy away from you.


Focus on using approachable body language. Don't aggressively dominate the room; be casual and friendly in everyday situations.
Pay attention to personal space. How much personal space do you see in others' interactions? Is it the same as what you give people when talking to them? Is it possible you're invading someone's personal space without knowing?
Sneers, angling yourself away from someone, and rolling your eyes can be read as contempt.
 This isn't your fault—women are taught to live by a "rape schedule," or adopting behaviors (dressing modestly, caution around alcohol, not walking alone at night) to avoid getting raped.This affects some women more strongly than others.


This is neither your fault nor her fault. Rapists and rape culture are the issue.
 If a woman in your life (colleague, peer, friend) was upset by your actions, make time to apologize. Explain that you're sorry you upset her, and take time to listen to her side of the story.


Choose a semi-public place like a restaurant or park. This can help her feel less on edge.
Make your intentions clear right away. Start the conversation by saying "I want to apologize."
If you don't know exactly why you upset her, say so. "I'm not sure why you're acting afraid of me. Whatever I did, I'm truly sorry. Making you nervous around me certainly wasn't my goal."

