 Dysthymia is a category of depression. Have a discussion with your loved one about their symptoms and depression. Be gentle in your approach, yet let them know you are concerned and want to help. Prioritize showing compassion over giving advice. Let them know you are ready to listen and be supportive.Remember that dysthymia is a long-term suffering with symptoms of depression and not something the person can stop feeling when they want to.


Start the conversation by saying, “I’m concerned about you” or, “I’ve noticed some changes and I’m wondering how you’re doing.”
Ask questions such as, “When did you start feeling like this? What makes it difficult for you? Do you feel like this all time?”
Avoid being condescending (“Why aren’t you better yet?”), minimizing their pain (“Everybody feels this way”), or telling them to “snap out” of it.;
, When talking to your loved one, don’t take it as an opportunity to tell them what to do or how to get better. This can make them feel disempowered or that they are not in control of your disorder or their treatment. Instead, learn from them and ask, “How can I be there for you? What support do you need?”Ask, “Have you considered getting help? How can I support you in your treatment?”

, Isolation and loneliness can make depressive symptoms worse.Check up on your loved one regularly and offer to spend time together. Even a weekly phone call can help if you live far away. Encourage your loved one to spend time with others and engage in social relationships and activities.If you notice your loved one isolating, reach out. Offer to come over and make dinner or go to a movie together.
If your loved one continuously refuses to meet up, express your concern. Say, “I’m concerned that you’re isolating, which makes me wonder how you’re doing with your dysthymia. Are you feeling okay? Is there anything I can do?”

, Encourage your loved one to keep healthy habits for overall well-being and health. Support them in eating healthy foods, managing stress, and getting good sleep each night.Staying physically healthy can help with staying mentally healthy.


Talk to your loved one about the benefits of overall health. Say, “I know you struggle with dysthymia, and I want to help you feel better overall. Staying healthy means taking take of your health and keeping your body running well.”
Invite them over for healthy meals to spend time together and to enjoy healthy cooking. Enjoy non-alcoholic activities such as watching a movie or going for coffee.
Encourage them to eat more omega-3 fatty acids, which can ease depressive symptoms. Some good habits include eating a 4-ounce serving of fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, or tuna twice a week, or taking a 2-gram fish oil supplement.
 To be the best possible support for someone with dysthymia, you need to sustain your own physical, mental and spiritual well-being as well., Exercise is a great way to boost mood and prevent depressive episodes. Engaging in regular exercise can help manage dysthymia and other symptoms of depression. Encourage your loved one to get 15-30 minutes of activity every day.Offer to exercise with your loved one by going on regular walks, joining a fitness class such as spinning, or joining a gym. Make it fun and something you both look forward to doing together.
Be gentle and do not pester your loved one if they resist. Keep inviting them to do activities with you and find one that appeals to them.
 Meditation has health benefits for physical, emotional, and mental health. Additionally, it can help with managing symptoms of depression.Meditate together to harness the powers of accountability and to improve both of your lives.


One basic meditation is to focus on your breathing. Sit comfortably and focus on your inhales and exhales. Tune out your thoughts and point your attention solely to your breath. Do this for 5-15 minutes.
If you’re interested in learning other meditation techniques, check out How to Meditate, How to do Mindful Meditation, and How to Meditate to Relieve Stress.
 Help your loved one in their treatment by assisting in making appointments and driving them to see their therapist. If your loved one has a difficult time keeping up with life, offer to help out by making meals and assisting in housework.Make sure that while you help out your loved one you do not get burnt out or resentful. If this happens, take a step back and re-evaluate how you’re able to help.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress that you can do together. Thirty minutes of relaxation each day can help manage depression, stabilize moods, and cope with stress.Relaxation can help you feel good and spend time together doing something beneficial.


Do activities that both of you enjoy and find benefit in. Check out yoga classes, qi gong, or other activities, such as painting or writing. Find something you enjoy and stick with it.
 Recognizing the value in activities as simple as walking, gardening, or watching an uplifting movie can stimulate the brain to release hormones that ease the symptoms of dysthymia., This simple treatment involves sitting or working near a device called a light therapy box, which gives off bright light meant to simulate sunshine and effects brain chemicals related to mood and sleep.A new study shows that light therapy, in conjunction with pharmacotherapy, significantly improved depression among patients., If supportive techniques like diet, exercise, medication and social support aren't effective, encourage your friend to visit their doctor. Remind your loved one that treatment is important and will help improve their symptoms. Encourage them to get regular therapy. Even if they are feeling better, support them in taking medications regularly, and if they want to come off medication, advise them to do so with the guidance of a psychiatrist. It’s okay if treatment and symptom improvement takes time.Both minor dysthymic disorder and major depression are treated with the same kinds of medication, although dysthymic disorder may require a smaller dosage. Medication may only be needed for a short time to help your loved one regain their mental health.
An alternative to medication is psychotherapy. This can involve 6-12 weekly sessions that use open-ended questions, affirmation, reflection, and problem-solving therapy.
If your loved one does not have a therapist, help them to find one. Call their insurance provider, local mental health clinic, or get a referral from their physician.
 Some people experience suicidal thoughts as a result of feeling depressed. For someone with dysthymia, they might feel like they cannot get away from the depressed feelings and want to find an out.Look out for warning signs of suicide such as talking about killing themselves, selling their possessions, increasing alcohol or substance use, feeling like a burden to others, socially withdrawing from friends and activities, and acting reckless.Let your loved one know they can reach out to you and that you want to support them without judging them. Encourage them to get treatment right away.


If your loved one is suicidal, take any threats seriously and act on them right away. Call emergency services, go to your local emergency department, and get in touch with their therapist.
You can also call a suicide helpline, such as 1-800-273-8255 in the USA, 08457 90 90 90 in the UK, and 13 11 14 in Australia.
 If your loved one lacks social connection, encourage them to join a hobby or activity that exposes them to others. If your loved one has always had an interest in art, encourage a painting class or sculpting class. Or, perhaps check out another activity such as karate, scrapbooking, or gardening. Whatever it is, encourage social environment which can help connect them to others easily.Volunteering is a great way to do some good for the community and meet new people. If your loved one is shy or doesn’t want to be around lots of people, encourage them to volunteer at an animal shelter.

