 Nepenthes are divided into two species groups – highland and lowland. The two species are divided based on the altitude of their natural growth habitat, so they need slightly different care to thrive. There is also a less common intermediate group that can grow in both highland and lowland conditions. The species mostly dictates the temperature and amount of light the plants need. Most of the other growth conditions are about the same for all species.A few examples of lowland species are N. Ampullaria, N. alata, N. eymae (infundibuliformis, eymai), N.khasiana, N. mirabilis, N. ventricosa, N. ampullaria, N. bicalcarata, N. gracilis and N. maxima.
Some examples of highland species are N. Ventricosa, N. burbidgeae, N. lowii, N. rajah and N. villosa.A good example for an intermediate species is N. Sanguinea.;
, The lowlanders prefer night temperatures that are above 70°F (20°C) and day temperatures between 85°F and 95°F (29°C and 35°C). They are sensitive to cold temperatures. The highlanders prefer a cooler environment. They like night temperatures between 45°F and 65°F (7°C and 18°C) and day temperatures between 65°F and 85°F (18°C and 29°C). They can be sensitive to higher temperatures.Most species of nepenthes are able to grow in daytime temperatures ranging somewhere between 65°F and 80°F (18° and 27°C).
In general, most nepenthes can thrive at temperatures between 55°F and 95°F (12°C and 35°C)., The amount of light required by nepenthes varies wildly from species to species. Research the species you have, find out its natural habitat, and try to recreate that as closely as you can. As a general rule, they need at least four hours of direct sunlight each day, along with very bright (but not direct) sunlight for the rest of the day.No matter what species you have, avoid putting nepenthes in full shade. They won’t thrive.
If you can’t replicate the light requirements needed by your plant, look into using broad spectrum lights.
 Nepenthes come from tropical climates, so humidity is essential for them. In general, they like humidity levels of 60% or more.They will tolerate lower humidity levels, but it can cause them to stop making pitchers. Lowlanders prefer a steady humidity level. Highlanders, on the other hand, will tolerate low humidity levels during the day, as long as they get higher during the night. If you live in a warm, humid climate, you can try putting your plants outside. Always bring them in when the temperature drops under 50°F (10°C).


Many people use indoor humidifiers to create the right environment for their plants. If you do, make sure the area is well-ventilated.
Greenhouses and terrariums are other humid spots many nepenthes species enjoy., Because of the way they evolved, nepenthes prefer nutrient-free soil. This means the potting material should have little to no trace minerals in it. They need to grow in a medium that provides plenty of aeration and drainage. Most nepenthes enthusiasts like to create their own planting mix using several different kinds of potting materials. The most common ones used are coconut husk, dried sphagnum moss, perlite (or pumice), peat moss, and silica sand.


Feel free to create your own mix using these options.Other growth media to consider for mixes – charcoal, lava rock, orchid bark, cedar chips and limestone.