


Watch the entire musical (they have the MTV Version on YouTube which is great, just search "Legally Blonde The Musical" on YouTube and it should come up.)






Watch the original movie






reading the plot and character list on Wikipedia
listening to the cast recording This will give you a leg up on the competition because after doing all of this you will know the show like the back of your hand!





;
, You should pick about 3 to focus on unless you know you only want a specific part or you are open to any part. For guys, see step 3, for girls, see step 4.


There are only a few guys parts in Legally Blonde, but all of them are great roles. If you are usually typecast as the handsome leading man, you probably want to try out for Warner or even Professor Callahan. They both have some great moments in the show. For Warner, listen to "Serious" and try to pick a song like that (it might even be a pop song). Professor Callahan's main song is "Blood In The Water" so try to pick something along the lines of that. Another role is Kyle, the UPS guy. This is a good part for someone who doesn't necessarily want a lot of lines or songs, but it is one of the most scene-stealing parts in the show. Make sure your butt looks good in tight pants! The male lead in this show is not Warner, but nerdy, mousy Emmett. It is a great part for a tenor as his songs are relatively high for the male voice. Make sure you dress a little nerdy for the audition, but still cute. If Emmett was ugly, Elle wouldn't fall for him as she does!
There are so many girls parts in the show, so don't be upset if there is a ton of competition...everyone should get a part! The Delta Nu's all have featured solos, Kate has a large part in "What You Want' and Serena, Pillar, and Margot act as a greek chorus throughout the whole show. These are all big dancing roles, so brush up your dancing for the auditions! Brooke Wyndham is a super fun role as she has a huge, energetic song, "Whipped Into Shape". This is a vocally as well as physically demanding role as she must belt up to a high G while jump roping and dancing for 3-5 minutes. Paulette has a belty ballad, "Ireland" and her character is one of the most loveable ones in the show. Look into songs by Orfeh, the original Paulette on Broadway, for your audition. Vivienne is a fun part too, and she has a small song in the end of the show. She must show a wide range of emotions as she goes from Elle's arch enemy to one of her closest friends. And of course, there would be no show without Elle Woods! Elle must posses kindness, bubbliness, and confidence. Be careful not to copy Laura Bell Bundy or Reese Witherspoon though. Make Elle your own character.
 Look into other musicals by the composers like "Bat Boy" or "Sarah, Plain and Tall". Rent, Wicked, and Hairspray have similar styled music but be careful because these audition songs are often overdone. You can also do musical theatre styled covers or pop songs, much like they do on Glee.
 Be sure to arrive early and dress appropriately. And most of all, BE CONFIDENT! Nobody wants an Elle Woods or Delta Nu girl show can't smile. Keep it Positive, as Elle and her sorority sisters would say!

