 It's natural to want to vent, but work is not the place for this. Don't share simply because you are having a hard time personally. Sharing personal information should be reserved for when the problem is going to affect your work. Sometimes this sort of sharing can even help build better work relationships. Some examples of things appropriate to share include:Pregnancy.
An illness that will affect your ability to work.
A family problem involving children, parents, or spouse, that might affect your work schedule or ability to work.
If it's something you're not comfortable talking about, like a health issue, be vague but offer verification for your problem from a doctor.;
, This can change how your boss looks at you and make for an awkward relationship moving forward. Also, remember that your boss is your employer and not your friend.

Leave problems with partners or significant others at home.
Don't talk about financial problems.
Don't talk about parenting problems, like a kid who keeps getting in trouble with the law.
Troubles with your car or house.
 If your problems are of a serious medical nature (whether physical or emotional), you could discuss temporary disability or a temporary leave of absence if your company allows for it. Sometimes, it is better to ask for leave than it is to tell your boss your entire life story and all your assorted dramas.


Find out if working from home is a possible temporary solution.
Know your rights. According to the Family and Medical Leave Act, a variety of experiences like a sick spouse, child-birth, and illness entitle you to a period of unpaid, job protected leave., Sometimes your work place or personal problem can be due to something happening at work. There can be tension and misunderstandings, or outright inappropriate behavior that is hurting your relationship. Some issues can include:


Your boss being mean or rude to you.
Someone in the workplace making unwanted physical contact.
Unfair work expectations that are causing emotional problems.
If your company has an HR department, you can discuss with them issues that might make you nervous to discuss with boss.

