 Ensure that you have all the knowledge of relevant topics associated with that particular charity. The more facts you know the better you can answer any question that the person you approach may ask. For example: What is it all about?, Who benefits?, Why would anyone want to support that?, Will it improve my community?, will my efforts make a visible difference?;
, Ask the charity committee for any information they can spare (on paper).
 This article would suggest that you approach schools, churches, local businesses etc. instead of just handing out flyer's in the street. As an example, arrange a meeting with the local school headmaster. Handing them all of the relevant documents proves that you are asking them to support a legitimate charitable organization. For example, the benefits coming out of the charity would be the goodness that could come to the community and how wonderful it would be to have that schools youth actively involved.


Recruit your friends and family. There are many ways to get people involved, the easiest is to convince your friends and family first. Focus on getting them actively involved.
 Ensure that you are clear as to what type of support you are asking for. Remember that they will have to take the idea to others in a positive and exciting way.
 The volunteers that sign up might have to be contacted later for additional information. This means that key information to record will include name & surname, contact number, age and description of what they volunteer to help with.
 You will need to do a follow up meeting with your volunteers as soon as practically possible to give additional information, answer questions and relay what you will require of them.
 Someone from the charity organisation will have to be available for people to contact if they have any questions. Ensuring that your volunteers can contact you in the event that they might have to cancel or if they have additional questions that need answering is very important.
 If you are unable to answer a question accurately, direct them to someone who can. This article strongly suggest that the reader does not guess an answer to a question especially when it comes to distribution of funds and so on, as this might reflect badly on the organization of that charity.
 If you keep the meetings with your volunteer fun, exciting and informative, you have less chance of disappointment on the day of the charity event with volunteers that just didn't show up or who is not enthusiastic about it.
 After the event, keep the records of your volunteers and note what their responsibilities were at the time of the event. That way, you have a database for the next event. This means that the same volunteers could be reached if necessary preventing you from repeating 90% of your work, leaving you more time for other things.

