 In some ways, fundraising online is not much different than fundraising in the physical world. You still need to be able to effectively communicate your needs, tell stories that illustrate your work, and motivate people to make a donation to your cause. The difference is that while in the physical world you may have time to build a relationship with a potential donor, that isn't always the case online. They may only come across your website once, so you may only have one shot at convincing them to give. Therefore, it's even more important to communicate your message in a compelling way. Here are some ways to do it.
 The most basic way to raise funds online is to set up a webpage for donations, then let people know to go to that page to make a contribution. Include the link in written and electronic communications you send to your members or constituents. Make sure it's accessible from your home page, and other pages of your website. Keep these tips in mind.


Most donations made online are done by credit card transaction. If you are not already set up to accept credit cards, there are a number of companies that provide credit card donation processing services for a fee.
Offer the option of recurring donations. Recurring donations can benefit your organization in a few ways. Many donors find it easier to make a larger donation if its split up into quarterly or monthly payments; some very committed donors may want to make an annual donation to you. Make this as easy as possible by setting up recurring payments. Ask your online donation processing service how to offer this to your donors.
Some organizations opt to accept online donations through PayPal. Visit PayPal's website to learn more.
 Fundraising with an affiliate program is a lot like making commissions off sales. An online merchant or shopping portal provides the charity with a unique affiliate link. Shoppers use the link to access the merchant, make purchases, and the charity receives a percentage of the sales. Here are some tips for affiliate fundraising.


There are dozens of merchants and portals that offer this fundraising tool. You can sign up for more than one to maximize your potential donations.
Consider your constituents. When you select a merchant, consider where your constituents are likely to shop online. It might be a good idea to do a survey or ask a few key players to make sure you're choosing well.
Get the word out. Most affiliate programs offer widgets or banners that are easy to drop into your website. Include these on your website and in electronic communications to let your supporters know how they can help.
 Crowdfunding combines online fundraising with social media to help individuals and organizations raise funds. it's a way for many individuals to pool their resources and donations to get projects funded. Donors can typically contribute as little as $1.00, making it easy for lots of people to participate. There are several websites set up for crowdfunding. Funds-seekers create a campaign page describing their project or organization, and explain how the funds will be used and what, if any, benefit donors will receive for participating. Here are some tips on fundraising using crowdfunding.


Crowdfunding is particularly well suited for funding discrete projects. Rather than launch a campaign asking for all the money you need to operate a program, consider how you can break it up a bit. For example, a school music program could launch a campaign to purchase 10 instruments for low income students.
Articulate your needs and your project clearly. The clearer you can be about why you need the money and how you will use it, the better.
Get creative. Add media to your campaign page to increase readers' interest. Videos, images and success stories are great for telling your story, so use them to your advantage.

