 Besides holding a potentially lethal electrical charge, batteries contain corrosive agents that can produce a flammable gas. Before you remove your car's battery, take these safety steps.









Turn off the ignition.
Wear safety goggles and gloves to protect your eyes and hands.;
, It usually has a black cover. The battery itself may have a minus sign near the connector post. The positive terminal usually has a red cap or a plus sign on the battery near its connection post.
 Always work on the negative terminal before the positive when you disconnect your battery.









Grab a socket from your socket kit and hold it near, but not against, the nut on the negative terminal of your battery. Ascertain visually the socket size you'll need to loosen the nut.
Put the appropriately sized socket on your wrench. You might have to attach a wrench extender to reach the nut.
Put the wrench on the nut on the negative terminal and turn counterclockwise (remember: righty tighty, lefty loosey). It will take only a few turns to loosen it.
Pull the negative connector from the battery after you've loosened the nut. Push it aside so it is unable to make contact with the battery while you're doing your work.
If the cable is seized to the battery post, a special battery cable removal tool may be needed to remove the negative connector. Ask your local auto parts store or mechanic.
 After removing it from the terminal, don't let the positive connector touch any metal part of the car. There is residual current in the system that, if it were to touch a metal surface, could disrupt or damage the circuits in the vehicle.
 With the battery cables disconnected, you can safely perform repairs on electrical components of the vehicle. If you just need to put in a new car battery, it can be done in a few simple steps.









After the battery is disconnected, unscrew the brackets that hold it in its tray.
Lift the battery straight up, out of its tray. Keep in mind that car batteries can weigh 40 lbs. so ask for help if you need it.
Using an old toothbrush, brush the tray and battery cables with a diluted baking-soda mixture and allow them to dry before putting in your new car battery.
Place the new battery on the tray and tighten the clamps.
Connect the cable for the positive terminal first, then the negative. Remember to securely tighten the nuts on each.
Close the hood and start the car.
Dispose of the old battery properly. The auto-parts store you bought your new battery from probably will take the old one as part of its service arrangement. If not, take it to a recycling center or automotive garage. Most accept old batteries for a nominal fee.

