 You can get a decent one for around $20 and a really nice one for around $50. Do some comparative research online to find one that speaks to you.


Alright, alright, you're right. A wireless keyboard isn't completely necessary. But when it's wireless, it's a lot easier to.
 Those "make your brain faster" websites ain't got nothing on you. QWERTY? No thanks. That's for plebeians. ⅄┴ɹƎMQ is what your fingers run on now (or, in all actuality, uɯ'˙/). Now the numbers are subject to your thumbs and the spacebar is manned by your index fingers. Looking at the keyboard the way an average human does is just quaint, really.


The text will remain normal on the screen. For this method, reading isn't the work you'll be doing -- you'll literally have to reprogram your hands. You were typing 90 WPM...but now you type 5 WPM. Challenge extended!

, This is going to be very, very difficult, especially if you've been typing for years and can do it without looking at the keys. Now not only will your mind not know where to put your fingers but your thoughts on what to write will probably just stop. You'll sit there, upside-down keyboard in your hands and the only thing that will run across your overwhelmed brain is, "How is this going to benefit me ever?!" Relax. Keep going. You'll get better.


In a few weeks' time, you'll be able to tackle a computer from any angle. Once you get good, try attacking a desktop standing and from the back. For a true challenge, use one of those old box-y ones; the flat screens make it too easy.
 Don't tell anyone about this new resume-builder you've been working on. Then, spring it on them. Bet your friend you can type the opening monologue to Shakespeare's Romeo & Juliet upside-down before they can even recite it. Can you do it with your eyes closed, too?


Tell them you've mastered the art of disengaging your brain from the constraints of reality and you can take any image in your head and flip it around. When you start typing, you see the keyboard as normal. Boom. What material shall your pedestal be made from?

