 As you prepare for your new living arrangements, get used to the thought of downsizing and living without some of the comforts you might take for granted. From setting a budget to finding a place of your own, accepting that your lifestyle must change is the most essential lesson to learn.If you live with your parents, prepare yourself to give up having cable with 300 channels, a washing machine, dryer, dishwasher, and a spacious house.
If you’re used to having roommates, prepare to cut your spending on entertainment and going out drastically so you can afford to live alone.
 Finding a place to live costs more than just your first month’s rent, so be sure to save up for at least a few months. Depending on your location, you’ll have to pay a security deposit or rental bond, which is typically equivalent to one month’s rent. In addition, even if you just rent a truck and have friends help you move in exchange for pizza, you’ll still have some degree of moving costs.If you have a pet, you might have to pay a one time or recurring pet fee.
If you’re planning on purchasing your new place, factor in your down payment, closing costs, inspection fees, legal fees, and the cost of moving your furniture.
 Look on websites like Zillow for apartments or houses for rent in your budget. You can also search for property management companies in your area.Toggle your search options so you only see places that you can afford. Get to know your area’s market and compare rents across various neighborhoods.  
Think about how one location might save you money in the long run. If an apartment is $100 more per month than another, but is walking distance to your job and near a public transit hub, think about how you might save money on gas or by getting rid of your car altogether.
 If you live in a big city, look for places to rent that are outside of the urban center. Living in the heart of the city or in a more desirable neighborhood can cost two or three times as much as living in a suburb.The cost of living in your city could also make it impossible to live alone, so do some research into the average annual income required to live comfortably in your area. For example, if your city’s average cost of living demands an annual income twice as much as your earnings, consider relocating to a more affordable city.
 If your domestic partner or roommate announces that they’re moving out, figure out if you can cut your non-housing bills and stay in your current home. If you can’t afford it, find a smaller place. It’s better to downsize to a studio or one bedroom than struggle to make ends meet in a two bedroom.If you love your location and live in an apartment complex, ask your property manager if any smaller apartments are available.
Make sure you and your roommate meet the terms of your lease, or you’ll risk losing your security deposit.
 If you’re preparing to live alone because you’re ending a relationship, think about how your soon-to-be ex will react. Ideally, you can discuss your situation rationally, and strategize your break-up in a way that leaves you both financially stable.


However, if you believe they’ll try to make it financially impossible for you to move, open a new bank account in your name, use the account to save money for your move, and delete your browsing history after searching for a new place to live.