 Psychotherapy, also called “talk therapy,” is the best way to begin the process of overcoming your reluctance or inability to enter into trusting relationships. Whether you suspect otherwise trustworthy partners of betraying you or consistently choose partners who prove to be untrustworthy individuals, the first step toward healthy relationships is to work through underlying personal issues that may be influencing your behavior.Psychotherapy sessions are typically held once a week, and last for 50 minutes.
Sessions are goal-oriented, and your therapist will equip you with techniques you can implement in your day-to-day life to manage both the symptoms and causes of your underlying trust issues.
Depending on your therapist’s evaluation, you may be prescribed medication that will help control your overall anxiety, including that directed toward relationships.
 The problems you face trusting your partner today may well have deep-seated roots that extend into your current relationship. Traumas such as childhood abuse — verbal, physical, and sexual — are common causes of trust issues in adults; severe traumas should be addressed under the guided direction of a medical professional.


Trauma need not be dramatic or severe to have lasting repercussions, though.
For example, the separation of one’s parents is a trauma often overlooked because so many people experience it, but don’t seem to suffer lasting negative consequences.
Don’t compare the severity of your experiences to that of other people. Whatever pain you feel is valid, and needs to be addressed.
If you cannot see a therapist, keep a journal about your traumatic experience. Force yourself to write about the memories that bring you pain.
 Though you will have to do much of the work in overcoming your trust issues on your own, you must include your partner in the process if you want to improve your relationship. When you find that you are deep enough into a relationship to want a future with someone, you have to make a conscious decision to share your past, your fears, and your insecurities with them.


Make clear both to your partner and to yourself that you don’t expect them to solve your problems.
All your partner can or should do is listen and be supportive, but that will go a long way toward building a strong relationship of trust with them.
 However, if your inability to trust affects your partner in a negative manner, be willing to face them and admit that you have hurt them: “I’m sorry that I accused you of not loving me. Every day, you do something to prove me wrong, and I know that it doesn’t feel good to be accused of something like that.”


This will both show your partner that you recognize and appreciate them, and hold you accountable to yourself about the ways in which you externalize or take out your problems on your partner.
 However, the inability to acknowledge that you might be acting irrationally in withholding trust from your partner suggests an underlying problem that needs to be addressed.


Accept that you are wrong about any number of things in your daily life; simply because you believe something to be true does not mean that it is in fact true.
Generalize this acceptance to your perception of your partner’s trustworthiness. Your beliefs and the reality of the situation may not align as neatly as you want to believe.
 Mindfulness, in a therapeutic context, means being consciously present in a given moment of crisis or anxiety in order to experience and work through it openly. Although its roots are in Eastern meditative tradition, it's become increasingly popular in western therapy. Studies suggest that the practice of mindfulness results in a demonstrative reduction in anxiety, depression, and stress, and improves both a person’s ability to recall specific memories from the past that might otherwise be painful or blurry, and their overall quality of life.Accept that there is no “right” or “wrong” way to feel in a given situation; simply allow yourself to feel what you are feeling in the present moment.Don’t focus on past experiences that might cloud your experience of the present moment. For example, the fact that your parents divorced has no bearing on your current relationship.
Don’t worry about the future either; focus only on what’s happening right now.
To focus your attention on the present moment, concentrate on your breathing; feel the air enter your body, experience the feeling of holding it in your lungs for a long beat, then concentrate on exhaling slowly and steadily.
Pay close attention to the sensory detail around you: what are you hearing, smelling, feeling, tasting, and seeing around you? Absorb the details of the present moment.

