 Especially "Aldan" there are a lot of people who only like to adopt there. You can always enter servers that say they're full, as one or two players, or "Jammers", may leave and make room at any second. By entering a busier server, you'll have a higher chance of coming upon babies or children that need parents - and even possibly adoption centers!;
, Do not dress in scary outfits or be a zombie, vampire, werewolf, etc. because this can scare babies! Try making a cute outfit!

, If you are nice to one baby in the Adoption Room/Pillow Room, or where ever you are adopting, make sure you are nice to everyone because if you don't then the others could get jealous and not want you as a parent!

, Make a nice room with some plushies and a bed (Made with couches/towels and a cushion/pillow at the head) and maybe some toys and a TV. Some babies like it when you make your den into a realistic home. You can do this by adding in a dining room, bathroom, parents' room, playroom, living room, etc. Make sure that the house is baby-proof - keep all dangerous areas (Kitchens, laundry rooms, grills, fires, possibly stairs, anything with pointy objects) off limits to your baby. Try adding a Shoji Screen for the effect of a wall or gate. Keep them mostly in the cribs and don't let them out even if they ask to and chew on the bars.
 Be sure to add the child to your buddy list, so you can go to their den and follow them. (If you are a non-member they may say members only - just move on these people just want the best for themselves)

, Whether you're staying at a hotel, friend's den, husband's or wife's den, or your own den be sure that the baby knows that wherever they live is a safe place to go. Also let them know whoever owns the den via username, so the baby can always enter the den.
 Whether you're a mom or a dad, the baby will need care. If they're hungry, take them to the dining room or, if they're old enough, Captain Melvin's Juice Hut or the Mt. Shiveer Hot Cocoa Hut. If your baby requests something, try to get it for them if it isn't too hard. If your baby is upset, ask them why and make it better. If your baby gets sick try to give them medicine and bandages. If they pretend to keep on being sick, ask them why, and if they don't respond send them back to the pillow room to get adopted again.
 If they don't want to be a baby forever, you'll have to accept that. Support your child as they grow and help them with any troubles they may have. If they get married be sure to attend their wedding and support them! If you really don't want your baby to grow up, just think about the future. Your child may have babies of their own, then you'd be a grandma or grandpa to them!

, Your baby needs some knowledge, right now, as a child, it knows nothing about the real world, take them to school, preschool, college, etc.

