 With your dog in a sitting position, move behind him or her and crouch down so that you can easily maneuver from the dog's back and around to the front.


The dog can be in a standing position as long as he or she is standing still and calm, but do not try to do this while your dog is in an excited state since you or the dog could get hurt. You will not be able to do this with the dog lying down.
You could also put this harness on from the front, but working from this position could make a dog more excited or anxious, so it is generally recommended that you put the harness on from behind or from the side.
 Slide the loop created by the shoulder strap and chest strap over the dog's head. The shoulder strap should rest across the dog's shoulders.


Before slipping on the harness, unsnap the buckle on the belly strap.
The shoulder strap and chest strap are nearly perpendicular to each other when extended out. Of the two straps perpendicular to the single shoulder strap, the chest strap is the longer one.
In many designs, the shoulder strap and chest strap are also the same color while the belly strap may be another color.
After slipping the shoulder strap on, adjust it so that the round connector ring sits above and behind the dog's shoulders, centered in between the two shoulder blades.
 Bring the belly snap underneath the dog's stomach and back up to the buckle snap on the other side.


Adjust both the shoulder and belly straps at this point so that the two are comfortably snug. For small and medium dogs, you should be able to fit one finger beneath both straps. For larger dogs, this should be two fingers.
The overall girth, consisting of both the shoulder and belly straps, should look like an even, vertical line. The belly strap should not slip below the dog's armpit area.
 The chest strap should be horizontal and rest over the dog's breastbone. Tighten or loosen the strap as needed to create this fit.


Gently press your fingers on the lower front of the dog's chest. In doing this, you should be able to find the breastbone.
Adjust both sides of the chest strap evenly so that the D-ring is centered in the front.
The strap should not hang down or ride up.
 Your dog's harness should be secure now. Once you clip the leash to the front leash ring or front D-ring, your dog can safely go on a walk.

