 Using your computer go to the following link and download the latest recommended version of Ubuntu at http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download. Select start download in the large orange box on your screen. Make sure to save the file somewhere you’ll remember for easy access later. The download time will vary depending on the speed of your specific internet connection.;
, After the Ubuntu operating system has been downloaded follow the link provided to obtain the USB installer for Ubuntu. http://www.pendrivelinux.com/downloads/Universal-USB-Installer/. Locate and click the download button. Save this file in the same place as the first file.
 Once you’ve completed the desired backup locate the USB Ubuntu installer file downloaded earlier and double click to run it.
, Second click "Browse" and select the Ubuntu ISO file previously downloaded. Third select your USB flash drive letter. After completing the previous steps select "Create".
, When the machine reboots, hit the delete key to enter the BIOS. (Delete, F2) are two of the most common keys to enter the BIOS. Choose the correct key according to your specific machine. In the bios menu locate the boot order settings. Change the machines boot order to boot off the USB or removable device first. Save and exit the BIOS. (Caution altering additional settings in the BIOS can cause hardware issues)

, Since we have already installed Ubuntu to the flash drive simply select run Ubuntu from this USB.


If you made it to this screen you have successfully installed Ubuntu version 11.10. Congratulations! Now let's get installing some applications. Locate and select the Ubuntu Software Center Icon in the left hand side toolbar on your screen.
, To search for specific software name use the search box located in the upper right hand corner of the Software Center window. Browsing by application type can also be done in the menu located on the left.
 Enjoy your free version of Ubuntu v11.10 and all your favorite applications.

