 Show the horse that nothing is going to harm it. Move slowly while speaking comforting words – even though the horse might not understand you, it will be soothed by the calm sound of your voice. Keep your hands at your sides with palms facing up, as well. Be sure not to make any sudden movements., If the horse shies back or to the side, continue to speak to it in soothing tones. Try to find out what has alarmed it. This should be fairly obvious as the horse will either prick his ears and either look directly at the object or shy in the opposite direction. If you can safely approach, try rubbing the gentle spot in the middle of its forehead. Horses respond positively to massages like the so-called "T-Touch." This will relax the horse., Horses do not share our ability to reason. For them, an unknown shape or object signals a possible danger and is to be avoided. They won't understand that a rabbit or garden hose, for example, is not a danger. Punishing the horse or forcing it to confront what has spooked it will therefore not work, and in fact may worsen the situation, increasing the horse's fear. If you punish the horse, it may also begin to fear you., Formulas made from plants like lavender, chamomile, valerian, or bach flower are favorites for calming down horses. These can also calm riders. Herbal remedies come in several forms like herbal compresses, poultices, infusions, or tinctures of alcohol, water, and plant essence; depending on type, they can be given to the horse by inhalation or ingestion in its feed. Make sure that you follow the proper instructions for how to administer the remedy. , Lunging is a technique in which a horse is worked around a circle on a trainer's line. It can help inexperienced horses learn to respond to voice commands and a trainer's body language and will get them used to wearing a saddle and reins and to feeling the bit. Lunging can also settle a horse before you ride it, so it is always a good idea to do so. To lunge your horse you will need good boots, a ring arena, your voice, and a long line about 30-35 feet long. The idea is to have the horse circuit the arena with the guidance of your voice and a lunging whip, changing its pace and direction. Eventually it should come to recognize your voice for walking, trotting, cantering, and other commands.Be sparing with the lunging whip. Cracking the whip can upset the horse, while touching it with the whip is a signal for the animal to move forward strongly. .

