 For a brain with a diameter of 4 inches (10cm), each ball of clay you pinch off should be about 2 inches (5cm) in diameter. This brain will only be one color. Choose a pale pink or gray clay for best results.


Each ball of clay you pinch off during this step will need to be about half the desired size of your final brain. When in doubt, pinch off a little more rather than pinching off a little less. It will be easier to remove clay later than it will be to add clay.;
, Place one ball of clay between your palms. Rub your hands back and forth over the clay. This process should cause the clay to gradually roll out into the form of a rope. Once the rope begins to exceed the width of your palm, place the clay on a table or other flat surface. Place both palms on the clay and continue rolling the clay to expand the length. Keep going until you have a rope that is about 4 inches (10 cm) long and 1/8 inch (31mm) wide. Repeat with the other ball.


Do your best to use equal pressure on every portion of your clay rope to maintain uniform width for the length of rope.
If one area is thicker than the other, apply more pressure in this area to thin it out.
You can alter the thickness and length depending on how large or small you want the brain to be. The length of each rope will need to be about the same measurement as your desired final diameter. Add or subtract 1/16 inch (16mm) in width for every 2 inches (5cm) you add or subtract in length.
 There is no precise pattern you need to follow for this. Twist, turn and fold the rope over itself to create a random pattern of the surface of the brain. This ball will be one lobe of the brain, and when done, it should be a little longer than it is wide. Repeat with the other rope.Each hemisphere should have slightly flat side side along the length of the lobe where the two will fit together. This will flatten more when you press the two lobes to connect them.
The bottom of the lobe should also be slightly flatter than the top and exterior sides of each lobe.
Try not to smooth out the creases created on the surface as you make this ball. This rope-like pattern is what will give the clay a "brainy" look.
 Hold one lobe in each hand and gently press them together to attach the lobes into one brain figure. Use enough pressure to make the two portions of clay hold together.


Do not press too hard since doing so can flatten the brain out or smooth out the ropes.
The final brain should be slightly longer than it is wide..

