 Consider how they feel about intermingling with persons of a different faith and whether there are other family examples where this has happened. It is important to know whether your parents are vehemently opposed to interfaith dating or are only mildly uncomfortable about it, for this will condition your own approach toward persuading them.;
, If you know they're only mildly uncomfortable about the idea of interfaith dating. In this case, it may be enough to explain the different religion, how faith matters a great deal to your proposed dating partner and the similarities between the two faiths. If you know they're going to shut down really quickly and simply say no, you'll need to be more subtle but determined to keep raising the matter.
 Tell your parents how you feel about this person, what they do and how this person as impacted your life.


Explain how caring and good this person is. Every parent wishes to learn that a potential partner for their child will care for the child as they do.
 As well as telling your side, listen to theirs. Find out what is holding them back from giving you their agreement or blessing to the interfaith dating. It could be a custom or maybe even a matter that is worth you pondering over some more. It has to work both ways. Listen to them and, in turn, they will listen to you. It won't happen in a day or two but it will be worth the effort in the end.


Remain polite and understanding at all times. One act of foolishness or spark of anger may destroy everything you're trying to achieve.
 It isn't easy for parents coping with changes in approaches to relationships in each new generation. Things that weren't okay when they were young may be okay now but can be very confronting if they suffered as a result when younger.
 This may be normal where you live or within your community, and that is a strong pull on your parents. Don't play the drama card or storm out. Repeat your wishes slowly, yet directly. Inform them that you continue to feel strongly for this person and that the feelings are reciprocated. Stay strong.


Enlighten them some more about the other person. Focus on all of the positives, including this person's devotion to faith.
Don't lose hope; stay firm. Realize that there may be tension in the household, there may be bitter feelings but you can ride this through with determination, kindness and calm.
Help them to realize how things have changed and that traditions have evolved. You are in the best position to enlighten them as to progress!

, This can help them realize what the person is like and how compatible you both are. It also helps your parents to realize that you want them to be involved in your life. Give them a chance to get to know your date.

