 Just because you may not have saved all bananas from ripening doesn't mean you can't use them in tasty treats.


Banana bread is actually the sweetest and most flavorful when over-ripe bananas are used. For bananas considered a "lost cause," banana bread is usually the answer.Bananas are actually edible longer than you might imagine. As long as your banana does not have mold, fruit flies, or traces of fruit fly eggs, it will most likely be edible regardless of its softness or blackness.
 Throw your over-ripe bananas into the blender with a few other ingredients and create a tasty drink.


All you need is one over-ripe banana, half an apple peeled and cored, four Biscoff cookies (can be purchased at most grocery stores), a dash of cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract, one cup of milk, and a handful of ice cubes.
Place the banana, apple, and Biscoff cookies into the blender first and mix until smooth. Add the other ingredients and continue blending. You can continue adding milk until you've reached your desired consistency.
For added texture, add whole oats or blend them into the smoothie as well.] This will give your smoothie a crunchy element to offset the richness., Bananas Foster is a popular New Orleans dessert and is very simple to make.You will need 2 large, very ripe bananas that have been thinly sliced; 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of brown sugar; 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of butter; ½ teaspoon of cinnamon; 1/2 cup of plain Greek yogurt; ½ cup of milk; 1 teaspoon of vanilla; and 1 teaspoon of rum extract.
First, add your bananas, brown sugar, butter, and cinnamon to a small bowl and microwave in 30 second intervals until the bananas are soft. Stir this mixture. Allow the bananas to cool, then add the mixture to a blender along with the Greek yogurt, milk, vanilla, and rum extract. Blend these ingredients. Pour the blended mixture into Popsicle molds and place them in the freezer for a few hours until they are completely frozen through. Pop them out of the Popsicle mold when you are ready to serve.