 The classic, auguste-style clown is they type you see at circuses. Auguste clowns have exaggerated makeup and are clumsy and bumbling, using on physical comedy to get audiences to laugh. To create an auguste look, map out the following plan to exaggerate your eyes, mouth and nose by using a black grease pencil to create outlines on your face.


Draw domes over your eyes. Start about half an inch from the outside corner of one eye, draw a dome whose peak ends somewhere between your eyebrow and your hairline, and end the dome at the inner corner of the same eye. Make a dome of the same size around the other eye.
Draw an exaggerated smile on your lower face. Start under your nose, and draw a line that curves up past your nostril and just under the apple of your cheek. Swoop the line down to create a big loop at your chin, then bring it up past your mouth, under the apple of the other cheek, and end just under your nose. The shape should resemble a big, exaggerated, open-mouthed smile.;
, Spread a layer of white base makeup inside the eye and smile outlines using a makeup sponge. The makeup should fully obscure your eyebrows. Evenly distribute the makeup inside the penciled outlines so that those areas seem to pop.


If you want a less traditional look, you can use a color other than white to fill in the outlines. Go for yellow or a light pastel color to make your features stand out.
Using black, purple, blue, or another dark-colored paint to fill in the outlines can also have a dramatic effect. If you choose this route, you'll want to invert the rest of the color scheme, too, to create a balance overall look and make sure each component is visible.
Consider setting your base makeup. This is done with theatrical face powder and a powder puff; the powder holds the makeup in place all day long. Use powder that matches the paint you are setting.

Pour approximately 1 tablespoon (0.5 oz) of theatrical face powder on to the powder puff. Rub both sides of the powder puff together until it appears that the face powder has disappeared within the powder puff.
Pat the powder puff on your face until the entire area covered with base makeup has been in contact with the powder puff.
 Dip an application brush in black face paint. Run the brush from the bottom of the dome at the outer edge of your eye, up to the forehead, and back to the inner corner of your eye. Make the line as thin or as thick as you want. Repeat on the other side to define the other eyebrow.


Some Auguste clowns make a vertical black line running from just above the upper eyelid, down the middle of the eyelid, and ending about half an inch below the eye, at the bottom of the dome.
If you filled in the eye area with a dark paint color, instead of using white, use white or another bright color to define the eyebrows.
 Dip the applicator brush in black paint again, and this time use it to trace around the exaggerated smile shape you created. Make a thick line all the way around the shape. Try to make it symmetrical so that it looks the same on both sides.
 Use a clean makeup sponge to dab red paint lightly on the apples of your cheeks, above the black outline you made. Dab more red paint on the tip of your nose. When it dries, add a second layer so that it really stands out. Lastly, use red paint or lipstick to make your lips red as cherries.


Some clowns use black paint on their lips instead of red.
If you'd like, you can wear a red rubber or foam nose, but painting it red is perfectly acceptable.
 If you see spots that look smudged or uneven, use a sponge and a little water to wipe away the paint in that area. Dab the area dry with a towel, then reapply the makeup.

