 There are really only two things you'll need to give your strings a good clean, and chances are you've already got them in your medicine cabinet and closet.


Grab a clean cloth other than the one you use to clean your violin’s body. A soft, lint-free or micro-fiber cloth is best. Chamois or cloths for glass lenses also work great.
Get a bottle of rubbing alcohol, available from any drug store.
It is important to note the rubbing alcohol should never touch the varnished face or the back of your violin. It is okay if it touches the fingerboard and a small portion of the back of the neck, though.;
,


Give your strings a thorough going-over. Pay special attention to the parts of the string that are in contact with the bow and rosin, as well as your fingers. These are the places where potentially damaging build-up accumulates.
Be sure to check the backside of the strings, too.
This is also a good opportunity to assess the wear of your strings and plan ahead for getting replacements.
 A good way to do this is to hold the rag over the opening of the bottle and tilt the bottle upside down.


You want the rag to be slightly moistened with the alcohol but definitely not dripping wet.
Remember, you don’t want any spilling onto your violin's body and harming it’s wood finish.
 Cleaning your strings in an upside-down position (with the strings facing the floor and the back facing the ceiling) is a good way to prevent alcohol from dripping onto the wood.
 In general, small rubbing motions will get the job done, but your might have to use some extra elbow-grease in spots where there's a lot of buildup, especially of rosin.


Start from the bridge on the G string (the “fattest” string) and continue for all four strings, going the gentlest on the frailest, “skinniest” E string.
Make sure to get the underside of the strings, too.
Remember, while the alcohol can't touch the violin's body, it is fine for it to touch the fingerboard.
 This might seem like an after-thought, but it's actually quite important and helps to make sure any residual alcohol doesn't drip onto your violin.


Use a new, clean paper towel or another rag.
If your strings still seem dirty after drying them or there’s a lingering residue, feel free to give it a second pass or use an alternative to the alcohol and cloth method (see tips section below for alternatives).
 The longer you go between cleanings, the more difficult it will be to remove rosin from the strings. Regular cleaning also helps to prevent the strings from stiffen up, which can cause premature breakage.
 This helps to ensure that excess rosin from your bow won't transfer onto your violin strings while stored in the case together.

