 When it comes time to wash your shoes, remove the insoles and wash them first. In a small bowl, prepare a mixture of warm water and laundry detergent. To wash the shoe insoles, use a sponge or a rag to scrub away the smell, dirt, and stains. Rinse the insoles off with warm water when you've finished scrubbing them with your detergent mixture. Lay them near a window or on a towel to dry.


If your insoles are still smelly after washing them, put them in a plastic bag with some baking soda and leave it overnight.
If the insoles still smell bad after a night of baking soda, soak them for 2-3 hours in a mixture of vinegar and water. Then, wash the insoles again with soap and water to remove the scent of the vinegar.;
, Many shoes can be washed in the washing machines, including running shoes, sneakers, and most cloth shoes. If your shoes are machine washable, wash them in warm water with strong detergent. After washing, let your shoes air-dry instead of putting them in the dryer.


Remove the shoe laces before putting your shoes in the washer.
If your shoes are made of suede, leather, plastic, or any other delicate material, do not put them in the washing machine., If you are washing nicer sneakers or shoes made of more delicate materials, wash them by hand instead of in the washing machine. Make a soapy mixture out of warm water and liquid laundry detergent. Use a rag or a soft brush to gently scrub the shoes with this mixture. Once you've scrubbed the shoes with the mixture, get a fresh rag and wipe the shoes down with warm water to rinse the soap away.Leather shoes can be washed by hand. Use a rag to gently scrub the shoes with your soap and water mixture.
Suede shoes can be washed by hand, but you must be careful. Use a rag or soft bristled brush, and clean the suede in downward strokes. Brushing/cleaning the suede in one direction will help to lift stains from the material. If you're nervous about washing your suede shoes, then you should take them to a professional cleaner.