 Providing a safe hiding place is probably one of the best treatment strategies for thunderstorm anxiety in cats.Ideal hiding places are dark and quiet, such as a basement, closet, or bathroom. Put your cat’s ‘creature comforts’ (e.g., food and water bowls, favorite toys, blanket) in the area to make it more comfortable.If your cat already has a usual hiding spot, such as under a bed, put its creature comforts in that area.
If the hiding space has windows, close the curtains or blinds to block the sight of the storm.Do not disturb your cat when it goes to its hiding place. Let your cat come out when it’s ready.;
, If thunderstorm noises make your cat anxious, turn on some background noise, such as the television or radio, that will serve as a distraction from the storm.If you turn on the radio, pick a station playing soothing music (smooth jazz or classical) or a talk radio station. A television news station could help your cat tune out the thunderstorm noise.


Do not crank up the volume of the white noise. Doing so could increase your cat's stress and anxiety.
Play the white noise before the storm comes so your cat can get comfortable with it.
 On the day of a storm, schedule some additional play time with your cat. The extra exercise will make your cat physically and mentally tired, which will help it remain more calm when the storm comes.Have your cat chase a laser light across the floor and play jumping games.
 Your cat will be able to sense your emotions before and during the storm. If you’re anxious, your cat will be too. Do activities, such as quietly reading or watching TV, that show calmness during the storm., Anxiety-reducing drugs, called anxiolytics, are commonly used to treat thunderstorm anxiety in cats. Long-acting anxiolytics, such as Clomicalm® (clomipramine) and Reconcile® (fluoxetine), should be given throughout storm season. Quick-acting anxiolytics, including Valium® (diazepam) and Xanax® (alprazolam), are useful when given for an individual storm event. As your cat’s anxiety reduces, your vet may taper the medication dosage, or completely discontinue the medication.Sometimes, different types of drugs can interact with each other and cause side effects.Your vet will check your cat’s current medications, if any, to make sure the anxiolytic will not interact with them.
 If your cat needs a quick-acting anxiolytic, your vet will want you to administer it before your cat starts showing behavioral signs of thunderstorm anxiety. For example, if you know in the morning that a thunderstorm is coming later in the day, start administering the medication in the morning. Long-acting anxiolytics are usually given daily.Your vet will give you specific administration instructions, depending on which medication(s) your cat needs.
 Acepromazine is a drug used for sedation. Although it has been commonly given to pets to relieve thunderstorm and fireworks anxiety, it doesn’t actually lessen the anxiety. It only lessens the ability for a pet to move or show the outward signs of anxiety. In other words, acepromazine works like a ‘chemical straitjacket’ that prevents the appearance of anxiety.If your vet recommends acepromazine for your cat, express your concerns about the use of this drug and ask about other anxiety-reducing medications.
 If you do not want to give your cat medications, consider other therapies. For example, a product called Rescue Remedy is a spray made up of flower essences. It can produce a sense of calm. In addition, you could use the cat pheromone product Feliway® to give your cat something familiar and calming to smell. Melatonin can also help relieve thunderstorm anxiety.Pheromones are chemicals secreted by the body. Your cat will rub its cheek on furniture to deposit pheromones to mark its territory. Discuss these alternative therapies with your vet before using them.
 If your cat gets really anxious during thunderstorms, your first instinct may be to hold it close and coddle it. However, this is a not a good idea. The extra comforting reinforces the idea that a thunderstorm is scary.Avoiding punishing your cat. Punishment could increase its fear even more., Get your cat do something fun and pleasurable during the thunderstorm. Called ‘counterconditioning,’ this will help your cat make a positive association with the storm, rather than feel anxious. During the storm, teach your cat to do tricks, like sitting or rolling over, and reward it with a delicious treat. Since stress can decrease appetite, consider keeping your cat a little hungry so it will be more likely to eat the treats during the storm.Tuna is a great treat for cats.
The goal of counterconditioning is to have your cat focus on an activity that’s incompatible with being anxious or fearful.
 This behavioral technique involves playing a recording of storm noises to your cat at increasingly louder volumes until it remains calm when the noise is played. This technique, which is tedious, usually works better with dogs than cats.Speak with your vet before attempting desensitization with your cat.
 A cat’s first instinct during a thunderstorm is to hide. Your cat may dash under a piece of furniture or try to hide in of your kitchen cabinets. This hiding behavior, known as avoidance, usually works quite well for cats when they are afraid of a thunderstorm. When the storm ends, your cat will emerge from its hiding place., Fear is a normal reaction to a fear-inducing event, like a thunderstorm. A phobia, on the other hand, is an extreme, irrational fear of something. If your cat has a thunderstorm phobia, rather than just normal fear, it may demonstrate some of the following behaviors:Large pupils
Fur standing up on end
Tense and ‘hunkered down’ body posture
Hissing, spitting

, Whether your cat’s thunderstorm anxiety is mild or exaggerated, a veterinary examination can help determine the most effective way to treat the anxiety. For example, your cat may have an underlying health condition that's increasing its stress and anxiety.Treating that condition, along with using other anxiety-reducing strategies, could help decrease your cat's thunderstorm anxiety.


Your vet will physically examine your cat and ask you questions about the thunderstorm anxiety. The more information you provide, the easier it will be for your vet to devise an effective treatment plan.

