 Disorientation can be a sign of a potential medical problem. If your cat appears more disoriented than usual, they should be evaluated by a vet as soon as possible. The vet will give your cat a physical examination to check for any conditions, such as blindness brought on by high blood pressure, that may affect their cognitive function.You will probably have to provide a detailed history, including information on how long this behavior has been going on. The vet may ask for specific examples of how your cat acts disoriented.
 If your cat gets disoriented and doesn’t know where you are, they may start meowing loudly. They may pace around a room or become confused. To help your cat, you can come into the room to let them know you are still there.You can also just talk to them from another room so they can hear you and know that you are near.
 Some cats may become disoriented in the dark. They may not know where they are, or become disoriented because everything is so quiet. To help your cat figure out where they are in the dark, quiet house, leave lights on or get some nightlights.Make sure to put nightlights near the litter box so your cat can easily find it. You may also want to put lights near the cat’s food and any cat furniture.
 Rearranging furniture can cause disorientation for cats that cannot see well and use touch and memory to navigate their environment. Keep furniture as consistent as possible. If it must be rearranged, do so while your cat is in another room. Then, introduce them to the rearranged room and help them navigate as they learn the new layout.
 If your cat gets really disoriented during the day, or especially at night, keep them near you. You can take the cat with you as move from room to room during the day. At night, take the cat into the bedroom and provide a comfortable place to sleep.If you put the cat in your room at night, make sure there is a litter box in there, too.
 Keeping your cat active can help their brains and may lessen some of the disorientation. Buy your cat new toys or try to engage them with their favorite toys. Play with them around the house by encouraging them to chase, climb, or move.Don’t change what you do too much. Extreme changes to your cat’s everyday life can cause them to become even more disoriented.
 You may be able to help your cat’s cognitive function by giving them different food. Foods that contain antioxidants, omega-3s, and certain vitamins may help improve your cat’s memory and brain function.Don’t change your cat’s diet without discussing it with your vet first. Get recommendations about new foods from them.
 Keeping your cat in a smaller area of the house can help if they are disoriented. Giving the cat a few rooms to roam around can help keep the areas familiar and keep them from getting confused.Block off stairs so the cat can’t go upstairs or into basements.
If you have a very large house, consider blocking hallways or doorways into other parts of the house.
 Some disoriented cats may get nights and days confused, especially when they are older. This can lead to disorientation for the cat because they are sleeping all day and staying awake at night. Help the cat by keeping them awake during the day.If you see the cat sleeping, gently wake them up. Interact with them throughout the day, carry them from room to room with you, and talk to them so they will stay awake during the day.
 Cats who get easily disoriented benefit from routine. This includes feeding and sleeping schedules, along with play times. Try to do these activities around the same time each day.Make sure to keep the litter box in the same place, even if you place multiple ones around the house. Keep the main litter box in the same place so your cat always knows where it is.

