 If you’re carrying any sort of bag on your way out, pack your belongings in a way that will keep the most valuable items the least accessible to prying hands. Wear your bag in a secure fashion so that it is difficult (or, even better, impossible) for pickpockets to snag the whole thing and run off with it. For example:


With purses and messenger-style bags, wear the strap around your neck, and hold the bag in front of you. Pack your most valuable items (like your wallet or phone) at the bottom, with lots of filler on top.With backpacks and other large bags, keep valuables in the main chamber, toward the bottom. Only use side pockets for incidentals. If it has two straps, wear them both. If it has a stomach strap, wear that too.Zip or fasten all pockets and chambers, even if they're empty. Use locks, safety pins, or other materials to create an extra barrier. Avoid coming across as an easy mark., Adopt the same attitude toward tech, jewelry, and other expensive items as you would with cash. Only bring what you intend to use. Even then, ask yourself if you really need to use them. Reduce the risk of attracting unwanted attention and losing precious items by carrying as few valuables as possible.Ideally, these should be few enough for you to keep an easy mental checklist. For example: wallet, money belt, phone, ID.
For technology, consider investing in cheaper models devoted to travel. For instance, load your contacts into a prepaid cellphone instead of bringing your smartphone, or use a basic Chromebook instead of your brand-new MacBook.
 Whenever you remove your bag or take out an expensive item, don’t let it go. Always keep some part of your body touching it directly so you can feel its presence and notice its absence immediately. For instance:


Keep your hand on your phone even if you only set it down momentarily on a table or other surface.Keep the strap of your bag looped around your leg or arm when you take it off.Wear your backpack backwards when taking a nap on a train, bus, or other form of transportation.Use cable locks to secure your belongings if you have to leave them alone for a short while.