 Search on-line for topics regarding the current administration that interests you and spark a desire for discussion. Topics could include things such as the economy, the war in Iraq, budget spending, or anything at all that comes to mind. Consider some of the following resources for your research:



Wikipedia: most people are familiar with Wikipedia. There are dozens of articles related to Barack Obama, both on a personal level as well as on a political level.

Political blogs: use your favorite search engine and look around for political blogs. Some of these are run by professional political commentators, while others are run by ordinary people who've an interest in politics. You are sure to find varied opinions in the realm of the blogosphere.

The Evening News: very few days go by without a political story on the news, be it discussion on the economy, on the war, or on any other subject related to the actions of The White House. Be aware that some news agencies blatantly support either the Democrats or the Republicans - be aware of these affiliations and the biases they may pose.;
, Focus your research to ensure that you are aware of the current administrations stance on the topics. Some examples may include but are not limited to:


Taxation
The 2nd Amendment
Education
Foreign Policy

The Middle East
Canada
Mexico


Abortion and Contraception
Death Penalty
Labor and Union Issues

Minimum Wage
Equal Pay


Drug Enforcement Policy
LGBT Issues

Gay Marriage



, Use your research to decide whether you agree or disagree with the position of the current administration. Formulate your reasons for your positions and write them out on paper.
 A major complaint that follows most elections is that the elected official has not followed through on campaign promises. Research the list of promises made by President Obama and search national news sources to determine how quickly, if at all, he is following through on those promises.


Be sure to take into account the fact that the president is not all-powerful. Be sure to look into if he tried to follow through- as Congress may have stopped him from being able to take action.
 Small groups of friends or colleagues are usually good people to discuss this with, while you may not wish to discuss politics with your boss, casual acquaintances, or with a large group of people. Remember, it is often discouraged to discuss politics because people can be quick to anger.
 Everyone should be prepared to defend their stance but also willing to accept the opinions of others.
 As you address each topic for discussion ensure that you hear from all parties involved.
 Every argument has a counterargument. If all parties at the table unanimously agree or disagree with a point consider searching the internet for a counterpoint to add to the discussion.
 As each topic is covered, defend the position you have taken while still allowing yourself to consider the arguments of the others involved. Take away from each topic those points that you consider to be valid.
 The important thing is that you opened your mind to new viewpoints. Not every discussion needs to have a winner and a loser.

