 Apply for marriage licenses after you have set your wedding date and complete the application between seven and 30 days beforehand. Apply with your county clerk.The officiator of your wedding will send the signed license in to be recorded, after which you will receive a marriage certificate.;
, After a divorce has been finalized, you may apply for a copy of the certificate from the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. You must apply by mail, including with your request a check or money order made out to Vital Records, the names of the husband and wife, the city or county of divorce, the month, day, and year of the divorce, an explanation of why the divorce certificate is needed, and a photocopy of a current driver's license or state ID.Mail the request to Nebraska Department of Health & Human Services, Division of Public Health, Vital Records, P.O. Box 95065, Lincoln, NE 68509-5065.
 Complete the SS-5 form. Gather certified copies of marriage or divorce or annulment certificate. Bring the completed SS-5 form and certified copies of marriage or divorce certificates along with a Nebraska driver's license, state ID, or passport to the SSA office. You will also need a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. citizenship certificate, or work authorization letter and I-94.You can also apply by mail by mailing your documents to your local SSA office along with the SS-5 form; your documents will be mailed back to you.You will receive your documents and new social security card with your new name by mail.
 Provide a current Nebraska driver’s license (with photo), a non-expired U.S. passport, or your Social Security card to your local DMV office along with an Operators License-ID data form. Also, provide proof of your name change, such as your marriage certificate (original/certified copy), record of divorce (certified), or U.S. passport showing your new name. You will have to surrender your current driver's license with your old name, and pay a fee. Check with the DMV office to find out the fee.You will also have to provide proof of address.
 Visit your local DMV office in person to change your name on your vehicle registration and title. You may have to apply for title transfer or duplicate certificate of title with your new name. Bring your driver's license and be prepared to pay a fee. You can find out the fee total by contacting your DMV office directly before you go.

