 This villain is a Goldilocks, so if you're going to copy her style, you'll need to go blonde. Depending on which version of Harley you want to recreate, you may also want to add some other colors. In some iterations, such as in the film Suicide Squad, she has blonde hair with pink and blue pigtails.When her hair is showing, it's usually in pigtails.
In other instances, Harley has joker-style hair. When her outfit is a black and red joker costume, then her hair is often black and red, too. Her hair will be split down the middle with one side being red and the other black, usually opposite the colors on her outfit. In other words, if her right shoulder is in black, then the hair above it will be red, while the left shoulder is red and the hair above is black.;
, Once again, you'll need to choose which Harley Quinn you're going to go with, as her makeup varies depending on what iteration you're looking at. You can choose between classic Harley Quinn, or one of the more updated versions, such as the Suicide Squad Harley, though almost all of them start with making your face look paler.Classic Harley has a pale face, dark red lips, and a black mask.
If you want to go for a simpler version, skip the black mask, and go for dark eyeliner and eye shadow instead.
For Suicide Squad, you'll start with a pale face, then you can add eye shadow to match your hair. For example, if your left pigtail is blue, add blue eye shadow on that side. Add pink eye shadow on the other side. You can add a little black heart on one cheek, if you'd like. Add a pink-red lipstick, and you're done.
 You have a few options when choosing to dress like Harley Quinn. You can go all out with a red and black joker's outfit.On the other hand, you could take a line out of the 2016 movie's book and go for a red and white baseball tee, short black shorts, fishnet stockings, boots, and a fancy black belt. Don't forget to add some black gloves either way you go.She also sometimes wears a red jester's hat., Harley has a penchant for strange weapons. While you shouldn't wield an actual weapon, you can carry a convincing fake version. Since Harley's weapons are strange anyway, a fake one will probably be more convincing than the real thing anyway.Some of Harley's weapons include a giant mallet, a baseball bat, and a gun that shoots a cork.
 Harley Quinn is a superb gymnast, so if you want to move like her, try working on your own skills. While you don't want to attempt anything too crazy, particularly if you've never done any acrobatics, learning something simple like a cartwheel can help you be more convincing as Harley.A cartwheel involves standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and then flipping yourself to the side. Start by working on mats or somewhere with a soft landing place. Have someone spot you the first couple of times you try it.If you really want to up your acrobatic game, consider finding a local gymnastic gym to learn some new skills.
 One of Harley's defining traits is a sense of humor that is hard to kill. Even in the most serious situations, she's not afraid to crack a joke. To be like Harley, try to use humor to diffuse situations, especially if they seem a little too serious.In fact, much like Marvel's Deadpool, she tends to poke fun at other characters in the D.C. universe.
 Harley is known for her outrageous personality. In fact, some have described it as "cartoonish." To be in line with this character, you've got to be willing to act a little silly, maybe even a little crazy. Harley certainly would.For instance, in "Super Power Beat Down: Joker & Harley Quinn VS Deadpool & Domino (#1.16)," Deadpool says, "Hey, cutie! Time to die!" Harley responds with, "Wait! Want to see a movie?" and then proceeds to use her cleavage to try to get out of the situation., DC actually describes Harley as "bubbly and psychotic," which is a somewhat odd combination when you take it at face value. However, it's her bubbly personality in conjunction with her villainous acts that sells the psychotic part of her personality. So play up the girly side a bit (think giggly), but don't be afraid to throw a seriously scary look at times.For instance, one quote from Harley in Suicide Squad is "What was that? I should kill everyone and escape? Sorry, it's the voices. Haha, I'm kidding! That's not what they really said."

, While Harley Quinn plays a villain (most of the time) in the DC universe, she actually started as a psychiatrist. Therefore, to get started on your journey to acting like Harley Quinn, make sure you brush up on your knowledge of the mind.If you don't know where to get started, try checking out a book from your local library.
Another option is to take a free online course from a place like Coursera or Princeton's online free courses.
 As a psychologist, Harley started out trying to figure out the Joker before becoming his sidekick. While you probably shouldn't join the dark side, Harley's analytical skills are an important part of her character that you can emulate.One way to develop analytical skills is to think about books as you're reading them. Try to figure out what's going to happen next, or try to figure out what the book would be like if it was written from another character's viewpoint.
Focusing on your math studies can also help, as math helps you build solid analytical skills. If you're not in school, consider picking up a book to learn some new math or checking out online tutorials.
 While you don't want to go over the deep end like Harley does, she's not afraid to be passionate. She throws herself into the things she loves. Just be a little cautious, as this trait is what lead her to be obsessed with the Joker, and eventually drew her to the dark side., While classically, Harley was a villain and a sidekick to the Joker, she's become a more ambivalent, almost good character in recent years. In fact, she often tries to help people, even if her attempts fail. Therefore, to be like Harley, don't be afraid to turn away from bad decisions.