 He came to save the lost by showing people they needed to believe in Him. Healing was one of the methods he used to show people that He had come from God, so that they should listen to Him, believe and do what He said to do.

Nicodemus: "We all know that God has sent you to teach us. Your miraculous signs are evidence that God is with you." John 3:2

Others: And many of the people believed on him, and said, 'When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?' John 7:31

Jesus Himself said, But if I do his work, believe in the evidence of the miraculous works I have done, even if you don't believe me. Then you will know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father John 10:38

Our mission is the same as Jesus said, as we do the works that we have been sent to do: Heal the sick and preach the gospel Matthew 10:7-8 -- then people will believe that we have the information that they need to begin a relationship with God.;
, And, as you begin to walk in the miraculous, you will see people instantly healed by the power of God when you pray for them, and then your life will change in the most amazing and exciting way. Here are details to increase your likelihood of success. So, overtime, look up all the associated scriptures, but you do not have to know every related scripture to begin following Christ's example.
 This is very important and can't be missed. The Bible says The preparations of the heart (your inner being) belong to man, but the answer of the tongue (the Gospel) is from the Lord (Proverbs 16:1).
 Receive empowerment by receiving the promise of the Father which is the baptism of the Holy Spirit (Acts 1:4-5). When you are baptised in the Holy Spirit you will receive power from God (Acts 1:8). This will open up to you the power to be a witness and to do all the miraculous works of the Spirit, including speaking in tongues (Acts 2:4) -- and so open the ability to lay hands on the sick and see them recover by the power of God (Mark 16:17-20).
 The Bible tells us that the effective fervent prayer of a righteous person avails, or achieves, much (James 5:17) -- but God doesn't listen to those who do evil, who live by the flesh (1 Peter 3:12).
 Make a decision that you are going to believe God's promise of healing and that He has empowered you to present the Gospel and heal the sick. Therefore I say unto you, 'What things soever you desire, when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you shall have them' (Mark 11:24).



Be kind. Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, outcry and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and tender-hearted to one another, forgiving each other just as in Christ God forgave you. Ephesians 4:32


, Also, prayer was very important to Peter, (Acts 6:4) and Paul makes many references to the importance of prayer (Colossians 4:12) (Romans 12:12).



Build a strong relationship with God through prayer: So you can be confident that He will hear your prayer as you seek to do His will -- and that He will answer The blind man who was given his sight made this true statement about how Jesus had healed him: We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him (John 9:31).
Pray both in your natural language and in your Spiritual language


, We build our faith through the word of God, (Romans 10:17) (Galatians 3-5) especially the gospels and the Book of Acts. Healing was a normal part of a Christian's life in the Bible, and that is the standard we should be looking to, If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you (John 15:7).
 We read that it was through Jesus compassion on the people that He healed them. (Matthew 14:14) We need to show and cultivate in ourselves a genuine love for all, and especially the man and woman we interact with one on one in this world, and so not want to see any suffer. Paul tells us that faith works or is made effective through love, (Galatians 5:6) A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another (John 13:34).
 So you have to build a strong desire to see people healed by the power of God and not give up or back off no matter what happens. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant to Your servants that with all boldness they may speak Your word, by stretching out Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus (Acts 4:29-30).
 Seek out other people who are also on this path, these will be people who will encourage and inspire you. If you can't find anyone in your local community then use your search engine, social media etc. to find like minded people who are active in praying for people and seeing God heal them. Everyone listened quietly as Barnabas and Paul told about the miraculous signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.'' Acts 15:12

, When you get your mind (Romans 12:2) and heart in line with the way Jesus taught. Then you can expect wonderful things to happen.
 Jesus was whipped so God reacted to the Roman's usual cruelty by amazing love, with grace, so all could be healed (Isaiah 53:4-5)(Matthew 8:16-17) God's will is that it should be the same here on earth as it is in heaven (Matthew 6:10). In heaven there is no pain or disease so that is God's will for earth, which is why Jesus healed everyone without exception. He shows no favoritism, (Romans 2:11) and He hasn't changed (Hebrews 13:8) (James 1:17). And great multitudes followed Him, and He healed them 'all' (Matthew 12:15).
 Jesus healed with the authority that he got from the Father. The centurion recognised this, and Jesus spoke highly of his faith (Matthew 8:5-10). When you have authority over someone you can tell that person what to do and they have to obey. As disciples we have been given authority over disease so therefore we can tell it what to do (Luke 9:1). If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall say unto this mountain,(or pain or sickness) Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you (Matthew 17:20).
 One time Jesus had to pray more than once to see a blind man healed (Mark 8:22-25). We are told we are like Elijah who had to pray 7 times for rain after a 3 and a half year drought (James 5:17-18) (1 Kings 18:41-45). So we must be as persistent as we can be in praying for the sick. Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray and not give up (Luke 18:1).
 His faith that is in us through the baptism of the Holy Spirit is going to heal the sick. We have to have faith in Him (that is in His Word, in His promises and in what He has done for us) and the Faith of Jesus which is given to us by the Holy Spirit. In John 5:5-8, Jesus approaches a man asks him if he wants to be healed. The man has no faith that Jesus will heal him and then Jesus heals him anyway (John 5:5-8) . We need to realise what Jesus could do we can do too and pray to feel confident of His power in us. John tells us that as He is, so are we in this world. (1 John 4:17). And Jesus promises Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father (John 14:12).
 Jesus told us If you shall ask anything in my name, I will do it (John 14:14) When we pray for the sick we can be confident that it is a worthy thing to ask, and therefore we can pray using His name or authority. When a police officer says stop in the name of the law, a law abiding citizen will do as they say. There is no magic in the name of the "law" It is the authority that the police officer has which makes people obey. It's similar with Jesus, we can use His name because of the authority He has given us. Peter and John demonstrated this by healing the man who had been paralysed since birth in Jesus name, Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength (Acts 3:6-7).
 Healing by Jesus was usually immediate. Although occasionally in the gospels people were healed along the way usually they were healed on the spot, so make this your expectation And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain (Mark 7:35).
 In this section is a simple technique of praying for the sick. It's not the only way of praying, but a good starting point and you can try others as you get more confident of the Lord's power in you., This can be someone you know or someone that you've met anywhere at all. If this is a stranger, introduce yourself and find out his or her name and then: Ask, "Can I ask you a question?" If the answer is "yes" then ask whether they have any sickness or pain. If "yes", tell them that you can pray and God will heal the illness straightaway., If they agree to prayer, then with their permission, place your hand on the person (doesn't have to be on the afflicted part) and pray a short prayer commanding all pain/sickness to go in Jesus name., If there is no difference don't be discouraged and ask to pray again If there is some improvement thank Jesus for what He has done and command that the rest of the pain/sickness leave in Jesus name Continue until all the sickness/pain has gone or until the person wants you to stop. It can be helpful to ask them to rate the pain or sickness with a number out of 10 (1 being very low and 10 the worst) before you pray and ask them what the number is after you've prayed, If they are healed tell them this is because of God's amazing love for them (John 3:16) and talk to them about how God can not only save them from their sins but also empower them to do the same thing.,, This shows those reasons why a person may not receive their healing and help overcome these reasons so that they can be healed., Unbelief is one of the reasons prayer is not answered. Belief is all encompassing. God is all powerful and it is His will to heal. Pray and read and read or watch testimonies until you totally believe that the promise is for here and now and if need be, make changes to your life so that you are walking in the light of God.

The only time in scripture that someone wasn't healed, it was the disciples who had prayed for a boy. Jesus came and healed the boy showing it was God's will for him to be healed. The disciple asked why they couldn't heal him (Matthew 17:14-21) (remembering that they had been successfully healing people since Jesus sent them out in Matthew 10) And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief and 'Howbeit this kind (unbelief) goeth not out but by prayer and fasting' (Matthew 17:20-21).
We read about faith in the Bible which puts the knowledge into our mind, and then prayer accesses the faith in our hearts.
 Jesus said, Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like that (Mark 7:13). Traditions are reasons or excuses which people have invented which are not in the Bible, but they believe that they are part of God's plan. When we realise that we have a belief that is not in the word of God we need to get rid of it so that God's power can be effective and heal.

Any belief that contradicts the facts of God's will/plan is a tradition. It is His will to heal the sick, and He has empowered and given authority to believers today to go and do works that Jesus did, just as the believers did in the book of Acts. All traditions need to be eliminated, if we want to see God's healing power.

Beware of commonly believed traditions which nullify the word and power of God:

God wants people to suffer -- no, God is willing (for us to heal), but we must believe and walk in it
Only Christians or those turning towards Christianity can be healed -- no, God loved the world while we were still sinners
Sickness is somehow a benefit to peoples' faith or character -- no, it is part of a curse on the fallen world, not a benefit
Not always God's will to heal -- no, God is not willing that any should perish
Healing died out with the original apostles -- no, Jesus and the gospel are the same yesterday, today and forever
The person you are praying for will only be healed, if he or she has total faith -- no, we mortals don't have total faith without limit, but Jesus who is in disciples by His Spirit does.
The person won't be healed, if they have sin or unforgiveness in their lives -- no, "if you say you have no sin, you are a liar (a sinner)"
Paul's thorn in the flesh was a sickness and therefore not all sicknesses can be healed -- In the old testament a thorn in the flesh always refers to problems coming from other people (See Numbers33:55-56, Joshua23:11-13 and Judges 2:2-3) This is in line with Jesus telling us that those who do righteousness will suffer persecution (Matthew 5:10)


Making petitions: Begging, repeatedly asking making petitions to God to heal the sick is one of the most common traditions. Jesus never did this. In effect, if we are begging God to heal the sick, it is because we don't believe that He has given us the authority to heal the sick today. If your boss gives you authority to do something, but every time you need to do it you ask Him again to do the work for you, then what would your boss think? We need to believe in the authority He has given us, But as many as received Him, He gave to them authority to be children of God--to those believing in His name (John 1:12).
Yes, the scriptures do say that we should ask but ask has a different meaning in the scriptures than just make a polite request. Consider the following scriptures which all use the same Greek word for "ask", when you pray, as in Mark 11:24, above.


But the mob shouted louder and louder, demanding (asking) that Jesus be crucified, and their voices prevailed (Luke 23:23).

And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter” (Mark 6:25).

A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, 'Give me a drink.' the Samaritan woman said to him, 'How is it that you, a Jew, ask' for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? (John 4:7&9).


Jesus didn't ask God to heal the sick. He simply healed them. Sometimes Jesus rebuked the sickness (Luke 4:39); sometimes He commanded sickness to go (Mark 9:25). Sometimes He laid hands on the sick (Mark 16:15), and sometimes He told people they were healed by their own faith as in Matthew 9:22 (Matthew 9:22).
To test if something is a tradition, the best way is to see whether Jesus did it. If Jesus didn't talk about or do the thing which you are believing, then it is a tradition of people and needs to be gotten rid of so that your faith can grow.
Be encouraged to avoid traditions. Then you will become closer to God and you can see healings too, as a Holy Spirit filled believer!

