 If you want to be an effective communicator, and ensure that people listen to what you have to say, it’s important to understand who you are talking to. If you trying to engage people on a subject completely alien to them, it’s going to be a difficult task. Ask yourself the following questions about your audience:


Who are they, and what do they do?
How can the audience benefit from listening to you?
What do they already know about the topic?
What is the relationship between you and the audience?
What are your audience interested in?
What impact will what you say have on the audience?
Asking the audience simple questions will help you to answer these questions.
For example, if you are talking about a recent report, you could ask “how many of you have had time to read the new report yet?”, Being a good listening is an essential part of being a good communicator. Whether it is a serious conversation with a significant other, or a business discussion with some colleagues, making the effort to listen and understand the concerns of other people will really help. If you feel like the person you are talking to is not properly responding to you, stop for a moment and just listen. Maintain eye contact when the other person is speaking, and try to concentrate and empathise.Try to practice active listening by following these basic rules:


Try to understand before you try to be understood.
Be non-judgemental.
Give the speaker your undivided attention.
Use silence effectively, and don’t interrupt unless necessary., If you want to get people to listen to you and take your ideas on board, it can be very helpful to try and find some common ground with your interlocutors. Your audience may be more receptive to what you have to say if you can frame it in a way that is more inclusive and connects directly with their concerns.


For example, if you are explaining a problem you have had, you could try and introduce it by relating it to something that happened to the person you are talking to.
You may be more likely to form trusting relationships with like-minded people, who you share certain experiences or outlooks with., Try to pay attention to non-verbal signals from the people you are talking to. If you can identify body language and gestures that suggest you are losing your audience, you can try to get to the point more quickly, or try to engage more directly with those who seem disinterested. Look out in particular for the following signals:


Folded arms: this may suggest the person is feeling closed off or defensive.
Lack of eye contact: this can indicate that someone is not listening or interested. It may also suggest embarrassment or being uncomfortable.
Turning away: if someone turns his back, or leans away, it may mean they are losing interest and looking to get away.