 Audacity is a free, open source audio editing program. You can download it from audacityteam.org. The Audacity website will detect the operating system you are using and provide the correct installer automatically. if your operating system is not properly detected, click the "All Audacity Downloads" link and download the correct version for your operating system.


Run the installer after you have finished downloading it and follow the prompts to install Audacity. If you download from the official website, you shouldn't have to worry about installing adware.;
, This software is required if you want Audacity to be able to export the finished file as an MP3.


Visit the LAME page at lame.buanzo.org/#lamewindl.
Download and run the proper installer for your operating system. If Windows warns you that the source is unknown, you can safely proceed with the installation.
 When you start Audacity, you'll be greeted with a blank new project.
 Click "File" → "Open" and browse for the first song that you want to join. Repeat for each of the songs you want to add.
 Click "File" → "New" to create a new blank project. You'll be using this new project to combine all of the files so that the originals stay unchanged.
 Select the window containing the song you want to start with. Press Ctrl + A (Windows/Linux) or Command + A (Mac) to select the entire song. You can also click "Edit" → "Select All". Press Ctrl/Command + C to copy the selected track, or click "Edit" → "Copy".
 Highlight the empty new project and press Ctrl/Command + V to paste the copied track. You'll see the track appear in the Audacity window.
 Click "Tracks" → "Add New" → "Stereo Track". This will create a second blank track underneath the first song you pasted.
 After creating your new audio track, open the window for the second song and repeat the selection and copy process.
 Scroll all the way to the right in the new project to find the end of the first track you pasted. Click a spot in the new blank audio track at the end where there are no waves, indicating silence.
 After placing your cursor in the new audio track at the end of the first track, press Ctrl/Command + V to paste the second song. Your new project will now have the first song in the top audio track, and the second song in the track beneath, starting when the first ends.


Repeat this process for each additional track that you want to combine, creating a new stereo audio track for each one. Make the window full-screen to see the project better.
 You can use the Silence Generator tool to insert silence if your tracks jump from one to the next too quickly. Place your cursor at the spot between songs where you want to insert silence.


Click "Generate" → "Silence" to open the Silence Generator.
Change the value to the amount of silence you want to add. Many CDs put two seconds of silence between tracks. Click "OK" to generate the amount of silence you set at the location that you placed your cursor.
 You can have your songs fade into each other by using the Cross Fade In and Cross Fade Out effects. These will require a little experimenting to get it sounding right for your songs. If at any time you aren't happy with the change you've made, press Ctrl/Command + Z to undo your last change.Select the portion of the song that you want to fade out. Use your mouse to select the last few seconds of a song.
Click "Effects" → "Cross Fade Out". You'll see the waves of the music adjust as the effect is applied to your selection.
Click the Play button to playback the selected part. If you're unhappy with the fade, undo the command.
Select the beginning few seconds of the next track. Click "Effects" → "Cross Fade In".
 Before you finalize your project, give the whole thing a listen to make sure it sounds good. Make sure that nothing is selected and click the Play button to hear the whole thing. You can then go back and make spacing and fading adjustments based on what you hear.
 Click "File" → "Save Project As" to save your new project for later editing. You won't be able to play this version on anything, but it will let you come back and make more changes later if you want.
 Select "MP3 files" from the "Save as type" drop-down menu.
 Higher bit rates will result in better quality but a larger file size. 320 kbps is the closest you can get to the original quality of the files.
 Click Save when you're satisfied.
 This essentially collapses each of your additional tracks so that they are all on one stereo track.
 You can enter Artists, song names, and much more, or just leave everything blank. Click OK when you're done.
 The time this takes will vary depending on how many songs you are combining.

