 If you are struggling with the urge to binge, or if you have already begun and are trying to stop, take a moment right now to acknowledge that you are doing something good for yourself by trying to stop. Instead of feeling angry at yourself or engaging in negative self talk, allow yourself a moment to feel proud for wanting to take control of binge eating.


Part of being kind to yourself means stopping negative self talk. During a binge your mind may be racing with negative thoughts. Rather than telling those thoughts to “go away” or trying to ignore them, try to counter those thoughts with positive ones — for example, “I am strong enough to admit this is a problem” or, “I was kind to that telemarketer earlier” (if this is true, you are much stronger than most people).;
, You don’t need to wait for a new day to make a fresh start. Start fresh now. Maybe you’re already several bites in. Maybe it feels as though you can’t stop once you’ve started, but you can. Try to view each bite as a separate decision: you are deciding to take a bite, but this does not have to become a full-out binge.


You may feel like you might as well go on and just try harder next time, but this is actually a great time to practise being kinder to yourself, and to show yourself that you can stop.
 Do yoga, dance, lift weights, go for a run. The Internet is full of fun yoga, dance, and exercise videos. If you’re unable to do physical exercise, do something creative. Write, draw, do crafts, build something. Turn on you favourite album and sing along. Call someone who you enjoy talking to.
 Leslie Anderson, PhD, calls this “urge surfing” in which the urge is compared to a wave: “it goes up, up, up, and at some point it starts to go back down.” You don’t need to give in to make the wave go down. It will eventually end even if you don’t give in., The answer will likely be nothing, beyond making you feel sick and sad.If you feel emotionally able to do so, you might even try to explore why you are bingeing. Perhaps you are experiencing work or personal stress, or maybe you spent the day looking for a new bathing suit and hating what you saw in the mirror.
It could be useful to write your thoughts in a journal. It doesn’t have to be a long entry — try for three pages, no matter the size of the journal.
 There are many useful resources that are immediately available to those of us who struggle with binge eating.


Binge Eating Support Groups online forumThe Pale Reflections Eating Disorders Support Communityand the Eating Disorder Referral and Information Centercontain many links for online and phone support, including hotlines throughout the world.
The Binge Eating Disorder Association website is a good resource for not only individuals with BED, but also for family and friends who may be concerned that someone they care about is struggling with it., Reading their stories will make you feel less alone, and may help strengthen your resolve to quit binge eating. The National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) has a page devoted to success stories., It is not fair to yourself to expect to go from bingeing to healthy eating immediately. Be patient and gentle with yourself. You will likely have good and bad days. The important thing to remember is that every moment is an opportunity to start fresh. You don't have to wait until tomorrow to try again. Choose to be healthy now.


Ten minutes after that choice you’re bingeing again? That’s okay. Choose to be healthy again. The more you practise this, the stronger you’ll get.
 The worst thing you can do after bingeing is to punish yourself with excessive exercise or starvation the day after. Eat regular meals. Eat because it nourishes you. Exercise because it makes you feel good. You don’t deserve to suffer.

