 Such things as your own age, gender and marital status will result in different insurance rates. In addition, insurance companies will consider your driving history, the type of car that you drive, and the amount of regular driving that you do. Finally, in some cases, your credit score can have an effect on the price that you will have to pay for car insurance. Talk to different agents and research how these variables will influence your premium. These are generally not factors that you can change. However, as you are shopping for an insurance company, you can ask the agent to explain to you how each factor affects your price.For example, many companies will reduce your rate if you drive a car with a high safety rating. Ask prospective agents about this possibility.Drivers under 25 are generally considered to be less experienced and therefore a higher risk. Many companies will charge a higher premium if this applies to you., You can do a lot of price comparisons online, as well as in person. Many insurance companies make it possible for you to get free rate quotes online. You just need to enter some basic information about yourself and your vehicle, and the online feature will give you approximate quotes. If you prefer to speak with someone who can answer any questions you might have, then you may want to visit an agent or broker in person. An agent is someone who works for a specific company and can give you detailed information about coverage and rates from that company. A broker or independent agent, on the other hand, helps you get coverage from any one of several companies. A broker can help you compare quotes from different sources.Agents generally work on salary with the company, while brokers may charge you a fee for their services.
When comparing prices, a good rule of thumb is to compare at least three quotes from different companies. Compare their rates and coverages to find the best policy for your needs.
 Remember that choosing an insurance company involves several different factors. Don’t focus only on the cost of the premiums. Several factors affect the price of the insurance coverage, and you should consider whether these factors are equivalent when you are making your decision:Deductible amount. Generally, a lower deductible reduces your premiums.
Coverage limit. Some of the options will cover you up to a particular limit. If your damage is greater, then you are not covered for the excess. You can pay more to set a higher coverage limit.
Discounts. Find out if any companies are offering temporary discounts if you purchase a policy from them. If this is temporary, make sure that you understand what the rate will be at the end of the discount period.
 Price is a major factor in your selection of an insurance company, but you also need to know that the company you select is reliable and effective. Such factors as customer service, availability, and ease of filing a claim all have a value that you should consider. Selecting a company with higher reliability and better services can actually be more cost effective, even if the premiums may be slightly higher on paper.Each state’s Department of Insurance compiles customer complaint ratios for insurance companies that are licensed to operate in that state. You should be able to look this up online and review the data for any company you are considering.
Consider availability as an important factor in choosing a company. Look at their hours of operation, whether they have a mobile site, and how easily you can reach someone if you need support during non-business hours.

