 Before committing yourself to a reservation, check out the hotel online, where you can see rooms, location, lists of amenities and more.


If you cannot use the internet, then give them a call and ask them questions about the hotel's location, noise level, walking distance to restaurants, etc.;
, Sometimes the unexpected happens, so make sure you are okay with the hotel's cancellation policy, and keep track of what it costs.


Some hotels and hostels are really bare bones, and you might have to bring things like drinkable water and your own linens, so be prepared.
 Print a map of your hotel's location so that you can find your way in an unfamiliar place.


It's a good idea to bring both a zoomed in map and a zoomed out map with your arrival location marked.
Decide ahead of time if you will take a taxi, rent a car, or use public transportation from your arrival location to your hotel.
If you are driving a car, make sure to locate accessible parking ahead of time for your vehicle, and note the cost and location in your planning. Also, bring a map.
If you are taking a taxi, particularly as a tourist abroad, make sure you know approximately how much the journey from your arrival location to your destination should be, so you won't get swindled.
 Confirming your reservation a few days ahead of time is always a great idea,


Remind the front desk of what, if any, special requests you have made, (i.e. conjoining rooms, (non)-smoking rooms, quiet rooms, a crib, etc.).
Confirming your reservation ahead of time prevents day-of-arrival mistakes on the hotel's part, and covers you if they do mess something up. Then you can negotiate an upgrade with a clear conscience!

, Nearly all hotels, and especially smaller hotels, have a specific check-in time.


If you have a large gap of time between your arrival and the hotel's check-in time, call ahead and ask very politely if you can check-in early, or at least drop your bags. Then, you can go explore and check out the area!
If you are checking in very late, particularly at a small hotel without a 24-hour concierge, it may be necessary to communicate your arrival time to the concierge in order to make arrangements to receive you.
 Mismatching names can make it difficult or impossible to check in.