 When planning a wedding the first decision you make should be your tentative wedding date. The date of your ceremony may be changed further along in the planning process due to venue availability and or family travel arrangements. However, it is still very important to set a tentative date as this will help you plan accordingly for acquiring the proper licenses, permits, as well as hiring the appropriate entertainment, catering, venues, and even planning the attire for the bridal party.;
, At least one month before the ceremony you should make arrangements for acquiring your San Francisco County marriage license.


The cost for the marriage license is $97 for a public or confidential license and $47 for a Domestic Partnership filing.
When applying for a San Francisco marriage license both parties must be present and they must both possess a valid picture ID which includes: their full name, birth date, date of issue, date of expiration, and home address. Both applicants must be 18 years of age, or possess written consent from at least one parent/guardian as well as having obtained permission from a California Superior court judge. San Francisco County does not require blood tests or a waiting period.
Methods of payment: cash or debit card can be used to pay in person, however if you need to mail your payment money order or personal check (not out-of-state) will be accepted. You can bring your payment personally or mail to:City Hall, Suite 168, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Pl, San Francisco, CA 94102, Phone 415-554-4950, 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. / Mon-Fri, Closed for holidays.
 At this time you will want to verify and reserve the location where you will be having your ceremony. You can have your ceremony on site in the Rotunda or in a private ceremony room at the city hall for an additional $75.


To hold your ceremony with a county clerk off city hall grounds is $220.
The fee to hold a ceremony on the fourth floor or on the Mayor’s balcony is $1002.
There are many other great options for a wedding venue in San Francisco some of the city’s most popular venues include: Bentley Reserve (1920’s Opulence), Swedenborgian Church (Craftsman Rustic Charm), The Legion of Honor (Married Amongst Artwork), Maritime Museum (Streamline Modern and Stunning Views), Bluxome Street Winery (Fresh Style), California Academy of Sciences (Science, Beauty, and Adventure), Farallon Restaurant (Under the Sea), Presidio Log Cabin (Rustic Beauty).
 You will first need to decide if you prefer live entertainment or a disc jockey. If you choose to hire live entertainment you have many options, a live band, a wedding singer, a string orchestra, and many more options the choice is yours!

, It is important to decide early on what type of cuisine you will be having and if you would prefer to have it served rather than setting it all up buffet style.
 If you choose to hold your ceremony at city hall there are photographers available to hire through city hall. Otherwise, it is important to find and book your photographer months and sometimes up to a year in advance, especially if you are looking to get married during the popular wedding months from May-August.
 About three months before the ceremony you should mail out your invitations. This allows sufficient time for your guests to make travel arrangements, request time off from work, and make hotel reservations.
 On your special day the Bride and Groom will need to have transportation arrangements, separately to the location of the ceremony, and together after the ceremony to the reception; as well as your final farewell as newlyweds before you set out for your honeymoon.
 The BIG day has finally come. Enjoy your wedding.
 Now that you’ve finally taken that huge leap of faith it is time to get lost, with each other. Enjoy your honeymoon.

