 In some countries, private citizens can make arrests even if they are not sworn police officers. However, you can only make arrests in certain limited situations, which vary by location:You suspect the person has committed a felony, such as murder, rape, burglary, etc. However, your suspicion must be reasonable. Furthermore, the felony must actually have been committed. If it didn’t, you can be legally liable for the arrest.

In Canada, and in some U.S. states, you must have actually observed the violent crime being committed before you can make a citizen’s arrest.Someone is breaching the peace. In many U.S. states, you can make a citizen’s arrest if you personally witnessed someone breaching the peace. For example, someone breaches the peace by fighting or making a loud disturbance., You shouldn’t attempt a citizen’s arrest without consider the risks and consequences. For example, quickly analyze the following:Does the suspect have a gun, knife, or other weapon? You don’t want to jeopardize your own safety or the safety of those around you by attempting an arrest.
Is there a police officer nearby, or can you quickly call one? It is better to involve trained police. If possible, you can focus on getting a detailed, accurate description of the suspect instead of attempting an arrest.
Can you quickly turn over the suspect to the police? If not, then don’t make an arrest.
Do you know whether the suspect committed a felony? What qualifies as a felony differs depending on the state or country. If you're unsure, simply report the suspicious conduct to the police.
 You’ll need to give an explicit warning that you are arresting the person.Shout, “Stop! I’m making a citizen’s arrest!” This will give the suspect a chance to turn themselves over.


Also give the suspect a reason why you are arresting them. For example, "You're breaching the peace by fighting" is a sufficient reason.
 You cannot use excessive force in order to make an arrest. Instead, use only the amount of force necessary to subdue the suspect. For example, if the person struggles only briefly, you can’t give him a left hook that knocks him out cold.


A suspect might be desperate to avoid arrest. If so, they could put up quite a fight. Always remember to protect your own safety.
If the arrest turns into a brawl, you should let the suspect go.
 As soon as possible, either call the police or ask another bystander to call the police. Don’t delay, since the arrested  might become agitated.


Ask the suspect to cooperate.Say, “Will you calm down? The police are coming. You don’t want to make any more trouble.”

, In the United States, a citizen’s arrest is not subject to the same Constitutional requirements as a police officer’s arrest. Accordingly, you aren’t prohibited from asking questions or searching the suspect. However, you probably should avoid doing so. Leave it to the police when they arrive.


If you make an arrest at the request of the police, then your arrest is subject to the Constitution’s restraints.However, suspects can blurt out incriminating information. For example, a suspect might shout, “I didn’t know the gun was loaded!” Don’t follow up with questions, but you can give the police this information.
 When the police arrive, give the facts of the incident. Be as accurate as possible and answer any questions about why you suspected the person of committing a crime. Also discuss what you did and said to arrest the person.

