 Most bullies tend to single out loners or individuals who do not seem to have a community of friends or allies. So find a buddy and vow to stick together to avoid being bullied.Walk with a friend on the way to school, or make a plan to meet up at recess or lunch so you can show bullies that you have strength in number and have allies to back you up.
If you are dealing with bullies in the office, look for co-workers you feel you can trust and rely on to help you deflect or ignore bullies.
 Another way to ignore a bully is to find an ally in yourself. Work on building your self esteem and self worth so that when a bully comes up to you, ready to insult you or taunt you, you can feel strong and secure enough to ignore them.Think about a skill you’re good at or would like to get better at, like a sport, a creative art, or a craft. Put time and energy into improving your abilities in a certain skill so you can feel good about yourself, despite a bully’s taunts or hurtful actions.
You may also feel good by doing small things as part of your daily routine, like showering in the morning before school or setting aside time to choose an outfit and get dressed or groom yourself in a way that makes you feel confident and strong.
 Though this may not fall under ignoring a bully, it is very important to tell an adult if you are being bullied, especially if you have already tried other passive ways of dealing with the bully and they still will not leave you alone. Find someone you trust, like a teacher, a parent, or a manager, and let them know you are being bullied. Use the allies around you to help you deal with the bully.Remember that telling is not the same as tattling. Tattling is meant to make someone else look bad, as there is no victim involved when you tattle. But telling or reporting is done in the service of others, as it's meant to help someone.It’s a heroic thing to stand up for someone who’s being hurt. Bullying is wrong and it can only help the situation if you speak up and let an authority figure know you are being bullied or someone you know is being bullied.

