 Examine the skin of your abdomen and back-- they should be free from infection. If you do have a skin infection, the needle used for the procedure may carry microorganisms inside the body and your kidney may get infected this way.Common signs of skin infection are redness, itching, pain, and discharge of pus. An open wound is likely to get infected.
You may also need to provide a blood or urine sample to detect if you have an infection., Your doctor will inform you about the whole procedure, along with the risks and benefits of the biopsy. Then you will need to sign the consent form just like with any surgery.Consent is usually required due to the risk of bleeding and infection, or due to the risk for disability or death.


Make sure that you understand all risks associated with the procedure before signing the consent form.
 You need to shave any hair on your back and abdomen. Doing this will make the procedure easier for the surgeon. A clean surface will provide a good view of the target area and will reduce the risk of infection.


Take a shower and wash the area thoroughly with soap after you shave. You will want to be as germ free as possible.
 Most people get anxious before getting a simple injection, let alone having surgery. Anxiolytic drugs such as bromazepam or lorazepam will greatly reduce this fear or anxiety. Take it as prescribed by your doctor. If you do not want to take medication for your anxiety try these other relaxation techniques:Cleansing, deep breaths may help you to relax if you’re feeling anxious. Slowly breathe in through your nose and hold for two seconds, then release your breath slowly out of your mouth. Repeat five times. Perform this breathing technique before you go to bed and on the morning of the procedure. Doing some deep breathing will stimulate your parasympathetic nervous system and help you to relax.
Meditation is also a way to relieve anxiety. Close your eyes and picture yourself in a peaceful place. Focus for a few minutes and concentrate on slowing your breathing down. This can be done the night before and in the morning before you leave your home.
 You’ll most likely be put on NPO status, which is the medical term for “nothing by mouth” the night before the procedure. It’s important for your stomach to be empty to prevent aspiration during the procedure. Aspiration happens when stomach content enters the respiratory tract causing problems such as pneumonia.