 Net credit sales is a measure of how much credit a business extends to its customers. It takes into account any reductions in credit sales caused by discounts, returns, and other allowances. Net credit sales is also useful for calculating a number of financial ratios. To find net credit sales, start with total sales on credit for a given period. Remember to reduce total sales by cash sales to get total credit sales.For example, a company might have $200,000 in credit sales over the course of a year. Start with this value to calculate net credit sales.

Total sales on credit can be found using the methods from part of this article titled "Calculating Credit Sales."


, Most businesses will experience a loss in credit sales as customers return defective or unwanted items. Returns, then, are recognized as a reduction to net credit sales. Sum up all returns made on credit sales over the course of the period. Then, subtract the total value of these returns from credit sales.If the company from the previous example had $15,000 in returned items over the same year, they would reduce their $200,000 in credit sales by the $15,000 to get $185,000. 

This information can be found in the general ledger account Sales Returns and Allowances. 


, Allowances are discounts given to customers for a variety of reasons. For example, a company might allow early-payment discounts or apologize for an order that arrived late by reducing its price. These allowances also reduce net credit sales. Add up the total value of all allowances on credit sales over the period and subtract this amount from your total.For example, if the same company had $10,000 in allowances over the year, then they would further reduce their $185,000 total to $175,000. 

These transactions can be found in the general ledger under Sales Returns and Allowances. 


, The reductions made on net credit sales up to this point should have only been those returns and allowances made on credit sales. The best way to ensure accuracy in these calculations is to keep these accounts for credit sales separate from those for cash sales. However, many businesses do not keep these accounts. Go back and look at your values for returns and allowances and identify any additions that were related to cash sales rather than credit sales. You will then have to add the value of these sales back into your total.For example, if the previous company determined that $5,000 worth of its returns were actually made on cash sales, it would have to increase its net credit sales value by $5,000. 

This would give a net credit sales value of $175,000 + $5,000, or $180,000.


