 You will need to identify where the bats are getting in and out of your house in order to prevent them from returning once you have removed them. Bats often roost in attics, so look for gaps in the siding of your home, open windows or cracks.Many attics in older homes have gaps in the wood that are small enough for bats to crawl through, inspect the areas carefully as it takes very little space for a bat to get in.
Make sure traditional openings like windows and grain doors in barns are closed securely.
 Once you have identified the different places the bats have been accessing your house from, seal off all but one of them. Try to keep their “main” point of entry open.Determine the bat’s most highly trafficked point of entry by how much of the bat’s droppings you find in the area of the entry point.
The other holes and gaps can be as small as a half inch and can easily be filled with caulk or sealed off with a piece of wood.
 Exclusion devices allow bats to exit your house in the evening just like normal, but prevents them from being able to come back in. There are a number of different types of exclusion devices you can make or that are available for purchase.Netting and screens can serve as exclusion devices if you position them in a way that makes it easy to crawl out of, but low enough that it would be difficult for a bat in flight to find the opening again.
Funnels and “bat cones” narrow the entrance so significantly that it makes it difficult for bats to gain access to the funnel again while in flight.
Exclusion devices can be bought at the store if you would rather not attempt to construct one yourself., While you can purchase a variety of exclusion devices to help you remove the bats from your home, you can also create your own fairly easily with some screen and thumbtacks or a staple gun.Place the screen over the primary entrance and exit for the bats, with the screen flat against the side of your house but tented up a bit in the middle over the hole.
Narrow the tented space in the screen down to a point about an inch wide at the bottom so the screen resembles a funnel from the top of the entrance to the narrow hole in the bottom.
Bats will crawl out through the opening at the bottom of the screen, but be unable to grip and crawl back up to the entrance.
 After the bats are all out of your house, you will need to seal the main entrance that you had placed the exclusion device on to make sure no bats find their way back into your home.Bats have fairly long life spans and good memories, so they will attempt to re-enter your home if it is not properly sealed.
Bats are not good at chewing or clawing through barriers, so as long as you seal the entrance they won’t likely be able to re-enter.
 Once the area is secure and the bats have vacated, you should make sure to clean up all bat droppings in your house. Bat droppings and urine can create issues for you and your family.Large amounts of bat droppings can cause wood to rot, compromising the integrity of your home.
Bat droppings can lead to mold.
Clean up bat droppings using a vacuum and all-purpose cleaner. Make sure to wash your hands when you are done.

