 For this step, one can trade a Budew for a Mudkip. Mudkip is nearly worthless at Level 1 because It can be obtained so easily by breeding a Swampert you get from Pokémon Bank. However, since mudkip is not found through normal gameplay, someone who wants to complete the dex without a B/W or B2/W2 game will want a basic to get the ball rolling. That's why you start small.;
, For this, trade the Mudkip for a Cloyster. Cloyster's Skill link ability is desired by competitive players, but it is also available to be caught (though rare) in Cyllage city while fishing. With some luck, someone looking for dex filler will trade your starter for an OU. Kadabra is a good choice for this trade because then you can offer an Alakazam in your next trade.
 Trade the Cloyster for a Charizard in this step. Charizard is easily obtainable in game, and if you advertise its "good moves" in the message box you can find a trader pretty quickly.
 Trade the Charizard for a Tyranitar in this step. Tyranitar is easily obtainable in game by evolving Pupitar, and Mega Tyranitar is a meta wrecker with sand stream and awesome defense. Other candidates for this trade are Aggron, garchomp, and maybe dragonite although it has no Mega.
 For example, trade the Tyranitar for a Goodra. Goodra is a pseudo legendary and can only evolve at level 40 if its raining naturally. Since casual players are too lazy to wait for rain, you will get a trade quick from the people who are impatient in the next step.
 All five of these, (Electrivire, Magmortar, rhyperior, Dusknoir, and porygon-Z) are fairly useful competitive Pokémon,and they are in high demand because they need special items, ones requiring BP, to evolve. Trade Goodra for Rhyperior because Rhyperior, long story short, is a boss. Don't ask for the pre-evolution thinking someone will give it that held item. They might not.
 Trade your trade evolver for a legendary trio Pokémon that someone would most likely have multiple of, AKA anything catchable as repeats in B2/W2. This means the Lake spirits, Forces of Nature, or Swords of Justice (look 'em up). Rhyperior was traded for a Virizion, and it was pretty awesome to see this thing coming in from a Budew. But we're not done.
 A mascot legendary is the one that shows up on the box. Every mascot legendary is repeatable due to the vast amounts of special events for each one, so this can actually be the easiest step yet. However, It's best to start with one That's more common and weak, AKA NOT DIALGA, PALKIA, GIRATINA, HO-OH, LUGIA, or RAYQUAZA. Don't get those until the next step. Everything else is pretty much fair game. Virizon was traded for a Yveltal here.
 Any Pokémon received in a special event cannot be traded over GTS, so don't waste your time trying to get Arceus, Deoxys, Jirachi, Victini, etc. The final trade was Yveltal for Kyogre.
 This is the longest and most boring part of the bartering if you're not lucky. If you're lucky and got a beautiful perfect Kyogre on the first try, good for you! But you may not be nearly as lucky on your following barters. This is just alternating trades for two legendaries, over and over and over again. But if you're just trying to get dex filler for these, you don't need to worry about this step. Well That's all! Now enjoy your new legendary that you just got from a piece of junk!

