 (A girlfriend/boyfriend or group of friends is common, but don't make the group too big or you will be noticed.);
, Do not write this down on paper, as it can be evidence to your parents. Mentally, try to plan out;


Fencing, terrain, lighting and hiding spots where you will be going
Blind spots from the windows of nearby houses
Floor creaks or squeaky doors and windows
Naturally occurring things, such as weather and moon phase
Time you are departing
Method of exit from home - must be quiet,
Consider nearby barking dogs and avoid them and any other animals
Path taken to destination
Path taken back home
Method of entry in home
Stay away from the main streets
Estimate of how long all this will take
Excuses, backup plans, things you'll need, etc.
 Eat 2 hours before and drink one hour before. 15 minutes before departing, get dressed up, but no earlier or you will risk being discovered by your parents. Also, at about 15 minutes, have an energy gel - they are like goo and contain caffeine usually and complex sugars. Pack all the stuff you'll need, but make sure you don't get weighed down too much by it. Remember you're only sneaking out don't over think it.


Stretch before sneaking. In the dead of night, your joints creaking and popping can be much louder than you may anticipate. Stretching before you go out is a great way to ensure being able to move smoothly without cracking all of your joints.
 The classic "glass of water" excuse seems to work fairly well. If you were caught coming back inside, you may want to say you were merely admiring the stars. It's always good to have multiple excuses for any and every possible situation. Another thing to remember is to think of your excuses before you start sneaking. If you already have the conversation planned out, they're less likely to discover your lie.


Know how your parents wake up. Some people take a while to wake up, while others are instantly alert the moment their eyes open. Sometimes you can abandon your sneaking, and quickly run upstairs to your room, before their sleepy mind can process what they just heard. If your parents have the ears of secret agents, you're probably best to try and sneak back to your room, but walk normally once they come within eyesight of you. Remember to think of a good excuse.
 Only good for asphalt and parking lots.
Slate gray: Good for concrete and other urban settings.
Navy blue/midnight blue: Matches the general color of the night, allowing versatility in most settings.
Olive drab/military green/: Good for both dense and thin green foliage, in suburban settings you will probably find yourself hiding in bushes and grass hills often, this would be a decent choice.
Khaki: Good for dead foliage and desert settings.
White: Good for snow, a white outfit with a few digital black and grey specks works best.
Brown: Good for crawling through big areas with only dirt and no plants.
 Everyone's house is different, so you will have to try to figure out a few things for yourself. Be sure to walk quietly and avoid squeaky spots in the floor. Make sure to go out the farthest window or door from your parents. Try not to run into any furniture, as this could both hurt and make noise. Bring with you anything you might need, depending on where you are going. For example, money, flashlight, pocket knife, etc.


Leave a screwdriver or butter knife in your window or the door to hold it a crack open so you don't get locked out. Bring a front door key just in case. If you sleep on a second floor, consider getting a roll down fire escape ladder. Put some stuffed animals under your covers to make it look like it's your body. Leave your door as it normally is to avoid suspicion from your parents - and do not lock it! In case they do figure out that you are missing, leave a note saying you are fine that you have cash for a pay phone and not to call the police.
 Here are some things to do:


When walking down stairs (particularly creaky stairs) try to stick close to the walls. This is where the boards are most reinforced. It is also a good idea to check the stairs during the day to try and memorize which steps are creaky.
If you have to, press against the walls with your hands to put as much weight on your arms. This will take some of the weight off of your feet, and minimize creaking.
Turn doorknobs very slowly. Also, know what your door is going to do when you open it. Some squeaky doors can be opened quietly by quickly opening it before it has a chance to squeak, while others require you to open it very slowly. Know your environment.
 Make sure you notice what time it is, and how long it takes you to get to and from the desired place. Be sure to be back at least an hour before your parents usually get up.
 Take a moment to appreciate the crickets and far away traffic and airplanes, look at the moon with the thin clouds floating by and the stars. This helps create the right attitude and teaches you to be silent as a ninja and become part within nature. If you are really nervous, stay in the garden and just appreciate the night. This will help you be at ease, so you feel more confident when you go out.
 Now that you have gotten out of front lawn, it's time to rock and roll. Stay low, stay quiet, and stay alert. Watch your back and walk quietly.
 Remember—it's actually easier to get caught sneaking back in than it is to be caught sneaking out. Don't get cocky and think that you have already succeeded. Be very quiet, the best thing to do now is to get undressed and mess up your hair and stop by the kitchen for a cup of water so you have an excuse if your parents hear you coming upstairs, And be sure to lock the door that you came in so your parents don't notice something is up.
 Your parents will be suspicious if you sleep in until past noon (unless that is your normal sleeping habit) or if you are obviously extremely tired the next day. Drink an energy drink or some caffeinated soda so you are not too tired.

