 Starting over after a divorce can be smoother when you stick to a routine. Routine provides needed structure in what can be a very uncertain time of life. Schedule in all your mandatory responsibilities like work and household obligations, but make room for new tasks that allow you to explore a new side of yourself, too.Your new routine should include healthy activities that allow you to connect with others and heal. Try starting a new workout regimen, meditating, joining a club or organization, or visiting new areas in your city.
 One of the most noticeable aspects of divorce is the many new hats you may now have to wear. Where you once split your to-do list with a spouse, you now have to handle all your responsibilities. Many of these may be tasks you always counted on your spouse to do like balancing your checkbook, cooking, or housekeeping and yard work.Ask relatives, friends, or experts in these areas for advice. If it seems like too much, focus on learning one new task at a time. You may be able to get helpful information by reading blogs, checking out books from your local library, or signing up for classes.
However, be aware that you may also have to let some things go because you cannot do it all.
 The aftermath of divorce may leave you house-hunting, or you may simply want to freshen up your current home to reflect your singlehood. Redecorating can bring up many emotions as you go through mementos of your previous life. Don’t try to take on too much at once.


Go room by room in your new home, really thinking about how you want the space to look and feel.
 Divorce presents an opportunity to go back to the drawing board and really ask yourself who you want to be and what you want out of life. Some people may have trouble being single, but spending time sans relationship is integral to figuring out yourself—and making sure you choose a more fitting partner next time around.Use this time to reconnect with your personal values, redefining your beliefs and life purpose. Learn to listen to and trust yourself without needing another person to weigh in on your decisions.
In addition, it’s a good idea to reflect on your role in the breakdown of your marriage. Think about any unhealthy patterns you developed in the relationship and ways you need to work on yourself.

