 It's possible to give your hair body and lightness by brushing it out before you wet it for the shower. Whether you're going to shampoo or not, running a brush through your hair will keep your hair from matting and clumping, giving it body and lightness for afterward. Brushing alone can't give you curls, but it's a helpful first step in the process.
 If you want naturally curly hair, rinse your hair regularly to keep it clean and fresh, but don't use shampoo more than once or twice a week if you have naturally straight hair. This is because shampoo will dry out your hair and strip it of its natural oils, which help to give hair body, bounce, and curl. If you want curlier hair, rinse it, don't wash it.
 If you want to help train your hair to curl naturally, stop washing it so much. Regular rinsing helps to keep your hair lighter, keeping the dirt and build-up out of your hair, but it also allows the natural oils in your hair to keep your hair silky and light, giving it body and curl in the right conditions. Shampoo dries your hair out and weighs it down over time, making it less likely that it'll be able to curl. Washing your hair will straighten, rinsing your hair will curl.


Different people will need to wash their hair more or less, accordingly. If you have particularly greasy hair, you might need to wash it every other day at least. If you have dry hair, try washing it only once a week or less and rinse every day.
 If you want curly hair, you can't use a blow dryer or towel-dry your hair to death. The best way to get hair to curl naturally is to let it dry on its own, preferably overnight. Sleeping on your hair might make it look kinked up and messy, but it may also help to give it the kind of curl you're looking for, depending on your type of hair.


In general, if you want curlier hair, it's better to bathe at night, as opposed to in the morning. If you're in the habit of showering every morning before school or work, switch up your routine to rinse your hair at night instead.

