 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see “257.” Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, go over how your board is laid out. Do you see good moves to quickly get a special candy or two? Are there moves that can easily break the meringues so you can get to the mystery eggs?

, If you think the board isn’t any good, you can exit. You won’t lose any lives as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet., Make matches right next to the layer of meringues to slowly break them. You need to hit them twice before they get cleared. Breaking the meringues serve two purposes. One is to enlarge your working space and two is to get to the mystery eggs.
 Once you’ve penetrated the layer of meringues, the mystery eggs can flow through. Match the mystery eggs with the same-colored candies to break them and see what lies inside.
 Mystery eggs contain random items, some good, some bad. If you get a special candy, you’re lucky. Otherwise, you may get a blocker like licorice, meringue, or chocolate. When you do, be sure to stop them right away, especially the chocolate., A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. All the orders require at least one Striped candy, so go ahead and make one.
 A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This candy can be hard to make, so go ahead and make one whenever you get the chance.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. You only need one of these for your orders.
 You are required to combine a Striped candy and a Wrapped candy twice, a Candy Bomb and a Striped candy once, and two Striped candies twice. Making the candies or breaking them out of mystery eggs isn’t enough. You need to match two together and do that in the required number of times. Once you have one special candy, make some matches and clear some space so you can get the two you need together.
 Once you get the two needed special candies together, match them immediately. Do not let another move go without doing so. You might lose the chance, and the candies may shift after your next move.