 Place a food and water bowl, litter box, bed, and toys in each room. By placing them in separate rooms, your cats will be able to smell and hear each other, but not see each other. This way they do not have to interact.Depending on the severity of the aggression, you may need to have your cats separated for a couple days or weeks.
 Do this by placing each cat's food bowl near the closed door. This will force your cats to be close together while doing an activity that they enjoy, thus helping them associate more positive experiences with each other.If both or one of your cats is still uncomfortable, try placing their food bowl a little farther away from the door. Gradually move the food bowl closer to the door over the course of several days or a week.
 Take one of the cats and its food bowls, litterbox, bed, and toys to another room and close the door. Then move the other cat and its possessions to the first cat's room and close the door. Finally, place the first cat and its possessions in the second cat's room and close the door. Swap their rooms every three days.Do this after several days of being separated. Swapping rooms will allow your cats to become accustomed to each other’s scent.
 Let the cats see each other through a screen or glass door, or a baby gate. Play with the cats and give them treats while they can see each other. Limit this first encounter to only a few minutes, for example five to ten minutes.Alternatively, you can place both cats in a carrier. Place the carriers across from each other so they can see each other. Gradually place the carriers closer and closer together as signs of aggression reduce.
If using a baby gate, stack two or three gates on top of each other to prevent the cats from jumping over.
If one of the cats begins to show signs of anxiety or aggressive behavior, go back to a distance where both cats are comfortable.
 Once your cats are comfortable with seeing each other from a distance, you can start to crack their doors open as they eat. Have them see each other as they eat, but make sure they are far enough apart so they do not feel threatened. Feed them a small amount of food to keep the sessions brief.Gradually increase the length of the sessions as your cats become more comfortable with each other.
Use a doorstop or a hook-and-eye closure to prevent the doors from opening if one of the cats decides to charge or confront the other one.
 Do this while they are eating. Make sure to watch the cats so you can prevent any fights. If one of the cats is uncomfortable or seems as if it will attack, then close the door. As they become comfortable, gradually let them explore the outside realms of their room after eating and under your supervision.If they are uncomfortable, do not pressure them.
Keep a barrier nearby just in case a fight erupts.
 Inter-cat aggression is a common problem that your veterinarian has probably dealt with before. A vet can help you identify the exact cause of your cats’ fights and give you advice for moving forward.

Your veterinarian may decide that one or both of your cats would benefit from medication to reduce their anxiety and aggression.

