 For example, if you have acne, try to use face washes, but make sure they are for your skin type. If it is too severe, try seeing a dermatologist. Exfoliate your skin two times a week, more than that will harm your precious skin, always moisturize your skin for a healthy glow. Tan's aren't always a necessity, most of the time, your natural color is the best, unless you are too pale. Remember that your skin is irreplaceable, so treat it as you would treat a queen. Give it treats by using masks, sometimes.;
, Try taking the BMI test, it will show you if you are overweight considering your height. If you are overweight, then try some yoga class, or running a few miles a day. Exercise will never hurt you, no matter what. It even keeps you in a better mood, and lets the time pass if you have nothing to do. While you exercise try listening to music, it keeps up your heart rate, and lets you enter a whole different world.
 If you have a boring closet, try to donate stuff you don't need. When you have cleared space, its time for you to hit the mall. Go to places that you would love to buy from.


Try buying unique pieces of clothing that you wouldn't find many people having, but still keep up with fashion. If you know that you would enter a shop with boring things, take someone that is your opposite with you. Let him/her help you in buying your clothes.






If you love your old style, that's fine; Try looking up magazines with things that you like, for example there can be many beautiful clothes with the color brown, or beige. If you are that way then try being "Preppy". Of course, there can be other problems like; Say you had a tight budget. Go to shops that you know are cheaper, but you also know have hot clothes. Try to be more creative. Creativity is the key, you could wear a black simple top, with a crazy pink, yellow, red, or even neon green scarf. If you were known for wearing ballet flats, or flip flops for school, try buying High Tops, Nike, SUPRA, Converse, something you wouldn't normally wear and vice versa.
 Always take showers, and if you have a sweating problem, get some antiperspirant deodorant. Ladies, you should try shaving your underarms, since they keep the body odor, and try your legs, too. The bikini line, isn't essential unless you want to. Waxing is better than shaving though, because shaving can keep your skin color darker, and it may cut you. Waxing may hurt but its definitely better than shaving.


Buy perfume that goes with your personality, if you are a sweet person, buy vanilla or cotton candy scents. If you love being a girl, buy flower scents, if you are more cool, you know, like always wear high tops and stuff, also wear sweet scents like vanilla, believe they'll rock. For boys, I prefer a calm cool scent, try to find something that reminds you of something you love, for example the sea. That goes for girls, too.
 If you were a lonely person, try making friends, If you were a loser, BE CONFIDENT that's the answer to every question (almost). You got to love yourself more than ever, keep your head high, but not too high. When people see how much you respect yourself, they will respect you as well.
 Who knows, maybe a person you thought never liked you, could turn out to be your closest friend, always chat with people, they will be able to trust you and so will you, you have nothing to lose but friends to gain.

