 You can get it in just about any store that sells gift wrap. If you want something that looks like an opal instead, you could get some iridescent cellophane instead., Try to get some different shapes and sizes; this will create a more "natural" and spontaneous look found in shattered glass and opals. Make sure that the shapes are much smaller than your nails, however. You will be piecing them together on each nail to create a "shattered" effect.


Place some double-sized tape onto your table, then stick your cut shapes down into it. Make sure that just the edges are touching the tape, so that they are standing up. This will make grabbing them easier., Here is where you can get really creative. For example, if you want something that looks like glass, you could go with silver nail polish. If you want something that looks like an opal, try nude (this works great with iridescent nail polish). If you want something dramatic, try black!

, It might be a good idea to do just one hand for now, or even a few nails. Make sure that you are using the regular kind of top coat, and not the quick drying kind—otherwise, you may not have enough time to set the pieces down!, Use a pair of tweezers to grab the cellophane pieces, and to place them onto your nail. You can place the pieces as close together or as far apart as you'd like, but avoid overlapping them. If you overlap them you will create seams, which will create bulk. Don't worry if some of the pieces extend past the tip of your nail.


If the top coat dries too quickly, just paint more on.
Try to get the position right the first time; if you nudge the pieces too much, you may create "ripples."
Don't focus too much on perfection. The shattered look is supposed to be random.
 Once you have everything done, get out a pair of nail clippers, and use them to trim off any excess foil that might be extending past the tips of your nails.
 Be sure to sweep some top coat over the very tips of your nails as well. This will prevent the polish from peeling.

