 Learn as much as you can about the strategies others have used. Also, read online stories and articles about strategies used in the show and similar shows. Tuck these strategies away in your head, for future reference and mulling over.;
, You may not have the chance to feel this good for a while, so at least start out feeling your absolute best, both physically and mentally. Make sure that all issues back home are neatly tied up until you get back, assuming that you may be gone the whole time (after all, you're confident, right?).
 Just as you needed to be confident to get through the audition process and take the decision to be filmed and watched all over the world, you need to use that confidence to keep you going throughout the time you're on the show. There is also a little maxim about faking it till you feel it too... just don't lack humility in the process.
 Complainers really get on people's nerves, especially those with the resolve to not complain despite still feeling the pain. At the end of the day, even though those toughing it out or being laid back might not say anything, the last thing they want to put up with for very long is endless complaining. So, resort to grinning and bearing the small tribulations and keep your real complaints factual, attempting to include suggested solutions rather than simply dumping a problem onto the group. The less panicky, irritable and anxious you come across, the more comfortable others will feel around you.
 Whatever their strengths, backgrounds, talents and complaints, each of them has at least three things you can connect with, so look for those three things, even if you can't abide anything else about the person. Moreover, be the one person who will listen, never judge and always have their back. Remember that perception is almost everything––if the others like you, it gets harder to get rid of you. If you do get to the end, having the jury on your side is infinitely helpful..., While clearly everyone is on the show because they were competitive enough to get there, this doesn't necessarily translate to coping skills when under true pressure, not just auditioning pressures. Who among your fellow contestants appears from the get-go to have the most drive and determination likely to see them through starvation, injury, trash talk and difficult challenges? They're your real competitors but they're also potential collaborators, in terms of strengths and longevity.
 Some contestants may falsify weak or incompetent behavior initially, to put others off their guard. Moreover, one sign of weakness doesn't add up to a whole. It's best to be alert to weaknesses that appear when people are least able to control them, such as when hungry, tired or upset. Watch for tantrums, long bouts of crying, being down in the dumps, sulking, moping and other behavior that can signal the person is either not reliable or likely to do something that isn't constructive for either the team as a whole or you as an individual competitor.


Be friendly in general but steer clear of too close a connection with any person who regularly "loses it". Such people can tend to be jealous, afraid and ready to stab anyone in the back who might threaten or appear to undermine their weaker position. Referring back to step one, be nice.
 They may turn out to be the game changer, and referring back to step one, if everyone likes you and you haven't been belittling or mean, this may make all the difference. Jeff Probst notes that human beings have blind spots brought on by reduced awareness, which can cause stronger contestants to not see such outer contestants, until it's too late and for one reason or another, it has bad repercussions., This is your core team to strategize with and to even make a pact with about going to the end, together. Sure, one of you gets bumped but it's not bad having a millionaire for a friend forever more, is it?

, While it is possible to be Mr/Ms. Nice Guy/Gal throughout the series, realize that constant strategy must be behind your low-radar behavior, along with a willingness to seize the moment when it arrives. You will need to know when the moments are right, and that's not something an article can tell you because it all depends on context, timing and the people you're marooned with. Good luck there.
 You know they're there for the ratings and that they're bound to happen. Acting outraged and gobsmacked at such twists may not be the best approach; instead, take these in your stride, be reassuring to your team members that you can all manage it and get down to the task at hand with a sense of duty and confidence.
 It does seem that sticking under the radar and being inoffensive yet very helpful is a good way to begin the game. Leaders from the early stages risk being lopped, no matter how much you are tempted to take the reins.


If you have a feeling that everyone else around you is an idiot and that's the sole reason for taking charge, take a timeout from them all to check your feelings of superiority and overcome them before returning and being pleasant to the group again. You can steer pleasantly or yell and storm messily; the former is the better approach.
 Predictability can count for a lot when people start losing the plot and fearing there is no end to the hunger, uncomfortable sleep and difficult circumstances. The person who doesn't turn on others, who can always be relied upon to be there and say something cheery and who knows his or her stuff in terms of getting dinner on the table or a shelter up quickly will always be welcomed by everyone else. Slow and steady can often win the race.
 This isn't for everyone but it might work if you can gain a sympathy vote. For example, fans of the show will remember the lie Jonny Fairplay told about his dead grandmother, winning him the sympathy vote from his team members.Although this didn't win him the game, he did get a lot further than he probably would have without this strategy. It's not a fair and square clean approach though, so it's not recommended as it's liable to unravel at some point, and in a moment of weakness, you may let it slip.
 If you are going to take risks that expose you to the voting machinations of others, be sure to back these up with convincing talk or persuasive messaging that lets you off the hook from being a potential target. You'll know if you're good at that sort of communicating but you'll also need to be able to keep this up under pressure. Read books on persuasive techniques before going on the show.
 You don't know what will unfold, nobody does until it does unfold. Being mindful and at peace with the whole process, loving it for the journey that it is, as much as the destination, can help you to stay focused, calm and at ease with the whole game. That way, no matter what happens, you're a winner because you had an experience that most people in the world never will. Lucky you.

