 If you are interested in the program, you should talk to your school’s IB coordinator upon beginning high school. Many schools require the completion of specific courses and certain GPAs to be admitted into the program.If your school does not have an IB program, but a neighboring one does, you can contact the IB coordinator there and ask if they would be willing to consider your application.;
, The IB program is extremely rigorous, requiring on average two to three hours of homework per night. To obtain entrance and stay in the program you will need to demonstrate commitment and ability.


Stay focused in class, ask questions, and complete work.
Study. Tests and quizzes are a big deal in the program. Take good notes and use your time wisely in class.
 The IB program requires comprehension of a second language. In order to obtain an appropriate level, it is recommended that you begin instruction in a foreign language by 9th grade.


If you do not begin instruction in a second language by 9th grade, try taking a summer session at the local community college to catch up., If you are having difficulty meeting school requirements, try to seek outside assistance from an outside resource, like a tutoring agency or counselor. They might be able to help you identify and correct any learning problems. Furthermore, they likely have extensive knowledge of the how the program works in your community.
 You are required to take English, Second Language, Social Science, Experimental Science, and Math. You will also need to take an elective, 2 semesters of the Theory of Knowledge, 150 CAS hours, and write a 4,000 word essay.


At least three of your courses should be at the higher level.Your IB counselor and you should devise a plan to meet these requirements at the beginning of the program, either at the end of your Sophomore year or beginning of the Junior year., Over the course of your junior and senior year you should complete a 4,000 word essay on a subject of your choosing. Consult consistently with a research librarian, subject adviser, and essay adviser to establish that you are making satisfactory progress., Unlike the AP program, where your final grade consists exclusively of final test scores, IB scores are based in part off of in class assignments graded by your instructor with supervision from the IB organization. You should both study seriously for end of the year tests and keep up with class assignments.Internal assessments usually constitute 20-30% of your grade., IB classes are graded on a scale of 1-7. To obtain a degree you should aim to have a cumulative score of 28 between your six courses. That means you should struggle for average score between four and five points. However, these scoring requirements are contingent upon an array of circumstances.


With 28 points you will still be required to have earned a grade of at least D in either the TOK or the extended essay. You are not permitted to get a score of 1 in any of your courses, more than one 2 in higher level courses, three grade 2s in standard classes, and no more three grades of 3 or below total. At least 11 points should have been secured in higher level subjects and 8 in standard level subjects.
You can still get a degree with a cumulative score between 24 and 27, if you meet additional requirements. You must have earned at least a D in both TOK and extended essay. You are permitted no grade 1s or grade 2s at higher levels. You can only get one grade 2 at a standard level. You are still permitted no more than three scores below 3. At least 12 points must have been earned in higher level subjects (if you took four such classes the number is 16). At least 9 of your points need to have been earned in standard level subjects (6 if you have only taken two such classes).
You cannot receive a diploma if you have been found guilty by the IB Organization of malpractice---including plagiarism, submitting the same project for multiple classes, and copying the work of a peer.