 There are different types of turtles available for purchase. These can present different difficulties in care, cost differences, and differences in how tame or docile the animal is. Painted turtles are a great aquatic species for beginners. This is a colorful variety of turtle, readily available, easy to care for and great for a new turtle owner. They stay small, only 4 to 5 inches, and are active. They're also commonly bred in captivity and years of breeding has created a docile and tame animal. They are recognizable for their colorful markings that make them appear "painted," hence the name.
Common Musk Turtles. These are a small, relatively hearty, aquatic turtle. They can rest comfortably in a small tank (as small as 30 gallons) but do not generally like to be handled.
Slider turtles. There are many varieties of sliders with two being the most common — the red eared and yellow bellied slider. They stay under 11 inches and are easy to care for. They also have tame and docile personalities.
Diamondback Terrapin. This is another type of turtle commonly available in pet stores and amongst breeders. While these turtles stay small (9 inches at the most) and are friendly, they require a little more expertise than either painted turtles or sliders. They prefer brackish water (a slightly salted water) and thus will require more work.
 Many pet stores will sell a variety of turtles. However, you will want to know the provenance of your turtle before bringing it home. This can include whether it was captive bred or caught from the wild. In addition to this you will want to make sure that the turtle is being kept in a proper habitat and appears alert and healthy. Ask for proof that the turtle was captive bred. If the breeder cannot provide this, chances are the turtle was born in the wild. This can have detrimental effects on wild turtle populations and also make your turtle more prone to stress, which is potentially detrimental to the animal's health.
 Since many turtles can be bred in poor conditions or undergo the stresses of being captured from the wild, it is important to choose a healthy looking turtle. The turtle should be alert, free of any parasites, and relatively active. You will want to see that the turtle has an appetite and looks properly fed. Their eyes should be clear, no bubbles from the nose while breathing or wheezing sounds. The limbs should be strong and moving when picked up; listlessness is a sign of illness. There should also be no cracks or pits in the shell or sign of wounds. Check the enclosure. The water should be clean, food should be available and adequate light provided. If any of these are missing, it can increase the likelihood you bring home a sick turtle.
 Besides all of the commitment requirements, make sure that your turtle's habitat is ready to go before you pick the turtle up. This way they can start acclimating to their new life right away.
 Whether you are the primary caregiver, or a child is regularly handling the turtle, be cognizant of potential diseases they may carry. Turtles can carry salmonella or other infectious diseases. This can also be contracted by contact with their enclosure. Make sure to practice safe handling measures and wash your hands thoroughly after each contact with the enclosure or turtle. Elderly people, children and infants are particularly susceptible to salmonella. Even if they are not directly interacting with the turtle or its environment, you will want to wash your hands thoroughly before coming in contact with at risk individuals.

