 You must have endurance. Work on basic calisthenics like push-ups, pull-ups, sit-ups and squats. These are the basic building blocks for practicing parkour. Experts say you should be capable of performing 25 push-ups, 5 pull-ups and 50 full squats before you formally get started in parkour.;
, Parkour entails a lot of vertical movement. High jumps can be painful if you don't know how to land properly or safely fall, then end with a move.You should start off with a jump between 1/2 a meter to 1 meter. Land on the front part of your feet with your legs bent and if you have jumped from a higher distance then perform a forwards roll.To do this roll you should roll on your shoulders not your back if you roll on your back you may do serious damage to your body.
 These more difficult maneuvers are designed to get you up and around obstacles in the urban landscape. As you begin to practice more frequently, you will learn which moves you prefer and develop your own unique style for practicing them.
 Like all sports, parkour requires regular training to be effective, otherwise your skills will drop off. Practice at least two or three times a week, and make sure to maintain your basic skills while moving on to more difficult maneuvers.
 Begin to drill the techniques that you have created, establish new ways of moving through experimentation, and find new paths and environments to master through self exploration. When you are in tune with yourself, no one knows what works better for your body than you.
 Start with a slow, safe pace. Trace a path between two points over and over until you are a master of your territory. You should notice a gradual increase in your speed, endurance, and the ease with which you transition between obstacles.


This progression can take hours, days, and even years depending on the path you choose, your natural ability, and several other factors. The important thing is to continue progressing no matter how slowly. This method is the essence of Parkour, and will lay the foundation to understanding it.
 Approach obstacles in a way that is unique to your body and abilities. The common movements employed by others do not necessarily make sense for you. That is precisely why it does not make sense to rely on videos as a way to learn. Once you have overcome this mental obstacle and risen above the poor standards set by many others, you can take your training in many different directions.

