 Making movies and watching movies is the most obvious of all methods. If your movie is short, you get 10 Starcoins ( currency ) but if your movie is longer, you get 25 Starcoins. Add VIPs and use their animations. Make sure they have animations.


Get people to watch your movies!
Make friends and share your movies with them.
Watch short movies. You get 10 Starcoins everytime without having to watch something super long.
Make a series. People will be more interested in watching a series.;
, Short movies are a five scene movie that you can make quickly for fame, and starcoins!

, If you love artbooks, you get StarCoins and you give people fame. If you comment by saying "cool movie" or "awesome artbook" a lot, you'll have a great reputation of being nice and friendly.
 If you want to be popular and famous, you have to be known by people, and the best way to do this is make friends and be nice! If you're mean people won't want to befriend you and you'll be known in a not-so-kind way. Be nice and compliment people, give them autographs, and so forth.


Have a good attitude. If you're always grumpy and negative, no one will want to be your friend and you'll be disliked. Write nice comments on friends walls, or support other people's work. Then people will want to give back to you and you will have a good reputation.
 If you go there often and chat, you'll make some friends. Find something interesting to chat about and people will respond.
 You can click on some, read them and comment. Make sure they're nice and positive or if it's negative, you'll be disliked. You can make your own by clicking the plus button. Only level 6 or VIPs can post forums.
 If you give them a lot of autos, help them get fame, and say lots of nice things to them, they might want to add you and they might say nice things about you to get you known.
 If you're a VIP, give people greets or diamond rides. You can only give 1 auto per hour if you don't have VIP.
 If you have a very close friend, they would do anything for you. Ask them to out them in their movies and artbooks or to autograph you.
 Click on the little icon that wants you to do activities, then follow the instructions.
 If you have a lot of StarCoins (currency) you can buy a lot of fashionable clothes or items. Shop for outfits that go together, rather than mixing and matching.


Buy good animations and clothes. You can make better looks and movies with clothes and animations. Be unique and creative. Don't let people judge your looks!

, If you play a game like Dress Up you can spin the Starcoin wheel if you win. You also get up to 500 fame whether you win or not, but it depends what place you get.
 There are many varieties of Boonies and Bonsters. If you pet then you get Starcoins! The most well-known method is to go to high scores and select pets, then click the owner name and go to their room. They have tons of animals to pet. It may take a while to get Starcoins from this method but everyday you can re-pet an animal.

