 Some denominations have adopted gay-friendly beliefs in which they do not consider homosexuality to be a sin. However, while many mainline Christian denominations welcome gay Christians, most do believe homosexuality is a sin, and these denominations may limit the role of gay individuals in the congregations. Many churches have action groups or member-organized groups that lobby the denomination on behalf of the gay population, but those groups are not necessarily associated with the actual denomination.
 The Association of Welcoming and Affirming Baptists (AWAB) advocates for full inclusion of LGBT populations within the Baptist denomination. Baptist churches that are members of the AWAB welcome all people without regard to sexual orientation.
Find an affirming Pentecostal church. The Affirming Pentecostal Church (APC) is a movement within the Pentecostal denomination to welcome people of all sexual orientations and gender identities. Look for a Pentecostal church that is a member of the APC. Global Alliance Affirming Apostolic Pentecostal (GAAAP) and Fellowship of Reconciling Pentecostals International (RPI) are also affirming.
Consider a gay-friendly Catholic church. The Ecumenical Catholic Church welcomes all people, without regard to sexual orientation, gender, marital status, race, education, social background or financial status. The Ecumenical Catholic Church is a separate Catholic denomination and is not affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church.
Seek a gay-friendly Christian (Disciples of Christ) church. The Gay, Lesbian and Affirming Disciples (GLAD) Alliance advocates for full inclusion of LGBT individuals in the Disciples of Christ denomination. The alliance has a training process for Disciples of Christ churches who wish to become GLAD-certified.
Find a gay-friendly Episcopal church. Integrity is a grass-roots organization, advocating for full inclusion of LGBT individuals in the Episcopal denomination. With a focus on inclusiveness, Integrity works in the areas education, worship, fellowship, communication, mission and outreach to welcome estranged LGBT Episcopalians back to the church.
Seek out a gay-friendly Lutheran church. Lutherans Concerned is a group dedicated to the full participation of all people in the Lutheran denomination, including people of all gender identities and sexual orientations. The group is opposed to discrimination against homosexuals in the Lutheran church.
Look for a gay-friendly Presbyterian church. More Light Presbyterians is an advocacy group that works on behalf of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people within the Presbyterian Church (USA). More Light Presbyterians provides inclusive ministries, educates churches and presbyteries on LGBT issues, and funds legislation to achieve social justice for LGBT populations.
Find a gay-friendly United Church of Christ (UCC) church. The UCC Coalition for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Concerns offers support and sanctuary to LGBT individuals and families. The coalition advocates for full inclusion of LGBT people and works to create open and affirming congregations within the UCC.
Look for a gay-friendly United Methodist church. Affirmation is an independent group, dedicated to inclusivity for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. The group challenges the United Methodist Church to advocate for social justice for LGBT people. Additionally, the Reconciling Ministries Network (RMN) is a movement of United Methodist churches, ministries and individuals who advocate for full participation of all LGBT people in the United Methodist Church.
Seek out a gay-friendly Metropolitan Community church. Metropolitan Community Church (MCC) was the first church founded on the principles of equality for LGBT people. MCC congregations focus on human and civil rights for all people, regardless of sexual orientation.
Many non-denominational affirming churches are established in a number of cities. Covenant Network is a network of Bible based, Spirit filled affirming churches under the leadership of Bishop Randy Morgan, who is also the founder and senior pastor of New Covenant Church of Atlanta.
If you're looking for a different kind of church or spiritual community, you can search for a Unitarian Universalist church or congregation. They are not usually considered Christian as the Bible is just one source they embrace. Unitarian Universalists were at the forefront of the gay rights and same-sex marriage movement and continue to fight for the rights of all people based on their first two of seven principles, which include "the worth and dignity of all" and treating people with respect and compassion.
Unity churches are considered progressive Christian. They describe themselves as a "positive path for spiritual living". They are welcoming and inclusive and usually have many LGBT people in their congregations. Their services are upbeat and have contemporary music. For a location near you: unity.org

