 Remove any lightweight furniture and decorations. Cover the remaining furniture, appliances, and floor with a plastic drop cloth.


Protect yourself by wearing a dust mask and working gloves. You should also wear "junk" clothes that you don't mind dirtying while working on this project.
Steam removal can be very messy. Artex has a tendency to liquefy when it becomes too hot, and if this happens, the product can easily drip onto other surfaces and create stains.;
, Fill the steamer canister with hot tap water. Plug the machine into a wall outlet and switch it on, giving it several minutes to heat up.


Each steamer may work differently, so follow the manufacturer's instructions before use. If the water canister has a fill line, make sure that you do not fill it above that line. Give the machine an adequate amount of time to heat up, too.
 Press the steam plate over the corner of the Artex-covered area. Hold it in place for several seconds.


Do not hold the steam plate over one area for more than a few seconds. If you allow the Artex to get too hot, it could liquefy and drip onto other surfaces. Moreover, you may also damage the ceiling or wall beneath the Artex by applying too much steam.
 Lift up the steam plate, then use a scraper tool to test the softness of the Artex.


Press the edge of the scraper directly to the surface and push into the Artex using firm, controlled pressure. If the Artex feels hard or does not respond to moderate amount pressure, it isn't soft enough to remove yet.
 Continue steaming the same area for several seconds at a time, testing after each press. When the Artex becomes soft enough, use the scraper to ease it off the surface.It may take 20 seconds or more before the Artex softens enough to remove, but you should continue testing the area every few seconds with the scraper. Frequent testing will prevent more mishaps.
Once you can easily scrape away the Artex with the scraper tool, the product is soft enough to work with. Safely set aside the steamer and scrape the product away using straight, overlapping parallel strokes. Apply just enough pressure to ease away the Artex without damaging the surface beneath it.
As you scrape away the Artex, you can let it drop onto the drop cloth you spread out earlier. Alternatively, you can try collecting it in a large plastic garbage bag as it drops.
 Steam and scrape over the entire Artex-covered area. Take your time and remove each patch by following the same technique used on the first patch.


Work slowly and carefully. Continue testing each area after steaming it for several seconds, and do not assume that each area will take the same amount of time to soften.
Move in a straight line while working over the area. Each section you work on should slightly overlap the one before it. Working in this manner may prevent you from accidentally leaving gaps or strips of Artex behind.
 After peeling away the Artex from the entire area, carefully examine your work to verify that no traces of Artex remain.


If you do find some remnants of Artex, work over those patches with the steamer and scraper again. Continue doing so until you successfully clear the entire area.
Once you finish, you can gather the bits of removed Artex into plastic garbage bags and dispose of them. Note that steamed Artex will become dusty once it dries, so you'll need to work carefully to avoid disturbing the dust. Remove the drop cloth, as well, and return the room to normal.
The project is over once you complete this step.

