 Before you start curling, you want to make sure your hair is prepped and ready.Always use a heat protectant before using styling tools to keep your hair healthy and easy to work with.
If you recently washed your hair, make sure it is completely dry before you start to curl.
 While you’re prepping your hair, you want to let your curling iron heat up.


A one-inch curling iron is a good, universal size for creating a wavy look.
Use the low or medium setting for thin and fine hair.
Only use a high setting on your curling iron if you have thick, coarse hair.
Anything over 340 degrees Fahrenheit runs the risk of damaging your hair., For Serena’s natural look, you’ll want to give your hair a slight side part before you begin curling.


This will help you curl your hair in a way that looks natural.
 Before you begin curling, clip up the top layer of your hair. This will make curling more manageable.


If you have really thin hair, you might not need to curl the top and bottom layers of your hair separately.
 You want to start in the back of your head and work forwards.


Since Serena has soft waves, you can curl relatively large sections of hair at a time.
Curl your hair in a clockwise direction away from your face for the most natural look.
Hold the curling iron with the end pointed down at the floor, and curl your hair around it. Instead of clipping the end of your hair in first, wind it around the barrel of the curling iron, and clip the end last.
Don’t hold your hair on the curling iron for too long. Two to three seconds for each curl should be plenty of time.
Once you release a curl, don’t touch it. This will give it time to set.
After you finish the bottom section of your hair, unclip the top of your hair, and begin curling it.
 Once you’ve curled all the sections of your hair, spritz them with a texturizing hairspray.


After you spray your hair, spray your hands with the same spray.
Run your fingers through your curls to break them up, and create a looser, more natural look.
 If you already have naturally wavy hair, you might only need a diffuser to create Serena’s effortless-but-chic waves.


A diffuser is simply an attachment for the end of your hair dryer.
Dampen your hair, or wash it, and let it partially air dry.
Apply a hair gel or mousse to enhance your natural hair texture. Don’t forget to also work in some heat protectant.
Turn your head over, and begin scrunching up the ends of your hair until it is completely dry.
Then, flip your head back over, and run your fingers through your waves.
Finish with a texturizing hair spray.
 Wavy hair is universally flattering, but if you have a long face, you should try to add a slightly more defined curl to the top layer of your hair for volume and roundness.

