 If you have other children, you will not be able to care for them while on bed rest. You cannot get up to make lunch, check on them, or take care of something if it happens. You should make arrangements to have someone help you take care of your children during this time.This may be your partner, a family member or friend, or a daycare.
 Bed rest can be a very isolating time for you. You do not want to be alone during this stressful, yet joyous time in your life. You should reach out to your family members and friends for support and social interaction during this time.You can invite friends and family members over to visit with you at your home.
Accept offers for your friends and family to help out. They may offer to come over and cook or clean for you, or pick up groceries. Don’t be too proud to let your friends help you. Plus, this allows them to come over to your home so you can interact.
Stay in touch by calling your friends on the phone.
Find women online who are on bed rest via message boards and support groups.
 If you have other children, they may be confused or upset when you suddenly have to go on bed rest. They may not know what to do since you are no longer able to be with them or provide the same kind of interaction you were able to previously. To help them during this time, try to adopt a routine to give the some stability. Make sure to spend time with them while you are on bed rest by finding activities you can do in bed.For example, you may want to have the same person pick your kids up from school each day, or have the same person come to take care of them every day. Encourage your partner or grandparents to spend quality time with the children.
Pick activities you can do with your children while on bed rest. This may include playing card or board games on the bed, coloring or reading together, or watching a movie.
 Bed rest may present emotional difficulties for you and your partner. You should both share your feelings with each other. This includes positive and negative feelings. Tell each other your fears, frustrations, and concerns, along with your hopes and joys. Stay emotionally connected during this time.Try to find ways to be together despite the bed rest. This may mean sharing meals in bed, watching television together, or talking.
If you can’t have sex, find other ways to be intimate with each other. Keep touching, hugging, and kissing each other to maintain that connection.

