 Before operating any welding machine, make sure to put on protective eyewear, thick, fire-resistant clothing, and a welding helmet with an eye shield.;
, All TIG torches have a ceramic nozzle for directing argon, a copper sleeve for holding an electrode, and some way of cooling themselves. Use the adapter from your accessory package to plug the torch into the front of your machine., The foot pedal is used to control the heat at which you are welding.
 You will pick different settings based on the type of metal that you are welding. If you are using aluminum, place the welder on the alternating current (AC) setting. If you are using steel or other metals, place the welder on the DC Electrode Negative (DCEN) setting.


If your welder has a high frequency setting, it will also need adjusting. For aluminum, the switch will need to be on continuous high frequency. For steel, it should be on high frequency start.
 The thickness of the metal to be welded and the welding current used determine the size of the tungsten rod. Make sure to grind in a radial direction around the circumference of the tungsten, not straight toward the ends.


Use the face of a fine stone to grind the tungsten electrode. Grind so that the electrode is pointing in the same direction as the rotation of the stone as a safety precaution.
Grind the tungsten to a balled tip for AC welding and a pointed tip for DC welding.
To make a butt weld or open corner weld ground the tungsten to a five to six millimeter stick., You want to use a pure Argon gas or mixed Argon gas such as an Argon-Helium mixture. Remove the plastic protective cap.


Shift the valve body by quickly opening and closing the valve to clean any debris out of the threaded valve body.
Screw the regulator on, then screw the nut tight while simultaneously twisting the regulator until it is seated in the valve.
Tighten the regulator using a spanner, making sure that the pressure knob is backed off counter-clockwise.
Put on the gas hose and flowmeter, then turn on the cylinder valve. Make sure to turn on the cylinder valve gently and in small increments. Usually a quarter-turn revolution is enough.
Finally, check for any leaks by listening for a wheezing sound or using an aerosol leak detector spray.
Set the gas flow rate by adjusting the cylinder regulator. Though the rate may vary depending on your project, usually the rate stays between four and 12 liters (3.2 US gal) per minute.
 The amperage allows you to regulate the control you have over the welding process.


The thicker the metal, the higher the amperage.
The more coordinated you get with the foot pedal, the higher you can leave the amperage.
Some conventional current ratios are: 1.6mm, 30 to 120 amps; 2.4mm, 80 to 240 amps; 3.2mm, 200 to 380 amps.