 Standing with good posture flatters your body by making you look longer, leaner, and curvier. You’ll find that a straight spine does wonders not only for your booty, but for your shoulders, waist, and back as well. It is important to get in the practice of maintaining good posture when both sitting and standing.When standing, balance your weight on the balls of your feet, keep your knees slightly bent, position your legs shoulder-width apart, and let your arms hang naturally along the sides of your body. Your shoulders should be pulled backward, your stomach tucked in, and your head in line with your shoulders.
When sitting, place your feet on the floor or a footrest with your ankles positioned in front of your knees, maintain a small gap between your thighs, and avoid cross your legs. You should sit with your shoulders relaxed and forearms parallel to the ground.
Avoid sitting for long periods of time as this can cause your gluteal muscles to atrophy.
 Having a flatter stomach will make your butt look bigger. To minimize time and maximize results you have to commit to a combination of diet and exercise. The goal is to lose weight in your midsection, but not your hips and thighs.Add abdominal exercises (crunches, leg lifts, planks, etc.) to your butt-enhancing workout regimen. This will strengthen and tone your abdominal muscles, giving your stomach a flatter appearance.
Avoid foods such as potatoes (sweet potatoes are fine because they are high in fiber). Go for a diet that is high in protein and fiber, low in carbohydrates, and focus on lean meats and good fats like those found in salmon, nuts, and olive oil.Eat strategically. This includes consuming your biggest meal after you exercise, eating breakfast every day, snack between meals to keep your appetite in check and your metabolism up, eat slowly and fully chew your food, and avoid white bread and foods that come in a bag or box.
Prevent weight gain, especially in the abdomen, by getting 6 to 7 hours of sleep per night., Perhaps the fastest, but most expensive and extreme way to get a bigger butt is to go under the knife. Over 10,000 butt augmentation procedures are performed in the U.S. every year by surgeons licensed by the American Society of Plastic Surgery.Procedures range from an average of $4,100 to $4,500 dollars, and include fat grafting or transfer, buttock implants, and buttock lifts.Plastic surgery should only be considered once all other options have been exhausted, and should only be performed in a sterile environment by a licensed medical doctor.
Complications of butt augmentation surgeries include infection, bleeding, nerve damage, scarring, implant rupture, blood clots, deep vein thrombosis, asymmetry, and other risks.