 It takes quite a lot of gems to create a zoo. Buy plenty of fences, plants, ponds, and Plushies. If you have tons of gems, you should make a cage for every animal in Animal Jam. If you don't have a lot of gems, just make a couple cages for wolves, eagles, etc.
 Choose a den that is big enough and not too fancy looking for your zoo. If you're a member, Ol' Barns are recommended. If you're a nonmember, there's a small house, Cosmo's den or the regular den if you are a non-member. Make sure it's roomy and has plenty of room for cages.;
, Something every zoo needs, apart from animals, is fences so that the animals don't escape! Members should use Wooden Fences and nonmembers can use Bamboo Fences or Picket Fences. Use enough to cover all the terrain the animals will be in.


Note that currently you are unable to purchase fences from any stores. You could try finding other alternatives for fencing or asking other Jammers. This might change.
If you prefer to give the zoo animals more space, created large fenced areas instead of enclosed cages.
 Get certain furniture for each animals' habitat. For example: a cavern for the wolf exhibit, a carrot patch for the bunnies' exhibit, and banana trees for the monkeys. Don't place random items on any exhibit; that might cause your animals to leave. You can also use animal banners, plushies, or topiaries for animals to know where to go, by putting a plushie/banner/topiary of a certain animal where it belongs.
 A zoo without decor is like a cupcake without frosting! Place furniture like trash bins, plants, fountains, etc. If you don't have enough decorations, the visitors might leave.
 Animals won't be able to live without food, fresh air, cleanliness and water. Put ponds or wells in the habitats to satisfy water and cleanliness, and avoid gases or pollution to have fresh air. If the animal is an herbivore, place those herbs and vegetables. For carnivores, place pets or plushies to make them practice hunting.
 Go to Jamaa Township or any other busy area and start shouting "Zoo my Den! Animals Needed!" When you've called enough, go to your zoo and there will hopefully be animals. Lead them to their select habitat and tell them to wear no clothes.
 Hire rangers to help you in your job helping the animals. Ask your buddies or Jammers. You should have at least three zookeepers or more.
 Sad or unsatisfied animals won't stay for long! Make sure to meet their needs always that they're not too expensive or hard!

, Go again to that busy area but this time just shout "Zoo my Den!". And this is how you do the zoo!

, If tourists leave, call new tourists. If animals leave, request new animals. If rangers leave, request new ones and maintain your zoo open for business!

