 Generally speaking, secured networks require you to enter a password before you can connect to them. In some locations (such as airports or coffee shops), you can request the password after purchasing an item.


If the wireless network isn't secured, your computer will let you know before connecting. In some operating systems, there will also be an exclamation mark next to the network's name.
If you have to use the internet but don't have access to a secure network, change your passwords immediately the next time you log into a secure network.
If you have a wireless network at home, make sure it's secure and encrypted. Keep in mind that wireless routers typically aren't secure by default – you have to set this up yourself.
 This methodology goes for sites you visit on an unsecured connection as well. If there isn't a padlock icon to the left of the URL address and "HTTPS" in front of the "www" portion of the URL, it's best to avoid the site (and downloading anything from it) entirely if possible.
 In addition to avoiding sites without "HTTPS" and the padlock icon next to the URL, double-check the website's URL before entering your password on it. Some sites will attempt to steal your login information by posing as another site (this is known as a phishing scam); you can spot these sites by looking for extra (or missing) letters, dashes between words, and extra symbols.

For example, a site masquerading as Facebook might have faceboook.com as its URL.
Sites which display dashes between multiple words in the site name itself (the words in between "www" and ".com") are generally not reliable.
 Not only does file sharing often violate intellectual property laws, but file-sharing websites are crawling with hackers. You may think you're downloading the latest hit song or a new movie, but the file actually is a virus or malware in disguise.

Many of these files are designed in such a way that the virus or malware hidden within won't be picked up by anti-virus software screenings. The virus won't infect your system until you try to play the file.
 Don't enter account or credit card information on a site that doesn't have "https://" written before the "www" section of the website address. The "s" indicates the site is secure. Sites without that won't encrypt or protect your data., You may think you're just sharing with friends, but revealing too much about yourself and your life on social media can make you vulnerable to hackers. Share personal information directly with people who need to know rather than openly posting on social media.