 Using words like "Native American" and "white" allows children to have words for what they see, and can de-mystify it., Because media tends to focus on white people, it may take a conscious effort to consume inclusive media.This is crucial for white children as well as children of color.


Buy dolls of various races, not only white dolls.
Discuss stereotypes as you see them. If your child notices a lot of black athletes, for example, explain that this is a stereotype and that there are many black people in various roles: doctors, nannies, lawyers, biologists, professors, et cetera., Children copy what they see others doing, so be an example of an accepting, humble person. Be aware of the language you use around your child and make sure you don't make racist comments or jokes in front of them, as this could encourage your child to use racist behavior. If someone calls you out for being accidentally racist, listen to them carefully and apologize.


If you notice someone being a victim of racist behavior, stand up for the victim, as your child would mimic your behavior if they were ever placed in a similar situation.
Do this even when your child isn't looking. It's part of being a good person, and you'll be a role model for other people (children and otherwise) who are watching.
 This shows your child that diversity is nothing to be afraid of. Speak calmly about how being different doesn't make someone weird or bad, it just means that everyone is unique. Explain how different groups of people are different in some ways (languages, traditions, etc.) and similar in others (loving families, dreams about the future, etc.), and that this is a positive thing.For example, "Mommy has dark skin because she is black. I have light skin because I am white. And you are both! People come in all different colors." Or, "Angel speaks differently because his family speaks Spanish at home. It doesn't make him weird."
When explaining, make sure that you make the message age-appropriate. For example, if your child is between the ages 3-5 use literal examples such as "Eggs come in different colors, but they are the same on the inside.", Give a clear explanation of what was wrong and why. This can teach children that adults aren't always right, bad things do happen, and it isn't the victim's fault.


For young children, keep it simple. "Yes, it was wrong and hurtful of him to say that to Daddy" or "Life can be unfair. Sometimes we can change it, and sometimes we can't" are examples of simple explanations.
For questions like "Why don't white people like us?", explain that there are some mean people in the world, but not everyone feels this way.Trying to hide the truth from the child will only make them curious and confused. It's better to offer an honest explanation, even if it's highly simplified.
 Children test boundaries and explore ideas, and your child may say things that they don't fully mean (to see how others react). Providing loving and clear guidance can help your child learn what is and is not okay.Ask questions to encourage critical thinking, like "Why do you think that?" and "How do you know that?" Explore their reasoning together.

