 Once you have figured out what is at the root of your disagreement, try to make one small change in your behavior to try to change the relationship dynamic. If your sister habitually comes to you for help and you sometimes feel overburdened, try coming to her with a problem that she can help you solve. Be specific regarding steps she can take to help, so she won't have to guess.
Changing a relationship is a process. Take small steps at a time, and you will feel that you are making progress.
 Changing the familiar pattern of a relationship can be unsettling to everyone involved. Don’t be shocked if your sibling tries to return to your usual dynamic. Be aware of this, so you won't automatically react in your old manner, and make things worse.For example, if your sibling has always relied on you, and now you want to expect mutual support, they may resist at first. They may suddenly come to you with a new problem to solve, so be on the lookout for it.
Family members may complicate matters at first, by reinforcing old patterns. A spouse, for example, may express suspicion that your sibling is being genuine, stirring up negative emotions. Ask family members to support you and your sibling's decision to change.
 Change can be frightening, even when it is change for the better – it is easy to fall back into old patterns of behavior, simply because they are familiar. Pay attention to your sibling's reactions, and resist falling back into your old ways. Remind your sibling that you decided together to try something new., Once things have begun to improve between you, open another dialogue and ask your sibling what your ideal relationship would look like to them. What changes would they like to see, going forward?, Decide together how you want to communicate. Don't try to guess how your sibling feels, or what they expect from you – that is how you got to this point in the first place. Decide in advance what will happen if boundaries are not respected, such as a temporary break from each other when the rules are broken.


If there are hurtful words that are off-limits, agree to avoid them.
If you haven't always communicated as well or as often as you should, come up with a schedule of how often you will speak, and how. Is email sufficient? Would your sister be happier if you spoke on the phone instead? Who should call whom, and how frequently?

