 Homemade humidors can be made from plastic bins, old ammo cases, or cigar boxes. While these options may not keep cigars fresh as long as a humidor, they can do the trick for an mid-to-extended amount of time. If you are planning on storing the cigar for more than a week but don't want to buy a humidor, it's a good idea to make one.


After you've selected your container, wash it thoroughly with antibacterial soap and warm water. Let dry completely. The container should be big enough to hold cigars while they're all laying flat.
Make sure the container closes completely, with some air circulation. This will keep the flavor from your cigars from mixing or losing their flavor. If the container is air-tight, make sure to expose your cigars to fresh air every two weeks, at least.
 Just as you would with a store-bought humidor, you need to find some way to keep the air in your homemade version around 70% humidity. Add a jar of Xicar humidifier beads/gel to the container, soaked in distilled water, then drained.


At the very least, a small, very-slightly dampened household sponge in the bottom of the container in the corner of the storage container will work in a pinch. This will ensure that moisture will be available inside the container once its shut. Securely close the lid on your container with the cigars inside.
At a local cigar store, ask if they have any cedar dividers from cigar boxes lying around they wouldn't mind parting with. You can use these to either create cigar tubes to store individual cigars in, or to line the walls of your homemade humidor. This will help regulate the humidity.
 Monitor the temperature of the area you are storing them in and make sure it stays around 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius). Keep a thermometer close by to monitor the temperature, and smoke the cigars as soon as you get the chance.


Check you cigars periodically to make sure they're not suffering from too much humidity, or becoming too dampened or wet. Look for any signs of mold, or beads of dampness in the humidor. Remove the humidifier, or let some air in, if this is occurring.

