 The fewer people you bring, the easier it will be to run away and hide without being conspicuous. However, you might find that a big group is a lot of fun. Go on foot, if possible, or bring bicycles for a quick getaway. You can all go in a car, if you have access to one, but make sure that you don't park it right in front of the target's house.


If you don't want anyone to find out that it was you, make sure to bring people that can keep a secret. If one person tells, then your cover is blown!;
, Target someone that you know – ideally, a friend on whom you want to play a prank. Make sure that he/she is home. Pick a house that's easily accessible and that doesn't have much in the way of security systems. Avoid ding dong ditching people that you don't know or don't like.


Be aware that your friend's parents might open the door instead of your friend. Assuming that you want to prank your friend and not bother anybody else: try to pick a time when your friend is home alone without his/her parents.
Make sure that the house has a doorbell. If not, you can always "knock ditch."

, The most important part of the game is the "ditch." Scope out the house from a distance and decide which way you're going to run. The exact route will depend on the house, the time of day, and the number of people. If you don't plan it out, then there's a higher chance that someone will get caught.


Consider using a getaway car. Consider hopping onto bikes to pedal away. It will almost always be easier to get away at night.
If there is a long driveway or large yard in front of the house, then you might want to ditch into the bushes or jump into a neighbor's yard.
If you are ding dong ditching at night, then you have the cover of darkness on your side. Look out for motion-sensor lights. If you're playing during the day, then you'll need to pick houses with a quicker, shorter escape route.
If you're playing with only one or two other people, then it might be most effective to all run in the same direction. This way, you can stick together and hide in a secure space. If you have a lot of people in your crew—say, more than five—then you might want to scatter after each ding dong ditch so that it's harder to track down the group.
 Scout out a secretive spot from which you can see the reaction of the person you've ding dong ditched. Pick a space that is far enough away to avoid detection, but not so far that you that you can't clearly see the doorbell-owner's reaction. Hide in the bushes, or in a tree, or underneath a car.

