 Before the school year starts, you will want to meet with the teacher about what they expect of you. Depending on the teacher’s style, they may heavily rely on you to organize classroom parties and events. Others may have a particular way of doing things and only ask you to do certain things. Either way, you will want to respect the teacher’s style and work with them to create their vision for the class.If the teacher is not too busy, consider meeting for coffee to discuss the coming school year.
Consider contacting the teacher well in advance of the start of the school year. Many teachers have in-services and other administrative duties in the weeks immediately before the start of school.
Be sure to ask the teacher things like “what’s the best way to stay in touch, and how often should we communicate?” and “what are the classes snack rules?”;
, Once you have met with the teacher and determined their expectations, you will want to introduce yourself to the other parents in a letter or email. Let them know that you will be helping the teacher organize certain events. You will also want to mention that you will be recruiting volunteers throughout the year and that parents should be prepared to help out.This initial letter is also a good time to share your contact information and request that parents send you there’s. Although email is the preferred method of communication, a phone number may also be useful. People are sometimes bad about checking their inboxes regularly.
 As a room parent, you will need to solicit and organize classroom donations from other parents. You will need to find volunteers to donate goods (paper products, snacks, decorations) or money for classroom events. To facilitate this, you can set up a volunteer list or a donation fund at the beginning of the year. You may also find that it is easier to contact people as you need volunteers and donations.Talk with the teacher at the beginning of the year to find out what they need from parents. You may also want to determine what the school’s policies are on outside snacks.
You may also want to start a small donation fund to buy the teacher a gift at some point.
 One of your primary duties as a room parent is to facilitate communication among the parents, as well as between the parents and the teacher. You should get an up-to-date list of emails from the teacher that you can use to keep parents in the loop on upcoming events and ask for volunteers and donations. If the teacher does not have a list, you should contact the parents about their preferred mode of communication.You might consider organizing a coffee or playground meeting to help the parents meet in person.
You may also want to create a classroom site or folder using Shutterfly, Google Drive, or another service to share all important classroom information in one place.