 At the top left-hand corner, place your organization's name, if you aren't already using letterhead. Underneath the name, add your organization's address. It's also good to have a phone number and email for people to contact you., Skip a line below the top address. In that space, add the date. You should write the month, followed by the date, a comma, and the year. Spell out the name of the month., Skip a line between the date and this part. Next, you put the name of the person you are sending the letter to. Underneath that, add the person's address. Below that, add the phone number and email., Skip another line. If you know the gender of the person you are sending the letter to, it's best to use "Miss," "Mrs.," or "Mr." You can use "Ms." if you're not sure if a woman is married or not. If you're not sure about the gender of the person, just leave off the honorific (the "Mr." or "Mrs."). Either way, begin with "Dear."For instance, you could write "Dear Mr. Smith," "Dear Mrs. Jane George," or "Dear Pat Gray."

, Next, you will have the body of the text. Often, business letters are not indented, meaning the beginning of a paragraph doesn't have an indention and you put a line between each paragraph. However, you can also indent if you prefer, in which case you don't need lines between the paragraphs, though you can add them if you like the space., Skip a line. Choose how formal or informal you want to be. Usually, you make this choice based on how your organization represents itself. If you tend to be more informal in your outreach, you can use "Take Care" or "All the Best" to close the letter. For a more formal closing, try "Sincerely.", Leave a few lines blank below the closing where you will sign the letter. Below that add your name and your title. Below that, put your organization's name., You need to introduce the reader to who you are. Include your basic mission. You could also include a small anecdote about how your organization has helped someone in the past. Basically, you need to let the reader know what your organization is and does.For instance, you could write "We're writing on behalf of our organization, Eyeglasses for Kids. We're a nonprofit that works to bring eyeglasses to kids in developing countries. Many of the kids we help haven't been able to attend school because of poor eyesight, so by giving them the gift of sight, we also give the gift of education."

, The second paragraph should be telling the reader exactly what you want. That may be a certain donation amount, or you can leave how much up to the reader.For instance, you could write, "We're writing today because we need your help. We have fallen short of our fundraising goals this year, and we can't serve as many kids as we'd like. With your help, we can reach out to as many as 1,000 kids this year. Would you consider making a donation to our organization? As little as $5 helps put a pair of glasses into the hands of a kid who needs them. What can you contribute?"

, No one wants a novella about the money you need. A short anecdote is fine, but keep your letter short and to the point. Certainly, you don't want to go over a page., The conclusion of the letter should be you thanking the person. Whether or not she donates, that person has taken the time to read your letter, so you should thank them for spending that time.You can say something such as "Thank you for taking the time to read this letter."

, While you are thanking the person, you can also repeat your request. Basically, you want your reader to know exactly what you are after by the time she gets done reading the letter.


For instance, you could end it with "Thank you for taking the time to read this letter, and we hope you will consider donating your time or money to our cause. The kids need you."

, If possible, make each letter personal to the person you are asking to donate. Use the person's name, and if you can, add anecdotes or personal details about the person to help draw him or her in., One way you can get people to donate is to offer an easy way to donate. Whether you include a (stamped) envelope for donation or provide a way to text in donation, making it as simple as possible will go a long way to getting people to donate., If you do your research, you can use your letter to make a connection. Use what you know about what your reader values to drive your letter, connecting them with your organization.For instance, if you know your reader values kids and family, you could say something such as, "Kids all over the world are in need of glasses that their families can't afford. How would you feel if it were your child? Wouldn't you want someone to help?"

, When you receive a donation, it's important to find some way to thank your donors. That can be as easy as putting their names up on your website or sending them a simple thank you card. Just let your donors know they are appreciated.