 Many recent devices can connect directly to the router via an ethernet cable. However, some aren't built to do that. Laptops, for example, often don't have components for using ethernet. For that reason, make sure you get any adapters you may need for the ethernet cable to ensure that you can use it.


Ethernet cables are all different; for example, a Cat-5 or Cat-5e cable runs at slower speeds than a Cat-6. However, it's also largely dependent on the router's connection and how many people will be connecting to the network at once. Unless you're doing very, very intensive upload work, you're probably not going to need a Cat-6 cable if you're the only one on the network.
You cannot connect a mobile device (e.g. a smartphone) to ethernet with an adapter.
 The broadband source will most likely be a router, but in some cases, it may be a modem. In either case, you'll need to plug in one end of the ethernet cable to the broadband source to ensure that the computer will connect.
 Find the ethernet jack on your computer and plug it in. This jack will typically be located on the back of the computer, where the other components plug in.


If your computer doesn't support ethernet, you'll need to make sure the computer is connected to the adapter, and then connect the cord via the adapter.
 You'll need to ensure that the computer is set to recognize the ethernet, rather than wireless. Most likely, you'll have to turn off your wireless connection to ensure that the computer recognizes the ethernet connection instead.
 Open up a page in a web browser and see if it loads. Some web pages can take longer to load than others, and others crash sometimes, so you may want to try and load a reliable website (e.g. google.com or isup.me) to ensure that the connection is running.
 Ethernet is more reliable than Wi-Fi, but that doesn't mean that things still can't go wrong. If you're having trouble with the ethernet, it can stem from many problems, but make sure that the basics (e.g. the router being connected) are established, and that your computer isn't being troublesome.


Make sure there's no problem with the ethernet cable (which can range from "the cord wasn't plugged in all the way" to "the cable is faulty/broken and needs to be replaced").
Check if the router is having trouble, and reboot it if so. Contact your ISP if resetting the router doesn't work, but the cord and computer's ethernet connection work fine.
Rarely, your computer's ethernet card may turn out to be defective. If this is the case, contact the seller of your computer or the computer's manufacturer.

