 Just being a native speaker of the language is enough to get you a job at some schools. However, these will be the bottom of the barrel "backpacker" type of schools, that will hire anyone with a white face that speaks English. The pay will be very low, you'll have large classes of unruly kids with no supervision, and academic support or materials will be few or non-existent. There will be no work visa, and indeed, if the school doesn't want to pay you, they may even report you to the local authorities for working without a permit, and have you deported. If these kind of working conditions appeal to you, go ahead, pack up your backpack, and ignore the rest of this article. For the rest of you, there are certain qualifications that will make it easier to find a decent job.;
, In Asia, qualifications are everything. You need to have the paper if you want to get a job. It can be in any subject, but one in education, English, linguistics, or something similar is a plus. If you have qualified or certified teacher status, then great. You'll start off even higher on the pay scale. Masters in any subject? You're qualified for the higher paying jobs at universities, International schools, government jobs, or in the Gulf countries. You will find those rare few teachers that are teaching without a college degree.  They've had to pay their dues, and start on the lower end of the scale, at backpacker level or near it.
 Great! Do you have qualified or certified teacher status? If so, skip to the next step. If not, then you'll need a teaching certificate. Sure, as a native speaker with a college degree, you may be able to find a teaching job, but it won't be one you'll want to tell your friends and family about. So invest your time and money in a proper certificate course, either a CELTA or a Trinity College TESOL certificate (see warning below). At the very least, you will be a candidate for a decent teaching position, instead of someone a school will look at only if no one better qualified applies.
 Write it up in Word format. Highlight any pertinent experience you may have had, especially if you are new to teaching. Remember, in Asia, qualifications are everything, so highlight any seminars attended, presentations given, certificates, awards, etc. As for references, just put down "supplied upon request", and then have at least three ready when they are requested.
 You have professional references? Don't leave home without them.
 Most countries now ask for a police clearance in order for you to get a work visa. This makes sense, because wouldn't you want to know who it is coming in to your country to teach your children? A police clearance is extremely difficult to get when you are overseas. Save yourself a bunch of headaches, and get it before you leave. For those more adventurous types who will look for a job once they reach their destination of choice, see what is required before you leave, and bring it with you.
 What is the political and economic situation? Are they stable? Is the country prone to earthquakes, floods, and natural disasters? What is the general standard of living in the country? At the very least, check out the CIA World Factbook for an overview. Go to Dave's ESL Cafe, (eslcafe.com) and read the postings on the "International Job Forums", and post any questions you may have there.
 The most popular site is probably Dave's ESL Cafe, at eslcafe.com. There is also tefl.com, eslteachersboard.com, esljobfeed.com, and many others you can find through Google.
 Find a cheap hostel or guesthouse to stay. Then hit the pavement, stop in at schools, and hand out your CV. More than a few people have found jobs this way. The advantage to this is you get an instant read as to what the school and students are like. If you are taking this route, see if you can observe a class before you sign a contract. Also, they may ask you to do a demo lesson, so be prepared to show your best.

