 As with audio recording, there are many different ways to record a video interview:


Digital Camcorder: Reasonably affordable (many are less than $200). Also offer good image quality and are usually simple to operate.
Professional Camera: Can easily cost more than $1,000, but offer the best possible image quality to consumers. A good choice for documentaries, etc.
Smartphone: Most modern phones have a built-in video camera. Image quality and storage capacity are usually much more limited.
 These mics offer better sound quality than the built-in mics in cameras and smartphones. Find a mic that clips onto the interviewee's shirt (called a lavalier or "lav" mic) for a hands-free solution.
 Except in special circumstances, you'll probably want to throw out footage where you don't get one of these.


Use a tripod to keep your camera steady. If you don't have one, you may be able to prop the camera on sturdy objects like books. (This is not recommended for expensive or fragile equipment.)
Most modern cameras will automatically focus on whatever you point them at. If yours doesn't, manually adjust the focus until the interviewee's face is crystal clear. The background doesn't have to be in focus.
 In general, you'll want to shoot somewhere with soft, warm lighting that clearly illuminates your subject without making things uncomfortably bright. If you have access to a professional three-light setup, use this. This link contains good instructions for lighting an interview like a professional.If you don't have professional lights, try simply positioning a lamp a few feet away off-camera.
Look for any odd, distracting shadows, especially on your subject's face. Move or adjust your lighting to get them to disappear.
Unless you know what you're doing, avoid shooting outside. If you don't have the right equipment, clear days can often make your footage uncomfortably bright, while overcast days can make it look dim.
Avoid harsh fluorescent lighting. No one looks good in it.
 It may seem logical to have your subject look straight into the camera, but this is actually a big "no-no" in the world of interviewing.Instead, stand slightly to the side of the camera and have your subject face you and maintain eye contact while s/he speaks. This gives the interviewee a less-intimidating "off-camera" look.
 Position the camera at eye level in front of the interviewee. Adjust the zoom so that the subject's head is in the center of the frame.


Don't zoom in too far. Ideally, you want to be able to see part of the interviewee's neck and upper body as well as some of the background.
 Try to position your subject so that there's nothing behind him or her that might distract from the interview itself. When in doubt, simply shoot the subject from across a table or desk — it gives the impression that the audience is actually having a conversation with the subject.


This advice doesn't mean there should be nothing in the background. One common strategy is to put things in the background that relate to the subject's occupation or expertise. For instance, if you're interviewing a doctor, shooting in her office with a few medical degrees in the background is a good idea.
 To keep things visually interesting, try shooting from more than one frame. If you have more than one camera, you can shoot multiple angles at once and switch between them as needed during the editing phase. If you only have one camera, wait until your subject finishes answering a question to switch the angle. Otherwise, the mid-question "jump" will be too jarring.

