 Water is the great cleanser and helps minimize inflammation. While sciatica is not always directly associated with inflammation, pain is always associated with inflammation.


In addition, the tissues of the spine contain water and staying hydrated can help strengthen those structures.
 Chiropractors are specially trained, especially in spinal disorders. They are trained to manipulate and move the bones of the spine back into alignment and reduce the pressure on the sciatic nerve. Overall, chiropractic care has been shown to significantly improve symptoms of sciatica.Chiropractors are also trained to treat all the major causes of sciatic pain and, if necessary, can refer patients to other specialists such as surgeons.
Chiropractors also educate their patients regarding specific exercises designed to improve the spine and the bones, joints and muscles that may be impacted in sciatic pain.
Traction, or spinal decompression therapy involves stretching out the spine using a traction table or other device is often used to re-position a bulging disc and can be very helpful in treating sciatica.
 Acupuncture is part of Traditional Chinese Medicine and is based on the concept that meridians — energy channels — run throughout the body. The placement of needles at specific points along these meridians can relieve pain and treat a wide variety of conditions.The placement of the needles will depend on your specific needs and may be combined with Chinese medical massage (Tui na).
Acupuncture may also be combined with the use of Chinese herbs combinations to promote muscle relaxation and release of tension. This can provide direct pain relief.
 Therapeutic massage can improve circulation, relax the muscles, and lead to the increase in endorphin levels. Endorphins are the body’s natural opiates or pain relievers.The type of therapeutic massage usually used to treat sciatica is called trigger point myotherapy or just myotherapy. This therapy utilizes the concept of trigger points or specific areas on the muscles that can be “defused” by applying pressure for five to seven seconds to those points using the fingers, knuckles or elbows. When the pressure is removed, the trigger points become “deactivated.", Most natural practitioners will recommend first applying ice followed by heat for three cycles. This should be repeated at least four times a day.


Apply ice for about 10 minutes followed by heat for five minutes. This is one cycle.
 Herbal therapy can utilize muscle relaxants and anti-inflammatory agents. For best effects, these herbal remedies may need to be combined. For this, consult a naturopath or a medical herbalist. Some of the herbs that may be used are:


Equisetum or Horsetail, an ancient plant that is commonly used to flush out the kidneys. It contains high levels of minerals and can help strengthen the skeletal structure including the spine.
Jamaican dogwood, a muscle relaxant and a potent sedative. It should only be used on the advice of a knowledgeable healthcare professional. It is also an effective anti-inflammatory agent and pain reliever.
Curcuma longa or turmeric, which has long been used in Ayurvedic medicine and is an effective anti-inflammatory agent.
Willow bark, the basis of modern aspirin. The bark has been used for centuries to treat pain due to inflammation.
Holy Basil, which is similar to regular kitchen basil but has more effective anti-inflammatory properties.
Ginger root, which is another effective anti-inflammatory agent.
Nutmeg, which has been used as a muscle relaxant and pain reliever for centuries — and along with its value as a culinary spice, there has also been a lively trade in nutmeg for centuries!

