 Saying thank you to someone should happen soon after the event, gift, favor, or other action for which you're thankful.



Etiquette demands that you observe a three-day rule for sending a thank-you note or letter.If you have missed that window, though, it's better to say thank you late than never at all.;
, When writing a formal letter, you should use a professional, typed format and print the letter on quality paper.When writing a more casual or personal letter to someone you know well, (clear and legibly) handwritten letters on quality stationery may be appreciated.You can either set up the format yourself or use one of the letter templates built into your word processing application.
If you’re setting up your own format for a formal letter, begin by entering the date in the top left-hand corner. Skip a line, then enter the full name and address of the person to whom you’re writing. Skip a line and enter your salutation.
If you’re using your own format for a personal letter, it’s customary to include the date and, below it, a personalized yet polite greeting.
 Letters to business associates or people you don't know well should include a title in the salutation. Letters to someone you already know well can be more personal, such as “Dear Jeff,” or “Dear Bridget.”


Doctors, professors, government officials, and military service members should all be addressed with their appropriate title spelled out in full, i.e. "Dear Doctor Johnson" or "Dear Sergeant Jones."
If the person doesn’t have a more formal title, use the abbreviated "Mr." for men, and "Miss/Mrs./Ms" for women (be sure to know which title she prefers; if you don't know, you can opt for the more neutral “Ms.” or you can use her full name, like "Dear Jane Smith.”).
 When writing a formal letter, it’s polite to begin by informing the addressee of the reason you’re writing.If you’re writing a letter of appreciation, the purpose will likely be something like, “I’m writing to thank you for your kind donation to X Scholarship Fund (or sponsorship or recommendation, etc.). I was very excited to learn of your donation and would like to express my gratitude.”

, This portion helps you communicate both your gratitude and gives the recipient a sense of how their contribution will be used. For many people, knowing that their contribution will be put to good use is very reassuring and affirming.


Give a bit of information about yourself--who you are, your position, etc. Eg, “I’m the Director of the University Scholarship Fund and spearheaded our most current fundraising drive, with the goal of raising $50,000. I was delighted to receive your contribution”
Describe how their contribution will be put to use and specify who or what it will benefit. Eg, “Your kind and generous donation will be used to establish a scholarship fund in your name, to benefit outstanding scholars in literary studies. The scholarship will award $1,000 annually to 3 students in need, selected for the quality of their work and dedication to the field. The scholarship money will help these students conduct a focused research project of their choosing, helping both further their academic careers and make valuable contributions to their field.”

, Close by reiterating your gratitude and belief that their contribution is valuable and important.


Reiterate your gratitude with something like, “Your donation will make a crucial difference in the career of the students who receive the scholarship, and I couldn’t be more grateful for your generosity.”
Reiterate how valuable their contribution is by saying something like, “Your donation has allowed us to reach our fundraising goal and to continue our mission of supporting future scholars.”

, Finally, you’ll need to formally sign off with a valediction (a parting salutation) and your signature.


In general, it’s standard etiquette to use “Sincerely” as your valediction if you’re writing a formal letter.
If you’re writing a very personal letter, you might use “Love,” but slightly less intimate options are “Yours Truly,” “Warm Regards,” “Fond Regards,” “Best Regards,” or “Respectfully.”Hand-sign your name below the valediction.
If you’re writing a formal or professional letter, it’s common to include your name, typed in full, below your signature, in case your signature is difficult to read.
 Before sending the letter, be sure you’ve carefully proofread it for typos and grammatical errors. A flawed letter will make a much less positive impression than a well-done one.


You may find it useful to read the letter aloud; sometimes reading aloud helps you catch errors you may miss by reading silently.
Have a trusted friend or colleague review the letter.

