 It is said that "getting there is half the fun.";
, Make sure you have enough to entertain you for however long you are riding the bus. Good things to bring include:


Music player, power supply, and earphones
Reading matter
Netbook, tablet or laptop computer
Hand held game.
 It is sometimes helpful to bring an electronic device with you, so that you can watch a movie, play games, text, call people, and more.


If WiFi is available, you could go online.
 It is always fun to draw, right? Why not draw during a trip? You could also draw scenery or memorable events. It will be sure to amuse you on the trip. Try not to do it for too long or you will start to feel nauseous from motion sickness.


Try coloring in books for adults or do some Zentangle drawing. Doodles are acceptable too.
 You could read from a book, newspaper, magazine, e-book, or other reading item. Try to avoid doing this if you get motion sickness.
 Choose something that you would enjoy and that you're not likely to get bored with quickly.
 Sit back and relax. Use the things you brought with you. Look out the window at the scenery or talk to other people.
 Just keep a calm mentality about the bus ride. This is harder than it sounds but, when mastered, it is a big help in many areas of life.
 You could enjoy the scenery or play "I Spy" games to take up time. Just try to think that the ride is going to end soon, and look at the beautiful scenery whizzing past. Paying attention to the county, city, town and village names as you pass through may come in handy if you have any interest in geography or history.
 Think of any song, but replace the original lyrics with your own. Your song can have the same tune as the original.
 Then eat a snack, then listen to some music or read a book. These will take your mind off the length of the trip, especially naps.
 It is sometimes nice to engage in a deep conversation with someone. It will always take up your time. You may also get to know the person a little bit more.
 Be patient and have a positive attitude. You won't be so grouchy if you're not being mean.


Avoid snapping at, or arguing with fellow bus members. This will only make the trip dramatic and uncomfortable for everyone. Remember that everyone is stuck in a small space. Stay positive.
When people are staring at you, try to communicate with them telepathically to see if they are reading your mind and whether they react.
 Travel bingo with two or more players is like real bingo but with scenery. All that you have to find is in your 6 squares. Another person has to draw 6 different things that you are somewhat likely to see out of the window, and cross them out when they are found. If you get 3 squares in a row, you shout "Travel Bingo!"


You can also do more squares than 6 like 8 squares and you have to get 4 squares in a row.

