 Baking soda is widely known for its odor neutralizing properties. If you want to get rid of some of the dog smell you’re your home, just sprinkle a little baking soda on the affected areas.Cover the fabric with a light dusting of baking soda and let it sit for 15-30 minutes. After the time is up, vacuum it up.
For extra tough odors, you can leave the baking soda on the carper overnight. This will help absorb even more of the smell.
Alternatively, you could create your own all-purpose cleaning solution out of baking soda. Simply add two tablespoons of baking soda with 3 cups of hot water in a spray bottle. Shake it up and spray on the fabric or surface emitting the odor. Wipe the surface clean with a damp cloth.;
, Another great way to address dog smell in your home is by using apple cider vinegar to eliminate the smell in problem areas. Make a mixture using one part apple cider vinegar and three parts water, then spray the mixture on the area that smells the worst – fabric, carpet, etc. Blot as much of it up with a rag or an old towel and let the rest dry on the carpet.This method is especially useful for covering up the smell of dog urine.
 A great way to address the dog smell in your home is by keeping the windows open as often as possible. This will help air out your home and make it smell fresher like the outdoors in addition to getting rid of some of the dog smell.


Be sure to keep an eye on the weather if you’re going to leave your windows open. You don’t want to have water damage because you left the windows open while it rained.
You also need to mindful of the temperatures outdoors. You shouldn’t sleep with your windows open in very frigid weather – this could lead to illness.
 In order to take care of the dog odor, you’ll need to identify the locations where the smell is the most problematic. Walk around your house and try to determine where the smell is the strongest. Take care to smell the furniture and to notice which rooms seem the most affected.


You can take inventory of the most smelly places and write them down in a notebook so you don’t forget to clean each item that smells later on.
 Go around to the places your dog spends the most time and try to determine where the smell is coming from. Get close to the items and use your sense of smell to see if there is any noticeable odor emanating from the fabric.Check specific pieces of furniture (like the couch where your pup naps or the bed it sleeps on) and areas of the carpet (like the carpet around the door your dog uses to go outside) for odor.
 Use an air freshener to cover up any sources of odor you may not have been able to locate. After you’ve cleaned all your carpet and furniture that could be causing the dog smell, spray some air freshener liberally around the places your dog hangs out the most.You can even buy air fresheners that are specially formulated to cover up pet odor.
Be cautious about overusing certain air fresheners as some of them may contain chemicals that are not good for animals and humans to constantly ingest.

