 People with Parkinson's may be able to reduce problems eating, lessen constipation, and manage their weight through dietary changes.Consult a nutritionist and occupational therapist if you have difficulty swallowing. They may suggest taking smaller mouthfuls; thickening drinks; avoiding hard, dry or crumbly foods; doing exercises to strengthen your lips and tongue; and adjusting your posture.Alleviate constipation through eating high-fiber foods like whole-grain breads, brown rice, whole wheat pasta, seeds, nuts, fruits, and vegetables. Pair this with drinking plenty of water. Try to get at least eight to 10 glasses per day. If you still have constipation, ask your doctor or nutritionist about adding a fiber supplement to your diet. Avoid bran because it can make it harder to absorb vitamins and minerals.
If you find that you are losing weight, talk to your nutritionist about using weight gain supplements to maintain calories, even if you eat less or eat fewer meals.
Avoid weight gain due to inactivity. Sometimes people struggle with weight gain when they have more difficulty exercising. If this is the case, maintain your calories while you explore new and different types of safe exercise such as Tai Chi or music therapy, which can both improve flexibility and strengthen muscles in patients with Parkinson's.
 Maintaining a strong social network will help you deal with the emotional struggles of living with Parkinson’s. Many people experience shock, fear, denial, sadness, and anger. Social support can make you feel less alone, reduce stress, improve your mood, and help you learn techniques for managing the condition.Attend a support group. Support groups are excellent places to talk to people who will understand what you are going through and to learn about the resources available to you. You may be able to either attend an in-person group or an online group. Search online at the Parkinson’s Disease Foundation website, www.pdf.org, call the information services 1-800-457-6676, or email info@pdf.org. You can also ask at your local senior center, or your city, state or federal health services.
Talk to friends and family. These are the people who know you best and so they will be able to provide emotional support. Even if you don’t have family or friends that live nearby, you can keep in touch through writing, emailing, or calling. Free downloadable programs like Skype can let you do video chats computer to computer for free anywhere in the world.
 If you are over 60 you may be able to have someone help you with housework or deliver meals to you. You can look online at www.eldercare.gov to find out about the resources near you. Possibilities include: Meals delivered to your home
House cleaning services
Assistance with bathing
Dealing with financial or legal matters

, How you chose to exercise will depend on your particular health conditions and symptoms. Always consult your doctor before starting any new exercise regime. If your doctor says it is safe for you, you may want to consider:Swimming. This can be excellent for people who have difficulties with balance.
Stretching to maintain flexibility. You may want to try yoga or tai chi. These flowing, controlled movements can improve your balance, strength, and mobility.
Walking or bike riding; however, discuss these with your doctor to make sure you are not at a high risk for falling.
 These may help to reduce stiffness and improve your range of motion. Check to be sure they are covered by your health insurance. If so, talk to your doctor about trying:Acupuncture or acupressure to reduce pain. During acupuncture, thin needles are inserted into special points in your body. During acupressure, no needles are inserted but the practitioner will press on pressure points instead.
Massage. A massage may help you relax tight muscles. This can help you relax both physically and emotionally. It can help you maintain your mobility.
 Dealing with the day to day struggles of Parkinson’s frequently makes people feel depressed, anxious, or angry. If you develop stress management techniques, this can help you cope, improve your mood, and maintain your quality of life. Techniques to try include:Meditation
Deep breathing
Music or art therapy
Pet therapy. Having a cat or dog can make people feel less alone.
Visualizing calming images

, Having Parkinson’s may make you more vulnerable to other infectious diseases. Ask your doctor whether they recommend you get vaccinated. Possible vaccines include:Flu vaccine
Pneumococcal vaccine

