 Water helps to cleanse your kidneys, which can help to keep your kidneys healthy. Try to drink six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day (1.5 to 2 liters). If you have had kidney stones, then you will need to drink more water. Aim for eight to 12 8-ounce glasses (about 2 to 3 liters) of water per day.


If you are on a fluid-restricted diet, then follow your doctor’s instructions for how much fluid you can have.;
, A high sodium intake can also make kidney damage worse and make it harder for your kidneys to repair themselves. Aim for less than 2,300 mg per day if you are under the age of 51, and less than 1,500 mg per day if you are over 51. To restrict your sodium intake you will need to get into the habit of reading food labels. Salt is often high in processed foods, so choose whole foods whenever possible. Processed foods that may be high in sodium include:Pizza
Deli meats and bacon
Pasta
Frozen dinners
Canned soup
Cheese
Fast food

, In someone with healthy kidneys, 3,500 to 4,500mg of potassium is the recommended amount; however, in someone with poor kidney function who is on a potassium restricted diet, 2,000 mg is the recommended daily intake.Check with your doctor if you are not sure if you are supposed to follow a potassium restricted diet.
Foods that are high in potassium include bananas, potatoes, tomatoes, carrots, squash, cabbage, dried fruits, grains, and salt substitutes.
If you need to limit your potassium intake, then you will need to check the potassium content of all of the foods that you eat and keep track of your potassium intake.
 Try to get about 20 to 30% of your calories from protein. Eating too much protein can damage your kidneys, but you still need protein for your body’s basic processes.


Steer clear of high-protein diets if you already have poor kidney function. High-protein diets can harm your kidneys.Choose lean proteins such as fish, skinless chicken, beans, and low-fat cheese.
 Some herbs and vitamins can damage your kidneys, so it is important to use caution when considering an herb or supplement. Make sure that you check with your doctor first before you start taking any herbs or other supplements.