 In order for the quest to be available for you, you must use Aisha and must be level 15 and above; otherwise, the quest won't appear in your Quest Log.;
, Enter the Underground Waterway under Very Hard mode in order to collect 10 Dead Tree Branches and 30 Runic Power Crystal from Ghost Magician and White Ghost Magician.
 This can be bought from the Potion NPC in Elder Village.
 Enter the dungeon under Very Hard mode and do the following:


Kill 14 Jangos and 14 Kid Phorus.
Clear the dungeon with B rank.
Collect 3 Quest Items from Bomber Mongs and 1 Special Nut from William.
 Head back to Elder Village and talk to the bulletin board to complete the quest or simply click on your Quest Log button, found at the bottom right of your screen, and click the quest name for the Magician advancement and then choose Complete.
 You get to choose your advancement class right after handing in your completed Magician Quest. You will be given another set of quests that can be completed in one dungeon map.
 Enter Wally's Castle under the Very Hard mode. You can do this while in a party, even with players that possesses higher level than the dungeon requirement.


Defeat the boss Wally No.8 and get at a high overall rank, not below B. Most of all, do not take more than 60 hits.
If you have successfully done these quests, the quest name in your Quest Log will become green, indicating that you have completed it. Otherwise, you need to do another dungeon rerun.
 Head back to Elder Village and talk to Mr. Hoffman; you can find him at the upper level, right in the middle, next to Luriel. After talking to him and handing in the completed quest, he will change your class to Dark Magician.


If the advancement change didn't work, exit the village by either going inside a dungeon and then re-enter the village. This bug usually happens during high peak hours.
 Magic Touch releases a magic charge while your Dark Magician is on the ground, aiming enemies while they're mid-air. This charge will be released, stunning the enemies, followed by additional melee attacks with a finish of a higher magic attack that inflicts more than 200% Mag DMG.


To execute this skill, press X twice, followed by Down button, and then X and Z. (X, X, Down, X, Z).
 As a mid-range character, it's important to have a launching combo that can knock opponents down to make them vulnerable for additional combos and attacks. This combo is usually used with a teleport skill, as after the Dark Magician moves closer to the enemy, she unleashes this combo to strike the enemy, sending them flying.


To execute this skill, press arrow twice toward your enemy and then Z, X, X. (<< or >>, Z, X, X).
 This skill is very powerful when done in perfect timing, as the enemy will receive damage repetitively once landed on. Aside from multiple hits, this ball will also stun the enemy, making them open to another set of combos.


To execute this skill, press X twice then an arrow to your direction (to your back) and then X (X, X, < or >, X).

