 Gift giving is one of the better and more understandable ways that people feel love. Who doesn’t like presents, especially when it is thoughtful and shows effort? It doesn’t have to be expensive – after all, it really is the thought that counts in this case.Gift giving shows that you enjoy giving and are sensitive to your lady’s likes and dislikes. It also shows generosity. For this reason, some people say that gift-giving men make better lovers.Try classic flowers or chocolates. An occasional card can work, as well. For some women, even very small or trivial tokens can be powerful symbols of love.
Definitely make sure to give her gifts on important days like her birthday, Christmas, Valentine’s day, and your anniversary. But also make a habit of surprising her. A random gift – even a single flower – shows that she’s on your mind.
 The key to good gift giving is to be thoughtful. If your lady speaks this particular language, she may put more value on the intent behind the gift than the object itself. Put some thought into it. Give her something that she likes or will appreciate.


When giving flowers, pick blooms that she enjoys to show that you’re especially attuned to her likes and dislikes
The same goes for chocolate. Well picked truffles, her favorite, are much better than a box of assorted chocolates.
Some women like to have their wants anticipated. Try to listen for hints that she drops. Did she casually mention how pretty a scarf in a shop window was? This could be your cue.
 One way that you can up the impact of a gift is to tailor it more specifically to your lady’s love language. This combines gift-giving with any other way that she feels love.For example, someone who values words might appreciate a mix-CD, a poem or song written just for them, or a love letter.
Someone attuned to quality time might like a vacation, tickets to an event like a concert, a walk together, or a meal out.
For acts of service, give her breakfast in bed, take over a project she’s been meaning to do, or handle the chores while she sleeps in.
For physical touch, give her a massage, take her dancing, or plan a physical activity together like rock climbing.

