 One of the hardest parts of talking about difficult topics is opening the discussion. You may feel nervous or full of anticipation. Before you speak, think about what you want to say and how you want to say it. Whatever it is that you’re wanting to talk about, put some thought into it. Use “I” statements and say, “I want to discuss my feelings about gaming and why it’s important to me” instead of “Gaming is important to me and I don’t want you to take it away from me.”Choose a time when both of you are calm and not rushed to do anything.
State what you want upfront. Say, “It would mean a lot to me if you understood gaming, and I want to share it with you.”;
, Don’t assume how your wife feels or how she will respond.Your wife may not respond in the way you assume, so let her be free to have whatever reaction she has. If you’re not sure about something, ask.


For example, instead of saying, “Well, you’re always upset when you see me playing video games” instead say, “Does it make you upset when I play video games?”

, Don’t make the talk all about you. Take time to notice how your wife is feeling and responding. Acknowledge her feelings both in the moment and in relation to your gaming.Look at her body language, facial expressions, and nonverbal cues. Check in to see if you’re interpreting her feelings correctly.


Say, “You seem upset when I play video games all day and you’d rather me do other things. Is that right?”

, Intentional dialogue incorporates listening and speaking techniques that can help foster healthier communication between you and your spouse. Start by repeating your wife's concerns so that she knows you understand her. Then reaffirm her concerns and acknowledge that you want to work on exploring ways to address them.Express empathy for her perspective as well as yours, so that she knows you value and appreciate her. Don't be afraid to ask for similar empathy in return. Allow her to feel heard instead of trying to make her feel wrong.
 If your wife has not spoken or shared how she feels, ask her to respond to what you’ve said.If you want a response about what you’ve said or how you feel, ask for her input. However, be ready for whatever response she may have!


Say to your wife, “I want to be honest with you and share how I feel. I’d like to know how you feel, as well.”

, You may not feel great after your conversation or you may need to have more than one conversation.If you’re hoping for a certain response, don’t get your hopes up. Be ready to keep discussing things and to hear your wife’s feedback. You may also need to make changes once you find a resolution.
 Video games may play a larger role for you than just entertainment. For example, you may play video games as a way to socially connect with others.Perhaps you play video games with your friends or use video games as a way to make new friends. Tell your wife the benefits you receive from playing video games and why you find them so enjoyable.


Say to your wife, “I find video games fun and challenging. My group of friends enjoys interacting through gaming and it’s a way that we connect.”

, Studies have shown that playing video games can improve mental functioning. For example, video games can have positive effects on perception, attention, memory, mental flexibility, and making quick decisions. Video games can improve hand-eye coordination and improve reflexes.You may enjoy the challenge of beating a level and trying multiple ways of doing something better.


Let your wife know that video games aren’t all about wasting time or aggression and that you enjoy practicing different skills.
 Beyond questing, video games can help you learn new skills. For example, you can learn how to play an instrument, practice dancing skills, and learn yoga all through video games. Talk about the positive effect these have had on your life and what you’ve gained from them. Say what you’ve enjoyed about learning new skills through video games.


For example, if you’ve enjoyed learning to play an instrument, say, “Learning to play the guitar through a video game has been fun and enjoyable. I like knowing I can take a class any time I want to and don’t have to wait for a teacher. I’ve been able to go at my own pace and learn songs I enjoy.”

, While no psychological disorder exists to classify a gaming addiction, it can be considered an impulse control disorder.If you think you may be addicted to gaming, talk about this with your wife. Some signs of addiction include:The impulse to play for longer periods to feel satisfied
Postponing or disregarding your daily responsibilities and personal well-being so that you can focus on gaming
Feelings of withdrawal when you are unable to play
Others expressing concern or complaining about how much you game

, If your wife is upset with how much time you spend gaming, make a compromise. Your wife may feel like your time with video games steps over time she’d like to spend with you. Find an agreement that both you and her feel is fair. Be willing to acknowledge your wife’s desires without sacrificing your own.You may spend one hour a day playing video games, or play video games on the weekends and not on the weekdays.


Say to your wife, “I know we have different views on gaming. I want to respect your desire for me to play less, so let’s find a compromise we both can agree upon.”

, Ask your wife to support you in making changes to your video game habits. Instead of guilt-tripping you, ask her to notice when you do things right, not wrong. For example, you may want encouragement, appreciation, and praise. Ask your wife for the kind of support you’d like to receive. Say to your wife, “It’s not easy to make these changes. Please support me in making these changes by encouraging me and noticing when I’m doing well.”

, If your wife dislikes video games, invite her to join you in playing a 2-player game. You can also invite some friends over to play in multiplayer games. She may be hesitant to join you, but let her know it’s important to you and that you’d like her to join. Invite her into a part of your world to experience it together.


Say, “I’d like you to play with me this weekend. It would be nice for you to see what I enjoy and for us to experience it together.”
Choose a game that’s engaging and interactive. Have fun and maybe even invite a bit of competition!
If you do begin to game together, don’t make gaming the only time you spend with your wife.Notice her and give her attention outside of gaming.

