 This is one of, if not, the most important things you can do to stay positive after your diagnosis.The sooner you begin treatment, the better you can prevent other major health problems. And sticking to your treatment plan will make it much easier to manage your HIV. The better your HIV is managed, the more positive you will feel in general.


Talk to your physician about which treatments are available and appropriate for you. For instance, you can try saying, “What are some of the treatment options that might be best for me?” You should expect to have this conversation at multiple times over the course of your life. There may be new medical options to consider and new circumstances in your life and the way the disease affects you.
Make a note of any changes to or concerns about your treatment plan, whether they are expected or not. For example, you might make note of medication side effects or a change in dosage.
 Not only does eating healthy help you manage your disease by maintaining your weight and immune system, but it also helps you keep a positive attitude.Eating the right foods can give you energy, help calm you, and help keep your body functioning effectively so that you can manage stress in general better.


Include plenty of whole grains, fresh fruits and vegetables, and proteins in your diet. For instance, you might have oatmeal with a side of fresh fruit and an egg white for breakfast.
Try to avoid excess sugar, sodium, and processed foods. For example, trade your bag of kettle corn flavored chips for a cup of air-popped popcorn and apple slices.
Drink water or natural juices instead of sugary or carbonated beverages. You can also try substituting tea for coffee.
 Exercise and other physical activity is a key part of maintaining a healthy lifestyle and a positive perspective.Physical activity keeps your body functioning properly, as well as helps to relieve stress and calm you. It’s also a great way to clear your mind and energize yourself. However, be sure to clear your exercise regimen with your physician to ensure that it is safe for you.


Go for a bike ride, a swim, or a hike if you need some time alone to think or to unwind after something stressful.
To be social you can participate in a group class or activity like martial arts, basketball, or a cross-training boot camp.
 It’s not uncommon for people diagnosed with HIV to have sleeping problems.However, not getting enough sleep can cause you additional health problems. It can leave you tired, unfocused, cranky, and can weaken your immune system. All of these things can make it difficult for you to stay positive after your diagnosis. There are things you can do to make sure that you are getting the right amount of sleep, though.


Stick to a sleep schedule so that you go to sleep and wake up at approximately the same time every day.
Create a bedtime routine to help you relax and prepare for resting. For instance, you could have a cup of tea and a small snack while watching the news.
Turn off your Electronic devices and try to use any other distractions from the room before you go to sleep.

