 Another major cause of bloating during pregnancy is feelings of stress and anxiety. You should try to reduce your stress levels by adding in breaks into your schedule where you can relax and unwind. You may put in 10 minute breaks into your daily schedule so you can take some time to sit in a private place or a quiet space and relax. This way, you have enough time to get things done and time for yourself.When you are pregnant, you may also take some time off from your regular routine and responsibilities. You may take on less at work and have shorter work hours. Or you may lessen your load at home and allow your partner or family to help you with chores like cooking and cleaning.
 You can reduce your stress levels by doing breathing exercises at home or at work. Deep breathing can help you relax and calm down if you are feeling overwhelmed or uncomfortable. Try doing deep breathing exercises in a quiet, dark space, such as in your office with the door closed or in your bedroom at home.


To do deep breathing exercises, sit in comfortable position and close your eyes. Inhale slowly from your diaphragm. You can place your hands on your diaphragm, just below your ribs to feel it expand. Inhale for a count of four and then hold the top of the breath for one count.
Exhale slowly, letting your diaphragm contract, for a count of four. Repeat these motions for five to ten breaths.
While you do deep breathing exercises, you can try elevating your legs for extra relaxation. Elevating your legs can also take pressure off your lower back and ease bloating. Place your legs on a stack of pillows and lay down on the floor. Or lay down in bed and put pillows under your legs so they are higher than your head., To de stress, you can take up an activity that will be calming and relaxing. This could be a calming exercise like yoga or going for a walk. Or you may take up a calming hobby, such as knitting, painting, or drawing. Doing a relaxing activity can help keep your stress levels down and prevent you from feeling bloated or gassy due to stress.You may trying scheduling in a calming activity into your day so you have time set aside for relaxation. You may also schedule your calming activity for right before you eat so you can come to your meals with a calm demeanor, allowing you to eat slowly and enjoy your food.

