 Due to these issues and their potentially catastrophic consequences, scientists, environmental activists, educators, etc. have called for eradication of GM crops altogether. However, agribusiness has fought this vehemently. It, along with other scientists and many policymakers, claim GM crops are necessary to support world population growth, which has doubled since 1970 to 7 billion and is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050.Thus, the Union of Concerned Scientists has made the following recommendations, all of which you can assist with – through your vote, the power of your purse, and changes in your lifestyle.


Expand funding for research on public crop breeding so farmers are able to better diversify crops and to find less-harmful means of managing pests, weeds, drought and so forth.
Increase funding for research and incentives enabling further development and adoption of agroecologically- based farming, which focuses on recycling nutrients and energy, diversifying species, crop rotation, and integrating crops and livestockEnact steps, such as making changes to patent laws, to support independent research on GM risks and benefits.
Be more rigorous in independently reviewing GM product approvals so they don’t reach the market until the risks and benefits are better understood.
Create and support food labeling laws so consumers know when they are eating foods containing GM crops.
 Most people will agree that they want a world with a varied natural environment for their grandchildren. Still, it's perfectly reasonable to wonder, "Why does it matter so much? Why should we make sacrifices to protect it?" Here are things to emphasize when spreading the word about biodiversity.


Biodiversity has an effect on local and global economies. Humans make a lot of money off of biologically diverse ecosystems. Medicines, luxury goods, certain foods, and tourism dollars all depend in some way on the maintenance of biologically diverse ecosystems all over the world.
Biodiversity in the wild protects our food supply. Most people in the world get most of their food from just a few sources (usually wheat, corn, or rice).Today, scientists use genes from wild plants to ensure that these crops can survive against diseases, droughts, and other problems (similar processes are used for the livestock that give us meat).
The introduction of invasive species to natural habitats by humans can upset local ecosystems and cause biodiversity to plummet.Biodiversity can protect against costly disasters. For instance, one study found that replacing natural grasslands with agricultural pastures made areas more vulnerable to fire and drought.Another found that islands with high biodiversity were less vulnerable to tropical cyclones.
Monoculture farming devastates natural ecosystems. Diversifying crops, crop rotation and reducing clear-cutting make ecosystems much more resistant to damage when something bad happens.
The Irish potato famine is a perfect example of monocultural farming gone terribly wrong in that the country’s farmers’ relied on one type of potato. When disease swept through the country and the environment changed, these potatoes were almost entirely wiped out, leaving the people with little to no food.Areas with high biodiversity also tend to have high "genetic diversity." That is, the individual species in the ecosystem have a greater variety of genes. Over time, this contributes to the creation of new species through the process of evolution.
 Before reinventing the wheel, determine what measures, if any, are being taken to protect and enhance biodiversity. Once you know this, you’ll be able a) to better gauge the most pressing concerns in your area, b) to focus your efforts, and c) to make a more persuasive, knowledge-based argument for change to local businesses and municipalities.
 Certain people in the local community can be especially helpful allies when trying to further the cause of preserving biodiversity. In general, these are people with specialized knowledge relating to environmental issues, people with experience organizing, and people with power. A few examples include:


Political activists: Can help get the message to crucial voters, organize rallies, get access to local politicians, etc.
Life science teachers and professors: Can offer their knowledge and expertise when it comes to the specifics of biodiversity-conserving efforts.
Environmental lawyers: Will know about the legal challenges (and opportunities) as far as making your environmental mission a reality.
Community leaders: Have the power and influence to get you local support.
 Ultimately, many environmental issues are in the hands of people who wield power in society. Local, state, and national politicians are particularly important in the mission to sustain biodiversity. These people have the power to write, interpret and enforce the laws surrounding environmental issues. Thus, one effective way to get the environmental policies that you want is to lobby these politicians directly. In other words, you want to try to convince them that your environmental mission is a good idea.


One great way to do this is to get as many people in the community as you can to sign a petition and file it with the local government. See: our petition-writing article.
Another good way to get the political results you want is to raise money for the election campaign of a politician who agrees with you. This politician will now have an obligation to try to pass legislation favorable to you, if he or she wants to get elected again.
Remember: Most politicians are motivated by votes. Your goal should ultimately be to convince the politician you're lobbying that supporting your environmental mission would win him or her votes (and, of course, that working against it would cost votes).
Can't seem to find sympathetic politicians? Consider running yourself on an environmental platform!

, The more people you reach out to, the better chance you have of seeing the biodiversity changes you want. Getting the word out about your mission is crucial to success. Luckily, there are many ways to do this. Here are a few ideas.


Use social media: Today, people spend a good deal of time on websites like Facebook, Twitter, and so on. A social media campaign can help you capture the attention of thousands of Internet browsers, thereby raising awareness and support for biodiversity. See How to Use Social Media to Spur Political Change for more information.
Speak at local events: Local community gatherings (like religious services, town hall meetings, public events, etc.) will often give reputable causes the chance to speak for free or cheaply. Make the most of these opportunities to reach out to community members directly about biodiversity.
Use local canvassing: Door-to-door visits and flyer distribution are old-fashioned ways to raise awareness for biodiversity issues, but they can still be effective.
 There are many organizations out there fighting for these issues already. Many are quite powerful. They can’t continue the battle or be as politically effective, though, without financial and volunteer support from the people. Here is the link to a website with the names and contact information for a number of these organizations: http://www.nrdc.org/reference/environgroups.asp.
 Once you have an understanding of local biodiversity issues, you may want to consider taking action on a larger scale. A good way to do this is to start an environmental organization dedicated to making the changes that are most important to you. By involving others in your mission, you gain both power and legitimacy. There is strength in numbers, and powerful people tend to listen to organizations with many members.


There's no "right" focus for an environmental organization. Your club can focus on a narrow issue (like saving the local wetlands from encroaching development) or a broad one (like increasing awareness for environmental issues in general).
The important thing is to pick a goal that you have a reasonable chance of accomplishing. For instance, a local club with 100 members will have a hard time fighting for a global carbon tax.

