 Flashcards have been used in education for decades to help students remember vocabulary terms and definitions. Because you are focusing on memorizing the words in the dictionary, you can write each term on a flashcard and use the flashcards to practice remembering each term.You can use plain white flashcards or colored flashcards for terms that are more difficult for you to remember. You may also want to use colored flashcards to signify each letter of the alphabet. For example, blue flashcards for all “a” letters, yellow flashcards for all “b” letters, green flashcards for “c” letters, etc.
Write down one word per flashcard. Follow the word order of the dictionary and write them in order on the flashcards. For example, “aardvark, aardwolf, Aaron, aasvoel” should follow one after the other, one word per flashcard.
 Once you have made the flashcards, put them to use by setting aside one to two hours a day studying the flashcards. Do this in sections, focusing on 50 cards at a time. To strengthen your long term memory, you should review the cards you have already studied so you can work your way up slowly to remembering 50 cards, then 100 cards, then 150 cards, etc.Another technique is to practice with the flashcards by placing them in areas around your room or home that you use often. Tape them on the walls, on mirrors, or on any surface that you look at every day. This will force you to study them throughout the day and help you remember them.
 Ask someone to help you review the flashcards by testing your memory of the words on the flashcards. Start with 20 cards at a time, and have the person ask you to name each word on the card. Say the words out loud to reinforce your memory of each word. Over time, you can have the person speed up how fast they ask you to name each word so you improve your ability to memorize each word quickly and in succession.Once you become confident with 20 cards, increase the amount to 50 cards and ask the person to quiz you. Work your way to 100 cards and then 150 cards. Add more flashcards as you work your way through the dictionary, but be sure to circle back and repeat past words so you can remember them long term.

