 There are no shortcuts to being a better soccer player other than playing as much as you can. That said, you'll get much better much faster if you're up against the toughest competition you can handle. Try out for a team that pushes you, or, if that's not possible, make challenges for yourself. Go join the local adult pick-up game (just bring cleats and jump on the field,) get your teammates to play with you in the offseason, and keep practicing alone when there is no one to join you.If you have no players around to jump in with, go shoot against a wall, pass back and forth with a fence, or juggle and work on your tricks in the backyard., While all soccer players need to train to get the most out of their play, all players need to train differently. By thinking about your position's specific needs you can get the most out of your body and be the biggest asset to your team.



Goalies: Focus on your strength, reaction time, and a slim, quick figure that can move in an instant.

Defenders: Must be physically strong, both upper body and lower, to win any tackle or challenge. Need great sprinting speed as well, and should be fit.

Midfielders: Must be able to run and run and run. Quick decision making, and the touch and passing ability to back it up, are essential.

Forwards: Should be fast and able to jostle with strong defenders. They also tend to be endurance runners, able to jog around all game to make space and still win a sprint to the end line.
 Great soccer players rarely stand still. As defenders, you are constantly shutting down space and reacting to the offense. As a midfielder, you're constantly scanning the field and moving to the ball, opening up space in the middle. As a striker, you're constantly trying to outfox a defender, slipping by them or disappearing when they are ball watching. You must always be moving, keeping the field open and dynamic and the other team guessing -- standing still makes you almost useless to your team.


Check to the ball, even if you don't get it. As soon as you appear, demand the ball, but leave immediately if you don't get it. You'll have a defender following you, which opens up the space you were just in for your team.
Spread wide when your team gets the ball if you play near a wing -- a quick counterattack to the sidelines often has the most space to push forward.
If you don't have a man to mark, fill in the space an attacker might want. Try to figure out the most dangerous passing lanes to goal and sit in them, clogging them for the other team., Practice is the time to get over your weaknesses, not impress your teammates. Treat each practice like a warm-up for a huge game, working yourself hard in every drill and testing out new moves now so that they become second-nature in a game.


Play multiple positions -- improve as both a shooter and a defender
Focus on both feet -- no one cares if you turn it over now, but they do care in games.
Play quickly in practice especially. Don't slow down or take it light, even if your defenders are putting less than game pressure on you.
 Scouts and coaches look a lot at your pace of play -- how fast you receive the ball, look up, and pass/shoot/dribble. Don't hold onto the ball too long, and practice making quick, decisive decisions on the ball, pushing yourself to play with urgency. Good ways to do so include:


Pass the ball and keep moving. A few quick touches are usually enough, as the ball moves much faster than you can run. The longer you're in the same area, the longer the defense has to shut down holes and get set.
If you plan to dribble, do so at a good quick pace instead of slowly. Put the defenders on the back foot.
Look for crosses, especially ones that force the defenders to face their own goal. Big passes force a defense to scramble into new positions quickly, which often opens up holes., No matter how much better at soccer you get, you'll never be a perfect player. Soccer requires 11 players in complete unison to succeed, so keep your ears open to your coaches and mentors. Each player has specific weaknesses they can work on -- don't close your ears to your own.Ask your coach what you can do to get better a few times a season. How can you work on your own skills outside of practice?
Consider calling in a personal coach or trainer to work on the skills you don't have time for in practice. If you really want to excel, especially in an area without high-level teams, you'll need the individual attention.

