 There are several types of stocks that can be bought from Chinese exchanges (for example, A-shares, B-shares, and H-shares). Different regulations, fees, and procedures apply to each one.


You can research different types of stocks and information about Chinese stock exchanges by reviewing databases such as Morningstar, Barron’s, and Bloomberg, as well as online stock trading services.
Think about choosing stocks that have the right cost, risk level, diversity, and potential returns for your particular investment portfolio.
If you are relying on translated sources for information about the Chinese market, keep in mind that the sources might not be the most current or detailed.
Since foreign markets can be particularly complicated, it is a good idea to seek advice from a financial professional before investing in them.;
, When you are ready to buy shares in Chinese companies, contact your broker, who can guide you through the process and answer any questions you may have. With internet-based stock trading, you can also purchase stocks on your own in many cases. Visit your online investment service for details on which options are available to you.


Information about fees, limits on the number of shares you can buy, and/or minimum numbers of shares you must purchase at a time can be obtained from your broker or online trading service. This information will be listed for each stock that is for sale.
As with any investment, there is some level of risk with buying stock in Chinese companies. No one can predict with complete certainty which stocks will succeed, but you can make an educated decision getting the best information possible from your broker or independent research.
 A-shares are a class of stocks in Chinese companies that trade on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets. These can only be purchased by residents of mainland China, and by certain Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFIIs).A-shares are quoted in renminbi, the official currency of China.Individuals cannot become QFIIs. These are designated by the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and are very large foreign financial companies such as Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Scotiabank, Deutsche Bank, and Lehman Brothers.
 B-shares are a class of stocks in Chinese companies that trade on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges. Unlike A-shares, these can be purchased by foreign investors.The number of companies offering B-shares is relatively small.
B-shares of Chinese stocks are quoted in foreign currencies. B-shares listed on the Shanghai stock exchange are quoted in United States dollars, while those listed on the Shenzhen stock market are quoted in Hong Kong dollars.
 H-shares are a class of stocks in companies incorporated in China but which trade on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx). These can be purchased from the HKEx by foreign investors.Many companies that have H-share listings also have A-share listings.Effectively, this provides a way of purchasing stock in Chinese companies that are otherwise barred from foreign investors.
Shares are sold through the HKEx in bulk groups known as "board lots." The size of a stock's board lot ranges from 50-100,000 shares. Shares in companies listed on the HKEx must be bought in multiples of the stock's board lot amount.The number of companies offering H-shares is limited. You can check the HKEx website in order to see which companies list H-shares, their stock codes, board lot amount, and other pertinent information.
 These stocks are issued by companies that are not incorporated in China, but which trade on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Red Chip stocks provide exposure to the Chinese market because companies offering them are owned by the state, provinces, or municipalities of China. On the other hand, this means that Red Chip stocks are not investments in private Chinese businesses, which may or may not be one of your financial goals.
 P-chip stocks are issued by companies based outside of China, but which trade on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and meet certain criteria proving their ties to the Chinese market.The criteria stipulate that to issue P-Chip stock, a company must:


Be controlled by Chinese individuals
Derive more than eighty percent of its revenue from China
Allocate more than sixty percent of its assets to China

