 Decide what color theme you'd like; there are various choices, such as red and green buttons for a Christmas feel, two-tone or monotone to match the décor or theme, or multicolor buttons for a fun flair.


If you vary the size of the buttons, you'll need to make adjustments to the pattern as you go, to fit them in; overlapping them makes it easier to keep them all in place without showing the cone underneath. You can try all one size buttons first, then try varying the sizes for a second project, when you feel more confident.;
, The height is up to you, recognizing that the bigger it is, the more buttons you'll need.
 While not essential, painting the Styrofoam cone gold, silver or green before you place on the buttons will give your button Christmas tree a more professional finish. Allow to fully dry before proceeding, if you perform this step.
 Stick a pin into the button hole to keep it firmly in place. Try to match the pinhead color to the button's color, if possible.


Alternative: Use sequins to cover the pin. Use plain silver dressmaking pins and match the sequin color to the button. Slide the sequin onto the pin and push it up to the pinhead. Then, attach the pin to the cone positioned to keep the button in place. The sequin will fan out around the pin, covering any sign of foam and neatening the look of the attachment.
 At this stage, if you are creating a pattern, decide how this pattern will repeat. Examples include:


One red, one green, one red, one green; or two greens, two reds, etc. (or using different colors).
No pattern, all one color.
Random, especially if multi-colored but it's okay with other color variations too.
 Descend after each row is completed, to begin the next row.
 Make any adjustments needed to ensure that the last buttons cover any remaining foam.
 At this stage, you can simply leave the tree as it is, or attach a small ribbon bow or wind a little gold or silver metallic fuzzy elastic length around the tree here and there to look like tinsel. (Don't add too much tinsel, just wind it around with generous gaps between it so that around three to four wraps are made, and no more.)


For the star at the top of the tree, cut two exactly the same paper stars from silver or gold card, and hot glue them in place, aligned with each other.
 The Christmas tree is now complete and ready for display or giving away.

