 Do this for 15 to 20 minutes before going to bed. Denture cleansers prevent plaque buildup that causes your false teeth to discolor. Soaking them once a day before bedtime keeps them nice and white. The following denture cleansers are the ones that are proven safe by the ADA:


Efferdent® Denture Cleanser: Drop 1 tablet in warm water and wait for the solution to get fizzy. Soak false teeth for 15 minutes then rinse well under running water.
Fresh 'N Brite® Denture Cleansing Paste: Remove false teeth and rinse before brushing. Apply denture paste on toothbrush and brush all the surfaces of false teeth for 2 minutes. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Do this twice a day.
 Alkaline hypochlorite is effective in removing stains and inhibiting the growth of bacteria in false teeth, because once it undergoes the oxidation process it breaks the bond of a colored molecule and turns it into a single bond colorless molecule.


Home preparation: In a covered container, dissolve 10 mL (0.34 oz) of regular bleach in 200 mL (6.8 oz) water. Soak false teeth in this solution for 5 minutes. Rinse thoroughly in running water.
Over-the-counter solution: In a covered container, dissolve 20 mL (0.68 oz) of Dentural® Denture Cleaner in 200 mL (6.8 oz) water. Soak false teeth in it for 10 minutes. Rinse thoroughly in running water.



This is a proven home remedy to remove tartar, a substance which plays a major role in diminishing the whiteness of false teeth.
Take half a glass of white vinegar and add water to dilute it till the glass becomes full. Now soak the dentures in it for around half an hour.
Take out your dentures after half an hour and rinse thoroughly under running water. The loosened tartar will be washed away.
 If your dentures do not have any metal attachments, you can microwave the dentures for about 2 minutes.


Put the dentures in a cleaning solution and heat them in the microwave for 2 minutes.
After the 2 minutes, the bacteria will be destroyed and the false teeth will be free from dirt and deposits.
 Do not sleep with your dentures in your mouth. Sleep is a time of high bacterial activity, as saliva production is low and the flushing action of saliva is diminished. Besides, spending 6 to 8 hours without your false teeth in is good for the health of your gums.

