 Taking your dog outside to go to the bathroom in inclement weather is not fun, but it’s necessary to have a fun day indoors with your dog. Once you’ve had your dog for a while, you’ll learn to identify the signs your dog gives you that it needs to go outside. If you’re not sure how to tell when your dog needs to go, look for the following signals:


Turning in circles while sniffing the floor is one signal. Circling in dogs is a natural indication that they are going to poop and sniffing may indicate they are looking for an area to go to the bathroom.
Standing, scratching, or barking at the door is another indication your dog needs to use the bathroom. Housebroken dogs will usually do one of these things when they need to go out.
If your dog is whining while doing the things above, it is usually a good indication it needs to go to the bathroom. Whining by itself can mean any number or things, but when it is combined with sniffing, circling, and standing, scratching, or barking at the door, you can safely assume your dog needs to go outside., To keep from having to go outside in inclement weather, you can also place pee pads around the house so that your dog can urinate without going outside. Bathrooms and laundry rooms are good spots to place these pee pads.
 Depending what kind of games you’ll be playing with your dog, you might want to play in a room with few breakable items, like TVs, vases, and picture frames. You might also need a room with a lot of space if you’re playing fetch or making obstacle courses for your dog. Once you’ve decided what type of games you will be playing, choose a room that gives you the right amount of space and doesn’t set your dog up for trouble by having too many things it can break accidentally.
 No matter where you play in your house, playing with your dog indoors can get rowdy, so make sure you move anything valuable that might get knocked over or broken to a safe place. For example, move breakable vases or picture frames up high or to a safe room.

