 Maybe the best way to dog-proof your garbage can is to train your dog to stay away from it. Be firm and react swiftly if you see the dog nosing around the garbage can. If you see your dog approach the can with interest, say "No" or "Off" firmly and grab the dog by the collar and lead it elsewhere.Prevention is key. If a dog gets in the garbage can once, it's likely to happen again. It's important to react swiftly when you see your dog start to nose around the garbage can.Spraying a bitter apple or other spray with a nasty taste into the dog's face is sometimes effective. These are harmless and relatively cheap sprays and can be found at most pet stores.
 Punishing the dog after the fact will only teach the dog to be afraid of you, not to associate the mess on the floor with its behavior. If you come home to a mess on the floor of the kitchen, it's too late to do any training. Clean up the mess and come up with another prevention plan.


Shock-collars or pads and muzzles are not recommended as a training method to make dogs avoid the garbage can.It's also good to avoid pulling things out of the dog's mouth. This inadvertently teaches the dog that it needs to compete for food, and will make it scavenge more. Encourage the dog to leave the item and reward the dog for obeying, instead of taking it from the dog forcefully.
 Most dogs wait until you're not around to thieve the trash. This makes it much more difficult to keep a dog away from the trash can, but you can do a little planning to make it less likely that the dog will investigate the garbage while you're gone.


Try stacking a few cookie sheets or other lightweight but metallic kitchen items on top of the garbage or on the counter by the garbage can. These items will make a loud sound if the dog disturbs them while investigating the garbage can.
Check local pet stores for motion-activated devices that will trigger a blast of compressed air if anything comes near the garbage can.The devices are safe but can startle sensitive dogs.
 It can be effective to associate the garbage can itself with something you dog doesn't like. If your dog gets nervous around loud sounds, clip a clothes-pin or other little clip on the inside of the trash can, so it will make a loud popping sound when you open the garbage. Commercial mouse-trap-like trainers are also available at pet stores.


Stack things like newspapers underneath the garbage, or use other items that make noise to scare the dog away.
Some dogs may still investigate the garbage can, or even become even more attracted to the can if it makes a sound. Use this technique only if your dog is jumpy around loud sounds.
 Sometimes, dogs will come to associate the kitchen with eating, just as you do. People eat there, the dog is fed there and the delicious-smelling garbage is also there. It's no wonder the dog roots around. To eliminate this connection, feed the dog outside or in another adjacent room of the house.


This can be somewhat of a hassle. But if the dog doesn't ever make it into the kitchen, it's likely that your dog will never get into the garbage can. Make the kitchen a no-dog-zone.
 If you have a small dog, sometimes it's much easier to just make the kitchen an inaccessible place, instead of trying to train the dog to stay away from the garbage. Use small room dividers in the doorways to the kitchen and keep your dog away from the trash can.
 Dogs are often repelled by the scent of citrus. Mix a few tablespoons of lemon juice in warm water with a cap full of vinegar. Put the liquid into a spray bottle and spray the bottom of your trash can each time you take out the trash. After you replace the bag, spray the inside of the bag as well.


Rotten meat and other nasty garbage smells will quickly overpower the citrus scent. Use citrus spray in conjunction with other methods, including changing your garbage more regularly.
Some people like to regularly use basic Lysol disinfectant spray on the trash or in the can, to mask the odors and keep animals away as well.
"Dog repellent" sprays are commonly sold commercially. Sometimes these are quite expensive and don't work particularly well. Read the ingredients and find out what's in the spray before you buy.

