 Fill a one-quart pot with water. Boil the water on the stove for a minute or two or until it is steaming vigorously. Then remove the pot from the heat and place on a heat resistant mat on a table. Drape a large, clean cotton towel over your head and then place your head over the steaming pot. Close your eyes and keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water so that you don't burn yourself. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts. Then reduce the inhales and exhales to two counts. Do this for 10 minutes or for as long as the water is still steaming. Try to blow your nose during and after the treatment.Keep any children away from the pot while it is boiling and while it is steaming. Try to do a steaming treatment when there aren't any children around.
You can use this technique frequently, up to every two hours. You can do a steam every two hours or as often as you like. Try placing your face over the steam coming from a hot tea or bowl of soup when you're at work or out and about.You can also add herbs and essential oils (one to two drops) to your steaming water. Spearmint or peppermint, thyme, sage, oregano, lavender, tea tree oil, and black lavender oil have either antibacterial, antifungal or antiseptic properties.;
, Taking a long, hot shower works very similarly to the steam treatments described above. The hot water from the shower creates warm, moist air that is useful in clearing out blocked nasal passages and relieving sinus pressure. Try blowing your nose naturally. The heat and steam will help moisten and liquify the secretions in the sinuses to better facilitate their evacuation.You also achieve a similar beneficial effect by placing a warm compress on your face to help open up your nasal passages and relieve any pressure you might be feeling in your sinuses. Warm a moist washcloth in the microwave for two to three minutes. Always take care not to burn yourself., Mix eight ounces of warm water with 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Using a bulb syringe purchased at the drugstore, irrigate your nostrils with this homemade saline rinse to help loosen and liquify your nasal secretions and relieve congestion. Try doing two sprays in each nostril.Use water that is distilled, sterile, or already boiled and cooled. Always rinse the instrument after each use and let air dry before next use.
 A neti pot is miniature tea pot-shaped device that has become popular and gained support from the medical community as a way of cleansing your sinus passages. The neti pot works by flooding warm water through one nostril and out the other. You simply fill the “teapot” with warm water and tilt your head to allow the water to pour into your right nostril and drain out the left. Then, do the other side.It is important that you use water that is distilled, sterile, or already boiled and cooled. Always rinse the neti pot after each use.
There have been some reports of rare amoebic infections via the neti pot. This can be avoided by using water that meets the above criteria., To help improve the health of your sinuses, place a humidifier in your bedroom while you sleep. A humidifier produces steam and moist air, which will help clear out the nasal passages.When your nasal passages are blocked, you need to focus on keeping your nasal passages and sinuses moist. Although many people think that if you have have a runny nose, that dry air is the trick, dry air only further irritates the membranes in your nasal passage.
Humidifiers are especially good during the wintertime because the air in most homes is very dry due to central heating.
Even placing a hot water bottle near the ear may have a similar effect and help to draw out ear fluid.
 Make sure that you drink lots of water (at least 8 full glasses a day) because this will thin out your mucus and can help prevent sinuses blockages, and thereby ease pressure.Thinned out mucus is much more likely to drain. Whenever you feel the beginnings of sinus pressure, make a concerted effort to stay hydrated.Warm tea can also be useful because it has a similar effect to steam, and the warmth will allow the nasal secretions to flow out.
 Hot salsa, peppers, hot wings, horseradish, and other spicy foods can get your nasal secretions flowing and thereby help to relieve the pressure in your sinuses. The nose is best blown when the secretions are moist and fluid. That is why remedies that generate this are effective.For sushi lovers, try wasabi. The spicy topping will temporarily relieve sinus pressure and help clear your sinuses.
 Apply gentle pressure using your index and middle fingers, rotating in a circular motion over the forehead (frontal sinus) and the bridge of your nose and behind your eyes (orbital sinus) as well as under the eyes (maxillary sinus). Do this for several minutes and then blow your nose right after.You can also apply an oil, such as rosemary or peppermint, as you massage that may open up your sinus passages. Just don't let the oil get into your eyes.
 Exercise is a natural decongestant. Getting your heart rate up just enough to break sweat can help clear your nasal secretions. If you can do some aerobic exercise, such as running or cycling for even 15 minutes, you may experience some relief.You can even try moderate exercise, such as going for a brisk walk.
 When you go to sleep at night, place a couple of pillows beneath your head so that it is elevated. This will make breathing easier and keep the sinus pressure from building up.