 Press the Mode button until you enter Time mode. The Mode button is located on the lower left side of the watch face. If you’re in the stopwatch or alarm mode you won’t be able to set the time. Keep pressing mode until the four numbers indicating the time of day show up. The time you see in Time Mode may not be correct – you are trying to set your watch after all. However, you can ensure that it is time mode by checking to see if there are seconds ticking by on the right hand side of the watch.;
, Press and hold the Set button until “Time Zone” flashes on-screen. The Set button is located at the top left side of the watch face.


At this point you’ll also be able to choose if you’re in daylight savings time or not. Choose accordingly.
 Press either the Plus or Minus buttons to select your current time zone. The Plus and Minus buttons are located at the top and bottom of the right side of the watch face, respectively.
 Press the Mode button and the “hour” digits will begin flashing on-screen. Now press either the Plus or Minus button to select the correct hour of the day.
 Once you’ve set the hour correctly press the Mode button. You’ll notice that the “minute” digits will begin flashing on-screen now. Press the Plus or Minus button to select the correct time in minutes. If you want to be really exact you can press the Mode button again to set the seconds exactly. Once you press mode the “seconds” digits will begin flashing just like everything else has. Press the Plus or Minus button to set the seconds to zero or to match them up with another clock.
 Press the Mode button once you’re done setting the seconds if you want to set the month and date. The day of week will begin flashing. Set that, press Mode again, and the month will start flashing. Press Mode one more time and the year will start flashing.


Be careful not to press Mode too many times or might skip a step. If that happens you’ll have to pass through all the previous instructions again.
 Once you have pressed the Set button you’ll be returned to


You can press the Set button at any time if you don’t want to set the seconds, month, or date. 