 If you're less interested in the party trick above than you are in getting your beers chilled at the last minute for a party, try dropping your drinks into a mixture of ice, water, and salt. Use about 1 cup of salt for every three pounds of ice you use.If you want your drinks to cool as quickly as possible, use as much ice as you can, but be sure to add enough water so that the mixture retains its liquid property. Liquid water comes into contact with the entire surface area of the bottle or can, rather than touching it at points, like solid ice chunks would, reducing the time that it takes to cool the drink.


Salt further shortens the cooling process. When salt dissolves in water, it dissociates into its component elements - Sodium and Chloride. It takes energy from the water to do this, which causes the temperature of the water to lower.
Note that the thicker and more insulated of container you use to contain your salted ice water, the better it will retain its coldness.
 Another way to quickly cool drinks is to wrap each bottle or can in a damp paper towel, then put the drink in the freezer. Water is a better conductor of heat than air, so, as the water in the paper towel cools, it will pull heat from the drink faster than the cold air of the freezer would on its own. As an added bonus, the evaporation of the water in the rag will have a further cooling effect on the drink.


Don't forget your beers in the freezer! If left in for too long, your bottles or cans may burst, leaving a slushy mess.
 You may have seen this in practice at bars - one way to quickly cool a drink is to pour it into a chilly mug or glass. Though quick and convenient, this method has several drawbacks - it's unlikely to cool a drink to as low of temperature as the other methods in this article and will only work effectively for the first drink you pour into the glass. It also requires you to keep a supply of glasses or mugs in the refrigerator for your beverage emergencies, which can be a non-starter if fridge space is at a premium.


It's tempting to put glasses in the freezer to get them even colder than the fridge allows, but only do so with caution. Rapid drops in temperature can cause glassware to crack or shatter. A better bet is to use plastic cups and mugs specially-designed for chilling in the freezer, which often feature a layer of freeze-able liquid for a long-lasting cooling effect.

