 One of the worst things you can do to your nail bed is peel the polish off of it.The reason behind this is simple: you peel off a layer of your nail along with the polish. If you’re wearing gel polish, you can pull several layers of nail off, because gel is more adhesive than regular polish.


Remember that it can take six months to a year for nails to grow out, after being badly damaged.;
, When nail polish starts to chip, it’s easy to mindlessly start picking at it and peel it off. Avoid this problem altogether by running to the nearest bottle of polish remover once you get any chips.If you’re on the go a lot, carry sealed, pre-soaked remover pads with you.
 Chipped polish is unsightly, and peeling it off may be the quickest way you know how to fix it. But there is a much better way that is even quicker than peeling polish off fingernail by fingernail. Keep glitter polish, which is easy to apply, to seal any chips and protect polish from your prying hands.
 Sometimes, you may start peeling your polish off out of plain boredom. Recognize when this is happening and distract yourself with another activity. Read a book or pick up a magazine. Clean your house or apartment. Anything is better than ruining your nails!

, If you start picking at your nails every time you get stressed, find another way to release it. Take a few deep breaths, instead of ripping your manicure to shreds. If you're especially stressed out, go for a walk or engage in more vigorous exercise., A great trick to strengthen willpower is by telling your brain you don’t do something. When you tell yourself you don’t wish to engage in a bad habit, you are empowering yourself. Every time you get the urge to peel your polish off, tell yourself "I don't want to peel my polish." This will create new pathways in your brain to help kick your peeling habit., This may be a no-brainer, but if you find yourself not able to keep polish on, simply don’t wear it. You can sport a great natural look by keeping your nails trimmed and buffed. Some buffers include a leather-like side that will give nails high shine, like a clear top coat.

