 Yeah, black tights may seem like an obvious choice, but they are and have been popular for a reason. Black, opaque tights are the simplest choice to add a dressier element to your outfit. Plus, black tights make just about anyone’s legs look great. Wear these tights with a pencil skirt, pleated skirt, or long, flowing skirt. Avoid a denim or short skirt unless you work in a super casual environment. If so, lucky you!Black tights are easily found. You can often black, opaque tights at your local drugstore, like CVS, or supermarket.
Test the tights by stretching them out with your hand to make sure they will be opaque.
 Flesh-colored, opaque tights are usually not the flattering choice because they age you, and really, who wants that? Go for thin, sheer flesh-colored tights instead. Wear nude tights with a knee-length skirt and matching blazer. Accessorize with a patterned shirt to feel like the most stylish person in the office.Nude tights are also a good option to hide imperfections on your legs. Don’t worry, we all have them.
 Gray tights aren’t drab and boring. they are a great choice if you’re wanting to recall your schoolgirl days. Wear gray tights with a high-waisted, plaid skirt if you really want to work a schoolgirl look, even at the office. Just be sure to wear a fairly long skirt so you don’t get sent to the principal, or really, the boss.


If you’re wanting gray tights in a thicker fabric, choose cashmere or a similar material.
 Some tights, like sheer tights, add style but not much warmth. Sometimes freezing just isn’t worth it. Wool tights are stylish and warm, and in the end, smart. You can wear plain wool tights, or ribbed wool tights. Choose black or gray wool tights for the office. Pick out a pair of red or purple tights if you work in a casual and creative office environment.Avoid wearing thin material, like chiffon, with wool tights. The types of fabric just don’t look right together. Wear a fabric that is made of a material just as thick or thicker than the wool tights. A wool skirt would, of course, work well with wool tights.

