 Type up your information, such as your name, experience, and email, and create a flyer to post or hand out. A flyer should be simple and clean, with a clear, straight font. You can use color, if you’d like, but avoid using all capital letters, or using too many photos, as this can make you seem young and inexperienced.Your flyer does not need to take up a full page. Instead, create a flyer that takes up half a page. Half a page will still stand out on a bulletin board, but will not overwhelm and cover up other postings.
Create a flyer that has small tabs to rip off. That way, people can quickly and easily get a hold of your contact information.
 You might be tempted to post your flyers everywhere you can, but hold off at first, and choose 3-4 locations. If you post in too many places, you can quickly become overwhelmed by calls and emails. Make sure you revisit your postings regularly to determine if you have chosen a good location, and to see whether or not your flyers are being used.


Place your flyer at a grocery store you frequent, your school bulletin board, your community center bulletin board, or ask local businesses if you can place your flyers in their window.
If several weeks have passed and you have not gotten any calls, begin branching out and posting your information in more locations. Try to check back every 2 weeks to determine whether or not someone has taken your tags.
 Visit local events and hand your flyers out to families you encounter. Strike up a conversation, smile, and be polite. Be prepared to answer questions about your experience, background, and availability.If you have not yet decided on a definite price for your services, you should do so immediately. Your pay rate is likely to be one of the first questions parents ask you, so make sure you have an answer ready.
 You can create a simple website to refer people to, or you can just have a Facebook page dedicated to babysitting. Having an online presence will allow prospective clients to learn a little bit about you before hiring you.To start out, you do not need an expensive, professional site. You can use Wordpress or Blogger to display your information.
Protect yourself if you create a website. Do not post personal information such as your address or phone number. Instead, link to your email address, and focus on your skills and experience.

