 A variety of organizations (food manufacturers, restaurants, consulting companies, governments and universities) hire consumers to test food products. Being a consumer taste tester is not a full-time job, so you’ll want to look for an opportunity close to where you already live. The best place to start is with a Google search for "taste testers" in your area.


Consumer taste testers get paid approximately $15/hour or up, but sometimes are paid per test, instead of per hour.
If you know of a specific organization in your area, start your search on their website. Some examples of where to look include the following:

McCormick & Company is located in Hunt Valley, Maryland.The Consumer Product Testing Centre via the Government of Alberta is located in Edmonton, Alberta.The National Food Lab is located in Livermore, California.The North Carolina State University Sensory Service Centre is located in Raleigh, North Carolina.;
, Organizations require that, as a taste tester, you be at least 18 years old to participate in their programs. And you cannot have any existing food allergies. You will also be required to complete taste tests during weekdays and during work hours.Each organization may have their own, specific requirements as well. You can confirm these requirements on their website when you complete an application.
Also be aware that some organizations may have a limit on the number of times you can participate in a consumer taste test in a given year., Complete the required application or registration form from the organization's website. Most applications can be completed and submitted online, but a few are still require a paper application to be submitted via mail.Applications will require basic items like your name, address, phone number, email address, gender, and birthdate.
You may also be asked about your food preferences, including whether you are a vegetarian or vegan.
 All the information you provide to a taste test organization is stored in a database. The organization then uses the database to find the right people to participate in each taste test - based on the information you’ve provided to them. In order to ensure they can find the right testers for each opportunity, the organization may send you questionnaires asking very specific questions about food.


Be sure to answer any questions that are asked honestly, as your answers will impact what tests you’ll be asked to participate in.For example, some tests may require males who are 20 to 35 years old. The organization will query the database to find all testers who are male and who are between the ages of 20 and 35. They will then reach out to some of those testers to see who may be interested in participating.
 In addition to reaching out to you on a proactive basis, some organizations have an online portal for testers only. You’ll be able to sign into this section of the website to view potential testing opportunities. Keeping track of potential opportunities on your own will help ensure you’re able to participate in more tests.


Organizations, like FPI Testers, also post available tests on their Facebook and Twitter accounts. In order to make sure you don’t miss any great opportunities, follow the accounts for the organization for which you’re a member and keep track of what they post on social media., Once you’re all setup with an organization, it’s time to prepare for an actual taste test. Information about what to expect at a taste test can be found on the organization’s website, and, if anything specific is required, they’ll send that information to you directly.Before a taste test, the organization will send you information about the ingredients in the items you’ll be testing. Review this information to ensure you won’t have an issue with any of them.
Some additional ways to prepare are included below:Be on time, or a little early.
Do not eat or smoke within the 30 minutes before your test.
Do not wear fragrant items like perfume or cologne.
Do not bring children with you.
You will also be required to turn your cell phone off when in the test.
Depending on the type of test, you may also be required not to speak to anyone else while at the test.



