 If you don't want to go for a creepy or scary Halloween porch, you can achieve a more refined look by replacing the traditional Jack-o'-lantern with regular pumpkins and gourds such as butternut or acorn squash. Go to a grocery store or pumpkin patch and find an assortment of gourds and pumpkins to put on your porch. Varying the sizes of your gourds will make your porch more visually appealing.


You can also create unique creations by carving the gourds as well., Orange and black are the most recognizable and traditional colors for Halloween. Utilize both these colors to give your porch a classic Halloween feeling. Consider this color theme when choosing colors for props or fabrics for your decorations. Black represents death and is often the color worn to mourn those who have passed, while orange is a lively and positive color that represents the autumn harvest.Use black colored props such as spiders, witches, or bats.
Orange props can include pumpkins and orange leaves as well as dyed orange cloth.
 Bales of hay are a traditional fall and Halloween theme and can be used to enhance the look of your porch.Search for hay bales at Halloween decoration stores or certain hardware stores. Dried corn and wheat stalks are also traditional decorations for autumn.Bales of hay can be used for a sitting area.
 You can either purchase a premade scarecrow or create one yourself. To make a scarecrow at home, gather up some old clothing and stuff it with hay. Use an old pillowcase or cloth bag and draw a face on your scarecrow with a magic marker. Once you're done creating all of the body parts, you can pin your scarecrow together with bobby pins.Read Make a Scarecrow for more tips on creating your scarecrow.
 An autumn wreath is a great way to ring in the fall and to liven up an undecorated porch. You can purchase a wreath at most department stores and hardware stores. Alternatively, you can use a wreath base or chicken wire to create your own wreath. Use wire fasteners to attach things like leaves, miniature gourds or nuts to your base.


To read tips on how to create your own fall wreath, read Create a Fall Wreath


