 If your dog is aware that you are willing to spend time with it every day, then your dog is more likely to reciprocate with shows of affection, joy and love. If your dog feels neglected, it may wander off and find other things to do with its time.;
, This means speaking in an even tone, not yelling at the dog and saying things to your dog kindly.
 Your dog will appreciate being part of your daily life and seeing new people and places as you go out and about.
 This will encourage more of the good behavior from your dog and helps to cement the bond between both of you. This is known as "positive reinforcement" and it's a much more fruitful way to train and interact with dogs than a punishment focus.
 Dogs like treats more than their food. However, don't give too many; keep it in moderation.
 Dogs need enrichment and thrive on challenges as much as humans enjoy doing puzzles and challenging one another to a battle of wits. Help your dog use its grey matter by giving it challenging things to do, such as:


Obedience training
Hiding food inside a container, making the dog search for it and get it out itself
Hide treats around your apartment, house or yard, so that your dog has to go hunting for them

Teach your dog tricks.
 Be active together and stay healthy together. Your dog will appreciate the fact that you are both doing something and neither of you will notice the effort involved.


If you like running or jogging, take your dog along with you.
Go swimming together.
Take your dog down to the beach and run on the sand together.
Go for a trail hike with your dog.
 If you are angry after a dog does something you don't like, your dog will be upset. Moreover, dogs cannot relate being told off after an event as they live in the present, not the past;for example, rubbing a dog's nose in its poo an hour after it does it in the wrong place tells your dog that you're mean and odd, not that the dog did something wrong. Instead, practice positive reinforcement to get the behaviors you do want from your dog, along with reassessing how your behavior might be contributing to your dog's misbehavior. For example, if the dog cannot get outside to do its toilet, whose fault is that?

, Your dog picks up on how you are feeling and will respond according to its own personality. It's up to you as the dog's companion to work out your own dog's personality and to interact so as to bring out the best in your dog. Be wary of how your own emotions impact your dog, and ease off displaying any emotions that might unsettle, upset or anger it, in much the same way as you take care to respect the needs and emotions of others in your family or household. Your dog is family too.
 Give your dog hugs now and then, to say "I love you". Be loving, as your dog will pick up on the loving vibes.

