 If you notice a fight coming on or you find yourself reacting to something your friend says, take a moment and find some peace. Take a few deep breaths and remind yourself not to react.Remember that you may not be in charge of what other people do or say, but you are in charge of your actions and reactions. Use an affirmation such as, “I choose how I respond to other people, and I choose to be peaceful right now.”;
, Let the little stuff go. Important matters should absolutely be dealt with, but not every disagreement needs to be a fight. Sometimes, people enjoy getting a reaction out of people. Don’t give in and engage the fight.Change the subject or tell your friend you don’t want to talk about that topic.
Be careful not to respond in a hostile manner. There’s a difference between saying “I’d rather not discuss that” and “Stop bringing that up!”
Sometimes, you do need to discuss things, but maybe now isn’t the time. You can say, “This is important to talk about, but I’m not in a place to engage right now, and I don’t want to say things I will regret. Can we find time to discuss it later once I’ve had some time to think and cool off?”

, Observe your body and see what you are communicating to your friend that may set off an argument. Notice your eye contact (or if you avoid eye contact), your body position, gestures and facial expressions. If you are communicating distance or hostility, chances are your friend is picking up on it and contributing to it with a verbal argument.Closed body language includes crossing arms/legs, looking away, facing your body away from someone.
Aggressive or hostile body language can include clenched teeth or fists, muscle tension, staring eyes, or restlessness., Nobody responds perfectly to conflict every time a conflict occurs. Especially if conflicts are ongoing, chances are it’s not entirely the other person’s fault and you carry some of the responsibility. It’s time to examine the way you react and how you feed into conflicts. Unhealthy ways to respond to conflict include:Inability to recognize things that matter to your friend
Angry, explosive or defensive reactions
Shaming (“I can’t believe you did that, only bad people do things like that”)
Rejecting (“I want nothing to do with you or your apologies, they mean nothing to me”)
Inability to compromise
Fear and avoidance of conflict; having a bad expectation of the outcome.
 Save everybody’s time and energy and own up to your faults. Owning your faults is not a sign of weakness, it shows that you are ready to acknowledge your role in the negative interactions and that you want to resolve the problem.Make it simple, and don’t over-explain or provide excuses. A simple, “I’m sorry I took my stress out on you. I realize I was upset that the cat ruined the curtains and I snapped at you” will do.
 Don’t let previous annoyances or disputes from the day roll into a conflict with your friend. Are you upset with your friend or are you upset about traffic delays earlier and taking your frustration out on your friend? Also, be conscious about your friend rolling his stressors onto you. Perhaps your friend feels overwhelmed with school or work or children and doesn’t have an outlet for stress. Unfortunately, people take stress out on other people. Keep it in perspective.Think about any stressors in your friend's life that may be setting him off. Then, talk about it with him, showing genuine concern.
 After gaining some perspective, have some empathy. It’s probable your friend doesn’t know how to deal with the stress he experiences, and is displacing this stress onto other people. The ability to show you understand how another person feels can be the single most powerful communication skill. It allows the person to feel heard and diffuses conflict.Having empathy does not mean you agree with their perspective, but it does mean you show your understanding of their feelings (i.e. “I can understand you felt upset by that.”)
Reflect what your friend says and feels. “I hear you saying that you feel stressed and overwhelmed. I’d feel the same if I was in your shoes. I totally get why this is a hard time for you.”

, Conflict often arises due to differing needs, or needs not being expressed sufficiently. If two people feel accepted, supported, and understood, it’s unlikely conflict will occur. Think about what underlies what your friend is expressing. Then consider ways that you may not be supporting or accepting your friend. Realize that conflicts will continue to fester until you deal with them head-on.Maybe your friend wants to spend more time together than you’ve been available to spend.
Think about ways you can support your friend. Show that you are there for him.
If you’re not sure what your friend needs, talk to him. Ask, “How can I be a better friend?”

, Approach your friend and say you'd like to discuss the negative dynamics between you. Do this is a non-confrontational way, and don't go into the discussion with a list of things you don't like about your friend; instead, remain open to resolving the conflict and hearing out your friend. Say that you care about your friendship, and don't want to engage in the perpetual conflict. It is likely that your friend feels the same way.Listen closely and let your friend express what he feels and thinks.
Be honest but also respectful. Remember, the goal is to resolve the conflict, not place blame.
 Maybe there are certain topics that you continuously fight about, such as sports teams, religion, or political parties. Decide with your friend to avoid discussing these topics together. Alert other friends close to you that these topics are off-limits and that you’d like them to respect that choice when you and your friend are together.
 Don’t close yourself off or come into a situation with your friend already feeling hostile. Make sure you feel open in your interactions, remaining positive. Foster a climate that encourages problem-solving, such as letting emotions be expressed and obtaining more information when you are unclear.Don’t meet up with your friend expecting to not get along. Instead, meet up expecting that things will go well.
Don’t be quick to disagree. Instead, take away positive things from your interactions, or redirect to more positive topics. If your friend wants to argue about climate change, say, “It means a lot that you care for the environment. I admire that about you.”

, If you notice things heating up between you and your friend, create an out. There are often precursors to disagreements that set them off, so stay alert and take note when you feel tension building. Change the subject, transition to a different topic, or tell your friend, “I’d rather not discuss this”.


If you have mutual friends, ask them to support you by interrupting with a different topic or changing the direction of the conversation.
 It doesn’t do any good to hold onto grudges. It makes you feel bad and hurts the friendship. Holding a grudge can also make you more prone to find fault in your friend, leading to more disagreements. Learn to forgive your friend and move on to enjoying a friendship again.

