 The Tagg Pet Tracker is available online at Amazon.com or at Tagg’s website for $119.95. It’s also available in pet stores near you.;
, Search for the Play Store app on your home screen or app drawer, and tap on it. It has a logo of a white bag and a triangle in front.
 Type in “Tagg—the Pet Tracker” on the Play Store’s search bar, which is a text field that says “Search Google Play” on the upper right section of the screen.


Afterwards, tap on the magnifier icon to launch the search.
 You will be taken to the app’s information page.


The app’s icon is blue with a white paw print on it and the word “tagg” at the bottom. The app is released by Snaptracs, Inc.
If you cannot find Tagg on Google Play, you can visit this site for a download link to the app on Google Play.
 Click on the green “Install” button on the right side of the Tagg app page. A small pop-up window will then appear asking you to grant the app all the necessary permissions for it to run.


Click on the “Accept” button if you are amenable then wait for Tagg to download and be installed onto your device.
A “Successfully installed” message will then appear on your screen once Tagg is ready. The app icon will show both on your device’s home screen and apps menu.
 You need to plug in the docking station to the charger cord then plug the cord into an available outlet. Make sure that your docking station switch, present at the lower back portion, is flipped ON.


Place the tracker over the Docking station. The tracker must be lit and facing the front to be activated. The docking station will take 2 hours to get fully charged. After it’s fully charged, the tracker can easily work for about 30 days.
Newer models don’t have a docking station switch. The Tagg docking station cannot be powered through your computer’s USB port, so you must charge it through the cord available in the power kit.
As soon as the tracker is docked correctly the tracker status indicator flashes blue; once it’s fully charged, it flashes a solid blue color.
 Locate the app either on your home screen or app drawer, and tap on it to launch it.
 You need to fill in your details like your username, e-mail ID, mobile phone number, and 3 security questions.
 The 9-letter ID is on the back side of the tracker.
 The pet type can be entered by tapping the Pet Type drop-down menu.
 This can be done in the space just below the Pet Type drop-down menu.
, Enter the address where your pet will be for most of the time in the “Verify your Pet’s address” window.


For instance, you can enter your house address as your pet will be spending most of its time there. This will set up the location as the safe area for your pet.
 This will complete the tag area details.
 It is located on the right section of the “Verify your pet’s address” window.
 The more you drag, the larger the area will be for your Tagg zone. The Tagg zone is the area where you deem your dog is safe.


It is recommended to limit your Tagg area zone so that the chances of losing your dog will be minimum.
 Do this on the “Name of your Tagg zone” option on the map screen.
, Remove the Tagg tracker from the charging station, attach it to the collar clip, and attach the collar around your dog’s neck. You will receive a confirmation on the app that you’ve attached the pet tracker correctly.
 Whenever you want to view your dog’s location, just launch Tagg, and you’ll see your dog’s movement on the map.


Whenever your dog moves out of the Tagg zone, you will automatically get a notification on your registered email or a text on your registered mobile number.

