 The telltale sign of any hernia is a bump, bulge, or bubble that protrudes from the body. Inguinal hernias in children usually occur in the crease in between the lower abdomen and the inner thigh, and the bulge may (but doesn’t always) continue into the genital area.Some inguinal hernias “stick out” at all times, while others are not noticeable at all times. Hernias that are reducible on their own will usually appear only when the child is coughing, laughing, crying, or doing something else that strains the abdominal region. They are often also more noticeable when the child is standing.;
, Some three-quarters of hernias diagnosed among the entire population occur in the groin area (and are known as inguinal hernias). This is a particularly common spot for hernias among small girls and especially boys, because an improperly closed inguinal canal (through which a male's testicles descend just before birth) can provide an easy path for the intestines to push through.Checking for inguinal and other kinds of hernias should be part of all regular pediatric infant and child physical exams.
Practically speaking, every inguinal hernia will (or at least should) result in a surgical intervention. Even if the hernia resolves on its own, it will almost certainly recur over and again if the opening in the inguinal canal is not closed.
Any inguinal hernia should be examined by a doctor or qualified Certified Pediatric Nurse Practitioner (CPNP). If the hernia does not pull back in on its own or is not “reducible” (able to be pushed back in) by the physician, immediate surgery is the most likely recourse. Otherwise, a simple surgical procedure done within a short period of time is usually advisable.
 Reducible hernias that come and go on their own are not immediately harmful in most cases, but should still be examined by a doctor within a short period of time. “Incarcerated” hernias, on the other hand, which are trapped in place and protrude continually, should be examined at once.Incarcerated hernias are not immediately harmful, but they can quickly become “strangulated” hernias, which are and must be surgically repaired as soon as possible.
 As indicated by the name, a strangulated hernia cuts off blood flow to the protruding part of the intestine (or other organ). This can cause irreparable damage to the organ within a short period of time, and can also result in a cascade of other severe consequences.If your child has a protruding hernia along with substantial pain in the general area; vomiting or nausea; noticeable irritability; fever; or if the bulge hardens or becomes red or discolored, assume it is strangulated and take the child to the nearest emergency room or call 911 or your emergency services number immediately. Do not wait. Act at once. Be safe, not sorry.

