 Keyboards come in different shapes, including ergonomic models that may be feel more comfortable while you’re typing. If you aren’t typing effectively with your current keyboard, you may want to test some ergonomic keyboards to find one that offers more comfort while you’re working.Keep the size of the keys in mind. The larger they are, the easier it will be to type. That means you may want to look for a keyboard where the keys that you use most often, such as the letters and numbers, are larger than other keys.A keyboard with concave keys that fit the shape of your fingers is a good option if you're looking to eliminate errors in your typing as you try to increase your speed.
It's best to choose a keyboard with keys that have strong tactile feedback, which means they offer enough resistance to alert you that the stroke has registered. The resistance also keeps you from accidentally hitting keys as you're typing, so you can type more quickly.;
, While most keyboards have a fairly standard set-up, some may have different features or different layouts. Make sure to read the instructions or manual that comes with your keyboard so you know what all of the keys do and what shortcuts may be useful to you. Once you understand what all of the keys do, try to create a visual layout of the keyboard in your mind that you can call upon when you’re typing.Many keyboards are equipped with time-saving keys that provide shortcuts for common commands or keystrokes. Be sure to read up on your keyboard's shortcuts to help increase your speed.
 The most important step to improving your typing speed is ensuring that you place your fingers correctly on the keyboard. Rest the index finger of your left hand on the “F” key and the index finger of your right hand on the “J” key. These two keys usually have slight bumps on their surface, so you can feel for them without actually looking at the keyboard. The other three fingers on your left hand should rest on the “A,” “S,” and “D” keys, while the the other three fingers on your right hand should rest on the “K,” “L,” and “;” keys. Place your thumbs on the space bar.The row with the “A,” “S,” “D,” “F,” “J,” “K,” “L,” and “;” keys is known as the home run because it’s the row that your fingers always start at and return to while you’re typing.
When you arrange your fingers on the keyboard, curve them slightly, but keep your hands relaxed.
Make sure that your keyboard is centered directly in front of your body.
 When you’re typing, you will hit all of the keys on your keyboard from the home position. That means certain fingers are designated to strike certain keys for the most efficient typing. In most cases, you’ll use the same fingers from the home row to hit the keys that line up in the rows above and below.Strike the “1,” “2,” “Q,” and “Z” keys, in addition to the “A” key, with your left pinky.
Strike the “3,” “W”, and “X” keys, in addition to the “S” key, with your left ring finger.
Strike the “4,” “E”, and “C” keys, in addition to the “D” key, with your left middle finger.
Strike the “5,” “6,” “R,” “T,” “G,” “V,” and “B” keys, in addition to the “F” key, with your left index finger.
Strike the “7,” “Y,” “U,” “H,” “N,” and “M” keys, in addition to the “J” key, with your right index finger.
Strike the “8,” “I,” and “,” keys, in addition to the “J,” with your right middle finger.
Strike the “9,” “O,” and “.” keys, in addition to the “L” key, with your right ring finger.
Strike the “0,” “-,” “=,” “P,” “,” “‘,” and “/” keys, in addition to the “;” key, with your right pinky.
Hit the “Shift” key with the pinky on the opposite hand from the finger that you’re using to strike the other key.
Hit the spacebar with whichever thumb feels most comfortable to you.
 As with most skills, the only way to truly improve your typing speed is to practice on a regular basis. The more that you type, the more comfortable you’ll become with the layout of the keyboard and the proper positioning of your fingers. You'll also develop muscle memory when you're typing common letter combinations, so your typing will become faster and more accurate.One of the best ways to practice is to repeatedly type sample passages over and over again. You can find plenty of passages online that are geared toward improving your typing accuracy and speed.
When you're practicing, focus on accuracy first. Make sure that you're typing each word correctly and achieving proper spacing and punctuation. Once you feel like your typing has become accurate, you can work on improving your speed.
Practice doesn’t just mean taking online typing tests. Writing emails to friends and family and posting on online forums can help sharpen your typing skills and increase your speed.
 While practicing is key to improving your typing speed, make sure to take breaks as needed. If you push yourself too hard, you run the risk of wearing yourself out, or even worse, suffering an injury, such as carpal tunnel syndrome. When you start to feel any discomfort in your hands or wrists, stop typing for a little while to give yourself time to rest.To keep yourself from working too hard, set up a practice schedule by designating a certain amount of time each day to practice your typing. However, build breaks into your schedule to keep yourself fresh. For example, you might decide to type for 30 minutes each day, taking breaks every ten minutes or so.

