 Choose two different colors or patterns of cotton fabric. You can use solid colors, patterns, or a combination of the two. Stack everything together, and cut a 15-inch (38.1-centimeter) square out.Make sure that the two fabrics go well together. One of them will be your main fabric and the other will be your lining.
 Follow the instructions that came with your interfacing as each brand will be different. In general, you will need to: pin the interfacing to the wrong side of the fabric, cover it with an ironing cloth, and iron it for 10 to 15 seconds with an iron. Use the coolest setting you can and no steam.
 Stack your main fabric and lining together. Trace a 4½-inch (11.43-centimeter) square into each corner. Cut the squares out using a pair of fabric scissors. You will end up with something that looks like a + sign.To ensure that each square is the same size, use a template cut out of thin cardboard.
Discard the squares that you cut out, or save them for another project.
 Place the main fabric down with the right side facing you. Bring the left and bottom flaps together, and pin them along the edge. Repeat with the remaining flaps until you have a box.


Repeat this step with the lining fabric.
 Sew the main fabric first, then the lining. Do not stitch the two boxes together just yet., Turn your main fabric box so that the bottom is facing you. Snip the hems at the bottom of each corner. Be careful not to cut through the stitching.


Repeat with step with the lining.
 Turn the main fabric box right side out. Tuck it inside the lining box. The right sides of both boxes should be touching. You should only see the interfacing and the wrong side of the lining.
 Pin the box together along the top edge. Sew along the top edge using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Leave a few inch/centimeter wide gap for turning., When you are done, push the box back into shape. Tuck the lining into the main box, and push out the corners.
 Set the box down on its side on the ironing board. Press the top hem with an iron. Turn the box onto its other side, and iron it again. Keep doing this until you have ironed all four sides.


Tuck the hem in at the gap neatly. Keep the opening shut with sewing pins if you need to.
 Be sure that you match your thread and bobbin colors to your main and lining fabric colors.


Consider using a contrasting thread color for the top stitching. This will make it part of the design!

,,