 For best results, choose a variety of fleshy summer fruit and use it while the fruit is in its ripest stage.Use a blend of multiple fruits instead of using only one type.
Note that you do not need to add all of the fruit at the same time. You can gradually add different types to the mixture as the season progresses.
Strawberries, raspberries, cherries, peaches, apricots, pineapple, nectarines, red currents, pears, seedless grapes, and plums are all popular choices.
Avoid berries that are heavily seeded, like blackberries, and fruit that is too soft, like bananas. Acidic citrus fruits and watery fruits (cantaloupe, watermelon, etc.) are also poor choices.
You may also want to avoid dark fruits, like blueberries, since they can discolor some of the lighter fruits in the mixture.;
, Thoroughly rinse the fruit under running water, using your hands to scrub away any visible dirt. Dry the fruit with clean paper towels.

Even though the alcohol will kill most bacteria, clean fruit is more sanitary and safer to use than unwashed fruit.
 Remove all pits, large seeds, and stems. Cut larger fruits into small pieces.

Raspberries and other small fruits can usually be added to the mixture as they are.
Large fruits will need to be cut into bite-size pieces or smaller. Medium fruits, like strawberries, may need to be cut into halves or quarters.
It's also a good idea to measure the volume of fruit you have after you cut it. Measurements don't need to be exact, but you should have a fairly accurate estimate of the amount of fruit being used.
 Transfer the prepared fruit to a heavy ceramic or glass container. Spread it out as evenly as possible.

Consider using a crock, German rum pot, glass pickle jar, or ceramic cookie jar.
Avoid using metal or plastic containers.
 Sprinkle an equal amount of sugar over the fruit in the pot. Toss gently to combine.

The amount of sugar should always be equal to the amount of fruit. If you only have 2 cups (500 ml) of fruit at the start, you should only use 2 cups (500 ml) of sugar. Increase the volume of sugar only as you increase the volume of fruit.
 Pour enough brandy over the fruit mixture to cover it completely.You only need just enough brandy to cover the fruit. More brandy may need to be added later on if the volume of fruit increases or if some of the liquid evaporates.
 Ideally, tutti frutti should be started at the beginning of summer. Add more fruit as it comes into season throughout the rest of the summer months.

Continue adding more fruit every few weeks until the end of summer or until the pot is full. When you add more fruit, you must also add more sugar. Make sure there is enough brandy to keep the fruit submerged, as well.
Keep a lid on the pot of fruit as it sits out. If you don't have a lid, use a tight sheet of aluminum foil or plastic wrap.
The pot of fruit should sit in a cool place and out of direct sunlight. Stir the fruit every few days to make sure that it stays submerged. Stirring also helps to dissolve the sugar.
 Once all the fruit has been added, cover the pot and let it sit in a cool, shady area for at least three months.

Traditionally, tutti frutti is allowed to sit until late November or early December. You can technically enjoy it earlier than that, but the flavors will not be fully developed.
 Once ready, tutti frutti can be enjoyed in numerous ways. It can be consumed on its own or used as a garnish for other desserts.

You can serve the tutti frutti with its syrup over ice cream, cake, custard, or similar desserts.
Alternatively, you can strain the liquid and enjoy the preserved fruit on its own or use it when making baked goods.

