 Parents and tweens might have different ideas about how the new room should look. Working together and reaching compromises is a great way to ensure that both parties are allowed input, building a space together that everyone is happy with.Parents shouldn't be afraid to set some limits either in regards to price or style.
Tweens should be allowed input and some control of the style of the new room.;
, If it is time for a change, think about what you might want your new space to look like. Feel free to imagine your new room anyway you want at this point and allow for a free flow of ideas to come forward. Imagining the perfect room will help you to create a detailed plan for it.

Think about some of your favorite things and interests that you might include in your room.
Imagine what your room would look like in different colors.
Think about any new furniture you might need or want.
Consider any remodeling you might want to do.
 After you have gotten inspired and have some ideas of what you want your room to look like it is time to plan the room. Pick the ideas that are most appealing to you or the ones that you can make happen and write them down, creating a detailed plan for your new room.It can help to draw the new floor plan out.
Pick out specific things like material for new curtains, furniture, or other decorations.
Settle on a new color or colors for your room.
Make the most of the space available, considering the size of furniture or other items you plan on putting in the room.
Get an idea of how much it might cost for your to remake your room according to your plan.
 Take your plan for your new bedroom and go shopping for all the items, decorations, tools, and materials that you will need to make your new room a reality. Having a detailed shopping list will help make sure that you have everything you need.Try to get everything on your list when you go shopping.
Keep your budget in mind as you shop.
 Before you get too far into creating your new space you may want to consider a theme for the room. Picking a theme for the room can be a great way to create a new and interesting space in a way that feels coherent and evokes a certain mood or feeling. Think about what you want your new room to feel like and come up with a theme for your project.


A theme can unify the feeling of a room.
You could base a theme off of your favorite book or movie.
A hobby that you enjoy can also be inspiration for a good theme.
You may take some inspiration from something simple like your favorite color or season.
 Tastes change over time and it's no different for a tween. What might have been entertaining as a child may no longer be entertaining or interesting. Creating a unique entertainment corner or nook in the room can be a great way for these new interests to be showcased and enjoyed.


Think about putting in some shelving that can hold books, movies, and video games.
Make some space for a television, computer, stereo, or gaming systems.
Consider what decorations you want to include in the space. These decorations might be wall stickers, posters, paint, action-figures, or lighting features.
 Although you may enjoy reading, watching movies, or just hanging out in your bedroom, it should also be a restful place to get good night's sleep. Part of getting restful sleep is having a comforting bed. Consider customizing your bed in a way that you find both interesting and relaxing.


A simple way to change the look of your bed is to get some new sheets.
Think about buying or building a bed frame that fits the new style of the room.
Adding something like a canopy to your bed can change the feeling of the whole room.
 Furniture that was once suitable for a child will likely no longer be a good fit for a tween. Whether the style of the furniture is no longer desirable or the furniture is no longer an appropriate size, it may be time for an update. Think about what type and style you want your new furniture to be.


Adding bean bag chairs can be a comfortable touch to your new room.
Think about getting a new desk. Make sure it's a comfortable size to work at.
Dressers or nightstands might need a style change as well. You can either buy new ones or decorate the ones you have.
 A great way to change the look and feel of any room is to add new paint. As with other aspects of the room, the current paint may be too childish for a tween. Think about what styles of either paint might give the room a fresh and appealing new look that everyone can enjoy.You can paint the room anyway you like, either a one color or many.
Try to match the color of your room to any theme that you have in mind for it.
Think about including interesting patterns when adding new paint.
Color can have an effect on mood so pick a hue that makes you feel great., Before you can redecorate the room you will need to decide what to remove from the room. There may be old furniture, decorations, or personal items that need replacing or might be considered too childish for a tween. Decide which items are going into storage and which are to be donated or discarded., The items and furniture that are going to be kept will need to be protected or temporarily removed while you redecorate the room. Painting the walls, remodeling, or redoing any flooring is likely going to create a mess, damaging or ruining anything left in the room. Make sure important objects are protected or removed before working on the room.


Plastic tarps can cover up large pieces of furniture and protect them from dust or paint.
Smaller items can be directly removed from the room to create work space and keep them safe.
 If you plan on remodeling any areas of the room, you will want to do so as your first step. Remodeling will change the features of the room and can create quite a mess. Doing this first can help prevent you from needing to repaint or retouch these areas later on.


You may want to add something like a new closet or shelving.
Sometimes you may want to remove something, like a non-load bearing wall, opening up the space.
 Some new furniture or features might require you to install them as opposed to simply placing it in the room. These features of the room usually take some tools or hardware to install properly. Make sure these pieces of furniture are installed properly before moving on to other aspects of the room.Adding something like a new door will require you to fit and attach the door to the door frame. Most doors will come with all the hardware you need such as screws and hinges.
Some shelving needs to be attached directly to the wall. These shelving units may come with the necessary screws to hold it to the wall.
You will likely need to provide your own tools. Having a screwdriver or power drill will allow you to install most simple additions to the room.
 After the room has been remodeled you can now paint the walls, ceilings, or even the floor. Most paint can be easily applied with either a brush or a paint roller and can be a fun and easy way to change the look of a room. Work slowly and make sure you cover each area entirely to get a good finish.Paint brushes can be useful for corners or smaller areas that require a detailed approach.
Paint rollers are best used in large areas as they can cover a lot of area quickly.
Make sure you are wearing old clothes that you don't mind getting paint on.
 Finalize your room by putting everything back in it and adding any new items or finishing touches. These items can be any personal decorations that you might want to add, creating a personalized and comfortable new room to enjoy.Add personal items such as televisions, computers, or books back into the room.
Place new furniture or items in the way you originally designed your plan.
Within reason, allow your tween decorate the room with any art or posters or art they might want to.

