 Some people can comfortably say "I love you" multiple times a day. Others are more reserved, feeling like over-saying it might lessen its power and beauty. Wherever you fall, there is a good way to make sure your expressions of love only come when you really mean them.If expressing your love feels like a burden on you, then you need to re-examine how you actually feel about her. Are your issues with the word "love" or the emotion of love?

, You don't have to be a broken record to express your love regularly. Telling her that you're grateful for her presence, that you're excited just being around her, that you adore her, or any other synonyms for love will get the point across without making your words seem rote or unthoughtful. Try:


"I am better because of you."
"I cannot stop thinking about you."
"You drive me crazy on a daily basis, and I love it."
Use cutesy terms she likes, like darling, honey, doll, etc., Acknowledge the little things she does for you and let her know how cool it is. Tell her that her spaghetti sauce is especially good on the days that it is, and remind her how important her support has been when you're going through tough times. A great way to express your love is to show that you're paying attention and appreciative, making her a big part of your thoughts. Good times include:


After taking care of you or chipping in during a tough time.
When you've felt stressed and are worried you've taken it out on her.
Occasionally remembering regular chores or help. If she packs your lunch every morning before work for you, be sure to thank her for it.
 A loving couple is a team, getting through life's challenges together, not alone. When you hold a mistake over someone's head after she has apologized, however, or you keep a grudge going because you fault her for hard times, you're breaking up the bond. Love is easily expressed in forgiveness, as it shows that your bond is deeper than one issue or mistake. Blaming someone for a problem turns things into a me vs. you scenario.Forgiveness can take time, and that is okay. The point is that you express your love through your willingness to look past honest mistakes, loving the person in her entirety, flaws and all.
 Even loving couples fight, and that is okay. What is more important is how you fight. There will always be issues and differences, but loving couples know that getting things out in the open is more important than burying feelings for a later day. In it's own way, this is an expression of love to a girl — the trust that you can be honest her, and that you can trust her to do the same.


There is no such thing as doing something to "prove your love." Love isn't a loan or scientific idea — it doesn't need to be proven., People that you love are naturally part of your future. When you close your eyes, she is there by your side, and letting her know this is a great way to express your love without saying the words. This doesn't mean you map out every detail from marriage to kids — it just means you let her know you're excited to keep her in your life.


"If we could retire together right now, where would you want to go with me?"
Talk about your career and living plans, dreaming, scheming, and planning together even if nothing comes of it.

