 If you suspect that your partner is gaslighting you, you should learn all of the different ways that gaslighting can manifest. This can help you recognize the ways in which you were manipulated so that you can recover. Some common signs include:Accusing you of remembering wrong or making up things that happened.
Diverting or avoiding talking about certain topics.
Claiming that you overreact or that you are too sensitive.
Acting as if they do not understand what you are saying.
Refusing to talk about their behavior.;
, Gaslighting is a form of mental and emotional abuse. It is a way to have power over you and control you. If you have not yet ended this relationship, you should strongly consider it in order to recover from the gaslighting.For instance, if you have recently realized that your partner has been purposely doing things to make you second guess yourself, you should try to leave the relationship.
Talk to someone close to you about helping you leave. For example, you might tell your sibling, “Could you help me. I’m being gaslighted and I need to get out of the situation.”
Ask a counselor, therapist, or other professional to help you get out of the situation.
Contact a crisis hotline for assistance with leaving your situation. They can connect you with other resources.
 Because it is a form of abuse, gaslighting can be very stressful on you. You may constantly feel nervous, tense, or tired. You can recover from gaslighting if you make an effort to reduce the overall stress in your life. Try stress reduction techniques like meditation, deep breathing, or visualization.There are several different types of meditation that you can use to relieve you stress. You might try mindfulness, yoga, concentration or another type.
Practice visualizing yourself some place peaceful. Picture yourself in detail. For example, picture your relaxed forehead and chin. Visualize the smile on your face and the happiness in your eyes.
 When you are gaslighted, you may end up feeling anxious or nervous. You might feel like you need to be always on alert because you don’t know when the person will accuse you of something you didn’t do. In order to recover from gaslighting, you should explore ways to calm yourself and manage any anxiety you may feel.For instance, if you notice that you are feeling nervous about how you look because your partner used to always critique your outfit choices, you should address your feelings.
When you find yourself feeling anxious try calming yourself by using mindfulness techniques. Be present in the moment. Acknowledge and accept what you are feeling without judgment.
Focus on your breathing by thinking ‘in’ when you inhale and ‘out’ when you exhale, if you are in the middle of an anxiety attack.
 It is not uncommon for people that are being gaslighted to experience depression.You don’t have to let the depression overcome you, though. You can recover from gaslighting if you make sure that you address any depressive symptoms that you may be having.


For example, you may notice that during your relationship, and now, that you are having trouble completing daily tasks, feeling fatigued, or you like you don’t have energy or interest in anything.
Learn about the symptoms of depression that you may not be aware of like unexplained physical problems, trouble concentrating, changes in appetite, or changes in sleeping habits.
Consider seeking professional help for treatment options that can help you cope with depression. A professional can help you determine if you might want to try medication, therapy, or another treatment.
Develop ways to cope with your depression in everyday life. For example, create a schedule or routine for yourself and stick to it. You should also avoid drinking alcohol or using other substances to help you cope.
 It can be difficult leaving an abusive relationship, and your abuser may try to prevent you from leaving for good. It is a good idea to create a safety plan so that you can remain safe after you leave.Get a new phone number, and ask the phone company to keep it unlisted, so that your name does not show up on caller ID.
If you're worried that they will hurt you, you can get a restraining order. Let your neighbors and work know about the order.
You may need to move to a new home. If you decide not to move, you should at least change the locks.

