 Instead of asking questions every time your teacher finishes their sentence, limit them to one or two insightful and relevant questions. If you want, you can prepare these questions before class. They could be insights from last night’s homework, or general clarifying questions. By limiting your questions, you are allowing other students the opportunity to ask the teacher questions, as well.When the teacher announces something, wait a few seconds to see if others have the same question before you ask your question.
If you have more questions, speak with your teacher after class or schedule a time to talk with your teacher instead of asking too many questions during class.;
, Volunteering to help your teacher clean the chalkboard, pass out worksheets, or send a message to another class once in a while is fine. However, limit these opportunities to once or twice a week. Let other students volunteer their time to help the teacher with smaller tasks.Instead, volunteer for the tasks that you enjoy doing, and leave the other ones to other students. For example, if you like passing out worksheets, then just volunteer to pass out worksheets. Let other students clean the chalkboard, send messages, or take attendance.
 Unless you have poor eyesight or poor hearing, it would not hurt to sit in the middle or the back of the classroom from time to time. Sure, sitting in the front of the class every day makes you look engaged and ready to learn, but you do not want to monopolize the front seats.By sitting in the middle or the back of the class, you are giving others the chance to sit in the front of the class.
Remember that the teacher can see you no matter where you sit, and you can still be engaged even from the back of the classroom.
 A lot of students get labeled “teacher’s pet” because they go out of their way to impress the teacher. They try their very hardest to please the teacher by bringing them gifts, complimenting them, or by taking their side versus the class’ side. These are not bad things to do, but try to limit your compliments and gifts to rare occasions.For example, only give your teacher gifts during holidays, or when it is their birthday.
Compliment your teacher when they truly deserve it, for example, when you find their lesson particularly interesting.

