 If you decide to speak to your boss about the situation, you should thoroughly prepare yourself before you approach her. If you feel like you are not being assigned tasks appropriate for your job, look through your job description and be ready to point out the discrepancies.Have some examples in mind, but think twice about bringing in your record in the first meeting, try to be more informal.
 Sooner or later you will feel you need to speak to your boss about the situation. Once you are fully prepared, and confident you have a clear view of the situation, ask to meet with your boss for a chat. When you go to talk to them, try to be very diplomatic and don't accuse them of favouritism.If you feel like you are being constantly overlooked, it's immeasurably better to ask what you can do to contribute more and get more of these assignments.It is better to take a positive approach, making the situation about you and not the person you perceive to be treated as the favourite.
You could ask "what can I do to gain more responsibilities?"
Keep your cool and hold back any emotions when talking to the boss.
Identify changes you can make in the first instance.
 After you have spoken to your boss hopefully you will see things begin to change. Try to maintain objectivity while making yourself available to meet your boss half-way. It can be difficult to change a work culture, and it takes effort from everyone. Be sure to put in lots of effort to engage with your boss and the rest of your team.Favouritism can develop through habit so it's important that you help create the conditions for new habits to develop., One way to take positive action that isn't just tackling the issue with favouritism, is to find someone you like and respect in the company to act as a mentor or champion. Having someone support you and be happy to talk up your skills will help you counteract the negativity you get from your boss.A mentor can give you an advice and an essential second opinion. They can also act as an advocate if necessary., If there has been little or no noticeable improvement and you have given your boss every chance to improve the situation, it may be time to approach HR.For this, you will need to produce evidence to support your complaint, so bring the record you have kept. You may also consider asking a colleague, who is sympathetic to your concerns, to join you in the meeting.

