 Since heat bending laminate is a more difficult process, measure the curve of your counter using step one from the cold bending method. If the radius is three inches or greater, you may be able to bend your laminate without heating it.
 For tighter radius curves, the first thing you want to do is ensure that you have the correct laminate for the job. Vertical grade laminate is thinner than standard grade laminate, making it easier to bend without cracking. You may also see thinner grade laminate advertised as post-forming grade, which is also suitable for tighter curves.


Another option if you cannot find vertical grade laminate in the finish you need is to thin your standard grade laminate by hand. Using a belt sander, carefully sand down the application side of the laminate across the area of the strip that you need to bend.Be extremely careful and sand the portion to be bent to a thickness of approximately 0.7mm

, Use a T-square to ensure the the vertical surface on top of which you will apply the laminate is perfectly square with the flat horizontal surface. Use a belt sander to even out any imperfections on the vertical sides.
 The exact temperature to which you must heat your laminate depends on the manufacturer and grade; however, the forming temperature will be approximately 170 °C (338 °F).


Heat only the section you need to bend and keep the heat gun moving over that section without focusing on one spot too long.
A temperature gun is recommended to verify your heated temperature. In excess of 170 °C (338 °F), your laminate can begin to warp or bubble and your application J-roller can begin to melt.
 Wearing heat resistant gloves, quickly apply glue to the application side of the laminate and line it up against the counter.
 As with the cold bending method, you want to leave an extra 1/2” to the width of the laminate to trim later. Beginning with one end, attach the laminate firmly to the edge of the counter, and use your J-roller to flatten and tighten it down. Still wearing heat resistant gloves, bend the heated and pliable section of the laminate over the curve slowly, using your J-roller to keep pressure against the strip. Roll the entire strip until it is tightly in place on the counter edge.


Depending on the manufacturer and grade of laminate used, this method can yield curved bends around a radius as small as 5/8”or 9/16”, You should give the laminate a full day to set before trimming the excess width with a router.

