 Certain forms of body language will readily betray your interest by conveying your attraction to him, not to mention your openness to getting to know him better.Cross your arms.
Take care not to openly present the front of your torso to him. You’re likely doing so without thinking.
Hold something in front of your stomach.
 As important as body language is, people express a lot with the hands, often without thinking about it. Make sure your hand language doesn’t make it obvious that you’re into him.Avoid touching with the palm. If you have to spend time around your crush, and occasionally must engage in the horror of physical contact, do so coldly.
Touch only with your fingertips, as this is less likely to betray your interest.
Quit rubbing your hands together. Rubbing your hands lets others know you’re nervous.
Play it cool by doing perfectly boring and innocuous things with your hands.
If you can’t control yourself, put your hands in your pockets or under the table.
 When your gaze starts to lengthen beyond the normal duration of everyday conversation, he’ll pretty much immediately know that you’re interested. Actually, a lot about your eyes can give you up: your pupils, your blinking, and the direction of your gaze all indicate the way your feel.Make sure you’re only making professional, abrupt, and generally boring amounts of eye contact.
If you must, furrow your brow a bit. This will make it seem like you’re thinking about what you’re talking about instead of his perfectly chiseled features.
 If you allow yourself to relax around the person you’re into, your body is simply going to start sending messages. If you start to tilt your head when he speaks, or have your toes and shoulders constantly squared towards him, he and everybody else probably already know you’re dreaming about him.

Check your phone constantly. He'll get the message that you’re not interested pretty quick if you’re looking at your phone more than his eyes.
Don’t expose your neck. And definitely, definitely don’t start stroking your neck. Not only does this say “come touch me,” it literally releases pheromones.

