 In some cases, such as a contract for the private sale of personal items, the other party to the contract should have a copy. However, if the contract is an employment or sales contract with a large company, determining who exactly has the contract can be more difficult. Here are some guidelines to help you determine who has the contract.


If the other party to the contract is an individual, he or she should have the original agreement with both of your signatures.
If a company or organization is the other party to the contract, you will need to find the appropriate person within the organization who is likely to have a copy of the contract. The company’s Human Resource (“HR”) or Legal Department would be a logical place to start. If there is no HR or Legal department, or you cannot locate a phone number for the individual department, simply call the company’s general number. Whomever answers the phone should be able to tell you which department retains copies of executed company contracts, and direct your call accordingly.
When an attorney drafts a legal document or contract, he or she always retains a copy. In some cases, the attorney retains the original contract. If the other party’s attorney has the contract, he or she should be able to provide you with a copy, since you were a party to the agreement. An attorney may charge you a small copying fee for your copy of the contract.;
, Start by looking through your personal paperwork to see if you have records showing contact information for the person or business with whom you signed the contract. Next, look in the telephone book or online for specific contact information, such as a mailing address, phone number, or email address. Social media sites are another potential source of contact information. If you have the correct contact information, it will be easier to contact the person or business with whom you signed the contract.
 The type of request will depend on to whom it is directed. For example, if you personally know the party who has the contract, a phone call may be the most appropriate type of request. A request directed to a large company may call for a formal letter. What follows should help you decide what type of request is most appropriate.


Telephone. For many contract requests, directly calling the person who has the contract is best. If you know the person who has the contract and you have a phone number for him or her, a telephone request may be the most appropriate.
E-mail. If you are unable to reach the person holding the contract by telephone, or you do not have a direct number to him or her, you may want to send a formal email requesting a copy of the contract. Ask that a signed copy be mailed or e-mailed to you and provide your mailing address or e-mail address.
Letter. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), a government agency such as the military, or a large company has the contract, you may wish to write a formal letter requesting a copy of it. Do not send a letter to a government agency by certified mail, as the agency generally will not sign for it. You may wish to enclose a self-addressed stamped envelope in order to ensure that a copy is mailed to you.
In person. If e-mail, telephone, and/or written requests are unsuccessful, you may wish to visit the person’s office or place of business personally in order to request a copy of the contract. If the person accepts appointments, call and make an appointment. Otherwise, visit him or her at their office or place of business and be prepared to wait until he or she is free to see you.
Online. Depending on the type of contract, you may be able to request a copy online by filling out a simple request form. For example, the National Archives and Records Administration keeps copies of all government contracts. This includes any military enlistment contracts. You can visit the National Archives and Records Administration at and fill out such a request. Likewise, if you need a copy of a U-Haul rental agreement, you can access U-Haul’s website at and request a copy through their online form.

