 Spend 15 minutes informally jotting down your visions, goals, and dreams. Don't worry about writing clearly defined goals or putting things in order. Just make sure these goals and dreams are consistent with your identity and values. If you're getting stuck, try free-writing exercises. You could describe: The ideal future
Qualities you admire in others
Things that you could be doing better
Things you want to learn more about
Habits you want to improve

, Once you've found future dreams and ideals, choose a few specific goals to help you reach them. Try to be specific when describing these goals. If your goal is large or long term, break it up into smaller goals or steps. Think of these steps or goals as a strategy to achieving those future dreams and ideals.For example, "I want to become a good runner by my 50th birthday," is vague and may be a long-term goal (depending on your current age). A better goal would be, "I want to train for a half-marathon. I plan on running a half-marathon within 1 year and a full-marathon within the next 5 years."

, Look at your goals and decide which ones are the most important or desirable. Think at each goal in terms of how achievable it is, how long it will take, and what impact working towards and achieving it would make in your life. You should also ask yourself why you value a certain goal over another. Make sure goals on your list aren't in conflict with each other.Ranking your goals by impact can motivate you to work towards them. It also helps you imagine achieving that goal and its potential benefits.
 Track your progress by setting smaller benchmarks and deadlines for your goals and steps. Reaching these will give you a sense of accomplishment, increase your motivation, and give you feedback about what's working and what's not.


For example, if you're goal is to run a half-marathon in 1 year, give yourself a deadline of training for the next 6 months. Once you've met that goal, tell yourself to run practice half-marathons for the following six months. If you realize early on that you need more time, you can adjust the benchmark.
Try using a calendar as a visual cue for keeping you committed to your goals and the timeline you set for yourself. It is also extremely satisfying to cross out a completed goal or objective.
 model for setting goals. Look at each of your goals and write down how the goal is specific (S), measurable (M), attainable (A), relevant or realistic (R), and time-bound, having deadlines (T).For example, here's how you could take a vague goal, like "I want to be a healthier person,” and make it more specific using S.M.A.R.T:Specific: "I want to improve my health by losing some weight."
Measurable:"I want to improve my health by losing 20 pounds."
Attainable: While you may not be able to lose 100 pounds, 20 pounds is an achievable goal.
Relevant/realistic: You might remind yourself that losing 20 pounds will give you more energy and make you feel happier. Remember you're not doing this for anyone else.
Time-bound: “I want to improve my health by losing 20 pounds within the next year, with an average of 1.6 pounds a month.”

