 If you feel your singing voice is awful, it is likely because you’re not using specific parts of your body correctly. To use your body, keep your mouth slack and exhale gently. Keep your mouth flexible and loose. When practicing, use an “Ahh-ah” sound. The first “Ahh” should be slightly higher in pitch and tone than the second.Sing from your diaphragm to project.;
, When you push your voice forcefully or strain it, your body will tighten up. This will in turn strain your throat muscles and you will lose much of your tone and air supply. If your voice is being pushed, it will sound out of tune or it will crack and break., Several singers struggle with proper tune and pitch. One way to perfect your pitch and tune is to play notes on the piano and imitate them with your voice., If you’re really struggling with your voice, try this vocal fix. Watch your jaw move as you say “A-E-I-O-U”. Determine what vowels your jaw closes on. It is likely the vowels E and U. Try again, taking care to keep your jaw propped open. Practice singing while keeping your jaw equally open. This may take a lot of practice to perfect but will eventually become natural. Having your mouth open equally on all sounds will help keep a uniform and even voice.If you’re struggling to keep your jaw wide, wedge your fingers or a piece of cork in your mouth and try again. Practice until you no longer need the wedge to keep your mouth open., Vibrato is the way to change pitch in your voice. It allows your singing to be breathy and charismatic. Knowing how to control your vibrato is a good thing, as some contemporary singers, like Ariana, have a small amount of vibrato so having the control is important.Practice vibrato techniques. For example, stand in front of a mirror. Press on your chest with your hands then raise your chest up. Breathe in and exhale, while holding your chest steady. Sing a note and hold it as long as possible without moving your chest. Halfway through, press down with your hands but keep your chest raised to meet the pressure. Relax the back of your neck and keep your jaw open wide as you belt out the note. Imagine the air in your mouth swirling while tucking your chin slightly and keeping your chest raised., There are a number of variables that make up the type of voice you have. The variables that create your singing voice include range, weight, tessitura, timbre, transition points, vocal registers, speech level, and your physical characteristics.Range is determined by the notes that your body is able to produce.Weight refers to whether your voice is light and agile or heavy, rich, and powerful.Tessitura are the notes, or part of your range, that you are most comfortable singing.Timber is what makes your voice unique in terms of quality and texture. Some people may have a more gravelly voice while Ariana does not.Transition points are where you transition from singing from your chest register, to middle, and to your head.Vocal register refers to how long you can extend your notes.Speech level is the range of your speaking voice.Physical characteristics play into your singing voice as some people may have larger lungs and stronger vocal cords., Everyone has their own singing voice because of a number of factors so it is extremely rare to be able to reproduce someone else's voice 100%. Do not be discouraged if you do not sound exactly like Ariana. First, refine your vocal talents then you can emulate her stage presence and performance style.
 Ariana is a falsetto singer, which means she sings softly when hitting high notes. This isn’t practical for every singer, but once you find your own vocal range you can sing in tune. Singing in tune is half the battle and will make your voice sound significantly better. Once you’ve found your tune, you can try pairing your voice to Ariana’s music.If you’re struggling to sing in tune, pair up with a piano. Playing basic keys on the piano will allow you to check if your voice is matching the tune of the piano correctly., When singing high notes, think “down”. This means, if you sing high notes imagine your voice has resistance and weight. In contrast, if you were singing a low note, your voice would be light and airy.Add weight to your belly to keep your voice resisted.


Imagine an elevator as your voice. Imagine how as the elevator rises, the counter weight must go down to get the elevator to its height., Imagine a yawn and your soft palate. Your soft palate is located at the back of the roof of your mouth. When your mouth opens to yawn, your soft palate raises. This allows you to project your voice, and sometimes, increase the tune of your vocal range., Falsetto singing, used by Ariana, will add character and depth to your voice. Falsetto is meant to be mostly high pitched, in a soft, quiet voice. Imagine a 3 or 4 year old child singing and try to emulate that with the voice you are projecting.To practice falsetto, sing to the tune of a siren or ambulance. Releasing an “ahhhh” sound to the highest note you can reach without cracking, and coming back down is a great way to practice.Another great way to practice is with the vowels “e” and “o”. These vowel pronunciations are perfect for the soft, child-like singsong voice. Sing them from low to high pitches.