 Probably the most popular way to share songs and albums over the Internet is through torrents, which are files that direct your computer to copy bits of a target file or folder (such as an album) from other torrent users until you assemble a complete copy.


This software runs torrent files and helps you manage your torrents. Torrent is a small, fast, and reliable free torrenting program. You can download it at the official website.
While searching for torrents and downloading the torrent file are not illegal, standard copyright laws apply to any content that is transferred through torrents. This means that if you do not legally own a copy of the song you are downloading, that material is considered pirated.
 Double-click on the file you downloaded to run the installer. The installer will most likely want you to install search toolbars and other extra software. You can choose not to install any of it.


Find a torrent. There are many sites that aggregate and list torrents for you to search, since torrent files by themselves aren't illegal.
When you get torrent results, check for user comments or star ratings. Go with the files that have positive comments and ratings – others may be misleading or dangerous.
 This file should be very tiny – only a couple dozen Kb or so at most. This is because the torrent itself is just a set of instructions telling your program what to do. The torrent should open automatically once it has downloaded, otherwise you can open it through your torrent client.
 Torrents can take anywhere from a few minutes to the better part of a day to download. Factors that influence this include how large the file you're torrenting is, and how many “Seeders” (people with the complete file) are currently sharing the file.
 Once you've downloaded your music, you can unpack the files and listen to them at your leisure. At this point, it's considered good etiquette to leave it in your list so that others can download parts of it from you, but you don't have to.


Some private torrenting communities actually require that you maintain a certain ratio of downloading-to-seeding in order to remain a part of the site.

