 In a one-handle shower faucet, a malfunctioning cartridge valve could be the reason for your leaking shower head. If the less-intrusive solutions to fixing your leak problem haven’t worked, then you may need to replace your faucet’s cartridge valve.Before you begin, shut off the water supply to your shower, either by shutting off the valve supplying water to your bathroom directly or by turning off the main supply of water throughout your house.
 Locate and loosen the faucet handle screw, which may be exposed or located beneath a cap on the handle. Once the screw is removed, you can pull off the handle.


Pulling off the handle may be difficult if the handle is pretty set. And if it is, try warming the handle with a hair dryer if you have one. If you don’t have a hair dryer at your disposal, or if the hair dryer simply isn’t working, head to your local hardware store to purchase a handle puller.
Once the handle is off, remove the stop tube, unscrew the cartridge retaining clip using a small screwdriver or awl (hold onto it well, it tends to spring off), and then remove the handle washer. You should then be able to see the cartridge stem.
 The method you’ll use to remove the cartridge will differ by manufacturer. There may even be a cartridge removal cap with the new cartridge you’ve purchased. In a typical removal, you’ll want to first unscrew the hex nut that covers the cartridge stem. Untwist the cartridge stem and then remove it with pliers.









If the pliers aren’t working, you’ll need to use a cartridge puller. Fit the puller over the cartridge stem and twist to unscrew it gently. Once it’s loose, use pliers to remove it.
Insert the new cartridge in its place, and screw it in. The new cartridge should be identical to the old one.
 Reverse the steps used to disassemble the faucet handle. Once everything is back in place, but before the handle has been fully screwed on, turn back on the water supply to the shower to make certain your shower head is no longer leaking.

