 The easiest way to get lyrics for music you have written will be to work with a lyricist. You can work with a friend or you can hire a professional, depending on what you’re trying to achieve. A lyricist can put words to your song after you have written it, work with you while you are writing it, or give you lyrics to work with before you begin.


You will want to ensure that their style meshes with your song. Someone who writes Shakespearean love songs may not write the best heavy metal lyrics. Find someone who gets your song, style, and the feelings associated with it.
 You can write the lyrics yourself, as well. This may require some skill, as it is easy for lyrics to sound cheesy, strange, or silly. Don’t be afraid to work hard at it and take your time.


Try to sing the lyrics as you’re writing them. This will make sure that they sound natural with the melody and there are no strange pauses or mismatched syllables.
Before you begin writing the lyrics, try to determine if you want to use rhyming or non-rhyming words. Knowing how you want the structure of your lyrics to work will go a long way towards helping you write them. Rhyming words will need to be placed at reasonable intervals, which means planning ahead.
 Another option would be to set existing words to music. This can be words from a play, poem, a speech, or anything that you feel would make an excellent song. Choose something that has meaning to you! Your audience will be able to tell when you’re expressing real emotion in your music.


The best way to start setting existing words to music is to find the natural rhythm of the words. Pay attention to how they fit together. Natural speech contains pauses, emphasis, and rhythm. This is what makes it sound natural. Exploit this natural rhythm to make your song.
If you’re having trouble or you want to give your song an edgier feel, experiment with breaking up phrases to emphasize particular words. This can help you overcome awkwardly long sentences or a melody that doesn’t entirely fit the text you’ve chosen.
Don’t forget that you can always omit words or phrases to preserve the flow of your song. If a particular word is throwing off your syllable count and it isn’t necessary, just leave it out or rearrange the words if necessary.

