 Using gentle strokes, wash with a gentle cleanser to remove excess oil and dead skin cells. Wash the places you get acne no more than twice a day. Washing more than that can irritate the skin.Wash your face with your hands instead of a washcloth. Absolutely do not clean your face with dirty hands or a used towel. Towels rub your skin and make pimples worse.Use a gentle non-soap facial cleanser that dissolves during washing.Cetaphil is a good, inexpensive, and mild cleanser you can try.
Avoid washing with soap or astringents, which will dry out your skin.Do not scrub or abrade your skin, as that can irritate it and provoke acne. Avoid abrasive products, such as scrubs that contain ground fruit pits or aluminum oxide.;
, Keeping your hair clean will help prevent facial acne. Hair is naturally oily, and it gets oilier if it's unwashed. If you haven't had a chance to wash your hair, wear it pulled back from your face.


Shower after you sweat. Sweat that stays on your skin, or gets trapped against your skin by tight workout clothes, can feed bacteria., Use oil-free makeups, lotions, sunscreens, and other skin products. Products with oil can clog your pores. Pick products that are water-based rather than alcohol or oil based. The labels "noncomedogenic" and "non-acnegenic" mean oil-free.Clean your hands and skin before applying products.
Remove makeup at bedtime. Though noncomedogenic cosmetics won't necessarily cause breakouts, they are more likely to clog your pores if you keep them on constantly.Throw out old cosmetics and clean your brushes every two weeks with soapy water., Apply an oil-free moisturizer with sunscreen every day, and avoid sunbathing or tanning. Sun can make acne worse in many cases, and if you are using an acne medication you may be more sensitive to sunlight.According to the American Academy of Dermatology it is recommended that you use a broad spectrum sunscreen with UVA and UVB coverage, SPF of at least 30, and water-resistant. About 1 ounce (enough to fill a shot glass) is the amount considered needed to cover the exposed areas of the body.Some antibiotics that people are on for acne (including tetracycline) cause you to be more sensitive to sunlight.
 Touching your face, or picking at problem areas, can trigger a breakout. Avoid resting your phone on your face, as it comes into contact with many things and may carry bacteria.If you wear a hijab, a hoodie, or other fabrics close to your face, change them daily.
Keep anything that touches an acne-prone part of your body clean. Wash your pillowcase every few days, or more if you use hairspray or have oily hair.

