 If you live in the Northeast United States, driving to the National Baseball Hall of Fame shouldn't be too hard. Visit http://baseballhall.org/visit/driving-directions to find driving directions. If you're traveling from out of state, you may opt to take a plane or a bus. Buses travel to Cooperstown from all major cities, airports, and train stations in New York.Cooperstown is located near three major highways, Interstates 81, 88 and 90.
If you are traveling from out of the country, you'll need plane tickets to New York and the proper visitor's visa.
The red, blue, and yellow trolleys in Cooperstown travel to the museum.
 The museum is open seven days a week. For the summer, or May 28th through September 3rd, the museum is open from 9 a.m. - 9 p.m. For the rest of the year, the museum is open 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. The museum is closed for Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. Choose a day that's good for you to visit the museum and make sure that you have plenty of time so that you can see all the exhibits available., Before you gain access to the museum, you'll have to purchase tickets. Tickets for an adult are $23. Tickets for children between the ages of 7-12 and veterans tickets are discounted to $12. If you're a senior, tickets cost $15. Active military personnel and children under 6 years old get in for free. Go to the official website at http://baseballhall.org/visit#id=visit-general-admission-baseball to purchase tickets online.You can also purchase tickets at the museum's box office.
Memberships to the museum are also available.
Discounted group rates are also available for groups of 20 or more people.
 If you are visiting the museum from another state or country, you'll need somewhere to stay after you visit the museum. Look online and find a hotel or motel that fits your budget. The busiest times to visit are during the summer, so make sure that you reserve a room before you decide to visit., Cooperstown has a rich history and a variety of eateries, galleries, and events that you can attend outside of visiting the Baseball Hall of Fame. You can enjoy delicious food at waterside restaurants or take advantage of their local farmer's markets. There are also a variety of musical and theater performances like the Catskill Symphony Orchestra and Cooperstown Summer Music Festival.Visit the official Cooperstown's website to get a full list of events, restaurants, and galleries in the area.Throughout the months of July and August, the Glimmerglass Festival puts on opera performances.

