 Construction paper is a great option for creating your card base; packs of construction paper include multiple color options and the paper itself is thicker than normal computer paper.For a larger card, fold your construction paper in half, one time.
For a smaller but sturdier card, fold your construction paper in half, then fold it in half again.
Check your house – many people have construction paper hidden amongst their art supplies.
If not, construction paper can be purchased at craft stores and drug stores.;
, Sketching paper is ideal for card making because it is fairly sturdy and also absorbs color well, making it easy to decorate by drawing with colored pencils, markers, crayons or by using paint.If you have a drawing on sketch paper that you love, you can scan this drawing into your computer, then print it out on heavier paper, like cardstock.
Sketching paper can be purchased at craft stores and at big-box retailers like Wal*Mart.
 Scrapbook paper is great for card making because it is usually sold in books and each book contains many different sheets, each with different patterns and designs.Scrapbook paper is thinner than some of the other paper options, so you’ll want to fold your paper in half two times to construct a sturdier card.
You can also cut shapes out of scrapbook paper and use them to decorate the card you’re constructing.
Scrapbook paper can be purchased at specialty arts and crafts stores.
 Cardstock is one of the most preferred options for creating greeting cards because it’s heavy enough that it can stand on its own without toppling over. The thicker and smoother the cardstock, the more high quality your finished card will look.Score your cardstock by running a blunt piece of metal down the center of your card; this will make folding your card easier and will make your card look more professional.
You can also purchase card making kits that have pre-cut cards made of cardstock. The benefit to using pre-cut cards is you’ll be able to start decorating your card faster.
Cardstock and card making kits can be purchased at specialty craft stores.

