 For starters, you probably want most of the following:


two or more pairs of dark wash jeans - bootcut, flare, skinny, or whatever cut you like best. Jeans are the staple casual basic, and they are comfortable, easy to wear, and look great.
Neutral pants - black slacks, pinstripe trousers, khakis, or even a pair of white jeans if you're brave! One or two pairs of these would be great. They go with anything and everything.
A few skirts - try different styles, fabrics, and colours. For instance, you could have a jean mini, a tweed pencil skirt, and a flowy A-line cotton skirt. Try for neutrals or easy to wear colours - red, blue, and purple are great.
Short sleeve tees - a few basic tees will take you far. Go for any colours that you like, with embellishments or patterns or anything - in different cuts like V-neck, scoop neck, and boat neck.
Layering camisoles and/or tank tops - a few of one or the other, or a mix of both, can add a pop to any outfit. Pick colours that are softer for the camisoles, like pastels or neutrals. This color scheme could work for the tank tops too - you could also choose bright, funky colours like orange and teal for the tanks. (This is mostly for women, but men go ahead if you like the idea!)
Long sleeves (sweaters, tees, etc) - long sleeve tees and sweaters are a staple for winter and fall. Any colours are great - try to get a few neutrals, but don't be afraid to go for eye-catching patterns or bright colours.
Cardigans, jackets, hoodies - you will want at least one or two cardigans in neutral colours, and maybe a few in non-neutrals if you want. A few jackets, one or two for each season, and some hoodies in bright colours (comfortable and very stylish!);
, Have each category of clothing listed above in its own separate compartment, or at least keep track of where they are. There's nothing worse than knowing what you want to wear, and not being able to find it.
 Scarves, jewelry, belts, sunglasses - these can really make your outfits pop. Try for a mix of different materials - don't buy all gold jewelry for example, but try to get some silver, enamel, wooden, or glass pieces as well.
 Now we can started on making the actual outfits - here are some basic rules to follow:


Mix textures! Outfits should contrast - for example, a cashmere cardigan with a cotton tee and a tweed skirt: this outfit has three very distinct textures. Textures can give just as much visual effect as colours do. If in doubt, go lighter - all-over cotton or silk looks much more pleasing to the eye than a wool shirt, sweater, and skirt.
Play with patterns! Patterns can work wonders for you. Say you have a great upper body, but you're a little self-conscious about your lower half - no problem! Wear something brighter and more patterned on top, with a neutral bottom. This draws the eye upwards. Careful, though - if you have a larger frame, horizontal frames can make you look wider. Also, try to stick to one patterned piece per outfit - more than that, and things get a little too loud.
Go, don't match! Never worry too much about whether your outfit is horrible just because you're wearing two different shades of blue. You don't have to match colours exactly - they just have to be in the same colour palette! A sky blue top would look better with a navy cardigan than with a cardigan of the same colour - this is because CONTRAST is more appealing to the human eye. Don't be afraid to mix different colours, either! Go for bold colours like orange and teal, red and navy, or green and yellow. However, make sure that your colours aren't battling with each other - try to have one of them dominate (for instance, an orange necklace with a blue top - there is definitely more blue in the outfit, so nothing clashes.)
Layer, layer, layer! Layering outfits helps emphasize your figure. It gives your body structure and visual interest, and helps expand the possibilities of your wardrobe.
Take note of your silhouette! Depending on your shape, clothes may or may not flatter you. If you have wider hips, an A-line skirt would work - the skirt flows away from the hips, balancing out the wideness. One-button blazers are great for a heavier torso because they create structure. Always try to accentuate the NARROWEST part of your torso - this creates an hourglass figure that is universally appealing. You could try buying clothing with a seam under the bust, or placing a belt along your waist, depending on where you are the narrowest - this way, your clothes will flatter you.
 Jewelry doesn't have to match 100%. Try to keep things in the same colour family - cool colours (green, blue, purple, grey) and warm colours (brown, red, orange, yellow) should stay together - but remember, neutrals go with everything!

, No one ever said that you couldn't break the rules a little - nothing is law except the law. If you really believe that your striped shirt looks great with a polka-dot skirt, go for it! Try not to overdo it, though - a little rebellion every once in a while makes people notice your unique style, but repetitive breaches just make you seem unfashionable.

