 A strip tease can be a fun and sexy way to start off a sexy video. There are a variety of moves you can use while engaging in a strip tease.Walk slowly when you begin your strip tease. Walk away from the camera, taking deliberate, slow steps. Then, turn and face the camera.
Use your hands to show off your body. Glide your fingers up and down your legs, hips, stomach, and chest. Move your fingers slowly over your body until you reach a button that can be undone. Slowly begin undoing each button. If you have longer hair, consider whipping your hair around a little as you go.
Move in a rhythmic manner as you remove your clothing. Take off one layer at a time. If you're playing music, try to dance to the beat of the music as you go.
You do not have to get completely nude. If you're not comfortable with nudity, you can strip down to your underwear or a layer of lingerie.
 If you're not playing loud music during your video, try dirty talk. This can be particularly helpful if you're making a video for a long distance lover. Dirty talk is a fun way to get your partner in the mood, even if you cannot physically be there.


It can help to put yourself in the right mindset prior to engaging in dirty talk. Read racy fiction, watch some pornography, read erotica, or spend time fantasizing about you and your partner. If you're nervous, do some deep breathing ahead of time to keep yourself calm.Try to let the dirty talk come naturally. Think about what you want to do with your partner. Talk about what the two of you have done in bed in the past, and mention any fantasies you have. Talk in a slow, breathy voice. Breathe heavily, as you would when aroused, as you talk.Talk about your partner as well. Talk about how sexy you find your partner, specifying what about him or her turns you on. Discuss how your partner feels and tastes. Use his or her name.If you're comfortable doing so on screen, consider masturbating while talking dirty. This can show your partner you're turned on by him or her.
 Not all sexy videos are meant to be graphic. You may be making a sexy video to market yourself as a model or an actor or actress, or as an accompaniment to a music video. If this is the case, consider filming a sexy dance.


You can study popular sexually charged music videos. Artists like Lady Gaga frequently dance in provocative manner in videos. Watch a variety of sexy music videos for inspiration.
Pick dance moves that you're personally comfortable with. If you're not into doing a move, this can show up in subtle ways during your performance. Try to relax and engage in dance moves you genuinely enjoy. If you don't feel confident, you won't come off as sexy.
Gyrating the hips, shaking your behind, and moving in a slow, teasing manner are all popular dance moves for a sexy video.
 If you're filming a sex tape with your partner, talk it out ahead of time. Decide which acts to film, and also talk about angles. The angle from which you film makes a big difference in terms of the film's quality.Discuss what you'll be filming ahead of time. A sexy video with your partner does not necessarily have to include penetrative sex, and shouldn't if you or your partner is uncomfortable with this. You can film things like oral sex, mutual masturbation, or simply film the two of you engaging in dirty talk. Making a sexy video should be a fun, mutually enjoyable activity, so don't push your partner to engage in anything that makes him or her uncomfortable.
Consider angle. You do not want the focus to be solely on your partner. Consider using a small, lightweight camera you can pass back and forth during filming. This gives your partner a chance to film you, capturing the angles of your body he or she likes best. Make sure the two of you talk about what body parts are and are not okay to film ahead of time.

