 Know the exact time and the place of the interview. If possible, go and check out the workplace a day earlier, so that you know how much time it will take to get there.


The interviewer wants to know that you want this job. If you show up even one minute late, they are going to think that you have more important things to do than be there. Being late is rude and suggests that you are likely to be late for work. It might also suggest you are a sloppy and disorganized person.;
, You want the person who is interviewing you to have a great first impression of you. If you wear jeans, Uggs, and just your old Beatles shirt, the interviewer is going to think that you do not care about this interview and are not serious about landing the job. If you're a girl, wear a skirt or dress with a blazer and flats.


For a man, a suit and tie is appropriate. Women may wear a smart trouser suit and flats are not compulsory.
If you don't have any interview outfits and are not easily able to buy any, search for local charities who may be able to help you. There are some organizations whose main intention is to help people get into, or back into work with the right clothes so have a look online and see if you can get some help. Dress to impress at an interview, especially if it is public facing or fashion related.
 If you seem happy and excited to work rather than depressing, dull, or sullen, it is more likely that you will be given the job. Don't apply for a job that doesn't excite you, unless you are desperate for money.
 Employers are always looking for people who can add something special to the company. Be bright, charming, and intelligent because that is what everyone looks for in an employee.


Don't be overconfident. Many employers are impressed by modesty, dedication and loyalty. To really bring something new to the equation, be ready to tell your potential employer something you can do in the role than no one else can do as well.
 Be confident that you passed the interview. Doing so will make you feel better and will make you positive about it.
 Interviewers usually ask a lot of questions about why you want the job, such as whether the job is your first job, and about your work experience. Before the interview, try answering some made-up questions in front of a mirror, or ask a family member to act as an interviewer.
 Find out more about the company. Read recent press releases or study their website for an event that has happened to the company in the last few months. This way, you can talk about the happening with your interviewer and show that you care enough about this job to look it up.


A little homework goes a long way. Throw in a couple of technical terms that you have learnt about the role at the interview.
 Take five seconds to gather all your thoughts and then answer the questions. Speak slowly, in order to make your words concise and simple. Avoid using fillers such as "umm....and then" and "you know?.....we can..." as fillers interrupts your speech.
 Make your shoulders loose and don't stare. Use your hands while answering.
 It makes a negative impression.
 For instance, do not start off the sentence with "when I went to Harvard law" or "after I got almost a perfect score on my SAT". Your employers don't care. They already have what they already need to about you. They have your resume, so don't think that they haven't done their research too.
 Avoid fidgeting and slouching at your seat.


Be still. Sit upright and sound interested while at the interview.
 Don't just ask about the pay, the lunch breaks or hours. If you can't ask an intelligent, researched question about the role or the company or organisation, you can try ask how many people applied for the role and how many interviews they are holding.
 If you are at an interview and you take out a piece of gum or even an apple without permission from the interviewer, he or she will blow his or her top.
 Say thank you and shake hands firmly with great eye contact. Send a thank you letter promptly after you leave.
 Don't ask about the salary or any bonuses until you get the offer.


Do ask about your interviewer's card when leaving; it makes a good impression. Depart gracefully.

