 Your locker is like your home base. If you even feel overwhelmed or need a break, it can be nice to have a space that’s your own. Once you get to school, drop off your books at your locker and make sure that you have everything that you need for your day., Hopefully you and your friends have made plans to stick by each other on the first day. Find a way to touch base with them when you get to school, either by text or in person. Having people to sit with can make you feel a lot less nervous.If you don’t know anyone at your new school, try to figure out who the new students are and sit with them. They will be as eager to make new friends as you are!
You can also sit next to anyone who seems friendly and nice. In every school there are people who go out of their way to talk to the new students and make them feel welcome.
 It’s great if you already have friends, but creating other ties with people you will be seeing every day will make you feel a lot more comfortable about being in spaces like your classes, or in the cafeteria.Ask your classmates what they did over the summer. This is a great way to break the ice!
Compliment other girls on their clothing. This is also a great way to start a conversation with other girls, and they will appreciate the compliment.
If talking to other classmates would make you too nervous, set a goal for yourself to talk to at least one new person. Even making one small connection can make you feel more confident.
 Joining activities, clubs or teams that you’re interested in will help you feel that you have a place at your school. They are also great opportunities to meet new people and develop your interests., The first day of school is always overwhelming! If you find yourself becoming overwhelmed or anxious, take a bathroom break or break during lunch to be by yourself. High schools are usually crowded, but there should be an empty classroom or two that you can go in to regroup.


After the summer, being around so many people can add to your anxiety about the first day. This is why it’s beneficial to know that you can always take a break if you need it.
Don’t take too long of a break. Just take a few minutes to breathe and collect your thoughts, about as long as a normal bathroom break would be.
 The first day of high school is probably one of the most stressful days of any young adult’s life. Don’t judge yourself for being nervous, because chances are that everyone around you probably feels the same way., Even if you are feeling incredibly nervous, put on a smile and a brave face. Smiling can actually make you feel happier and more relaxed. The confidence that you are putting out there may be an act in the beginning, but you may start to actually feel more relaxed and in control.Try to be the kind of person you’d want to meet on your first day. Try to focus less on your own feelings and more on getting familiar with your new school and meeting and talking to your fellow classmates.

