 You can use dividers if you want a perfect circle. As you keep on practicing, you will be able to draw a perfect circle without any need of dividers or anything else. (Do not put too much pressure on the pencil while drawing this as this is "just" a baseline and you will have to erase it when you're done.)

, (Draw the second line a little lower from the diameter of the circle.)

, The two points where the circle and the horizontal line touch, mark the point where the jaw will start and the tip of the vertical line will be the tip of the chin.
 This line should be parallel to the first one. The eyes will be placed between the two of them.
 Start off with two lines on the horizontal baseline on the top, shaped like an arch. The lower lines of the eye should be straighter than the ones on the top but should still not be too straight. The lower lines should be shorter than the ones on the top but not too short. Add some eyelashes, both on the top line and the lower line.
 The lower tip of the oval should "slightly" touch the lower eyelid when the upper part of the oval should look like it was "half-covered" by the upper eyelid. (Check the image for this step for some more help.) Although, if you want to give her a "surprised" look, the upper part of the oval nor the lower part should not touch the eyelids "at all". Add little circles inside the eyes. These will be the sparkles. Then add the pupils. The pupils should be large but if you want to give her a "frightened" look, the pupils should be small.
 This is the nose.
 The mouth will be placed on the vertical line and just under the nose. But before erasing, mark the point where the mouth will be so it will be easier. Don't panic if you had erased the lines before marking the spot, it is easy to understand where it should be.
 Start with a short line, shaped like an arch. Then draw the same line, but this time upside down so that it looks like a pout. Add another little line under the mouth. This is the lower lip.
 Eyebrows can be straight (if you want an innocent or afraid look) or they can be arch-shaped (if you want a serious or neutral look).

