 Like checkers, the point of the game is to jump pegs and remove them from the game. The rules are simple:To jump a peg, it must have an empty space next to it.
You can use any peg as a jumper, as long as the peg you jump is directly adjacent to it and has an open space next to it.
Every peg you jump must be removed.
You win when there is only one peg left.;
, Each space on the board has a number from 1 to 15. The top point of the triangle is position 1, and the bottom right is position 15.This list will use this number scheme when describing moves, so keep it in mind.
 There is an intricate mathematical theory that explains the puzzle. This isn't all necessary to win the game, but there are some highlights to keep in mind that will help you solve the puzzle.


Mathematically, you can mess the game up with two bad moves. That means that after just two bad moves, the puzzle becomes impossible to solve. Make your moves count!
Plan your moves carefully. If you move randomly there is a 50% chance you'll end up with an unsolvable puzzle within two moves.
There are 6,816 solutions to the puzzle. All those solutions, however, are just modifications of two main solution patterns.
 Start with position 1 empty. This would be the top point of the triangle. There are other methods of solving the puzzle, but this one is the most common and easiest.


In the following videos, grey circles indicate empty holes, red circles indicate pegs you will be moving, and blue holes indicate pegs that are not in play.
 This basic pattern can be repeated throughout the board, helping you win the game.Take the peg in position 4 and jump it over the peg in position 2. It will then be in position 1.
Use the peg in position 6 to jump position 5. It will now be in position 4.
Use the peg in position 1 to jump position 3. It will now be in position 6.
These moves will give you the diamond base.
 As you'll see, the next set of moves will divide the pegs into two groups, one on each side of the triangle.


Move the peg in position 7 to position 2, jumping position 4.
Move peg 13 to position 4.
Next, move peg 10 to position 8.
You should now have two groups of pegs, with 5 pegs on the left side and 3 on the right.
 This next set of steps will make a curved line across the triangle, dividing it into two parts.


Move peg 2 to position 7. Then take that same peg and move it to position 9.
Next, move peg 15 to position 13.
 These moves will leave you with three final pegs, all in the bottom row.


Move peg 12 into position 14.
Next move peg 6 to position 13.
You should now just have three pegs left in the bottom row.
 Move peg 14 to position 12. Then make the last move, peg 11 to position 13.
 The ending peg should be in the 13th hole. Congratulations! You've just completed the Peg Game.

