 To ensure your cat takes her time when she eats, pour her dry food on a flat surface, like a plate or a baking pan. This will force her to eat only a few pieces of dry food at a time and take smaller bites of her food.;
, You can make or buy a puzzle feeder for your cat, which has the added bonus of providing mental stimulation. Your cat will need to work to get her food from the puzzle. This will prevent her from binge eating as the food will be dispensed in small amounts. You can purchase a puzzle feeder or make one by gluing cardboard tubes together in a grid and putting a few kibbles in each tube.One such feeder is a plastic ball with holes. You can put dry food inside the ball, and your cat can then play and try to eat the food as it falls through the holes. This will prevent her from binge eating and encourage her to use her hunting skills to get her meals., This will make your cat eat more slowly because she cannot simply scarf down her food. Instead, she has to practice lapping up her food slowly and swallowing before she can take another bite., An obstruction, like a golf ball or a ping pong ball, can force your cat to slow down when she eats as she will need to pause while eating to move the obstruction or eat around the obstruction.


Make sure you use an object that your cat cannot swallow, like a golf ball or a ping pong ball.
 Many pet stores sell food bowls made for cats and dogs that have one big lump in the middle or several small lumps. These food bowls will help your cat get used to eating more slowly and to take smaller bites of food., An automatic feeder is set up so that as an owner you have control over how much your cat eats with the simple press of a button. Many feeders can be set on digital timers so you know exactly how much food your cat is getting at one time. There are also measurements on the feeder to help you determine how much food your cat will receive and to prevent over or under feeding your cat.You can set the feeder so your cat receives smaller portions of food throughout the day, which will help you cat slow down when she eats and prevent her from eating too fast.

