 One type of makeup that's especially useful for covering up an unsightly "shiner" is called a concealer. This makeup does just what its name suggests — covers things up so that they look like your normal skin.Concealers are usually designed to cover up noticeable marks like cuts, scars, and so on, so they should work well for bruises, especially small ones.


For best results, carefully apply an oil-based concealer with your fingers. This makes it easier to control how hard you press on your eye. If you use a makeup applicator, it's a little easier to accidentally poke your bruise and cause pain and swelling.
If you don't have this kind of make up, you can usually find it for a reasonable price at most cosmetics stores. Be sure to get a shade that closely matches your skin tone.;
, If your concealer leaves your eye with an "ashen" or unnatural appearance, try removing it and applying a thin red layer underneath before trying again. The red simulates the flow of blood under the skin, giving you a result that (hopefully) looks a little more full, warm, and natural. It also acts as a color corrector, neutralizing purple and blue tones. Best of all, this trick should work for all skin tones.
 Though it may seem weird to treat a black eye with makeup that's not the same color as your skin, this can actually be very effective if done correctly. Black eyes usually give the skin a red or purple tinge at first. By applying light-colored makeups with light green shade, it's possible to make the two colors "cancel each other out", leaving you with a shade that's close to your natural skin color. Green will cancel out any redness due to inflammation.The exact shade you should use to get this just right depends on your natural skin tone and the darkness of your black eye. Be ready to experiment — it can take some time, but it looks great when you get a match.
Black eyes often turn brownish yellow after a few days. At this point, you'll probably want to shift to an orange shade of makeup to cancel out the bruised tones.
 If your occasion calls for a bold look (like, for instance, if you're going to a rave or a punk rock concert), you can always consider darkening your "good" eye so that they match. Doing this can leave you with smokey-eyed Avril Lavigne look, which isn't everyone's taste, but if you're confident giving it a shot, go for it!

, In a pinch, you can use whatever skin tone foundation you have with you as a quick solution to your black eye problems. While this will almost always be better than nothing, it's often not ideal. Because of the dark color of the black eye and the semi-transparent quality of most foundations, a bad black eye can partially show through foundation, especially if you're fair-skinned.


However, foundation does work well when used in conjunction with the other methods above, so feel free to experiment to get the look that's best for you.

