 Use equal parts plain white vinegar and lukewarm water to create a mixture for cleaning your shag carpet. The white vinegar has many cleaning properties, but needs to be diluted a bit with water in order to be used safely and effectively in your home.For small stains, you could start with 1⁄2  c (120 mL) of white vinegar and 1⁄2  c (120 mL) of lukewarm water.;
, Dip a clean microfiber cloth into the vinegar cleaning solution and start working the cleaner into the shag carpet. Rub the stain quite vigorously (though avoid breaking or damaging the long shag carpet fibers) until the stain dissipates to your satisfaction.You may need to use quite a bit of elbow grease to fully eliminate the stain.
 Once you have finished scrubbing, you’ll need to let the shag carpet dry completely before you begin to use it like normal again. This can take up to 48 hours, or even longer depending on the size of the carpet and the thickness of the fibers.


You can think about setting up box fans to blow on the shag carpet to help it dry more quickly if you are running short on time.
 Gently shake a bit of the dry carpet shampoo onto the shag carpet. Be careful not to overdo it and apply too much of the dry shampoo. A light sprinkling will do.Be sure to choose a carpet shampoo that is intended for use on synthetic carpets like shag carpet.
You should be able to purchase dry carpet shampoo at any home improvement store or larger home goods store.
 Use a brush to work the dry shampoo granules into the fibers of the carpet. The more you work the shampoo into the carpet, the better it will do at cleaning the carpet.Be sure not to work too vigorously, as you don’t want to damage the carpet.
 The dry carpet shampoo needs a bit of time to work properly. Let it sit on the shag carpet for approximately sixty minutes before you begin the removal process.Be sure to carefully follow the directions on the dry carpet shampoo packaging.
 Use a handheld vacuum cleaner to vacuum up the residue of the dry carpet shampoo cleaning. Carefully and gently vacuum the carpet to avoid damaging the long shag carpet fibers.You may need to repeat the process to fully clean the shag carpet, especially if there are tough stains to remove.
 Try not to vacuum the shag carpet too intensely, as this could damage the long fibers of the carpet. The carpet fibers could get frayed or even break off over time. You could also damage your vacuum cleaner.If you must vacuum the shag carpet, try to use a low-powered handheld vacuum cleaner to avoid damaging the fibers.
 If you are using cleaning solutions such as carpet shampoo or vinegar, it is especially important to ventilate the area during the cleaning process. Open whatever windows are available, especially those that create a cross-breeze in the room, to help eliminate potentially harmful odors.You may want to consider opening any doors to the room as well to further ventilate it.
 When dealing with shag carpet, it’s important to be proactive about spills. If you spill anything (especially liquid) on your shag carpet, you should blot it immediately with a clean towel to minimize the amount of the staining liquid that is able to soak up into the carpet fibers. This will make the cleaning process much easier.Remember to blot at spilled liquids rather than rubbing. Rubbing could damage the carpet fibers.
 A steam-cleaning machine uses hot water and non-foaming carpet detergent to clean carpet that has been dirtied with use. Rent a steam-cleaner and follow the instructions on the machine to clean your carpet. Once you have finished cleaning, you’ll need to let the carpet dry for several days before returning to normal use.Be careful not to pull the machine too vigorously over the shag carpet, so as not to damage the carpet fibers.
You can rent steam-cleaners from most grocery stores, home improvement stores, and even some carpet cleaning stores.
You should steam clean your shag carpet once or twice per year to give it a good deep clean and to maintain its appearance.
 If you are struggling with the decision about whether or not to clean your shag carpet yourself, you might want to consider hiring a professional to clean it for you. Due to the delicate nature of shag carpet, it is very easy to damage in cleaning. It might be better to play it safe and pay a professional.Be sure to check around for a carpet cleaning company that has experience cleaning shag carpet specifically.

