 There are countless different email providers--most of whom are free to sign up for and use--but the three most popular ones are:


Gmail - Google mail. Signing up for Gmail also creates a Google account, which is useful for YouTube and other large social media sites.

Outlook - Microsoft-created mail. An Outlook account is required for some Microsoft services such as Microsoft Word (or Office 365), Windows 10, and Xbox LIVE.

Yahoo - Yahoo is a simple email provider with features like news in your inbox and a simple theme.
All three of the above email providers have mobile apps for your smartphone available for free. This will allow you to send and recieve email from your smartphone.;
, Type the email provider's website address into your browser's address bar and press ↵ Enter:


Gmail: https://www.gmail.com


Outlook: https://www.outlook.com


Yahoo: https://www.yahoo.com


, This button may say "Create an Account" or something similar and is typically in the upper-right side of the email page.

If you are on Yahoo's main website, you may need to click the Sign in button first, and then click Sign up at the bottom of the "Sign in" page.
 Though there may be additional information needed, you'll typically be required to add the following information for all email providers:

Your name
Your preferred email address
Your preferred password
Your date of birth

, In some cases, you'll be required to verify your identity over the phone (as in the case of Yahoo), while other email providers simply ask you to prove you're human by checking a box. Once you've completed the setup process, you're ready to send your email., If you just finished setting up your account, you should be looking at your inbox right now. Otherwise, you'll have to re-enter your email provider's address in your browser.

If you're navigating back to the email provider page, you may need to enter your email address and password before you can sign in.
If you're using your email provider's app on a mobile device, simply tap the app's icon to open your inbox.
 This is the button that prompts the email provider to open a new email template:


Gmail - Click COMPOSE in the upper-left side of the inbox (desktop) or tap the pencil icon (mobile).

Outlook - Click + New at the top of the inbox (desktop) or tap the pen-and-pad icon (mobile).

Yahoo - Click Compose in the upper-left corner of the page (desktop) or tap the pencil icon (mobile).
 You'll typically do this in the "To" field, which is usually the text field at the top of the new email window.

Email addresses are in the following format: name@emailprovider.com (for example, "ilovewikihow@gmail.com").
There is usually an option for "Cc" and "Bcc" in the "To" field. Selecting "Cc" will allow you to add another person's email address, and "Bcc" lets you add an email address that is hidden from other recipients.
 While optional, typing a subject into the "Subject" field will give some context to the email.

For example, an email about puppies might have the subject "Puppies" to preface the body of the email.
The subject line is typically below the "To" field.
 You'll do this in the large, white space below the Subject field., Many email providers simply have a toolbar located between the subject line and the body of the email that allows you to perform simple formatting functions, from choosing a font style, color, and size to creating a bulleted list.

If you want to make the text in your email bold, for example, you'd highlight the text you wish to bold and then select the black B icon in the toolbar.
 Most email interfaces have a paperclip icon that, when clicked, allows you to select files to upload to your email. It is usually located at the bottom of the body of the email or somewhere along the toolbar between the subject line and the body of the email.

Email providers have a size limit for files (for example, Gmail allows up to 25 megabytes of files to be uploaded per email).
 The "Send" button is almost always located on the bottom of the message template on either the left or right side. Doing so will send your email to the person (or people) whose email address(es) you placed in the "To" field.

Make sure your email sends before navigating your browser to another page. Most email providers will take close the email template and return you to the inbox once the email sends.

