 Before you begin playing baseball darts, prepare the scoreboard. To do so, you'll have to list all the player's names.


Write the numbers 1 through 9 on the lefthand side of the scoreboard.Across the top of the board, write the names of all the players.;
, Before you can start playing baseball, you'll need to determine the batting order. That refers to the order the players compete. Have each player throw a dart on the board. The player closest to the bullseye goes first. The player furthest away goes last., To score in baseball, you need to hit the right section a dart board. A dart board is sectioned off, sort of like a pizza. There are numbers written along the side of the board. Each slice has a different number.


To play baseball darts, you try to hit the slice of the dart board corresponding to the inning of the game. For example, if you're in the first inning all the darts you throw need to land in the slice of the dart board marked "1."
Darts outside the region for that inning do not count towards your score. For example, if a dart hits the 7th section of the board during the 8th inning you will not get any points for that dart., In baseball, your points are referred to as your "runs." Where your dart falls makes a difference in scoring runs. A dart board has two rings: the double ring and the triple ring. The double ring is the outermost ring on the dart board and is the circle that essentially outlines the board. The triple ring is the circle in the center of the board, about halfway between the bullseye and the double ring.In baseball, if a dart hits the triple ring you get three runs. If a dart hits the double ring, you get two runs. Anywhere else your dart hits on the slice of the dart board corresponding with the inning counts as a single run.
To make this clear, let's look at an example. Say you're in the second inning. You throw your three darts. Your first dart hits the triple ring, your second hits the double ring, and the last dart falls in the "2" section of the dart board but does not make it into either ring. You would get 3 runs for the first dart, 2 runs for the second, and one run for the last. Your score for that round would be 6.

