 There are many reasons why your period may not have come. If pregnancy is at the top of your worry list, you'll need to take a pregnancy test and decide what to do next. Most pregnancy tests don't give an accurate reading until five or more days have passed since your period was supposed to begin.If no more than 120 hours (5 days) have passed since you had sex, emergency contraception is an option for you. Also called Plan B or the morning after pill, emergency contraception is a drug containing high levels of progestin.This hormone works by stopping the release of the egg from the ovary, preventing it from getting fertilized. The sooner you take it, the more effective it is. In the United States, emergency contraception is available for about $50.00 in drugstore pharmacies. No prescription is required.
If more than 120 hours have passed or you take a pregnancy test that reads positive, emergency contraception will not work. Make an appointment at your local health clinic to go over your options.Whether you choose to have an abortion or continue the pregnancy, it's important to get support right away.
Do not attempt to terminate a pregnancy on your own. This is highly dangerous and could result in permanent injury or death.Call or visit a health clinic to learn about safe options., Having an irregular cycle is completely normal for some. Everyone's body is different, and some people tend to skip a month here and there or go long periods of time without menstruating. Breast-feeding and menopause are other natural conditions that disrupt the menstrual cycle. Talk with your doctor if you're unsure whether the cause of your missed period may be connected with natural hormone changes.Pay attention to your cycle and keep track of patterns. Most women menstruate every 21 to 35 days. The length of time between your periods can change over time as your body grows and changes. Just because you miss one period doesn't mean something is wrong. However, if it happens more than once you should talk to your doctor.
Menopause naturally occurs around the age of 50, although it can happen earlier. The hormone levels in your body drop, causing periods to become irregular and eventually stop altogether.
Some have periods during breastfeeding, while others do not. It depends on how frequently the baby nurses, how much milk you're producing, and a number of other factors.
 Certain medications can lead to a disruption in the menstrual cycle. It's possible that you're on a medication causing you to miss your periods without realizing that this is a common side effect. If you are on one of the following types of medication, it could be the reason your period is late:Antipsychotics
Antidepressants
Blood pressure drugs
Allergy medications
Chemotherapy

, It's normal to miss a period every now and then, but if it has been months since you last menstruated, it's important to see your doctor to make sure you're in good health. Certain underlying conditions can cause a disruption in your cycle. The following conditions may be the culprit:Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which causes your body to produce high levels of hormones instead of the normal fluctuations that bring about your period.
Thyroid malfunction or hypothyroidism, which can affect how often you have your period.
A benign tumor in your pituitary gland can interfere with your hormones as well.
Some people experience premature menopause, which is defined as menopause that occurs before age 40.
Structural issues in your reproductive system can also cause the absence of periods. Uterine scarring, a lack of reproductive organs, or other abnormalities may be the source of the problem.

