 While you can't be too choosy when you're looking for a first job, you should take some time to decide what kind of work environments best suit your life. Do you like watching movies? If you do, you want to work at a local theatre. Or maybe you're a more quiet reading type; if so, you might aim for working at a bookstore or library. Do you spend a lot of time with friends at a certain burger joint? You could be working somewhere you already hang around for free! If you already have an interest in the job before applying, chances are your interviewer will be able to pick up on that enthusiasm.


On the other hand, it's important to simultaneously keep an open mind while searching for work. Any job, no matter how boring it looks at first, offers its own set of unique experiences you'll carry with you for the rest of your life. Have an open mind, and give a chance to anything that comes your way; you might end up finding an interest you never thought you'd have!;
, Because people your age don't have much (if any) experience, there aren't usually a lot of options. In the vast majority of cases, if you can't find work through family connections, fast food restaurants are the most likely place to gain experience. In a lot of cases, young teenagers will work at fast food places for a few months before handing out more resumes. While it doesn't sound like the most enjoyable way to spend your after-school hours, you'll get a lot of experience fast this way, and many people who work at these places get some enjoyment from how fast-paced the environment usually is.


Keep in mind that you won't be able to work at an official job if you're not old enough. The minimum working age will depend on where you're living. In Canada and the US, the minimum age is 14. If you're not that old yet, you'll have to put finding a real job on hold.
 While sending out resumes is the normal way to find work, you probably already have a wide range of people in your life who can help you! Talk to your parents about your intention to find employment; in most cases, they should be more than happy to help you get on your own two feet. An older brother or sister can be a helpful guide as well. Next up, ask your friends with jobs if their workplaces are hiring new staff. Whether you want to find a place to apply to, or even get some general feedback on what you should do to find work, getting the word out that you're on the job hunt is the very best thing you can do at an early stage.
 While volunteering your time free of charge may not sound like a step in the right direction if you're looking for pay, volunteering is an easy way to make your resume look great. Even volunteering a few hours a week at a local charity or pet shelter adds up fast, and having these workplace references at hand will give you a great head start when employers are deciding whether you're right for them.


It's also common that certain locations will hire volunteers as paid part or full-time employees. While the chance of actually being hired by a place you're volunteering at ultimately depends on the type of business, it's something to keep in mind if you're considering volunteer work as an option.
 Most middle and high schools will have some sort of career centre for students to go if they're needing some kind of help. Schedule an appointment with a counsellor and see if they can point you towards any good opportunities.


The school library usually hires students. Even if it's only volunteer work, it will still look great on a resume.
 Although everyone has their own way of looking at a resume, you should see a resume for what it is: a brief summary of who you are, and what you've accomplished so far in life. You're not expected to have a lot of concrete experience as a kid, but there are plenty of things that still might make you stand out on paper. Are you in any clubs or extra-curricular programs at school? What are your grades like? If you're more of a stay-in type, what sort of things are you passionate about? Just about anything can be worded in such a way that it'll sound good on a basic resume. Because you don't have the experience, they'll be looking for attitude, work ethic and passion. Your resume doesn't need to be astonishing, but you should take the time to proofread it and make sure there aren't any problems with it before you start sending it out.


People of all ages can have some trouble writing up resumes. If you find yourself struggling with it, don't be afraid to ask someone older for help. Chances are they'll be able to help you highlight your best traits and skills. Getting some outside perspective is especially helpful if you're having a hard time writing it.
Writing a cover letter helps too, especially if you don't have any experience yet. In a couple of paragraphs, write a letter to the manager you're applying to, letting them know all about your best qualities and why you want to work with them so badly. Again, if you're having any trouble writing something, ask someone to help you.
 Print off thirty resumes to start, and make a goal to get at least five out a day until you start getting calls back. Send resumes to everywhere you can think of. Walk down streets you could get to and from easily enough, and proudly deliver a resume to each location you think would have entry-level positions. Make sure to introduce yourself to the manager, as they'll be the ones who want to make a good impression on. Even if you doubt they'll call you back, give a business your resume. Each one you send out is a new possibility of a new set of great experiences.


Checking out job postings online is a must! Not only does it save you the legwork of going from place to place, but you'll get a much better idea which places are openly looking for new people.
No matter how good your resume is, don't expect easy success. Places (like fast food places) that have a high employee turnover rate stand a much higher chance of calling you back soon, but more desirable jobs are a lot harder to come by. Depending on the availability and type of work you're looking for, don't be surprised if you only get one or two calls back for an interview for every thirty resumes you send out.
 If you're not having luck with resumes or through your existing contacts, you may choose to throw your lot in with an employment agency. These government-sponsored organizations are there because they understand how difficult it can be to get a start in the working world. Look up what services are in your local area, and schedule an appointment. A consultant will lead you through what you're looking for, and what you might have to offer to an employer. From there, you'll hopefully be referred to a workplace. Because employment agencies are specifically there to pair workers with work, they tend to be a more reliable bet than merely handing out resumes.
 Job fairs are often youth-centered events for businesses to recruit newcomers to their company. A job fair is very helpful because most of the businesses will be looking for workers of similar inexperience. Not only do you know that each company present is looking for fresh hires; it also takes a lot of the hunting off on your end. Sending out resumes on your own might raise the chances of working closer to home, but a job fair is a fast way to make a lot of progress on the job hunt.
 If you're keeping an open mind and making sure to get your name out there, it's inevitable that businesses will start calling you back before too long. For some, an interview might sound like a nerve-wracking experience; indeed, the impression you make at that interview will have a large say in whether you get the job or not. However, it's important to keep in mind that they called you back because they saw something worthwhile on your resume. Dress and present yourself in a mature, reasonably professional manner. Most importantly, relax! Remember that they're looking for a great attitude above all else, and that you have something worthwhile to offer them as a hard worker.


As always, don't feel bad if an interview falls through. Each interview will see you becoming more confident and comfortable with the situation. If you go into the interview thinking it's going to succeed, chances are it will!

