;
,, You could put in items such as:


Small five tool knife
Small cotton balls, covered in Vaseline.
Button compass
Adhesive bandages. For use on small cuts, abrasions, burns.
Razor blade. Single edge, to use to make fuzz stick to start fire; use to clean and skin small creatures caught for food; use to cut up belt or other material to make thongs, ties.
Small tube of antibiotic ointment. Use on small cuts and grazes to prevent infection.
Small whistle. For use to signal. Three blasts are recognized distress signal. Saves voice and is louder.
Small clothes such as towels or little blankets
Safety or waterproof matches.
At least two water-bottles per person
Instant fire steel (optional but recommended)
Safety pins. Use to fasten torn clothing or replace buttons.
Small, thin LED Flashlight
Plastic wrap or plastic sheet (for collecting water)
Length of aluminum foil (for signaling or cooking)
Tea bags (to make boiled water taste better)

,,,,,,,, May be mixed small amount at a time, with water can.
Vitamin pills (chewy and one per day type). To help maintain health on inadequate diet.
One foot of heavy cotton string dipped in melted paraffin and then wrapped in waxed paper. Cut off one and one half piece, fray end, light with match and use to start fire. Burns longer and hotter than match alone.
Salt wrapped in foil packet (improves flavor of food).
A Ziploc bag to protect things from moisture.
A surplus army belt ammo pouch for carrying and storage.
Purification tablets
Small flint
Small roll of surgical tape
A few Tylenol/Advil (vacuum packed)
Two non-lubricated/non-flavored magnum condoms (for carrying water) It may sound funny but it will work.
 Used originally to seal and water-proof can. May also be used to fasten splints on broken limb, repair torn clothing, etc.
8 Steel wool 00 finer. Makes excellent tinder, even after being wet. Water can be shaken out and it will start a fire from small spark. Burns very hot but very quickly so should be used with other tinder such Aspen needles, twigs, etc. (Wrapped inside to start fire.)
Two snelled fish hooks may be used with leader to catch fish.
Twenty pound test leader. Use with hooks for fishing; use with needle to sew clothing, use for snares; use to lash together shelter.

