 A key characteristic of people-pleasers is being a pushover of sorts. You might say “yes” to virtually any favor asked by friends, family, or co-workers. Your tendency to do for others might cause you to feel taken advantage of. In some cases, friends and family are merely pleased that you are so willing to help out. In other cases, people may purposely exploit your kindness.For instance, a co-worker asks you to help her finish her reports and you are happy to oblige. The next time, she asks if you can do it because she must leave work early that day. Over time, you do the reports more and more until it becomes “your” task, not hers.;
, Due to your penchant for holding back your own needs while overly meeting the demands of those around you, you start to feel resentful. People-pleasers commonly work themselves tirelessly for others, but then end up getting angry or passive-aggressive when those kind acts are never reciprocated.Your spouse asks you to pick up the dry-cleaning; you say “sure.” Your sister asks you to babysit her kids; you say “Of course.” Afterwards, you speak sarcastically about having to be a superhero in your family. You pretend to be just joking, but you’re really not.
 If you are a people-pleaser, you probably feel guilt regularly. Deep down inside, a part of you knows that you don’t really want to stay late after work as requested by your boss, or attend your partner’s office Christmas party. But, you say “yes” anyway then inwardly beat yourself up for having these feelings at all.


Guilt might manifest as telling yourself that you are a bad parent, spouse, family member, or employee when you aren’t happy to fulfill the demands of others. You “should” want to help out, you tell yourself. You may also feel guilt about neglecting your own true desires to please others., Pretending to want to do things that you don’t comes with a price: stress, anxiety, and/or depression. In a sense, the habit of people-pleasing requires persistent lying to yourself. You pretend that you don’t have needs. Your pretend that you want to do this or that favor. As a result, you end up increasing the stress hormones in your body and compromising your health.Stress may show up as the following symptoms: headaches, fatigue, sleep disturbances, irritability, sadness, withdrawal from social connections; restlessness, and drug and alcohol use among others.If chronic stress is left untreated, it can develop into more serious conditions like anxiety or depression.
 Fear of rejection is at the core of people-pleasing. And, most commonly, people who engage in this habit developed it during their childhood. In response to your parents’ desires in your early years, you may have built patterns of relating that required putting others’ wishes ahead of your own. Thinking that this was the only way to feel accepted and loved, this behavior carried over to other relationships in your life.For instance, your mother asks you to practice dance and you refused. As a result, she didn’t speak to you for several days. You finally gave in and took up dance. Now, many years later, you are working in the career she chose for you and are dating the person she likes best.
 A primary indicator of people-pleasing is making the requests and needs of those around you a priority. While there's nothing wrong with being there for your parents, your partner, your kids, your friends, and your boss, it becomes a problem if you are not seeing after your own health and well-being.


Have you abandoned many of your previous goals, hobbies, or interests in order to clear up your schedule to do more for others? This neglect of self is one of the main reasons people-pleasers feel guilt and resentment. You probably know that you should attend to your own needs, but you don’t know how.For example, you had a nice spa day planned for yourself, but then you heard that a friend was going through a tough time. So, you forward your gift certificate to the spa to her instead. This is a clear sign of neglecting yourself for others.
 Because you fear being rejected by those around you, you strive to minimize conflict at all costs. Early on, you came to believe that saying “no” or stating a difference of opinion was divisive, so you refrain from doing so. You are desperate to keep your relationships intact, even at the cost of keeping your mouth shut on issues that are important to you.For instance, you might not eat Thai food, but all your friends want to try this new Thai restaurant. You do not share your preference and go along. You tell your friends you are not hungry at the restaurant to not make them worry. You're secretly starving, but you don't want to make a fuss.
 Thinking that you “owe” others or believing that it’s selfish to listen to your own inner desires can be detrimental. Years of people-pleasing may lead you to forget that you have any rights as a person. When and if you do speak out or express your desires, negative consequences occur. So, you stay silent and accept maltreatment, even abuse.Fearing rejection and abandonment can cause people pleasers to remain in unhealthy relationships far longer than they should. Consider that your girlfriend flakes on plans at the last minute, insults you in front of others, and spends her money and your money on lavish gifts. You might dislike this treatment, but worry that if you speak up, she will leave.
 When you learn to accept yourself you remove the burden of needing someone else to accept you. The key to overcoming the negative habit of people-pleasing is to develop your own self-worth. When you feel good about yourself you are less likely to seek validation from others.


Repeat a mantra such as “I am at peace with who I am. I do not require others to accept me for me to accept myself.” Other ways to practice self-love include making a list of your positive traits and posting them on a mirror or in the visor of your car. Read them aloud when you need a lift.
In addition, challenge yourself to practice self-care regularly. Select 2 to 3 things you can do for yourself each day that you enjoy. These may include eating a healthy meal, getting some exercise, taking a relaxing bath, going for a walk outdoors, or listening to your favorite musician., Never forget that. If a friend or family member makes a request, it is entirely up to you to acquiesce. Sometimes, people-pleasers fall into the frame of thinking that they are powerless. Reclaim your power and start declining favors that you don’t want to do.


To help you learn how and when to say “no,” think about your priorities in life. If family, health, and financial stability are most important to you, you might decline requests if they do not align with your priorities.
Say “no” with your head held high and don’t provide an excessive excuse or explanation . Simply say “No, thank you” or “I don’t have time in my schedule.” Remember, you are putting your time and energy where it counts when you say “no”—back into your own health, interests, and goals.If it helps, makes it a policy. Your “no” can seem less about the person if you tailor it to a limit you have previously set. For instance, you might say “No, I have a personal rule about never lending large sums of money to family or friends.”, Your personal boundaries have been left at the door when you give in to people-pleasing behaviors. Spend some time thinking about the ways you felt violated or used by people in your life. These situations could have occurred on purpose or inadvertently. Then, work to set new limits so that you are able to have healthy, full relationships without being a doormat.


Write down these situations, what happened and who was involved. Then, use these boundary violations to help you redefine limits in your relationships
For instance, perhaps a friend asked you for a favor at the last minute which left you feeling stressed and overwhelmed. You could set a personal limit that, if others need your help, they need to give you advanced notice. Come up with other limits relating to other situations that you don’t want to happen again., Sometimes, no matter how firm your personal boundaries, people will try to cross them. In fact, some people seem to have a knack for sniffing out people-pleasers and exploiting them. If you have friends or loved one who make it their business to use your kindness for their gain and consistently push your limits, get some distance.Slowly stop answering the calls or emails of old friends who abuse your kind-hearted nature. You don’t have to supply an explanation, just stop responding.
If this person is closer to you, minimize the amount of time you spend with them. You can even let them know why by saying, “I love you, Rita, but I have difficulty maintaining my personal boundaries with you. I need some space.”

, Being a people-pleaser is a deeply ingrained behavioral style that can be challenging to overcome. If you are having difficulty asserting yourself and constantly feel stressed by your relationships, see a professional. A mental health therapist can help you find the cause for this behavior and learn effective skills to start living a healthy emotional life.


Research mental health therapists in your area. Either call ahead or arrange to meet in-person to talk to them about the way the do therapy and if they have experience treating people like you. Choose your therapist based on which one has experience with your issue and with whom you feel most comfortable.

