 Part of letting go of your jaded thoughts is increasing your self-esteem. This might sound easier than it is, but there are concrete steps you can take to noticeably increase your self-esteem.


When you find yourself with a negative thought, first identify the situation (such as tension with a coworker) and note how you think about the situation. What do you tell yourself about the situation? Then, challenge this thinking: whether you are jumping to negative conclusions, focusing only on the negative aspects, or undervaluing your own worth, think about the other possibilities. What have you done well? What are your positive qualities?
Forgive yourself for your mistakes. You are only human, and you deserve forgiveness. Remind yourself that mistakes happen to everyone, and they do not make you a terrible person or define your life.
Focus on positive things about yourself. Write down a list of all the things you like about yourself. Give yourself a compliment whenever you feel yourself getting discouraged., If you have an internal locus of control, it means that you believe that you have the power to change events through your own actions.If you have an external locus of control, you believe that you have no power over your life, and everything that happens to you is the result of outside forces, not your own actions. Here are some tips for fostering an internal locus of control:


Set goals for yourself. Divide larger goals (such as getting in shape) into smaller goals (such as running a mile without stopping, doing 20 consecutive squats, or taking a spin class) so that you can see how far you've come.
Know that you always have choices in your life. Whether it's what you eat for breakfast or whether or not you go to law school, know that your own personal choices always affect your life and the events in it. Whenever you find yourself feeling helpless, remind yourself that your choices are important for your life., Break the pattern of thinking that allows you to believe that you have no control over your life. Being more assertive in your actions will allow you to take more control of your life and make decisions that are best for you. Here are some tips on being assertive:


Think about what you want to say before you say it. Whether you want your spouse to take on more household responsibilities or are trying to ask for a promotion from your boss, sometimes it is best to think about and rehearse what you're going to say before you say it.
Say "no" more. It's okay to say no when you're too busy at work to take on a new task or don't want to get coffee with an unpleasant coworker. Take more control of your life and your time by exercising your ability to decline invitations and responsibilities. However, make sure that you're being polite.
Say what you think, feel, or want. Use statements that begin with "I" to increase the effectiveness of your assertiveness. Instead of saying, "That's not fair to me," try saying something along the lines of, "I feel that this new policy is unfair because...", Bitterness often occurs because you blame other people for your actions, rather than taking responsibility for yourself. Go back over the events in your life that have made you bitter and, instead of blaming someone else, think about your role in these events.Now, what can you do about this? Are there people in your life that you can forgive or apologize to? Is there a way that you can retroactively make amends or try the task again?
Think actively, not passively. Try not to dwell on the past but rather think about what you can do in the present and future.
Realize that taking responsibility involves learning about what you can learn from this situation. If you were in the same situation today, how would you act differently? What have you learned about communication and yourself? Think of accepting your responsibility as taking the first step towards improving yourself. Neither you nor the world is without mistakes and errors, so accepting this fact and learning from it is important to reducing your bitterness., Bitterness often stems from blaming other people (either wrongfully or correctly) for some element of your misfortune. Think about what has caused your bitterness and whom you believe is responsible for it. Bitterness is different than regret because it involves other people.For example, if you are bitter because you feel like someone else got the praise you deserved at work, forgive your boss and your coworker. You do not have to explicitly say that you forgive them, but you could write in a journal about how and why you forgive them.
If someone did wrong you, forgive that person explicitly. For example, if your spouse was unfaithful and you have been feeling bitter about it, try to release your bitterness and forgive your spouse. Tell them, no matter how long after the incident occurred, that you forgive them.
 Even if you were wronged by someone, in order to let go of your bitterness, you need to move away from thinking of yourself as someone who was wronged. Instead, you should start to think about the future and the more positive aspects of your life. Don’t allow that one particular situation to control your life, your thoughts, and your actions. What do you have to look forward to? What are you most excited about next?Be grateful. Think about the positive qualities that you've gained by overcoming adversity, as well as what you have to look forward to in life. Make a list of the things for which you're grateful in your life. Pay more attention to the positive things than the negative things.
Change your narrative. Rather than thinking of yourself as a victim in your story, rewrite your past so that you are the hero who perseveres. Instead of thinking just about the bad event that happened to you, consider that you persevered in spite of these setbacks.