 If you have a stain that is dry or set-in, you need to pre-treat the fabric. Using a laundry stain remover, spray your fabric with enough liquid to saturate the fabric. Let the stain remover sit for 15 minutes. Rinse with cold water. If the stain is still there, treat the fabric again. Wash the fabric in cold water with an enzyme-based detergent, such as Arm & Hammer, Gain or Tide.If the stain is not removed when you wash the fabric, you need to treat it again before you dry it. Drying the fabric will cook in the blood stain.
You can buy stain removers in most grocery stores' laundry sections. Try Resolve Spray & Wash or OxyClean Max Force laundry stain remover.
 You don't have to rely on just pre-treatment options. After you treat a stain once with pre-treatment remover, dilute 1 tablespoon of ammonia in 1 cup of water. Dab the stain with a cotton swab or cotton ball soaked in the diluted ammonia. Keep changing the cotton swabs or balls whenever they get saturated with blood residue. You don't want to rub the stain back into the fabric. Let the ammonia solution sit on the fabric for 30 minutes to 1 hour. Wash the fabric in cold water.


You can place paper towels behind the fabric you are treating to keep the stain from running onto the fabric behind the stained portion. Paper towels also help absorb the diluted ammonia as you apply it.Do not put ammonia directly onto the fabric. It could discolor the fabric or break down the fabric's fibers.
 If a stain is persistent, you can try unseasoned meat tenderizer on the stain. First, soak your fabric in cold water for several hours. This loosens the stain and helps soften the fabric. Next, mix 1 tablespoon of unseasoned meat tenderizer, such as McCormick's, with 2 teaspoons of water to make a paste. Rub the paste into the blood stain with your fingers. Allow the paste to sit on the stain for 30 minutes to 1 hour. Remove the excess paste and wash your item in cold water.


Before you apply the meat tenderizer, you can also run your fabric through a cold wash with light, enzyme-based detergents., If you have a stain on a surface, such as a mattress, that is not washable, you need to use different kinds of stain removers. Take 1/2 cup of cornstarch and 1 tablespoon of salt and mix them with 1/4 cup of hydrogen peroxide to make a paste. Apply the paste directly to the stain with a spoon. Let the paste sit on the stain until it dries. Then, scrape off the dry paste. If the stain is still present, repeat.You should not use peroxide on dark fabrics unless you first test the peroxide on an area that is not visible. The peroxide can have the same effect as bleach. It can cause the fabric to change colors.
 This cleaner does more than keep your windows shiny. After you rinse your fabric in water, spray a generous amount of window cleaner onto the stain. Rub the liquid into the stain with a toothbrush. Wash the fabric normally. If the stain persists, repeat this method before you dry the fabric., Bleach is an alternative if you have a stubborn blood stain. Soak the fabric in cold water for 30 minutes. Wash the fabric once in cold water with your normal detergent. Next, wash your clothes with your normal detergent but add a solution of 1 tablespoon of bleach mixed with one cup of water.


The type of bleach you use will depend on the color of fabric. If the fabric is white, you can use traditional bleach. If the fabric is colored, you need to use color safe bleach.
Look for color safe bleach that is safe to apply directly to the stained fabric. Rub the color safe bleach into the fabric. Wash the fabric like normal in cold water.