 Glycolic acid can be used in any part of your skincare regimen. To make sure that your treatment is effective, you should make sure that you have a strong skincare regimen with a cleanser, serum, moisturizer, and SPF. Any or all of these components can contain glycolic acid.

Glycolic acid is extremely common in skincare products. Read the ingredients of on the label or box to see if glycolic acid is one of the active ingredients. If it is, the label should also tell you what percentage is used.
If you want, you can also use glycolic acid eye creams, face masks, acne sprays, or spot treatments as well.
 Various types of skincare products will contain different levels of glycolic acid. Generally, products with less than 10% are considered safe and effective for daily, home use.If you have sensitive facial skin and are concerned about damaging or scarring your face, look for a facial cream that contains an amino acid, such as arginine. This protein will allow the acid to soak into your sensitive skin more slowly and so reduce potential stinging or skin discoloration.Almost any part of your skincare routine can contain a product with glycolic acid. This includes toners, cleansers, moisturizers, serums, and creams.
 If you are concerned about wrinkles, fine lines, or other signs of aging, you can prevent them using a glycolic acid cream. Apply it at night before you put on your moisturizer. If your skin does well with it, you can start using it during the day after about a month.A cream can help prevent or minimize fine lines. While it cannot remove deep lines, such as laugh or frown lines, it may be able to soften them or reduce their appearance. You’ll need to turn to a medical procedure like laser treatment, dermal fillers, or Botox to remove deep-set lines.
 A face wash with glycolic acid can help reduce and prevent acid over time. Because the concentration is lower, this is a better treatment for those with sensitive skin.Wash your face with it in the morning, at night, and after sweating heavily.
 Glycolic acid is found naturally in honey, sugar, and lemon. You can make your own natural mask at home using these common ingredients. Mix one part honey to one part raw sugar, and add the juice of half a lemon. Apply to your face, avoiding your eyes. Leave it on for five to ten minutes before rinsing off.