 Around the World is all about accuracy and consistency when shooting. You set five or more spots in an arc around the basket. Each player gets two shots at each spot. If you make it, you move on to the next one. If you miss two in a row, you start from scratch. The first player all the way around wins.


You need at least two players. However, there is no upper limit on the number of people that can play.;
, You want to make a small half-circle around the basket. If you're new to the game, set it up around the key, the rectangle in front of the goal. If you're experienced you can back up, even setting every spot around the three point line. You want to make a half-circle, representing the world, so that you have to shoot from every angle and on both sides of the basket. However, you should feel free to pick whatever spots you want. Mark them with tape or chalk.


In general, you want your spots evenly spaced out. You can have as many spots as you want, depending on how long you want the game to go on for.
Some people like to add the free-throw line as the first and last shot -- your "home base."

, Know, however, that everyone will get a chance to shoot. If the first person happens to win, everyone else gets one round to try and tie them, forcing a rematch or overtime. Thus, the person who goes first does not matter too much.
 Take your first shot. If you make it, move on to the next spot and shoot again. If you miss it, you get one more shot. If you miss both shots, it is the next person's turn to shoot.









Since there is nowhere to go back to on the first shot, there is no reason to skip your second shot., This is where the strategy comes into play. If you miss two shots in a row, you must start over on your next turn. But if you miss the first one you can skip your next shot. When it is your turn again you get to start from the same spot you left off.








If you have a big lead, it is often best to wait. Remember, however, that it only takes one good turn for someone to catch up -- or even win.
If you're behind, it might be worth the risk to take your second shot. If you can develop some rhythm, one great round might help you come back.
 You could theoretically win on the very first turn if you make every shot. The goal, especially for real basketball, is to develop shooting consistency, getting into a rhythm of good shots.
 Every player should get the same number of chances to win. Say, for example, you're playing with four people who shoot in the order A, B, C, and D. During the fifth round, player B makes every bucket and wins. However, players C and D only got to play for four rounds. They each get one more chance to win, forcing a playoff. Player A, who got the same number of chances as Player B, loses.









For tie-breakers, play one more round. Whatever player gets the furthest around wins.