 The rocks need to be smooth, flat, and roughly oval-shaped. You can find great rocks at the beach or by the river. You can also buy bags of them at a garden-supply shop or an arts and crafts store. They can be any size you want.;
, Even if you plucked the rock right out of the water, it may still be coated with grime that might prevent the paint from sticking. Wash the rock using cool water and a scrubbing brush. Pat it dry with a towel or set it out in the sun to dry., You don't have to do this, but it will help the colors show up brighter. This is highly recommended if your rock is dark-colored, or if you plan on painting it a light color, such as yellow. Simply paint the entire rock white, then let it dry.You can use the spray-on or brush-on kind of paint for this.
 You can apply the paint using a paintbrush or a foam brush. Start by painting the top and sides of the rock. Let it dry, then paint the bottom. This way, you won't get as messy, and you won't get fingerprints on your ladybug.


You can also use spray paint inside, but painting it on with a brush is a lot more fun!

, If you skipped the white base coat, take a look at your rock again. Is the paint showing up the way you want it to? If it's look a little too dark, add another coat or two of paint. Be sure to let each layer dry completely before adding the next one., Find one of the narrower ends of your rock. Paint a straight or curved line across it using black paint, then fill it in with more black paint.You may need another coat of black paint if it is now showing up very well.
 You don't have to do this if you don't want to, but it will make your lady bug look more realistic. You can paint the line using a very thin brush, or you can draw it on using a black, permanent marker., There are lots of ways to do this. You can paint them on using the end of a brush handle or a pencil eraser.You can even use your fingertip to make extra-large spots!Plan on doing at least 7 spots. For a more realistic touch, do 1 in the center, and 3 to each side., Dip a large paintbrush handle into some white paint, then use it to make two white dots in the middle of your ladybug's head.If your rock is very large, you might want to paint the dots on directly instead.
 If you have a large rock with large eyes, you might have enough space to make more detailed eyes. Paint two blue dots in the bottom of each eye using a thin brush. They should be just a little smaller than the whites themselves.Let the irises dry before moving on.


You can give your ladybug a different eye color instead if you prefer.
 Depending on how big your rock is, you may be able to use a small paintbrush handle. Otherwise, snip the tip off of a toothpick, and use that to make two, small black dots for the pupils., You can paint them on using a thin brush, or you can make a dotted line using a toothpick or brush handle. White paint will show up the best. Avoid using black paint, as it will blend in too much with the spots. Once you finish painting the antenna, let them dry.


Most ladybugs have curved or curly antenna, but you can make them straight if you prefer.
Use metallic or glittery paint for the antenna to make it really stand out., At this point, your ladybug is essentially done. There are a few things you could do to take it to the next level, however. Here are some more ideas to get you started:


Give your ladybug a smile using white or red paint.Give you ladybug some lashes if it's a girl, or eyebrows if it's a boy.If you added irises and large pupils, use a toothpick and white paint to add a highlight to the upper corner of each pupil., Let each coat dry first before applying the next one. You can use either the spray-on kind or the brush-on kind. If you plan on keeping your lady bug out in the garden, it must be waterproof. You can use either a matte or glossy finish.Paint the top of the ladybug first, let it dry, then paint the bottom. This ensures that both sides are protected.
 Check the label on your bottle of clear acrylic sealer for specific drying times. Just because something feels dry to the touch doesn't necessarily mean that it is fully dried and cured; some types of sealers need a full 24 to 48 hours to dry. Once the ladybug has dried completely, you can set it out in your garden. If the lady bug is small, you can place it into a flowerpot instead!

