 To make fake geodes you will need eggshells, a glass container, alum, hot water, craft glue, a small paintbrush, and food coloring. All of these items are readily available at the grocery store. You can find alum in the spice aisle as it is used for pickling vegetables.The eggshells need to be cut in half, washed out, and dried before use.
The food coloring is optional, but it allows you to color the crystals of the geode.
The glass container needs to be large enough for the eggshell to be completely immersed in water.
 Pour some craft glue onto a piece of newspaper and use a paintbrush to coat the inside of the eggshell. You only need a thin layer of glue; just enough for the alum to stick to the surface.Don’t let the glue dry between this step and the next.
 While the glue is still wet, sprinkle some alum powder onto the glue. The powdered alum will serve as a starting point for a crystal to grow. If you want smaller crystals, completely coat the inside of the egg with alum because the crystals will not be able to grow very large when they are close together.If you want larger crystals, lightly sprinkle the alum making sure there is some space between the powder granules.
Leave the eggshell to dry overnight.
 Use hot water to make a solution that is completely saturated with alum (no more alum will dissolve). Use enough water to fill your container so that the eggshell will be completely immersed. Add a tablespoon of alum and stir to dissolve. Keep adding alum until no more dissolves in the water. At this point, the solution is saturated.Add food coloring to change the color of the geode.
Cool the solution to room temperature.
 Once the solution is cooled, transfer it to the container you will use for the growth phase. Gently place the egg into the container and make sure it is completely covered by the solution.Cover the top of the container with plastic wrap or foil to keep dust out.
 As time passes, the alum crystals will grow larger from the starting points on the eggshell. It can take a few days for the crystals to grow to a respectable size. Check on the eggshell geode each day and remove it from the solution when you are satisfied with the growth of the crystals.Store the experiment in a place where it will not be bumped. If it gets bumped or moved around, the crystals will not form properly.
Once you remove the eggshell from the solution, you will have made an alum crystal geode!

