 Not all the AA models are skinny. The trick is that while they have actual curves, they are healthy as well. Yoga, Pilates, cardio...whatever. Preferably something that lengthens and tones without adding too much bulk to your body. Try eating some healthy food. That means no soda, French fries, or twinkies. Believe me, it pays off.;
, Posture is important, and so is your general demeanor- try to be genuine and speak in an uncontrived and confident manner.
 Seriously- 8 hours will have you well on your way to looking youthful and fresh before you have even tried.
 Like the clothing at AA, the cosmetics are simply there. No fuss, no frills, yet a statement nonetheless, in an ironic sort of way. That means no caking on the bronzer, eyeliner, foundation, eyeshadow, mascara, etc. You can start by taking good care of your skin, and applying a primer. (GOSH have a great one). Next, try to use base only where you need it to even up, not cover up, your skintone. Generally, stay away from strongly pigmented products, and aim for a youthful sheen. Bright eyes can be enhanced with brown mascara and a dot of white highlighter on the inside corner. Keep lips nude and matt, or stick to a soft peach or pink stain. Keep eyebrows well groomed and strongly shaped. Just buy quality products, you won't need as many and they will provide the dewy, sensual look you are aiming for.
 Make it scrunchy, bed-heady. Don't straighten naturally curly or afro hair- and if you have flat hair which needs a little help, use your straightening irons, clamp sections of hair between them, and pull them downward while you zig zag them to create a kink. A quick tip is to mix up a little salt water, hairspray and lemon juice in a bottle, and give it a quick skoosh and scrunch. Wear it long and free, or pile it on your head. Try to not look neat or severe- your hair should frame your face and create delicate tendrils around your features.
 For instance, if you're Norwegian/Arabic, flaunt it! Biracial is simply beautiful. The uniqueness really sets off your beauty.
 If you are not biracial, find some unique feature (a mole, large nose, thick eyebrows) and draw attention to it rather than hiding it. Freckles, an individual smile, a square jawline and brightly coloured red hair are just some examples of the kind of beauty Apparel are looking for. Because AA is not about synthetic beauty.
 Find a cause and work for it. That's the biggest component of beauty. Don't be a wuss and follow something just because it's trendy. Tap into your passion and then go for it.
 Your clothes, including any Apparel you wear, don't have to match, but should rather convey your energy and originality. Try to pair pieces of vintage wear, reworked items, ebay finds and Apparel with high street brands, and show attention to detail in acccesories- don't overdo it.
 Thigh high socks, hotpants and skin tight mesh wear can look garish on some- but if your confidence is based more on inner beauty and your face and hair are kept undone and clean- you can pull it off. It's about showing off some parts and covering up others, wearing sensual and soft materials, exuding touchable and desirable qualities- you don't need fake tan or false eyelashes to achieve what you want here.
 It may or may not be in right now- but it's attractive to anyone, fashionable or otherwise.

