 Your doctor can prescribe a stronger antiperspirant than those available over the counter. These are typically applied only once or twice a day, and in small amounts, due to the more concentrated chemicals. Once this gets working, you'll only need to reapply once every week or two.These can irritate your skin. If necessary, ask your doctor for hydrocortisone lotion to soothe your skin.
 These soak the sweating area in water, then send a mild electrical current through it. While it is unclear why this works, it is a mainstream medical treatment.This is generally more effective for hands and feet, but special devices do exist for armpits. Ask a doctor about this treatment, or purchase a less powerful over-the-counter version. Patients generally try the treatment daily for several weeks, then continue on a less frequent schedule if effective.Ask a doctor first if you have a metal medical implant (such as a pacemaker or IUD), if you are pregnant, if you experience cardiac arrhythmia, or if you have a skin rash on your underarms.This treatment can cause red skin, and more rarely blisters.
 There are several types of pills that can reduce sweating, but these have serious side effects. In some cases, your dermatologist may recommend a Botox injection or other treatment before these are considered. The following are two of the most common treatment approaches of this type:


Anticholinergic drugs are effective in about 50% of cases, but often cause unpleasant side effects such as confusion and constipation.Beta blockers can reduce sweating, particularly if caused by anxiety. All drugs of this type have serious side effects, and cannot be taken by people with asthma or most heart conditions. Any beta blocker may cause depression or dizziness, and specific drugs may have additional side effects., The following treatments should only be administered by an experienced dermatologist. In most cases, your medical insurance will not cover these procedures.


A Botox injection at the armpit can paralyze nerves sending signals to sweat glands, typically for a few months. The FDA has approved this treatment for the armpit only, when antiperspirant has failed. Risks are very low when the procedure is performed properly, but include life-threatening issues.Microwave treatments to remove sweat glands are FDA-approved, but only recently.They may not be available in all areas.
In severe cases, a dermatologist can surgically remove some of the sweat glands or their attached nerves. Liposuction is typically the type of surgery recommended for underarms.Risks are low, but there is a chance of serious problems.