 You can look up the car’s value on websites such as Kelley Blue Book, Edmunds, or NADA Guides.The car’s estimated value will depend on many factors. You should gather the following information:make
model
mileage
trim
general condition (e.g., new, very good, good, poor, very poor)
your location

, Before selling your car, you should have your eye on a new one—especially if you need a car to get to school or work. Look around and find something that is affordable. Remember that you may have to give your ex a portion of the proceeds from the sale. Accordingly, look for a car that fits within your budget. You can find cars in the following places:


Craigslist
Facebook
eBay Motors
Autotrader
Cars.com

, Since the car still serves as collateral on the loan, you will need the lender’s permission before you sell it. Call up the lender and ask if you can get a lien release.You might not have the money to pay off the loan until you sell the car. In this situation, you can use an escrow service to handle the sale. The escrow will pay off the loan and transfer ownership at the same time. Ask the lender if there is an escrow service they recommend.
Alternately, you could close the sale with the buyer at the bank. You turn over the proceeds to your lender. Talk to the bank about what option is best.
 If you want to buy your new car from a dealer, then you should think about trading in your old car. When you trade in, you and the dealer come to an agreement on the value of the car. That amount is then deducted from the amount you have to pay for your new car.


You might get less money when you trade in with a dealer than if you sold the car on your own.However, the process is usually much simpler.
 Instead of trading in the car, you might want to sell it directly to a buyer. You can certainly do that. You should try to price your car competitively. Get the Blue Book number and then compare it to what people are charging for their cars in your area.


You can typically advertise cars in the same places where you found used cars being sold—eBay Motors, Craigslist, etc.
 If you sell to a buyer directly, then make sure to complete all of the required paperwork. You should fill out a bill of sale and sign over the title to the buyer. If your ex was on the title, then they should also sign these documents. You may also need to provide the following:Fill out the Release of Liability, which you may need to submit to your Department of Motor Vehicles.
Provide the buyer with warranty documents, if any.
Give the buyer maintenance records.
Provide other paperwork as required by your state’s DMV.
 If your ex was on the title to the vehicle, then you will need to give them half of the proceeds since they are part owner of the vehicle. Talk with your ex. You might be able to come to an agreement to pay them less than half, especially if you made all of the payments on the vehicle.


You can use your portion of the proceeds as a down payment on your new car.

