 Only the individual named on the certificate, immediate family, or those with legal rights can order a birth certificate that is newer than 125 years old.This is because the state of Alabama restricts usage of birth certificates that are under 125 years old.


Parents and legal guardians are allowed to order a birth certificate for their child.
Spouses, siblings, and children of the person named on the birth certificate may order a birth certificate.
Legal representatives of authorized persons (e.g., a spouse’s attorney) may order a birth certificate.;
, A vital records order form is available online. You can use this form to obtain birth, death, marriage, or divorce certificates. Download and print this form.


You can also apply for a certified copy of your Alabama birth certificate by appearing in person at any county health department in Alabama. Bring the $15 fee with you. You can pay with cash, check, or money order.
You can also place your order online through a service provider, VitalChek. VitalChek accepts credit cards. You fill out and submit the form online. Note that a birth certificate ordered through the VitalChek service costs $30, with additional copies costing $6 each., Be sure to provide complete information in the Applicant Section of this form. This gives the health department information about who is requesting the certificate and where to send it.
 Give as much complete information as possible in this section. This will ensure that your request is processed in a timely manner and accurately.
 It is important to sign the form. Otherwise, your request will not be processed.


Keep in mind that by signing the form, you are attesting that you have legal authority to order this birth certificate. If you are not legally authorized and you sign the form, you may face penalties.
 You must pay a fee when ordering a copy of a birth certificate. Alabama Vital Records accepts only check or money order as payment. The first copy costs $15. Additional copies cost $6.


Make the check or money order payable to "State Board of Health.” Do not send cash.

If you need the birth certificate quickly, you can pay an additional $15 for expedited service, for a total of $30.
 Make a copy of your form for your own records. Be sure to enclose a check for the correct amount. If you choose to mail the form, use this address:


Alabama Department of Public Health, Center for Health Statistics, P.O. Box 5625, Montgomery, Alabama 36103-5625.
You can also submit your form in person at any county health department in Alabama. Locate your county health department by visiting the Alabama Public Health website. Bring a check or money order to pay the fee for ordering the birth certificate.

