 It's a red app with the word "yelp" in lowercase, black letters.

If you are not logged in, tap Sign Up or Log In and follow the prompts to log in to your account.
 It's located in either the lower-right corner of the screen (iPhone) or the top-left of the screen (Android)., It's the first section at the top of the screen. This takes you to the About Me page where you can manage your friends, reviews, photos and change your profile picture., It's located in either the lower-right corner of the screen (iPhone) or the top-left of the screen (Android)., It's next to a gear icon (⚙️) in the "More" section of the menu., On this page, you can set your preferences for receiving emails from Yelp by sliding them "On" (blue) or "Off" (white).

Tap the "back" arrow when you're finished. It's in the upper-left corner on iPhone or iPad and on the lower-left face of the device on Android.
 On this page set your preferences for seeing push notifications on your device by sliding them "On" (blue) or "Off" (white).

Tap the "back" arrow when you're finished. It's in the upper-left corner on iPhone or iPad and on the lower-left face of the device on Android.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page you can link your Facebook and/or Twitter account to Yelp so you can share your reviews, add friends, or use Facebook to log in.

Slide the accounts "On" (blue) to connect them or "Off" (white) to disconnect them.
Tap the "back" arrow when you're finished. It's in the upper-left corner on iPhone or iPad and on the lower-left face of the device on Android.
 On this page, you can manage the visibility of your profile to other Yelp users, as well as the information a business sees when you interact with its listing.

When you're finished managing your settings, tap Done in the upper-right corner of the screen on iPhone or iPad or tap the "back" arrow in the upper-left corner on Android.
 On this page, you can set your primary and talk locations.

On Android you can also slide your background location "On" (blue) or "Off" (white).
Tap the "back" arrow when you're finished. It's in the upper-left corner on iPhone or iPad and on the lower-left face of the device on Android.
On Android, tap Distance Units, then tap Automatic, Kilometers, or Miles to set the distance units Yelp uses on your device.
 Use this setting to clear your keyword, location, and recent history.

Tap Yes to confirm.
You cannot change email or password settings from the mobile app.

