 The aspect ratio of a monitor is the ratio between the width and the height. In the earlier years of the last decade, the 16:10 aspect ratio was the most popular among HD monitors, but more recently, the 16:9 "true widescreen" ratio has started taking over. In addition, the 16:9 ratio is the same ratio used by widescreen movies. Unless you specifically need a 16:10 monitor, 16:9 will be the more convenient choice.;
, Larger monitors will allow for a broader spectrum of resolutions and can make the display easier to see. However, you will want to balance the size of the monitor against the available space on your desk. Unlike televisions, larger is not always better for computer monitors. Currently, typical computer monitors are sized between 17 and 23 inches.
 HD LCD monitors operate on a grid of pixels, which means that each monitor has a "native" resolution at which it looks the best and the most crisp. Typical household monitors these days will have a native resolution of 1600x900 or 1920x1080, but larger monitors can go as high as 2560x1600.
 Contrast ratios under 400:1 will be sub-par and anything over 600:1 will probably be unnoticeable except to the trained eye. As for brightness, most monitors have at least 250 cd/m2 (candelas per square meter), and that should be sufficient for most typical users.


Brightness determines how dim or how bright your monitor can be, while contrast determines how well your monitor can differentiate between dark and light colors.
 Ever since digital technology has made significant advancements, there really is no need to choose analog over digital unless your PC does not have a digital connector port. DVI ports are digital while VGA ports are analog. Consult your PC manual to see which ports are available before making a decision.



Response time is the time it takes for a pixel on the monitor to change color. During high framerate activities (like playing video games), a slow response time will result in blurry motion.
Physical adjustments can be convenient. Sometimes you may wish to tilt your screen up or down, or maybe you'll want to angle it side to side. While not necessary, ease of adjustment can positively impact your enjoyment of your monitor.

