 Instead of just giving a traditional card, write the person a small note or letter. You can leave it on the kitchen counter if you live with them, mail it to them if you live far away, give it to them in person, or talk to a co-worker to put it on there desk or work station.


Make your note interesting by shaking up the message. Instead of just saying, "Happy birthday!" write, "Hope your birthday is rocking!" or "Have a birthday full of joy!"
Write a personalized letter letting the person know how much they mean to you.;
, Waking up to breakfast in bed, or walking into the kitchen to find there favorite breakfast will make the birthday girl/boy feel extra special. Think about what there favorite breakfast foods are. Does she/he like pancakes, muffins, or eggs? You want to surprise then with there favorite foods.


Get up early, make the breakfast, and put it where they usually sits for breakfast. Or you can take it into there bedroom and wake them up with a tray of there favorite foods.
Put a small note wishing them a happy birthday on the saucer.
This is a great idea for spouses and significant others, parents, children, siblings, and roommates.
 Blow up balloons, and then fill a cupboard, the person's closet, or the car with the balloons. When they open the door, they will be showered in balloons. Or use crepe paper to gently secure balloons to their bedroom door so that when he/she opens it, balloons cascade in front of them.If you have the time, write messages on the balloons. You can write, "I love you more than ____" or "Reason #___ that I love you is _______." If this is a surprise for a friend, sibling, child, or parent, write reasons you appreciate him/her on the balloons.
Another idea is to write memories, funny stories, inside jokes, song lyrics, and meaningful words on the balloons to show them how special they are to you., Repurpose a tin can to make a special surprise for someone. Fill the can with streamers, candy, and small gifts that the person will like and that will make her smile. All you need is a can with a pop top, some tape, a can opener, and a hot glue gun.


Use the can opener to open the bottom of the can. Remove the label, remove the food, and clean the can well. Cover the sharp edges on the can and the top with masking tape, clear tape, or washi tape.
Make a few paper chains and hot glue them to the inside of the pop top. This will make the paper chain come out as soon as the person pops the top of the can. Then fill the can with small gifts, candy, and treats.
Replace the bottom of the can and secure it with clear tape. Fit the outside of the can with paper that you can decorate. Add ribbon, glitter, sequins, or any other accents to the paper. Hot glue the paper to the can., One simple way to surprise someone is to take the time to bake her/his favorite cake. This is meaningful because you took the time to make it (even if it's from a box instead of scratch) instead of a buying a cake from a store. Plus, homemade cakes usually taste better.


Make cupcakes or pie if your loved one prefers either of those desserts to cake.
 One way to surprise your special someone is to collect letters or notes from his/her loved ones and friends. These notes can be general well wishes, memories, song lyrics, inside jokes, lists - whatever the person wants to share with the birthday person.Put the notes in envelopes to open, or place them in a scrapbook or notebook for them to look through.
Put the notes on post-its. Stick the post-its on a wall, on the door, in his/her car, or around his/her work space. Choose different colors for a pretty array of messages., To surprise your loved one, decide what she/he likes. Then leave little surprises for her/him during the day at her/his regular spots. Leave a surprise by the bed when she/he wakes, along her/his regular jogging path, at her/his desk at the office, or in her/his car.


If she/he likes music, start the day off by leaving a piece of paper with song lyrics where she/he can find it. This can be taped to her/his alarm clock, the bathroom mirror, rolled up in her/his coffee mug, or texted to her/his phone. The song lyrics should be either from her/his favorite song or have a significant meaning to the two of you.
Make them a mix CD and leave it in the car for them to listen to on their commute and at work. String musical notes along the path where she/he normally jogs. Text her/him a video of their favorite song or a song that means a lot to both of you.
This can work with movies, sports, animals, or anything else your loved on likes.
 This is a fun way to surprise your friends when in middle and high school. If you go to the same school, decorate the outside of their locker. Make sure your school allows it before doing it so you don't get in trouble. Think about using the following things when decorating:


Ribbon and streamers
Balloons
A huge card
Wrapping paper
A locker mirror. Write in lipstick, "You look great!"
Candy. Tape the stick of lollipops to the locker. You can also tape Tootsie rolls, candy bars, and other treats to it.
A group photo
A Christmas stocking filled with fun stuff
Glitter
Cute magnets
Magnetic whiteboard. Write something nice on it. You might even get friends to leave messages on it.
If you can't decorate the person's locker, leave post-it notes on it with messages.

