 True recovery from eating disorders like anorexia usually requires outside help. There's only so much you can do on your own. A good first step aside from talking to your doctor is finding a therapist. Therapy will help you change your relationship to your body and food by examining your thoughts and beliefs about your life.Here are some good types of therapy to be on the lookout for:


Cognitive behavioral therapy. CBT is the most researched method of therapy for eating disorders.It can help you change your thoughts and behaviors around your relationship with food.
Interpersonal therapy. IPT focuses on improving the relationships in your life so that the symptoms of anorexia go away on their own. If your social life becomes healthier and more supportive, that will affect your anorexia in a positive way.Search for a therapist by clicking here.
 Inpatient treatment involves living at a residential facility, where you can receive more serious help. This may involve doctors monitoring your nutrition levels, individual and group therapy, and psychiatric medication.


This may be especially important if you are severely malnourished and underweight.
 Out-patient care is less intense than in-patient. It involves visiting a clinic but living on your own or with family. Here are some of the benefits of out-patient treatment:


If you're in the early stages of anorexia, you can get help without compromising your independence.
You can still attend school and receive support from living with your family.
The cost is much lower for out-patient care than in-patient care.
 Although anorexia has psychological components, nutrition is equally important. In fact, some research suggests that people need to recover from malnutrition before they can fully recover from anorexia.A dietitian can help you learn about what your body needs and get you on the right track.
 Psychiatric medication can help deal with the symptoms of anorexia on a day to day basis. Antidepressants can keep your mood up and prevent you from falling into depression over the issues. Anti-anxiety medications can help you from worrying too much and engaging in compulsive behaviors.These may be especially useful if you have co-occurring anxiety or depression, which is common for many people with an eating disorder.