 Digestive aids, such as Beano, are available and may help reduce gas production. Beano contains an enzyme called beta-galactosidase that breaks down certain sugars found in beans and vegetables like broccoli. Some scientific studies have shown reduced flatulence with the use of beta-galactosidase. , Activated charcoal is different than the charcoal that you use to grill. Activated charcoal can be bought in a pharmacy and may be used to reduce flatulence. Scientific studies on the effectiveness of activated charcoal in reducing gas are controversial. Some studies of oral administration of activated charcoal observed reductions in the amount of gas released from the colon, while other studies found no differences. These results suggest that activated charcoal may have a minor benefit in certain circumstances. It is possible that activated charcoal only beneficially reduces gas production due to some etiologies, but not others.
 Many different deodorizers can be used to disguise the scent of flatulence. Interestingly, charcoal-lined undergarments can be purchased that claim to deodorize the scent of gas. Their clinical effectiveness has not been examined.
 Passing gas is a natural phenomenon that is essential for the removal of gaseous waste from the body. Everyone does it. Although holding in gas may be appropriate in some situations, you may find if you continue to do this, you could experience abdominal cramping and discomfort.


Excuse yourself to the restroom to pass gas.
Wait to pass gas until you are alone or in a well-ventilated space.
If you pass gas in public, politely say excuse me.
Use your discretion. Passing gas in front of close friends or family may be appropriate and establishing these norms may help reduce the negative stigma of passing gas.
 If you noticeably pass gas in public, don’t be embarrassed. Make a joke about it, for example, by suggesting that you quickly move to a new location to escape the smell. Frankly, if it is especially odorous, most people will appreciate your candor and will gladly relocate with you. Making light of this potentially awkward situation may be especially helpful if this is a chronic problem.

