 Depending on whether your cat has spent more time indoors or more time outdoors, they may prefer certain materials over others. Take notice of what they are naturally attracted to scratching. Depending on their surroundings, cats may prefer to scratch wood, fabric, carpet, or rope. , If your cat is mostly accustomed to spending time outside, they may prefer a wood material that reminds them of a stump or tree. You can buy a scratching tree made out of natural logs or build your own. Lumberyards sell a variety of woods that you can choose from. , Cardboard scratchers are economical and can easily be replaced. Although they are sometimes less durable than the alternatives, they are often made out of recycled materials and thus offer an eco-friendly choice., Make sure the fabric is tightly wound and rough to the touch. Sisal fabric, especially, is a popular choice among cat-owners, as its rough and durable texture pleases most indoor and outdoor cats. It is also very durable and less likely to look worn as quickly as other materials. , A good scratching tree should contain a post that is attached to a wide, stable base that doesn’t wobble when the cat uses it; or, it should affix to and lean steadily against a wall. , The right scratching tree should be weighted and tall enough to allow your cat to lean their whole weight against the tree and stretch the full length of their body when scratching. This not only allows your cat to successfully sharpen and shed old nails but also affords the opportunity to work out muscular kinks. , Your cat will want to make an accepted scratching post its territory by leaving behind scratches and scents where it pleases. Be sure to place the scratching tree in a prominent, unobstructed, and spacious location in the house where it won’t fall or be knocked over.
 Some scratching trees are rather large and may have multiple appendages, scratchers, ledges, or “condo” areas. Check the appendages for weaknesses or instability. Many cats prefer to use the scratching tree for exercise and to look out from its vertical heights. Some cats are timid and may prefer to hide in one of its “condos.”
Some cats are more excitable than others and need more room to climb and play.
If you have multiple cats, try to provide them with enough space, so as to avoid any competition for territory. , Older cats may be content with a plain tree that affords enough room to scratch, walk, and climb. Younger cats, however, can get bored and restless and often enjoy playing with hanging or spring toys built into the tree.
 Some cats like to eat, sleep, or nest on the same furniture they play with. Many cat scratching trees come with built-in feeding bowls, tunnels, nooks, cradles, or beds.Choose what is best for you cat’s personality, habits, and preferences.
 Cats may grow and alter their preferences over time as they age. You shouldn’t expect your cat tree to satisfy your cat’s needs forever. Luckily, many companies sell accessories that you can attach or detach as needed. Don’t be discourage if your cat isn’t fond of one of the accessories right away. It may just need time to adjust.