 Look up recipes online that use the type of food you don’t like. There may be a dish that sounds delicious to you that you would never expect would contain that food. Try a dessert recipe that sneaks in a vegetable, or add an offending food to a casserole or soup so it’s mixed in with other things.


If it’s a vegetable you don’t like, try any number of desserts that use vegetables in their recipe, like a carrot cake, zucchini bread, or avocado milkshake.This may not help you get used to the taste of the food you don’t like if it’s highly disguised by other ingredients, but it will get you accustomed to the idea that it can be used to make something tasty.
 Try preparing or eating the food with new seasonings or sauces, without overdoing it to the point of disguising the food. Get ideas for good seasonings to pair with the food from cookbooks or online. Try several different types of ethnic restaurants for a good way to try different preparations and flavors of the same food.
 Talk to friends, family, or the host of the dinner you’re at about the food you don’t like and how they like to prepare it. Try these new ways to find one that you like better.
 Try taking the recipes you’ve found in cookbooks, online, or from friends and family to prepare dishes with the food you’re learning to like, or just experiment with it on your own! Test out what it tastes like when you prepare it in different ways, like sauteing, steaming, roasting, or even deep-frying. Experiment with whatever seasonings and sauces you have around the house, or try new ones that recipes suggest.
 If there are multiple types of the food you don’t like, give them all a try to see which one you like best. Try both fresh and canned versions, and try getting produce from a farmer’s market instead of the grocery store if it is a fruit or veggie that you don’t like.
 Learn everything you can about the food you don’t like from the internet or books. Understanding more about the nuances of the food and understanding its differences from other foods will help you to appreciate it more., However you choose to prepare or eat it, have the food you don’t like in happy situations when you’re surrounded by people you enjoy. This will help change your emotional response to the food to a positive one., Even if you haven’t found a way to enjoy the food you don’t like, continue to eat it as much as possible, even if you have to completely disguise it with other things. You can actually psychologically condition yourself to like a food in this way.