 You will be putting the two cups together to make a tapered speaker, so they need to be the same size. If one cup is bigger than the other one, your speaker won't work.
 Position the knife against the side of the cup, right against the bottom edge. Poke the knife through the wall of the cup. Then, using a sawing motion, cut around the base of the cup until the bottom falls off. Do this for both cups.
 The rectangle needs to be the same thickness as your phone, but only half the width. Align one of the narrow ends of the rectangle with the bottom edge of the cup.These two rectangles will eventually make a slot for your phone to go into.


This method will also work for other types of phones as well as iPods and similar music players.
 You can use a craft knife, box cutter, or a pair of scissors to do this. You can cut the rectangles out a few millimeters longer than they actually are; you will be overlapping the cups later, so the slot will shrink.
 Overlap the twp cups by a few millimeters; if you overlap them too much, your phone may not fit inside. Twist the cups until the rectangles match up.


Consider sliding your phone into the slot, to make sure it is not too small.
 Wrap the tape all the way around the seam between the two cups. Fold the ends of the tape into the rectangle slot.
 If you need to, widen the slot a little with a craft knife or box cutter until the phone fits. Hold the speakers until you get the angle you like.
 Still holding your speaker at the angle you want, place a bottle cap in front of the speaker, and another one behind the speaker. Make sure that they are aligned with the seam. Secure the bottle caps to the speakers with hot glue. Once the glue sets, let go of the speaker. The bottle caps should now hold it steady.


If you don't have bottle caps, you can use other items, such as Lego bricks or small rocks.
 Paint the speakers a using spray paint or acrylic paint. Wait until the paint dries, before adding more designs. You can also wrap colored washi tape around the cup rims and slot edges. For a more playful speaker, decorate it with stickers, such as stars or lightning bolts.
 If you are using another type of phone, make sure that the speaker is inside the slit. Hit the play and speaker buttons on your phone, and enjoy the music.

