 Do this by making your hair pretty, reading some other wikiHows about being popular, getting in shape, getting new and really cute clothes, and even putting on some light makeup.;
, Also make sure you have confidence.
 If they think it's a stupid idea then you have to go into sneaky mode. If they do decide to form a clique with you, you don't have to finish reading this. If not, then you have to move to the next step.
 Maybe one friend refers to your group as something cute or funny. Or one of your parents say something weird, but all in all YOU have to be the one that makes it a group name. You should say, "Ha ha ha, I can't believe your mom just called us that. That's gonna be our group name forever." Be causal and not too pushy when you say something like this.
 A way to do this without being too blunt is to just recommend going to a certain restaurant over and over again. Example: "Where do you want to eat tonight? Ah, we should go that private-owned pizza place!" and just keep on suggesting that certain place all the time. Sooner or later your friends will just follow.
 Make sure it is something that is matching and that many people at school will see. Try classic silver bracelets or necklaces. Make sure to buy something that will match everything so that your friends can wear them every day. When you buy the gifts, include a card or message that could say something like "lets wear all wear these to school on Monday." then a few days later if your friends haven't worn them ask if they didn't like your gift. When they say they did like it, you should encourage them to wear your gift more often. Also, suggest that you and your clique wear these gifts all on the same days to express to everyone at school that you guys are friends and no one should mess with you. Make it sentimental or fun rather than trying too hard to be cool.
 The only way to get your friends to follow the latest trends are to go shopping with them and tell them they'd look really great in whatever is the latest fashions. Then, give them a makeover and do their hair. Suggest to them that they should try it every day.
 if you say it constantly, but not too much, then they might pick it up and when they do just causally say ,"that's our thing".
 If you go to the mall make sure you ONLY invite the people you want to be in your clique.

