 Get rid of all your conservative clothing and make your own clothing, or buy clothing from thrift shops and be creative. Wear what makes you happy and what feels nice to wear, and try not to shop for brand names instead of what you actually like to wear. Being unique and in tune with yourself isn't about big brand names and designer labels!;
, Stargirl wears no makeup, she loves the outdoors and nature, and she doesn't really care about what she looks like, for the main part. Let go and just be yourself--don't give in to peer pressure, and never do anything that is against your personal values (not smoking, not drinking, not doing drugs, etc.).
 Stargirl would cheer for random strangers for doing things like throwing a candy bar wrapper away. Cheer for everyone and everything! Be random; extremely and wonderfully random! This doesn't mean that out of the blue, you should say things absolutely random words, which is just stupid. Say whatever comes to mind or what you want to talk about, not just what people want to hear. Stargirl is NOT stupid, just a bit dreamy, so be free and don't think what the rest of the world wants you to think just to make them happy.
 Be extremely nice to people, and be very aware of your surroundings. Read local newspapers, but like Stargirl does, skip the headlines and go to the seemingly insignificant 'filler' articles. Send cards and gifts to people when it is their birthday, leave coppers on the pavement for little kids to find and doodle away to your hearts content on paper, card and anything else you can get your hands on! Sing 'Happy Birthday' to people and cheerfully greet someone who looks upset.
 Stargirl has gone through several throughout her life, as she believes that a person can shed their name if it doesn't 'fit' anymore and take on a new one. Her birth name was Susan, which seemed too plain for her, so she shed it. A few names for herself were, Pocketmouse, Mudpie, and Hullygully. However, if you happen to like your name, or feel that it still fits, feel free to keep it. Nonconformity is all about doing what you like.


Some tips on how to give yourself a good nickname can be to go on a username creator. Type in things that remind you of you, and it comes up with all kinds of different names!

