 Create a list with two columns. Under one column, write down all of the benefits and good reasons to own a dog. Under the other column, write down all of the negative consequences and restraints of owning a dog. If the cons outweigh the pros, a dog may not be right for you.
 Talking to another person can be a great way to understand if your reasons are good enough for adopting a dog. Your friends and family will understand your living situation and lifestyle, and they can help you understand whether adopting a dog is a good idea or not. They may even provide reasons that you did not consider before.
 If you’re still uncertain about your reasons or ability to own a dog, contact a local rescue organization. This might be one that you are interested in adopting from or one that specializes in a breed that you want. They are experienced with dog owners. Tell them your reasons for wanting a dog, and they will be able to tell you if a dog is the right choice for you.
 If you’ve never owned a dog before, you may be uncertain still about what owning a dog entails. Find your local animal shelter, Humane Society, or Society for the Protection and Care of Animals. Ask them if you can help care for dogs. Not only will this let you interact with potential adoptees, but you will have an opportunity to feed, walk, play, and clean up after dogs., If you have friends who own dogs, you might ask one of them if you can borrow the dog for a day or two to see how well you fare with owning a dog. Feed the dog, take them outside to eliminate, groom them, and play with them. This will give you a picture of what your daily life with a dog will be like. If you still want a dog, you may be ready to own one after all., Once you have both evaluated your arguments for wanting a dog and your ability to own a dog, you should compare the two together. Ideally, you should not adopt a dog unless you are completely committed and capable of caring for a dog.


If you have good reasons to own a dog but you cannot provide them a good home, perhaps you should look into a different type of pet, such as a cat, guinea pig, or reptile.
If you’re not sure about your reasons but you can provide the dog a good home, you might spend some more time thinking about your commitment of caring for a pet.
If your reasons are sound and you can provide a good home, a dog may be the right choice for you.
If you have tried volunteering or dogsitting for a while and you still want a pet, your reasons for wanting a dog may be strong enough.
 It can be tempting to adopt a dog on impulse. Perhaps you saw a puppy in a window, or maybe you went to an adoption event "just to see." If you have not seriously considered your reasons for adopting a dog before, give yourself some time before you go through with the adoption. Time will allow you to rationally consider your reasons, and you may be able to arrive at a more sensible conclusion.

