 If you suspect something is wrong with your dog, it's important to take your dog to the vet. Signs of this type of cancer aren't always obvious, but you may notice your dog is limping or that it has swelling in one of its legs. You may also notice signs of pain, such as an unwillingness to walk very far., Your vet is likely to perform a rectal exam on your dog. The point of this exam is to make sure the tumor or cancer isn't originating elsewhere and to check if it has spread to a regional lymph node. The vet will basically be feeling and visually checking for another tumor., Your vet will likely need to take x-rays of your dog before moving ahead with treatment. X-rays will give your vet an idea of how big the tumor is, as well as how far the cancer has spread. That way, the vet can devise the best form of treatment for your dog.Mostly, your vet will be looking at your dog's back and legs plus x-ray his chest to see if there is any spread and to see exactly where the cancer is.
If your vet finds something, they may order a CAT scan to view the area better., A biopsy is where they draw part of the tumor up with a needle. A biopsy just means they are taking a tissue sample of some sort so they can take a better look. The vet can then send it for testing to help determine what type of cancer your dog has., Your vet may order other tests if they're needed. For instance, they may take a blood sample before doing an x-ray. The blood test tells your vet if cancer is likely. They'll look at the blood cell counts, for example., Surgery is one of the main options for treating osteosarcoma. It's a good option because it provides pain relief, while at the same time, letting your dog still have a good quality of life.The first choice is always a limb-sparing surgery. However, that's often not an option. The tumor is usually not small enough, for one, plus there are risks of infection and the tumor coming back.Limb-sparing surgeries are more likely to have complications than amputation., While it's hard to think about, amputation of the limb may be the best option for giving your dog a good life. Most dogs do just fine with only three legs, and the surgery removes some of the cancer, as well as reduces pain., After surgery, your dog will need to have chemotherapy to keep the cancer from spreading, if that's what you decide to do. The main forms of chemotherapy that are used for this cancer are carboplatin and cisplatin. However, doxorubicin may also be an option.Of the two options, cisplatin is cheaper. However, carboplatin is generally safer for the dog.
One reason chemotherapy is important is the cancer will spread to the lungs if it's not treated.Chemotherapy alone without surgery will not provide any benefits to your dog. Also, alternative therapies are not likely to help., If you can't afford surgery and chemotherapy or it's not a good option for you dog, you should try to reduce the pain your dog is in. One option is radiation therapy. It won't treat the cancer itself. However, it will make your dog much more comfortable.However, with this treatment, dogs can also develop fractured bones from the cancer., Physical therapy can help after surgery to make your dog's quality of life better. You would use physical therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy. Massage therapy is also an option., About half the dogs who develop this disease only survive a year after treatment. Others may live as long as 5 to 6 years, though older dogs are actually more likely to live longer than younger dogs., One final option, as your dog gets sicker, is euthanasia. Of course, you don't want to say goodbye to your beloved family pet. However, even with treatment, you will likely need to euthanize your dog eventually because of this disease. It tends to spread over time. That doesn't mean you need to euthanize your dog as soon as it's diagnosed. Rather, you just need to be watching for signs that it's getting worse, such as being lethargic, not wanting to eat, whining because of pain, or not wanting to move.