 If you have a disability or are traveling with a person who has a disability, knowing that careful preparation of your trip is integral. This can not only help ensure that places you visit are accessible and travel is seamless, but also may provide you contingencies in the case that plans fall through.Gather lots of information about the place you want to visit. Is it accessible to you and your loved one? Will you need to make special arrangements? The more information you can collect and prepare in advance, the better off you’ll be.Consider the toll that travel may take on you or your loved one. Is the person healthy enough to make this trip? To be sure, you may want to check with the person’s doctor before booking the trip.
Consider your expectations for the trip as well. While you may have lots of things you want to see, you may also need to take breaks between travel periods to ensure enough rest between busy outings.;
, This may be the first time you’ve traveled with a person who has a disability and you may not be sure what to do. Speak to a friend who understands disabled travel or contact a disability organization to get tips about how best to prepare and travel with a person who has a disability.Try to research special considerations for your specific disability or your traveling companion’s specific disability. Mobility International offers tips on how to prepare and travel with a person with a specific type of disability.For example, they offer advice for travelers who are autistic, blind, deaf, or who have physical disabilities.If you are traveling with a child who has disabilities, you can contact organizations such as PACER, which specializes in assistance to families with children that have disabilities., It’s important to understand that every state and country has different regulations about accommodating disabilities. Knowing this can help you avoid places where travel may be difficult or impossible., Conducting basic research on places you would like to visit or will visit can help you figure out the best sights and places to see. From travel guides to blogs, there are many different ways to get information about where you’d like to visit.


Most travel guides and even some travel agents or companies will offer separate sections about traveling with disabilities.
You may want to use websites designed for travelers with disabilities to inform your choices of where to go.
The United States State Department offers all kinds of information for travelers, including those who have disabilities. If you are traveling abroad, you may also want to contact the embassy or local consulate to inquire about how accessible the local area is.Contact possible hotels, airlines, bus companies, and attractions to inquire about their accessibility.
Read online reviews of other travelers with disabilities to help figure out the best and most accessible spots to travel.
Consider using mapping technology to your benefit. You can scope out attractions, hotels, and the local area with websites such as Google Maps and Google Street View., It’s a good idea to make your specific travel arrangements as far in advance as possible. Not only can this help ensure that you have accessible amenities guaranteed for your travel, but may also prevent uncomfortable situations on the day of travel.Consider using a travel agent that specializes in disabled travel or has experience working with disabled travelers and their companions. You could also book a tour specifically designed for persons with disabilities and their companions.Book transportation over the phone or in person. Ask to speak to a supervisor or person who specializes in travel for those with disabilities to help ensure that your needs are met.
Try and book with major companies. They are more likely to make accommodations for and have amenities available to those with disabilities

, Many places offer special accommodations, such as rooms or elevators, for those with disabilities. When booking, ask about any special amenities or service the company extends to disabled guests. These will differ based on each disability. The following are examples of needs that require special attention on a trip:Wheelchair. Request airline seats, hotel rooms, coaches and sights with wheelchair access.

Service animal. Book hotels and transportation that permits animals if traveling internationally.Note that under US law, it is unlawful to prohibit service animals or charge a fee for them.Airport transfers. Book transfers ahead of time and make sure you have at least 90 minutes in between flights.Hearing impairment. Make accommodations for all sightseeing tours that are led by tour guides or audio tours. There may be videos or pamphlets that give the necessary information.
 Keep a copy of the any requirements or regulations you may encounter, such as priority boarding or wheelchair access. This can help ensure you get the access you need in a busy travel environment.


Contact TSA Cares, if you are traveling by airline in the United States and have questions. This division supports people with disabilities or medical conditions. Call 855-787-2227 or email TSA-ContactCenter@dhs.gov before you travel.
Make sure to check policies for every aspect of your travel from transportation to accommodations to tours.
Most travelers with disabilities are exempt from regulations on liquids in carry on-luggage if they provide proof of their need for the medication or product such as needles.
 Write a detailed plan for your travel that includes transportation, accommodations, and leisure activities. Make sure to be as detailed as possible, which can help confirm and ensure that you and your traveler with disabilities enjoy your time and have access to every place you’d like to see.


For example, you can break down a plan by day: “Sunday, January 5: Flight from Washington, DC to Berlin at 6pm. Accessible seat and airline transfers with cart booked and confirmed. Pickup by accessible van at Tegel Airport in Berlin. Transfer to accessible hotel.”

, It’s important to visit your doctor if you are traveling with someone who has a disability. This can help minimize any discomfort you may experience or could prevent an emergency during your trip.Be as specific as possible with your doctor about the trip. She may be able to prescribe measure such as coping with long flights or dealing with limited medical facilities at your destination.Ask your doctor to write a succinct and articulate description of the person's disability and keep it with you at all times. There is not always time a lot of time to describe the full breadth of a traveler's needs., If you prepare thoroughly, you may not encounter any difficulties, but it’s always good to carry a list of emergency information such as medications and phone numbers of in case an emergency arises. This may help people contact a doctor or administer proper treatment in a timely manner.Make sure to include a list of medications the person takes and any medical allergies they may have.Carry phone numbers for your doctor and other emergency contacts such as family members.You may consider keeping the number of a local doctor or hospital at each location., Make sure to have an emergency kit and extra prescriptions for any contingency you may encounter during travel. This can prevent unwanted visits to a doctor or immobility because of broken equipment.Wheelchairs or crutches may require repair during the trip. Bring tools and the manual for the device so that your travel isn’t hampered by broken gear.
Make sure to have an extra supply of any medication. It may be impossible to get a prescription from a doctor who doesn’t know your condition. This can also help prevent problems in the event that you lose any of your medications.You may want to keep a first aid kit with antiseptic cloths, bandages, and gauze in the event of a fall, bite, or other emergency.Check and see if insurance covers your travel. If not, purchase travel insurance that can cover any medical expenses you may incur., Before you depart on your trip, confirm any reservations and special amenities you’ve booked. Taking this step can help ensure that everything is ready for your arrival.Make sure to confirm travel, hotel, restaurant, and tour information. Call or email 24-48 hours in advance., Because accommodating a person with disabilities may require some extra time or rearranging amenities, arrive to scheduled parts of your trip as early as possible. This will help minimize discomfort for your disabled traveler and ensure that they have the best access possible.


For airline travel, give yourself 3-4 hours before your scheduled departure. For buses, trains, or rental cars, give yourself 2 hours.
If you are going on a tour, arrive 1/2- 1 hour early to help you get an accessible seat.
Make sure to ask restaurants if they have accessible restrooms or seats.
 If you are traveling to remote areas or in a foreign country, alert either local authorities or an embassy that you are there and your travel itinerary. Providing authorities with this information can prevent emergencies or may help find you if you go missing.Carry copies of every person’s passport or identification in case they are lost or stolen.Report thefts to the authorities as soon as possible., Travel can be overwhelming even under the best of circumstances, so make sure to go at an easy and leisurely pace when you’re traveling with someone who has a disability. This can help ensure that everyone enjoys the trip and don’t get too tired.


Don’t schedule too much. Instead of packing a day full of tours or museums, see one or two that you don’t want to miss.
Allow ample time in between activities as well as time to rest. For example, if you are in Paris, consider taking time to sit in the Tuileries Gardens between visiting the Louvre and the Eiffel Tower. People watching can be just as fun as running from site to site!

, You may run into difficulties during travel such as lack of elevators or difficult terrain. Formulating a backup plan for each place you visit prevent disappointment and help everyone have a continuously good time.


You may want to include two activities that are in close proximity for any plans you make. For instance, if you are in Berlin and there are lines to see the famous Pergamon Altar, you make a quick detour across the adjacent bridge and enjoy a cup of coffee while watching boats sail down the Spree.