 The first step of training is to decide on a trick. For instance, one of the most basic tricks or commands is "Sit." "Sit" is good because you can use it in many situations, from getting your dog to stop jumping to helping him to calm down and wait for a treat., You can use whatever verbal command you want, as long as you are consistent. For sit, obviously the command "Sit!" is the most common., With a treat, you can show your dog what you want him to do. To get him to sit, first show him you have a treat. Then, bring the treat above his head, just out of reach. This action should get him to sit on the floor.If your dog wants to move before you can get him to sit, you probably aren't holding it close enough to him. Bring it directly in front of his nose., As you are using the treat to get him to sit, say your verbal command. So, you would say "Sit!" as you bring the treat above his head.Essentially, you want her nose to go up in the air, following the treat. That action will often get him to put him butt on the ground., When the dog sits or does the command, say "Good dog!" or "Yes!" immediately. Also, give him the treat., Practice for a while using the treat. Once the dog gets the hang of it, try it without the treat. Use the same hand motion and command, but don't have a treat in your hand. When your dog does the trick, praise him for it., Once your dog knows the voice command, work on using the new sign with him. Say the command, and incorporate the new sign. For the first couple of times, it may be best to start with the old hand sign and move into the new one. After a few times, leave off the beginning, but continue with the voice command.In some cases, such as "down," it may be possible to teach him the sign from the beginning. With "down," you generally start in a "sit" position and move the dog to the floor by using a treat and bringing it down to the floor in front of him. Then you modify the sign later so you don't have to hit the floor., Once the dog seems to understand the new sign, try it without the voice command. Make sure you have the dog's attention first by calling his name. He has to be looking at you to get the hand sign. If he doesn't seem to understand, work the voice command and hand sign together some more and then try the voice command again by itself.