 You have every right to be hurting, angry, bitter and sad. Whatever the cause of your breakup might be, it's still a brutally painful thing for both parties.;
, People might sympathize, but it's not their pain. Unlike when someone dies, nobody else truly shares your loss. So try not to make other people miserable.
 They are trained to give you the support and advice you need. If you can't afford it, try a support group. There are tonnes of those on the internet. These are people who have gone or are going through the same thing.
, Make the effort to see them and show them that you are still the same fun and interesting person you were before the split. Remember it's hard for them too. Especially if it was a long relationship. They may need to get to know you on your own again.
 By all means plan your horrible revenge plans, draw elaborate pictures of torture devices and write detailed plans of mass humiliation and pain infliction, and then either burn the pages or stow it away carefully. Do not carry any of it out! The catharsis comes from getting it out of your system. Getting arrested ruins it. It's not going to be satisfying.
 Even if your ex has removed all of his/her things from your shared house, it will still be a house of memories. Get out of there. Move into a nice new area, closer to the new friends that you hopefully have made by now.
 Even if it's just to soothe your broken ego. Chances are you won't meet the new love of your life there, but it will show you that there are indeed many more fish in the sea. You'll also see that some of those fish are way nastier than you believe you are, and some of them are way more awesome than you believe your ex was.
 Paint a piece of furniture a colour your ex would've hated. Go somewhere your ex never wanted to. Dye your hair bright red! Do stuff you always wanted to do, but never could because you always had to consider somebody else.
 It's when everything around you is quiet that you will start to listen to yourself and become more YOU.
, It's made you a more interesting person!

