 It's a good idea to take the time to explain to your toddler why he needs to wear shoes. Tell him that he's likely to hurt his toes or feet if he walks around in bare feet all the time.


Explain to him that walking around in bare feet might lead to stepping on sharp things like little bits of glass or stones. This could cut his feet.
Explain that shoes will protect his feet, keeping them warm and safe, especially when he is outdoors.;
, If your child is very resistant to wearing shoes, try building up to them slowly. Start by encouraging your child to wear slippers around the house while they're playing.


Start with lightweight slippers that the child will barely notice on their feet. Encourage them to wear these for an hour, then two hours and so on.
Once the child grows accustomed to the feeling of his feet being covered up, you can repeat the process again, but this time with shoes.
 You should present shoe wearing as a big event in the child's life, as something they should be proud of. Tell your child that since he's a big boy, he gets to wear big boy shoes.


Make a big deal of the child wearing shoes, and brag about how grown up he is to friends and family.
The child will be much more inclined to wear the shoes if he sees them as a fun, positive thing that earns him praise.
 If your child sees you walking around with no shoes on, they'll want to do the same. Set a good example by always wearing your shoes, especially outdoors.


Explain that the same rules apply to everyone, so if mom and dad are wearing shoes, he must wear them also.
You should also enforce this rule for any older siblings who the child looks up to.
 Once your child grows somewhat used to the shoes, you should set some firm ground rules. Tell your child that you expect them to keep their shoes on in certain situations, like when they go to the park, to the mall or for a walk outside.


If the child complains and attempts to remove their shoes during an outing, explain to them that big boys (or girls) have to wear their shoes, that only babies don't wear shoes and that babies have to stay at home.
When you're out at the playground or supermarket, point to other children who are wearing their shoes and say something like "Look at that good girl over there wearing her shoes like her mommy told her."

, Giving your child the opportunity to choose their own shoes (within reason) can help to make him a little more enthusiastic about wearing them.


Your child might also be more easily convinced to wear the shoes if they are brightly colored, have flashing lights or feature the child's favorite cartoon character.
 A lot of times, toddlers will refuse to wear shoes because they find them heavy and uncomfortable. Therefore, choosing lightweight, comfortable shoes made from a soft material is your best option.


Heavy, thick-soled shoes can prevent the child from moving normally, which can be off-putting.
 Not all brands of shoes are made to the same specifications, so a particular size in one brand of shoe will not be identical to the same size in another brand.


Toddlers have different types of feet - some are wide, some are narrow; some are flat, some have high-arches. Choose a shoe brand that suits your child's feet.
If you are unsure about what type of shoe is best for your child's feet, ask an experienced sales assistant at a good quality shoe store.
 It's important that the shoes are big enough for your toddler, otherwise he'll find them very uncomfortable.


When he tries a pair on, you should be able to fit your index finger between his heel and the back of the shoe, if you can't, the shoes are probably too small.
You should also check the width off the shoe - if the shoe is wide enough, you should be able to get it on your toddler's foot without too much effort or resistance.
You should also choose shoes that are easily adjusted, such as those with Velcro straps or belts.
 Try the shoes on in the store and observe your child as he walks. He should be moving naturally, without stumbling or walking in a strange manner.


Of course, new shoes always take a bit of getting used to, so if your toddler's walking is just a little exaggerated there's no need to worry too much.
Once you remove the shoes, check your child's feet for any marks, as this could indicate that the shoe was pinching his foot and is too small.
 If your child is used to running around barefoot, wearing sandals can help smooth the transition into wearing shoes.


Sandals will protect the child's feet and offer them more support, but they will also allow more air around the toddler's feet and allow him to wiggle his toes.
Once the child grows accustomed to wearing sandals, you can introduce him to real shoes.

