 Sexual abuse is considered a personal injury, so you'll need to look for personal injury attorneys who practice in your area. Ideally, you'll want to find someone who specializes in representing adult victims of childhood sexual abuse.Family or friends may be good resources for recommendations of attorneys, as well as other attorneys you know – even if they practice in another area of law.
Your state or local bar association may have an attorney referral program. Conduct an internet search for "bar association" with the name of your city or state to find the bar association's website.
The bar association's website also typically will have a searchable directory of attorneys licensed to practice law in your area. You can use this to at least get names of attorneys that you can look into further.
Local nonprofit organizations dedicated to helping victims of sexual assault are another good place to get recommendations of attorneys in your area.
Many attorneys who work with these nonprofit organizations also provide free or reduced-cost services, which can be a benefit if you have a limited budget.;
, Most personal injury attorneys offer free initial consultations. You can take advantage of this to interview several attorneys. Particularly when suing for past sexual abuse, you want to make sure your attorney is someone with whom you feel safe and comfortable.Ideally, you should try to interview two or three attorneys. If your list is longer than that, look into attorneys' backgrounds to identify the ones in whom you're most interested.
Most attorneys have their own website that provides details about their practice, past cases, and their personal background and interests.
Be ready to ask each attorney detailed questions about their background and experience, such as how many clients they've represented with cases similar to yours.
When working with an attorney on a lawsuit for past sexual abuse, how comfortable you feel with the attorney may be the most important thing. Keep in mind you'll have to discuss traumatic events in your life in great detail with your attorney. They also must support you during the lawsuit itself, which will involve repeated confrontations with the perpetrator.
 Each state has its own legal requirements for filing a lawsuit against someone who sexually abused you in the past. The attorneys you interview will evaluate your case to determine its strengths and the challenges you'll likely face under your state's law.An attorney typically will ask you questions about the sexual abuse you experienced so they can identify anyone in addition to the perpetrator of that abuse who you could potentially sue.
How long ago the events took place also determines how the attorney will evaluate your case. The older the case, the more difficult and time-consuming it may be to identify and locate witnesses, for example.
Ask the attorney how long they anticipate litigation will take, and their thoughts on possible outcomes. Be leery of any attorney who guarantees a particular outcome. As enticing as it may sound, it's impossible for any attorney to be certain enough at this stage to guarantee results.
However, an attorney will be able to provide a thorough analysis of your case given the law that applies. From there, you'll be able to make an informed decision about what you want to do.
 Before you sue for past sexual abuse, make sure you understand the consequences of filing a lawsuit. You must be strong enough to handle the invasive questions and loss of privacy you likely will face.On the one hand, you have the opportunity to bring the perpetrator to justice and shed light on the sexual abuse you experienced, which potentially can help other victims. A lawsuit also can bring closure, since you'll have the opportunity to confront the person directly.
However, these benefits come with a price that you may not be able to fully understand until you're in the thick of litigation. A lawsuit is a grueling experience that can take months, if not years, to fully conclude.
Even if you've dealt with the situation in a therapeutic environment, the way these matters are handled in the litigation context is entirely different. You can't expect your needs and sensitivities to be taken into consideration.
Questions or even the presence of the perpetrator may provoke flashbacks or cause anxiety in ways that you haven't experienced before.
 If you're going to file a lawsuit, having an attorney on your side is an asset for more than one reason. However, it's also important that you understand the costs involved in filing a lawsuit.Keep in mind that if your lawsuit goes to trial, it ultimately could cost tens of thousands of dollars. Any attorney you hire should give you a detailed breakdown of the possible expenses involved as well as their fees.
You may be able to get an attorney who is willing to take your case pro bono (free of charge), or who calculates their fees on a sliding-fee scale based on your income and assets.
If you decide to hire an attorney, make sure you get information about the costs of the case and their fees in writing. Have them go over the retainer agreement before you sign it.
 When you hire an attorney, their first step likely will be to send a demand letter to the person you want to sue. This letter alerts the person to your intent to sue and may propose a way to settle the case without a lengthy court battle.Some courts require proof that you have made an attempt to settle the dispute privately before resorting to a lawsuit. However, your attorney typically will want to send a demand letter regardless of whether it's required.
The letter will outline your allegations, with as many details as possible about the sexual abuse you experienced and when it occurred.
The demand letter also includes an amount of money to which you believe you are entitled to compensate you for the mental and physical injuries you incurred as a result of this abuse.
Typically the person will be given a week or two to respond to the letter before you file a lawsuit.
Sending a demand letter actually may get a positive response from the person and lead to negotiations that allow you to settle the lawsuit without the time and expense of filing a lawsuit. However, keep in mind it is more likely that the person will refuse your demands.
 Before you start drafting the court documents that will initiate your lawsuit, you need to assess the strength of your case. Finding evidence of the sexual abuse you suffered helps focus your factual allegations.Depending on how long ago the abuse took place, you may have a hard time finding much concrete evidence that supports your claims.
As difficult as it may be, think back to the events and when and where they took place. Try to identify other people who were around at the time or who might have been aware of what was taking place.
If you had a diary or journal at the time and can find it, see if you wrote anything about the abuse.
You also want to gather basic identification evidence. For example, if the person who sexually abused you was your high school basketball coach, you must establish in court that you went to that high school, the person you're suing worked as a basketball coach at the school at the time, and that you were on the basketball team that they coached.
 Where you sue often is as important as what you're suing for. Generally, you'll want to sue in a court where the person you want to sue lives, or in the county where the sexual abuse took place.This can be difficult if you've moved away from the place where the sexual abuse took place, because typically you must file a lawsuit there – not in the state or county where you currently live.
However, if you don't choose the right court, the defendant can have your lawsuit dismissed and then you'll be right back at square one.
For this reason, it's important to identify where you were when the abuse took place and where the person who abused you currently lives. Based on that information, you can figure out where to file the lawsuit.
If you determine that your lawsuit must be filed in a different state or county, your attorney will find another attorney there to assist on the case. That way you can still work with the attorney you've chosen.
 The complaint is the court document that initiates your lawsuit. This document identifies you and the person you're suing. It then lists factual allegations that add up to a violation of the state's law, entitling you to monetary damages.If you've decided not to hire an attorney, you may be able to find a form or template you can use to draft your complaint. Contact the clerk's office of the court where you want your lawsuit to be heard, or check the court's website to see if a form is available for download.
On the other hand, if you've hired an attorney, they'll draft the complaint for you and go over it with you before it's filed with the court.
In addition to a list of specific factual allegations, your complaint must include a specific amount of monetary damages to which you believe you're entitled.
This amount of damages typically is calculated by adding up any specific expenses you've incurred, such as fees for therapy appointments or the cost of prescriptions for mental illnesses or anxiety you've suffered as a result of the sexual abuse.
In addition to these actual damages, your total also will include an amount for the pain and suffering you've experienced in the years since the sexual abuse, and will continue to experience in the future.
 Once you've completed your complaint and any other documents required by the court, you must take them to the clerk's office of the court that you want to hear your lawsuit. This filing process starts the legal ball rolling.You'll need your original documents, plus one copy for your own records and an additional copy for each person you're suing. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's records and return the copies to you.
You must pay filing fees to file these documents that will begin your court case – typically these fees will be several hundred dollars.
If you've hired an attorney, they'll let you know whether you need to pay these fees immediately out-of-pocket, or whether they'll be added to the costs of your case to be taken out of any settlement or court award you receive.
On the other hand, if you've decided to represent yourself, you'll have to pay these fees to get your lawsuit started. If you can't afford them, ask the clerk for a fee waiver application.
If you have extremely limited income and assets, or if you're currently receiving public benefits, the court may waive the filing fees for your lawsuit.
 Once you've filed your complaint, you must have it delivered to the person you're suing so they have notice of the lawsuit against them and an opportunity to defend themselves.There will be fees involved with having the defendant served using the proper legal process. Generally, you can expect these fees to be between $20 and $50 for each defendant you have to serve.
Personal service involves hiring a sheriff's deputy or private process server to hand-deliver the complaint and summons to the defendant. In many courts, personal service is required for the initial complaint and summons.
You also may have the option of using mail service. This involves mailing the court documents to the defendant using certified mail with restricted delivery and return receipt requested.
The defendant must sign to receive the documents, and you'll get a green card back that lets you know when the documents were delivered to the defendant.
 When the person you're suing receives the complaint and summons, they have a brief period of time – typically a couple of weeks – to file a document with the court that responds to your complaint.If the defendant does not respond to your complaint by the deadline established by the court, you may be eligible to win your lawsuit by default. You'll still be required to prove that you're entitled to the specific amount of damages you demanded in your complaint.
However, it's generally unlikely that you'll get a default judgement in a case for past sexual abuse. It's more typical that the defendant will hire an attorney and file an aggressive answer to your complaint denying your allegations.
The defendant also may file a motion to dismiss your case. If this happens and you haven't yet hired an attorney, it's a good idea to do so. Motions to dismiss can result in significant legal argument and are difficult to handle on your own.
 A settlement offer may come to you at any time before trial, including immediately after the defendant is served with your complaint. If you've hired an attorney, they will help you evaluate these offers.When reviewing a settlement offer, consider how much it will cost you – in terms of both time and money – to take the lawsuit all the way to trial.
Your attorney should create a detailed valuation of your case, and advise you on the minimum settlement you should accept.
However, the decision of whether to accept a settlement ultimately is yours alone. Non-monetary considerations may play a role in your decision.
For example, you may personally be willing to accept less money if the perpetrator is willing to admit responsibility for the abuse and formally apologize for their acts.
 The written discovery process involves exchanging information and documents with the defendant that are related to your lawsuit. You'll work with your attorney to respond to the defendant's requests as well as draft requests of your own.Through written discovery, you'll send the defendant interrogatories, requests for admissions, and requests for production.
Interrogatories are written questions that must be answered in writing under oath. The defendant likely will send these questions to you as well. Some of the questions may be difficult to answer, or may cause hurt or anger. It's important to be prepared for the questions the defendant may ask you, and your attorney will help you with your answers.
Through requests for production, you can ask the defendant (and their attorney) for documents that you believe will help your case, or have information that is valuable to your case.
For example, you might request information about any other sexual abuse lawsuits that have been filed against the defendant, and copies of the complaints filed or court orders related to those cases.
 People who knew you, or the person you're suing, around the time of the incidents of sexual abuse may be willing to testify on your behalf. Depending on how long it has been since the abuse occurred, these witnesses may be difficult to track down.Information you acquired through written discovery can be helpful in identifying witnesses. For example, if the defendant has been sued by other victims of sexual abuse, you (or your attorney) may want to speak with those people about their experiences.
Any healthcare providers who noted evidence of sexual abuse or have been helping you deal with the aftermath of that abuse also can serve as witnesses. This may include your pediatrician or personal physician, or a psychologist or therapist.
If the sexual abuse occurred at a school or workplace, other people who worked there, such as coworkers, teachers, or administrators, also may potentially have knowledge or information that could assist in building your case.
 In a past sexual abuse lawsuit, expert witnesses typically include therapists and other healthcare providers who can discuss the abuse you experienced and the physical or psychological damage you've suffered as a result.Mental health professionals are frequent expert witnesses in past sexual abuse cases, if you've talked to anyone about the abuse you've suffered.
You typically must sign waivers of confidentiality that will allow a medical professional to testify on your behalf.
If possible sexual abuse was noted by a physician or pediatrician at the time the abuse was taking place, these healthcare providers also can serve as expert witnesses.
Keep in mind that the defendant may require you to be evaluated by a healthcare provider of their choosing in conjunction with the lawsuit.
 Depositions involve interviewing parties or witnesses under oath regarding their testimony and their stories of the events that took place. The transcript of these interviews is prepared by a court reporter and made available to both parties.If your case gets to this stage, you can almost guarantee that the defendant's attorney will want to depose you.
Your attorney will help you prepare for this deposition by going over some of the questions you probably will be asked. Keep in mind that this potentially will be an intrusive and uncomfortable experience.
Your attorney also will want to depose the defendant. Since typically you will be in the room when the defendant is deposed, take care to prepare yourself for that confrontation.
If you aren't able to be in the room with the defendant under these circumstances, let your attorney know.
 In mediation, a neutral third party trained in dispute resolution facilitates settlement negotiations between you and the defendant. Many courts require parties to any civil lawsuit to at least attempt to resolve their dispute through mediation before scheduling the case for trial in court.If you feel intimidated or frightened to be in the same room or speak directly to the defendant, let your attorney know.
Typically mediators move the parties to separate rooms for the actual negotiations, and this is part of the reason why.
If you are able to reach a mutually agreeable settlement through mediation, the mediator will draw up a settlement agreement that lists the terms and conditions to which you both agreed.
Once you both sign this agreement, it becomes a legally binding document that you can enforce in a court of law.
On the other hand, if you are unable to reach a settlement through mediation, you must begin preparations for trial.
Keep in mind that the defendant still may attempt to settle the case in the days and weeks leading up to the trial itself.

