 The Petition for Name Change (Child) form begins the process with the court to getting your child's name changed. Fill in all the blanks and sign and date the form. The Consent to Name Change of Minor Child form lets the court know that both of the minor child's parents agree to the name change. If the child has legal guardians, they must also fill out this form. If both parents do not agree on the name change, a Notice of Hearing on Name Change of Minor Child form will be required., Fill out the Order Setting Hearing form as completely as you can. After filing, the judge will complete this form to let you know when and where your hearing will be held. The Notice of Hearing on Name Change form will be required for you to publish notice of your child's name change hearing if both parents do not agree on the name change. You will also need to prepare the Order for Name Change form, which the judge will sign upon finalizing the name change., Make copies of the Petition for Name Change (Child), Consent to Name Change of Minor Child, Notice of Hearing on Name Change of Minor Child, Order Setting Hearing, and Order for Name Change forms. After copying, bring the forms to the Clerk of District Court’s office in your county courthouse. Ask the clerk to conform your copies and give him or her a self-addressed, stamped envelope to use to mail them to you. You may have to pay applicable filing and/or copy fees., The Order Setting Hearing that you will receive after filing your forms will tell you where you must publish a Notice of Hearing on Name Change. This will be a newspaper publication once per week for four consecutive weeks. You will need a receipt or affidavit from the newspaper verifying that you have published the notice in accordance with the law., You will need to attend the hearing on your child's name change, during which the judge may ask you and the child some questions. Upon ordering the name change, the judge will sign the Order for Name Change, which you should bring to the Clerk of District Court. You may want to get several certified copies while you are there.