 With time, it is easy to forget what the special qualities that draw you to your partner. Putting everything good about your partner down on a paper will help you realize the good in the person that you are with, and it might make you put more value into that person. You could also make a list about the good things in your relationship, or good memories. A good idea is also to give the list to your partner, for him/her to enjoy and let them know some of the things you that you like about them. Don't create any list with the negative things, this will only make them appear and feel worse.;
, It's important to have good communication with your partner. It makes both of you know that you are there for each other, if one of you needs to talk, and that you respect each other's opinions, wishes, experiences and dreams.
 You should always do something together, whether it's just lying in bed, watching a show or if it's going out to eat at a nice restaurant. Anything, with a certain amount of variation, will bring you closer together, as you realize that you do things together as a couple and that you have a good time when you do it.
 Make them fun. Whether it be walking the dog, going to the store, or just relaxing watching TV, quality time spent together strengthens the bond that two people share together. You should always do something together when the time is available. Anything with a certain amount of variation, will bring you closer together; you can enjoy doing things together as a couple and have a good time when you do it.
 But, not by picking at sore points. When you feel a little bored of life at home, it's a good idea to plan something different, and go out together. You can do something for fun; think about the dates that you had when you just started dating. Make each other laugh, play and be sort of silly! It's releasing, calming and strengthens your relationship.
 It doesn't have to be something expensive, it can even be something you have made yourself, or something simple as flowers, chocolate or a perfume or even a sensuous romantic massage after a long tiresome day. Do this once in a while, so that your partner remembers that you think about them.
 Poems are a great way of showing someone you care for them, especially because it takes time to write -- and it requires a lot of thinking about your feelings towards the person. You can find many guidelines on the Internet to know how to write a poem, but what you write should always come from the heart.
 Being romantic is a way to express your and your partner's love for each other. And, you get so much out of it too, so that you will feel good, you will feel in love and creative. There's many ways to be romantic - when you talk, when you make love, when you walk together, when you do anything. Even if you are not home, you can send text messages, and come home with a surprise, or plan something nice without your partner knowing - like a trip or a special date.
 candlelight dinner is something that would make your partner happy.You can use a romantic song to set the mood. Cook your partner's favorite meal and surprise them with a romantic candlelight dinner with champagne followed by a romantic dance!