 Set up a booth at industry-related trade shows. There, buyers and other interested parties can get more of a hands-on understanding of your business. You can find trade shows through your listservs, your industry, or through trade groups online like the Trade Show News Network.Just as you want people to have something to do when they land on your webpage, give them something to do at your table as well.
 Even better, leave out a fishbowl into which visitors can drop their business cards. Hold a drawing at the end of the tradeshow to give free prizes that relate to your company, like gift certificates. Be sure to have plenty of business cards of your own handy to hand out as well.
 Don’t forget to follow up after the show ends! Thank people for visiting, and offer to answer any questions they may have. You can add them to one of your targeted email lists, and give them online coupons.
 Join local, national, and even international trade organizations. Look for nearby events hosted by your local chapter. You can also find potential leads by looking at clubs with interest areas relevant to your business. Look at Meetup.com,for example, to search for clubs and meetups by industry and in your geographic location.


Look for well-attended events. Sometimes an event will show an RSVP headcount, or the group will list its membership numbers. This can help you see which groups and meetups are most popular.
Read reviews of past events, if possible. This can help you see if the events were, in fact, well-attended and well-liked. This may also help you see if the topics of the meetup match up with its the advertised title and description.
 Going to alumni events can be a great way to reconnect with old friends, but also a way to meet new ones that graduated before or after you. Many people switch jobs or start companies that might be a good fit with your work. They're also usually more receptive to doing business with someone from their old school.


Find common experiences. With alumni, you can talk about a number of topics to find common ground. Ask about majors, sports and other extracurricular activities, favorite places to hang out at school, and graduation year (if it doesn’t already say it on the nametags).Arrange to contact them after the event. Since you’ll want to follow up with any potential leads you meet, ask for a business card. You could offer yours first and then they may reciprocate, or you can initiate. Send a nice email saying you were pleased to meet them, and schedule an informational interview at their convenience, if you’d like., You can host your own events too, of course. They could include launch parties, anniversary parties, info sessions, or holiday parties. If you’re unsure about how to host an event, or if you have a smaller events budget, you can always co-sponsor an event. Just be sure to be realistic about your goals, to find a partner that syncs well with your brand, and to add value of your own.Your company could be the food sponsor or the “brought to you by…” company, for example.

