 Research the local schools and go check them all out to see which one is a good fit for you. You should look at the types of teachers and their accessibility to students, the variety of classes and how they fit with your goals for the future, the social climate, the class sizes, etc.


For example, if you intend to apply to prestigious colleges, it might be a good idea to choose a school based on their academic reputation, the number of teachers who hold advanced degrees (Master's degrees and PhDs), the success rate of their college preparation courses, etc.;
, If you are a person who needs more one-on-one instruction to learn effectively, then you should look for a high school with smaller class sizes.
 Pick classes that fit your abilities and your goals. If you are aiming for college acceptance, take the college preparation classes that your school offers. If you are looking at getting a job right out of high school, you might look into some vocational programs available at your school to help you gain the skills you'll need when you graduate.
 Your academic responsibilities will be much greater in high school compared to what you've experienced before. It may be helpful to get a planner or journal of some sort to help you keep track of all of your homework and activities.
 You need to stay on top of your due dates and complete your assignments on time.


Try coming up with an organizational system that helps you keep track of when things are due so that you can accomplish one thing at a time instead of being overwhelmed by the quantity of work.
 Get all of the supplies you'll need for your first day of classes. This includes things like notebooks and pens, but you'll also need to make sure you have your locker number and your class schedule.
 If your school has an orientation or registration night, go to it! This will help you figure out where everything is located so you know where you're going on the first day.


Going to orientation will also give you an opportunity to check out other things, like how big your locker is, where the bathrooms are located, etc. You don't want to bring a backpack to school that won't fit inside your locker!

, Everyone will be nervous on the first day, so you're not alone in that. Try to be a little outgoing so that you can bond with your classmates. Remember, this is a new experience for everyone!


Pick out an outfit for the first day of class that makes you feel the most comfortable and confident.
 In high school, there are many different groups of people. Some of these groups are defined by how the members dress, some by religious belief, some by talent or skill. One of the easiest ways to make friends quickly in high school is to figure out what community you belong in and start participating with the other members.


If you're a smart kid, make friends in your advanced classes. If you're an athlete, make friends with your teammates. If you're very religious, find out if people from your church attend your school. Finding like-minded people means that they will have similar priorities to you, so you can engage in similar activities together (doing homework, practicing your sport, going to church, etc.).
Of course, this doesn't mean that you should exclude people outside of your immediate clique. This is just an easy way to quickly make friends when you first enter high school.
 Playing a sport or participating in other activities is a great way to make friends and feel like you're part of something special. Think about your personal strengths and choose an activity that fits with those.


You could try out for the football team or enroll in band or chorale. In these types of activities, you spend a lot of time with your teammates, bandmates, etc. This basically gives you an immediate group of friends to feel comfortable with. They often take trips together (to out of town games, to music competitions, etc.), so there is a lot of quick bonding between group members.
 Most schools have clubs that cater to various students' interests. There are acting clubs, woodworking clubs, student councils, environmental clubs, and many others. These activities look great on resumes and college applications and are a great way to build relationships with other students.


However, don't try to do too many extracurricular activities as it is still important to focus on your studies., Go to some Friday night football games or buy a dress and attend your school's prom. Being around other students and participating in the same activities will help build a sense of camaraderie between you and your classmates.
 High school is the time when many people have their first serious relationship, lose their virginity, or at least have their first real crush. Dealing with these situations can be very exciting, but sometimes feelings can get hurt as well.


Make sure you choose good people to share these experiences with. Don't waste your time on someone who doesn't care about your feelings because they will only hurt you. Picking someone to date who shares the same goals and values as you will lead to more overall happiness.
Having a good group of friends to lean on during these experiences is crucial. Talking through the details of interactions with your crush or sharing the differences of what your first kiss was like is an important part of becoming an adult.
Practice safe sex to avoid diseases and unwanted pregnancies., The easiest way to do this is to simply be kind to those around you.If one of your friends tries to start a fight with you or spreads a mean rumor about you around the school, they are probably just deflecting negative emotions about themselves onto others to make themselves feel better. Responding to this negative behavior only makes it worse. So, try to ignore the gossip, don't engage in arguments with them, and things will eventually get better. You can't control other people's behavior; you can only control how you respond to it.
 Bullies are people who make other people feel small in order to make themselves feel better. They often push other kids around, take their things, or call them names.The best thing to do when you see someone getting bullied is to report it to a teacher or principal and to avoid the bully personally.
If you are getting bullied, you should stick up for yourself in the moment, but don't take it too far. Avoid fighting or making a scene.
 High school can be a very difficult time for both teens and their families. High school students are entering puberty and are, as a result, filled with hormones that they have to get used to handling. Everything seems like a big deal and they are just learning how to deal with these new feelings.


If you find yourself fighting with your parents a lot, try to take a step back and ask yourself how much the thing you're fighting about really matters.
If it's not an emergency, try to cut your parents a little slack and they'll probably be more willing to help you if you're not yelling so much. Try talking to them about what's bothering you instead of pushing them away with arguments.
 Get a planner, organize your notebooks by subject, take detailed notes in class, don't miss a practice or rehearsal or club meeting. Keep track of your activities and your homework so that you don't get too far behind.
 Your teachers are a valuable resource to you that all too few students utilize. Spend some time after class asking your teacher questions about the assignment. They will remember this extra effort on your part and will keep that in mind when assigning grades.
 School counselors and administrators can help with a wide variety of problems, so it is good to familiarize yourself with them and to introduce yourself to them.
 Anyone in a position of authority at your school can help you if you are having problems. Ask the principal, teacher, another student, or any other adult you see. Everyone will be glad to help you, whether it's with an issue at home, about another student bullying you, or even if you are simply having trouble in one of your classes.

