 Haruhi is always studying. See How to Get Straight "A"s. She has a lot of common sense (which isn't very common at Ouran). Try to study and work hard in school, be sensible and do the right thing. Haruhi works hard in other things besides school, like housework. Try to work hard in both areas. This will show to others that you are smart and hard working.;
, Haruhi is the kind of girl who does things for herself. You can try to get things done by yourself such as cleaning your bedroom, doing your homework by yourself. This will show you are responsible and independent.
 Haruhi is smart but has no idea when someone is crushing on her. You can try to be oblivious by asking lots of questions, being innocent and unknowing.
 Haruhi can easily understand how somebody feels. You can be understanding by listening to others, understanding situations and seeing how somebody is feeling.
 Not ever, even if something happens to be funny to others; just watch them laugh and pretend to insult them under your breath. When something is surprising, pretend that you already knew about it.
 Haruhi isn't materialistic. She's really not girly in any way, she tries to save her money any way she can, like getting freebies from the store. Work hard for your money and save it.
 Haruhi has dark brown short hair that is about 2 inches (5.1 cm) long. In a pixie cut that is slightly wavy too. Get some pictures that show her hair and give it to a hairdresser. Dye your hair dark brown too. To achieve her wavy hair, put in those hair-curlers (large ones not small ones).
 Haruhi is more of a tomboyt than a girly-girl. Try purchasing baggy clothes that don't show off your figure too much. For example; baggy jeans, a long sleeve white t-shirt and sneakers. Don't wear make-up or wear too many hair accessories. Haruhi only wears about 2 clips on the side of her bangs.
 Preferably in shades of grey, blue, black and red.
 Haruhi can respond to he or she. It will take a lot of practice but with time it'll come naturally.

