 Plan to host it in your backyard, a park or another outside area. Crawfish boils are traditionally fun outdoor parties. To set up for the party, you will need the following:


An outdoor eating area
A 60 gallon (227.1 L) pot
A large metal strainer with a handle
Outdoor cooking facilities, such as an outdoor cooking burner

, Depending on the size of the party you're having, you'll need 20 to 30 pounds of crawfish. Plan on ordering 2-3 pounds per person. Most of the weight will be in the parts of the crawfish that are discarded.


If you're in the US South, crawfish is seasonally available in seafood and grocery stores, in addition to crawfish trucks.
Other states, such as California, have locally-harvested crawfish. Check with your local fishmonger.
Crawfish can also be purchased online.
Live crawfish should be kept cool and away from light and heat until they're ready to boil.
 This process is also called purging the crawfish. Place them in a large bucket and fill it with clean water. Use a paddle to stir them around for a few minutes. Rinse them and put them in another clean container.


Don't let live crawfish sit in water for too long, as they will drown.
Some people add a box of salt to the water to help purge the crawfish.
Dead crawfish will float to the top, and should be discarded.
 Fill it halfway with water and bring it to a boil. Stir in the following ingredients:


The juice of 8 lemons, and the lemon peels.
1 pound crawfish boil seasoning.
 Throw in the following ingredients and allow them to boil for ten minutes:


8 onions, peeled and sliced in half
10 pounds new potatoes
20 ears of corn, shucked and cut in half
5 heads of garlic, split in half

, Place the crawfish in a wire basket with a handle, or a strainer, and lower it into the water. Let the mixture boil for five more minutes. Turn the burner off and cover the pot. Allow the crawfish to sit and cook for another 30 minutes. Remove the lid and take the strainer full of crawfish out of the pot. Allow them to drain.
 Spread newspapers over picnic tables or other outdoor tables you have set up. Dump the vegetables directly onto the table, then dump the crawfish on top. Allow your guests to serve themselves on paper plates.


Provide extra spices, butter, and other condiments if desired.
If you would rather not serve the boil in the traditional Cajun style, scoop the vegetables and crawfish directly onto plates.
 Since many people may be new to the experience, give a demonstration on how to twist off and suck the head, peel the shell from the tail, and eat the delectable meat.

