 Open the app by tapping on its icon from the home screen or app drawer. The icon is a white square with a man inside it.


If you don’t have My Coach yet, you can get it for free from Google Play.;
, Once the app opens, tap “I’m ready” and then on “Choose workout time” at the bottom of the screen. Set the workout time (the time of the day when you want to work out), and then tap on “Set.”

, After setting the workout time, you will be asked to log in. You can log in using your Facebook account by tapping the “Login with Facebook” option; however, logging in is optional. You can still use the app without logging in. If you opt not to log in, just tap the “Cancel” button to access the app’s dashboard.
 On the dashboard, tap “Add workout” at the bottom of the screen. A menu will appear listing different workout types, like Push-ups, Sit-ups, Abs, Bars, and so much more. Tap the workout you want to do.


You will then be asked “How many can you do?” Tap on either the plus (+) or minus (-) icons on the left and right side to increase or decrease the count. For instance, if you selected push-ups, it will initially show 5–10 push-ups. If you want to increase it, tap +, and it will display 10–15.
Once, you have selected the number of counts for that particular workout, tap “Add workout” below the count option. You will be taken back to the workout list. Continue adding more workout types you want to do. There are no limits to the number of workouts you can add.
 Once you’ve added all your workouts, tap the back icon at the left top corner of the screen to go back to the dashboard.
 Swipe the screen to your left to view different pages. Each page has a single workout. Continue swiping until you find the workout you want to perform.
 Once you’re ready to start a workout, tap the play icon (triangle) at the center of the screen. The number of cycles, based on the information you entered earlier, and number of times you need to do the workout in one cycle will then be displayed.


Start doing the workout as displayed by the first cycle. If you are able to complete the number asked by the cycle, tap “Done”. If you tried but couldn’t finish, tap “Tried.”

, Once you tap “Done,” it will display the rest time, and the countdown will begin (in seconds). Take a rest for the duration of countdown.
 After resting, do the second cycle of the workout. Again, if you were able to complete the number specified per cycle, tap “Done”, or else tap on “Tried.”


Rest after the cycle and then continue with the workout according to the number of times you designated when you set up the workout routine.
 When you’re finished with one particular workout and want to continue to another type, tap the close (X) icon at the left top corner of the screen. You will be taken back to the dashboard. Swipe to the left until you come across the workout you want to perform, and repeat the steps of doing the workout and resting according to the number of times you set.


If you’re too tired to finish a particular workout and tap the close icon, you will receive a “Workout not complete” message below the play button.

