 Get your answer ready because it will happen. If you have never had a child, decide what you want to disclose to others. "We decided to follow our careers" or "Our dogs are our children" or "We were unable to have children" or "We decided before we got together that the world is just too populated." It all depends on how much information you want to disclose.;
, The question was asked, give the answer you are most comfortable with.
 Do you say "Well, we had three but lost one" or just include all of your children and let the conversation move on?


Most people that have lost a child will inevitably want the world to know their loss. Our children were here. We are all only here for a certain amount of time and parents of dead children have a deep need to keep that child's memory alive. Again, the question was asked.
You will get many different reactions from your answer. If you try to avoid the heartache this question stirs in you and give a generic answer without bringing up your loss the conversation may continue without opening that door. It may also leave you empty or even wishing you had opened up.
If you do answer truthfully be ready for some strange reactions. You will get some that offer solace and sympathy but very rarely will you get true empathy. Misery loves company but most people do not want to have to deal with other people's misery. It is not their fault. Unless it has happened to them they truly don't know how to deal with it. We are all trying to find happiness in this life. If a sadness jumps in, they are taken aback and some will even find reasons to avoid you after dealing with your answer.
Sometimes you will find that the person you are talking to truly cares and wants to hear more, but be ready, at some point you will be hurt because most people find it sad and regret asking the question.
You are now a member of a group that not everyone is in or even understands. If your child was killed tragically in an event like suicide or murder, then you are in an even smaller group. These issues will bring even different responses. They may be intrigued and ask questions but be ready for the ones that now see you as damaged goods and want to avoid you, maybe even judge you. Some may even think you are "bad luck" something to be avoided. Again, this is not their fault. It is self preservation for us to avoid the reality of our own mortality. When you allow them the truth it reminds them of their own mortality.
You will run into at least one person that actually hurts you by telling you to "Get over it" "Move on" or even in the case of suicide, that your child has gone to hell. Do not let this keep you from remembering or wanting to talk about your child. That is your job now. We NEVER get over it, it stays with us forever. You now have the ability to understand that they are fortunate enough not to understand what they are saying.
 When you run across those few that are in this unique group. You will see it in their eyes when the same question is asked of them. Now you have the ability to help them. It is what your child would want.
 It will help so much when you inevitably run across that question, "So, how many children do you have?"

