 You get better at writing through practice. There is no secret way to improve your use of language beyond simple hard work. Make time every day to sit down and work on your project.


Depending on your project, you should have some set goal every day. If you're working in young adult literature and want to have a 150 to 200 page manuscript, a word count of, say, 1,000 to 2,000 words a day can be helpful. Most electronic word processors allow you to easily track word count. If you're working on books for young children, word count may not be as important as works will be shorter. Try to write, maybe, a story or two a day if you're doing short picture books.
Have a particular time and place each day to write. You can clear off a space for yourself at the kitchen counter or set up a desk in your bedroom. Sit down and write every day at a particular time. You could, for example, strive to write after dinner each night or just before bed.
It may be difficult to stay on a schedule at first, especially if you're new to writing itself. Try to remember things will get easier with practice and before long writing will feel routine, just like brushing your teeth or doing the dishes.
 Look into the world of children's literature and ask yourself what's missing. Publishers are always looking for books that expand on current trends. There may be a million young adult vampire novels, for example, but if you can find a fun new spin on the genre this will set you apart.


There is almost always a gap when it comes to genre. In the historical fiction genre, for example, you might notice there are very few books about female soldiers and warriors. A story of a female soldier fighting in the Middle East during one of the recent wars might be something a publisher would be interested in over a story of a male soldier.Don't just be aware of what's popular in the current moment. Publishers are always looking for innovators, who are aware of what will be popular in the next year or next month. Study the history of children's literature and see what kinds of books are popular for a given time period and whether this correlates to anything going on in the world or to current parenting styles. See if you can make a reliable prediction on what might come next.If you have children or have friends or family members with young children, talk to the kids themselves. Ask them what kind of books they wish were available that are not currently widely published.
 One of the most important things to do to successfully write children's books is to pay attention to what children want. As an author, you'll need to know your audience.


Browse children's websites and forums to see how and why kids respond to particular types of books. If you're aiming to write for very young children, you might only be seeing parents' responses but most parents will have a sense of what books their children responded to best.You might want to volunteer for an organization that works with children, especially regarding reading and writing. You could volunteer to read to kids at a library or tutor early readers as part of a back to school program., Writing can be a lonely experience as it's such a solitary act. Joining a writer's group to get feedback and experience from other writers can help you stay on track with your work. You can find groups online, through websites like MeetUp, or you can look for ads at local colleges, coffee shops, and bookstores.