 Kick and Scream is available for free in the Google Play Store.;
, Type 'Kick and Scream' in the search bar and press ↵ Enter to search the application.
 After pressing the 'Install' button, accept the user permissions to start the installation process.
 Create a shortcut on the home screen for easy access.
 You may also tap on the navigation arrows in the top bar.
 Selecting 'Connect your Facebook' allows you to be able to upload photos of your game and access free bonuses—this optional step only takes a moment.
 Selecting it will download the latest challenges and start the game—this step is mandatory.
 In case it is not launched yet.
 A new player will be added to the game.


Make sure to correctly set the gender of each player because this cannot be changed during the game.
Players’ names should be single word and contain no numbers or special characters.
If there are any players with the same name, you must differ them, for example, John and Johnny or Sophie and Sophia.
 Selecting 'Play' validates the added players and starts the game.
 The selected player is going to pick a challenge.
 You may skip a player if someone becomes temporarily unavailable.
 Completing 'Kicks' and 'Screams' earns points and failing to complete them loses points.



Tap on Facebook button to upload a picture to your Facebook profile.
If you found the challenge entertaining, tap on the green button to like it.
Tap on 'Judge' to change your reward.
, Selecting it will show the current players of the game.
 The player will be permanently removed from the game.
 Afterwards, the dialog will appear to select the player's gender.
 The players' names will be updated instantly.
, Selecting it will show the current score.
 Or tap on the Facebook button to share the score to your Facebook profile.
, Selecting it will show the game progress too.
 Choose categories that fit your mood or location of your game.
 Selecting it will prepare the game.



Selecting 'New Game' will exclude 'Kicks' and 'Screams' that have already been completed in the selected game categories. Your score will be saved.
Selecting 'Brand New Game' will reset completed challenges in the selected game categories so that players may be asked to complete challenges which they previously attempted. Your score will not be saved.
 Some device can enter to the settings menu by selecting 'Settings' icon in the app drawer or by tapping the 'Menu' button and selecting the 'Settings' option.
 Find Kick and Scream under the 'Downloaded' category and select it.
 Your app will be uninstalled within a few seconds.