 Warts are caused by HPV (human papillomavirus) and as such, can take quite a bit of time to eliminate naturally by one's immune system. Some warts will disappear over time, without treatment. However, "time" could mean anywhere from a couple weeks to a couple of years, so you may wish to choose a more active method. Whichever method you choose, allow it time to work. Some methods are faster acting than others. The fastest method to removing warts permanently is using 100% TCA. With this method results are often seen in less than 10 days and are permanent. It is also the cheapest and is discussed later.;
, It's effectiveness varies and it can take weeks for it work.


Soak the skin in water for 5 minutes or longer, apply the acid liberally using the brush and let it dry. Leave it for a day. You can either peel or file it off and then file remaining dead skin. Do this every two or three days.
 Several studies have tried to assess the effectiveness of duct tape in removing warts. Duct tape occlusion therapy (DTOT) is supposed to localize medication in the general wart area as well as "choke" the wart itself. One study found that duct tape following the application of imiquimod 5% cream was an effective treatment against the common wart. However it takes a long time (can take up to 6 months) and usually people don't see success with this., Ask your doctor about using cantharidin, a fast-acting chemical that will burn away the wart. Unfortunately, It can be really expensive, upwards of $500. There is some pain involved, but you may see results in just a day.


The doctor applies cantharidin directly on the wart, then applies a bandage. The next day, the bandage is taken off and the dead skin is removed. If it doesn't work in one treatment, you may need another method—your doctor will make appropriate recommendations.
 Another remedy your doctor may try is liquid nitrogen—or cryotherapy—to freeze the wart.It may cause some discomfort, and can take a few treatments to completely remove a wart, but can be very effective. If it's not then the wart will usually come back bigger with bigger blood vessels and be almost impossible to remove. Alternately, many drug stores carry OTC freeze treatments to zap the wart. If using an OTC wart freeze treatment, keep the following tips in mind:

Follow the direction on the wart removal package. Your skin should turn from white to red in a matter of minutes, and a blister should begin to form underneath the wart.
Small black dots should appear beneath the wart after a few days. This is a sign that the treatment is working. Resist the urge to pull the wart off.
The wart should fall off on its own. If it doesn't, treat again after two weeks. Do not treat a wart that has been unsuccessfully treated three times; see a doctor.
 When other methods fail, burning the wart off may be what's needed. There will be some pain involved, and burning can lead to scarring, so the best recommendation it to let your doctor handle it. However, you can try this at home, if you're brave enough.


See your doctor. They can use a laser to burn the wart away. This is sometimes effective, but best recommended after other methods have failed.
Try it at home. Light a match, blow it out, and while the match head is still hot, touch it to the wart. This causes blistering that initiates a healing response. Peel the layer of infected skin off, and cover with aloe and a strip bandage. Repeat as necessary. Try this at your own risk. Very dangerous.
 When in doubt, have your doctor remove the wart by cutting it out surgically. This is something best left to a doctor, to prevent infection, and so that a local anesthetic can be used to mitigate the pain. A doctor will either do this by:



Electrosurgery and curettage. This is where the doctor burns the wart with an electrical current and cuts it out afterward. The wart may still return because the blood vessels are still intact.Laser surgery. This is where the doctor burns the wart with an intense beam of light., Your doctor will be able to counsel you on this treatment, which uses your body's own defenses to attack the wart.
 This is a new medication that is used to treat genital warts as well as other warts.
 This is a topical cream that is used to treat some types of warts and skin cancers by stimulating an immune response. It does not cure warts, but it may help, in concert with other treatments. Ask your doctor for guidance.

