 Some people may be able to mail a personal check to a recipient in Cuba; however, there may be significant delays in processing the check once it arrives in Cuba due to the need to convert the check (which was written for a foreign currency) into a Cuban currency. The recipient may have to pay a fee to her bank for converting the check into Cuban currency, while some banks refuse to accept foreign checks at all.Have your intended recipient check with her banking institution in Cuba to find out if they accept foreign checks, and what costs or fees she might incur.
 Cashier's checks differ from personal checks in that the money is essentially given to the bank by the sender, guaranteeing that the cash will be available to the recipient when it arrives. Banks typically charge a minor fee (usually around $10) to generate a cashier's check, though some banks may offer cashier's checks for free.To send a cashier's check, the sender must go to his banking institution and speak with a bank teller. The teller will verify that the sender has sufficient funds, then will withdraw the desired amount from the sender's bank account.A check is made out by the teller for the desired amount, addressed to the recipient. The recipient may then cash the check at the bank of his choosing., This option is advantageous because it allows the sender to add money to the recipient's debit account, which becomes available to the recipient almost instantly; however, prepaid debit cards may carry additional costs, including activation fees, delivery fees, and monthly maintenance fees.The sender will need to purchase the prepaid card at a participating location. These can often be purchased at most general retail stores and many convenience stores. The card is typically issued by a major credit card company.The sender must load money onto the card. Once the card has money on it, the recipient can use it at most stores that accept credit/debit card transactions.Financial websites like US News and World Report often compare the best and worst prepaid debit cards available on the market. Try a quick web search to find the most up-to-date comparisons for today's market. In addition to cost, it may be worth comparing factors like service or activation fees, as well as fraud protection and customer service options.

