 If you'd prefer to create your business card yourself, you can use the Table tool to make it easier.
 Select "Narrow" to make the margins a little smaller than the default setting. This will allow you to fit the business cards on the page.
 A grid will appear beneath the Table button.
 Use the grid to insert a table that is two cells wide and five cells high.
 This will open the Table Properties window. The selection crosshair appear in the upper-left corner of the table when you hover over it.
 This will make it easier to make the cards even.
 Enter 2" and change the drop-down menu to "Exactly".
 Enter 3.5" and change the drop-down menu to "Exactly".
 You should now have a table on your page that is separated into ten identical business card-sized cells. If the table doesn't fit, you may have to extend your bottom margin by a tenth of an inch.
 Choose "Fixed column width". This will prevent the table from changing shape as you add information to the first cell.
 You can use all of your regular Word formatting tools while typing in the cell. You can insert text boxes and images, change fonts, add color, or perform any other formatting that you'd like.
 Before copying the information into each of the other cells, take the time to review it now for any errors or typos. If you proofread later, you'll have to change each cell instead of just changing the first before copying it.
 You can quickly do this by moving your cursor to the bottom-left corner of the cell until it turns into a diagonal arrow. Click and the cell's contents will be selected. Copy the contents of the cell to the clipboard.
 You can click "Paste" in the Home tab, or you can press Ctrl+V. Your copied information will appear in the cell in the right locations. Repeat this for each of the cells on the page.
 Click the "Borders and Shading" button and select "None" for the border. This will ensure that parts of the cell borders don't appear when the cards are cut.
 You'll want a nice card stock paper to print your new business cards on. Make sure that your printer supports the type of paper that you get. You can also send your completed file off to a printer to have the cards professionally printed.
 Avoid using scissors or other cutting tools that require you to maintain a straight line. Use professional paper cutting tools to make sure your cuts are even and properly measured. The standard US business card size is 3.5" x 2".

