 Clean the bowls, the jets and passages, the rubber diaphragms under the top lid have no holes, and your carb needles, as well as the floats are hung in the right positions, as indicated by the workshop manual for your machine. Check the rubber manifolds for leaks, and make sure your idle mixture screws are adjusted to the indicated number of turns. Your bike should now idle somewhat peacefully.

Twist the idle mixture screw on each carb - you will notice that the engine idles faster or slower. The spot where it idles fastest is the right one, find that on all the carbs, all the while re-adjusting your main idle to the revs indicated in your manual, usually a bit less than 1000 rpm on a 4-cylinder. Congratulations, you have adjusted and synchronized the idle speed!;
, Attach the hoses from the vacuum gauges, and start the engine. Preferably, it is already warmed up., You will have noticed the indicating needles on the gauges going up when you open the throttle, and fluttering like mad when idling. First, let's take care of the fluttering.

Every clock has a little screw, where the tube gets in or nearby. Twist that until the fluttering calms, but does not stop completely. Gun the engine in between adjusting, until all the needles on the clocks are fluttering somewhat calmly at idle. Open her up, and see those needles rise... to quite different places on the clock. Your next step will be to make them rise in unison.
 Depending on your bike, you might have one carb that cannot be adjusted: that is the one to which the others have to be adjusted to.

Loosen or tighten those screws, bit by bit, opening up the throttle in between, until all the needles on the gauges rise and fall simultaneously, in perfect harmony. This does take its time, and can be a bit frustrating, not to mention noisy. Patience and perseverance does it!

, You have successfully synchronized your carbs! However, if your machine, and her carbs, is old and worn, you might never get those needles to behave like a well trained dance troupe. For all those that just want to keep the old beater running, preferably at a tolerable pace, there is a second way of adjusting it.