 Listening is one of the most beneficial methods of learning. If you are willing to listen to any kind of conversations, radio stations, broadcasting or stories, download them onto your iPod, CD, or other devices. Listening to Spanish lessons while driving is a good way also.;
, If you are able to memorize the lyrics of a Spanish song and you're able to repeat it with the song, then you are in a good position to begin speaking fluent Spanish.


If you could not understand the meaning of the lyrics, do not worry about it. Memorize it in the beginning and after a while, and with some practice, you will be able to understand what each word means in the song.
 You might be busy with other things you have in life, but if you want to learn Spanish, try to allot some time for it. You can study from a textbook at least once or twice a week.


Do not forget that you need a dictionary to study the textbook.
 Change your online game settings to Spanish. This way is effective and it helps you recognize the words more often. If you use Facebook every day, change the page to be full of Spanish words. This will help you understand and figure out the meaning of the words you see on the screen because you're already familiar with the English terms.
 Learning a language by yourself can be hard but it is possible. Be enthusiastic about learning the language and ask yourself: "Why am I eager to learn this language?" and "Who inspired me to learn it?".


Be happy every time you see someone speak Spanish. Use it as a chance to listen and learn.
Try to make friends through the web who speak Spanish. If you get to know one another well enough, try Skype or Google Hangouts and speak in Spanish together.
 Imagine that you spent two months doing what is listed above. If so, you will be able to know the basics of this language.


When at home, try to speak to the mirror in Spanish. This sometimes helps you to be confident while speaking.
Try to think in Spanish. Use Spanish words in your head when you are doing something.

