 Place the ground turkey, egg, bread crumbs, minced onion, minced garlic, parsley, salt, and pepper in a large mixing bowl. Use your hands to thoroughly blend the ingredients together.


Customize these meatballs according to your own tastes. For instance, you could use 1 tsp (5 ml) onion powder and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) garlic powder instead of using the freshly minced versions, or opt for Italian-seasoned breadcrumbs instead of using the plain variety.
 Divide the turkey mixture into portions and use your hands to roll each one into 1-inch (2.5-cm) balls. Place the formed meatballs on a plate or tray.Consider using a melon baller or small ice cream scoop to help you form evenly sized, evenly shaped meatballs.
Do not place the formed meatballs directly into your cooking skillet. You should set them aside on another surface. If you don't want to dirty another pan, place the formed meatballs onto a large sheet of aluminum foil.
 Pour the olive oil into a large skillet with deep sides. Set the pan on your stove over medium-high heat.


The skillet should have sides that are at least 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) high.
Skillets that are 12 inches (30.5 cm) in diameter will usually be large enough to accommodate all of the meatballs. If you need to use a smaller skillet, you may need to brown the meatballs in separate batches.
Allow the oil to heat up for at 30 to 60 seconds. Using a hot pan will make it harder for the meatballs to stick later on.
 Place the meatballs in the hot oil. Use tongs to gently rotate them so that they brown evenly on all sides.Make sure that the meatballs do not touch during the browning stage. If the raw meat touches, the meatballs may stick together. Brown the meatballs in batches, if necessary, to prevent this from happening.
The meatballs will need to cook for approximately 3 to 4 minutes on each side. Wait for each side to brown before attempting to turn the meatball since doing so will reduce the amount of sticking that occurs.
 Once the meatballs appear browned on all sides, reduce the heat to medium and pour in the tomato sauce. Cover the pan and simmer the meatballs for another 10 minutes, or until the insides are no longer pink.


Spread the tomato sauce throughout the entire skillet and turn the meatballs over so that all sides come into contact with the sauce. Note that there should be enough sauce to nearly cover the meatballs.
 You can serve the cooked meatballs and sauce directly from the skillet while the dish is still warm. Pair them with pasta, rice, bread, or salad greens.


Alternatively, you can store the meatballs in their sauce by placing them in an airtight container. They should stay good for up to three days when stored in the refrigerator, or up to three months when stored in the freezer.

