 The majority of skin tags are harmless, but it is best to talk with a dermatologist if you notice that the tag is darker than your skin color, large in size, or unusual in shape. If you remove the tag without consulting a professional you could lose valuable time in the event that it is a sign of a larger problem.Skin tags should not drastically change color. If this happens, talk to a dermatologist as well. They will most likely remove the tag and send it for testing if it is suspicious.;
, Your doctor will numb the skin with a cream and use a scalpel to cut the tag away from the base of your skin. They may also snip the tag off using a sharp pair of medical scissors. This procedure, also called excision, is generally a fairly quick and painless procedure., During an office visit your doctor will use a probe to apply a small amount of liquid nitrogen to the site of your skin tag. This method, called cryosurgery, is also used to remove warts. The tag will fall off once it is frozen., With this method, called cauterization, your doctor will use a small probe to apply a heat source directly to the surface of the skin tag. The heat provided by the electrical current will burn off the tag resulting in an easy and quick removal., With this method, called ligation, your doctor will apply a small band to the base of the tag. This will cut off the blood supply to the upper portion of the tag and cause it to die and fall off your skin. The process can take up to a few days and, depending on the size and location of the tag, may be a bit more painful.
 It is very tempting to treat skin tags at home, but your doctor’s care offers some unique benefits. They will use sterile instruments to prevent infection. They will also rub on numbing cream to reduce your pain during and after the procedure. In addition, some of the methods, such as cauterization, are so advanced that they rarely leave a noticeable scar.Since skin tags have a strong and constant blood supply, they are not considered safe to try and remove without medical supervision.
Depending on the location of the tag, it may require the care of a specialist. Tags by the eyes, for example, are often treated by an ophthalmologist (eye doctor)., You can always leave a skin tag alone. If it doesn’t bother you then there is no medical reason why you have to have it removed. It is highly likely that your doctor will recommend no treatment unless you feel strongly the other way.


Insurance companies also often consider skin tag removal procedures to be cosmetic and not necessary. Make sure to check with your insurance to see if any removals will be covered.