 Though the middle finger usually gives easier, louder, "sharper" snaps, some people prefer using their ring finger to snap. The basic approach here is to simply do the basic snapping motion, only with your thumb shifted down one finger. In other words:









Press the pad of your thumb against the pad of your ring finger.
Fold your pinky down against your palm or the base of your thumb.
Build up pressure between your thumb and ring finger. This can be easier if you move your middle finger and index finger down next to it.
Slide your thumb from your ring finger to your middle finger. Your ring finger should snap down and smack against the base of your thumb, making a snapping sound.
 Some people are able to get exceptionally loud snaps by essentially putting their whole arm into the snapping motion, snapping as they whip their hand down. Be careful not to over-do the hand motions here — you can give yourself a sore wrist if you use too much force. To snap with this method:









Get ready to do a normal snap. Press your thumb against against your middle finger (or ring finger, if you prefer), fold the ring finger and pinky down (just the pinky if you're snapping with your ring finger), and build up pressure.
Turn your palm so that it faces to the side (in the direction of your torso). Your arm should be loose and relaxed from the wrist through the elbow.
In one quick, smooth motion, bring your elbow in and turn your palm up. Then, bring your elbow out and whip your hand down, turning your wrist so that your palm faces the ground. Snap as you whip your hand!
If you're successful, you should get an extra-loud snap. Keep practicing if you don't get it at first. This one can take some time.
 When you've gotten the hang of doing one snap at once, try to make two. It's tricky to get the same level of volume with this technique, but getting the double snap sound itself isn't that difficult. To do a double snap:









Get ready to do a ring finger snap. Your thumb and ring finger should be pressed together, with your pinky folded down and your other two fingers lined up next to your ring finger. You must start on the ring finger — you can't do a double snap starting on your middle finger.
Build up pressure against your ring finger. Keep your middle and index finger close to it.
Slide your thumb to your middle finger without letting up on the pressure, then quickly slide it to your index finger without pausing.
If you do this right, your ring finger should snap against the flesh of your palm immediately followed by your middle finger, making two quick (but separate) snapping sounds. Try practicing this rapid-fire double snap along to your favorite song!

, What use is knowing how to snap if you can't recreate your favorite scenes from West Side Story? Snapping with both hands is easy — it's simply a matter of building up your strength and technique in your non-dominant hand with practice once you've mastered snapping with your dominant hand. Any of the techniques above can work for your non-dominant hand, so experiment until you find the one you like the best!









For an added challenge, try using two different snapping techniques at once! For instance, you might try doing normal snaps with your right hand and double snaps with your left.

