 Telling yourself that you are this way makes it seem that you are overreacting to the abuse. You tell yourself that what is upsetting you wouldn’t do the same to others, which just isn’t true.

Instead of accepting the abuse by making the excuse that you are just too sensitive, hold the abusive person accountable. This may translate to ending the relationship or getting distance from the person. Being the recipient of negative words or physical abuse is upsetting, and you should try as much as possible to create your own safe haven from that abuse.;
, Close loved ones often know how to push each other’s buttons. When it happens, there are plenty of healthy ways to resolve the conflict. Abusive behavior isn’t one of them. Stop thinking you drive your loved one crazy or make them mad, so you deserve this type of treatment. No one deserves this, no matter what they do.

The next time your abuser blames you for their inappropriate behavior, remember that this is just another symptom of abuse. You don’t harm them when they upset you, so why should they harm you?, Never think you enjoy this type of behavior. Sadly, some victims rationalize the abuse they receive. They think that because the abuser reacts so aggressively and emotionally towards them, that it means they are deeply in love. The bottom line is that if the person really loved you, they wouldn’t abuse you., You may not believe you are a victim. You might think that you would never tolerate that type of behavior, so it’s not really happening. However, if you’re really honest with yourself you may understand that the emotional or physical punishments that you receive are, in fact, forms of abuse.

For instance, you may think that because the abuser hit you with an open hand and not a closed fist, it doesn’t really count. Or, because the blow you received didn’t result in a bruise, it’s not a big deal. The truth is, however, if a person harms you physically or mentally, it’s abuse.Your safety is the number one priority. You can call a hotline for help, such as the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1−800−799−7233 or the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453).Red flags of abuse may include seeming “too good to be true,” trying to prevent you from spending time with your friends/family, constantly texting/calling you to find out where you are and what you’re doing, encouraging you to quit school/work/hobbies, accusing you of cheating or being excessively jealous, blaming you or others for their behavior, and having a history of abusing other people.Keep in mind that even if you are observing the abuse or are aware that someone you know is being abused, then this is also a form of abuse.
 Abusers often rely on drugs and alcohol to justify their abusive ways. They will likely say that they acted abusive because they were drunk or high. However, this is not an acceptable excuse and you shouldn’t allow it to be so.

A person who acts abusive while under the influence probably has these same tendencies when sober. If the abuser knows they act out of line when drunk or high, they should refrain from using. The fact that they don’t should speak volumes., Your abuser may use a variety of excuses as to why they act the way they do. Don’t fall for them and don’t allow them to make the abuse OK. Lots of people have problems, but they don’t necessarily take it out on others.

Your loved one may blame a horrible childhood or mental issue for their abusive ways. Don’t accept this as a reason. Instead of using this as an excuse, your loved one should get help for their problems., Your loved one may not hit you, but they may abuse you in other ways. Emotional and verbal abuse can be just as painful as physical abuse. In fact, it may leave bigger scars. You may believe that you’re not being abused just because the signs aren’t visible, but you could be.

If your loved one humiliates you, threatens you, throws things at you, downgrades you, and makes you feel terrible, you’re likely being abused. Even if they don’t put their hands on you, what they say can still count as abuse., People choose how they act and react. They can decide to abuse someone or not abuse someone. If someone abuses you, they do it because they want to. Stop believing that your abuser doesn’t mean what they do. They decide they want to do it, and then they do.

While it’s true everyone makes mistakes, abuse isn’t an accident. You may choose to forgive them once. But if your loved one continues this cycle of abuse, then apologizes for it, you may be stuck in this routine unless you do something about it., Abuse victims often have one thing in common: low self-esteem. Abusers often target people who have problems with their self-worth because they know they can take advantage of them. Once you realize, however, that you are too good to deal with abuse, you need to take the steps to leave.

Consider seeking the help of a therapist if you have self-esteem problems. If this is a romantic relationship, you can attend while you’re in the relationship to motivate you to leave. Or, you may want to wait until after you leave to prevent you from being abused again.If the abuser is a family member, you might seek counseling to help you set boundaries to minimize the abuse. Or, you may try to attend therapy together to improve your relationship, if possible.
 Depending on how invested you are into a romantic relationship, you may need to take some steps before you can leave. You may need to save money, figure out what you’re going to do with your kids, get credit in your own name, and even find documentation that proves you are abused. If you’re not married and don’t have children together, you may be able to leave easier.

Ask your friends and family if you can stay with them, if you aren’t able to live on your own. Having a support system right now is crucial, as you’re going to need people to talk to. Preparing yourself before you leave can make the situation easier.If the abuser is a friend or relative, you might involve others in helping you get some distance. For example, if your mother is physically abusive, you might tell an aunt or a friend’s mom to see if you can stay with someone else for a while.
 It’s easy to fall back into what you’re comfortable with. More often than not, however, an abuser will not change. Going back to this type of a relationship is almost always unsuccessful. Not only could the abuse occur again, but you may be resentful the entire time which can lead to other problems.

When you decide to leave, change your phone number, banking account information, and anything you can that separates yourself from your ex. Doing so could keep you safe.Set firm boundaries with relatives who are abusive. Tell them that you will not accept phone calls (and follow-through on that!) and avoid attending family gatherings where they will be present.

