 Before purchasing and installing a doggie door, you will need to ensure that you purchase the right size of door to reflect the measurements of your dog. In order to measure your dog to fit a doggie door, measure their height from the floor to the highest point of the shoulders. Then add two inches (5 cm) to that measurement for extra room. Next, measure your dog’s width at the widest part of their body typically this is along the shoulder blades. Add two inches (5 cm) to this measurement as well.Some doggie doors will also ask for the weight of your dog. Have your dog stand on a scale to determine their weight.
 All doggie doors will come with a detailed set of installation instructions. Make sure that you carefully read through the instructions before you begin the installation process. Instructions will typically provide you with a list of materials provided and any will inform you of all tools you will need in order to complete the installation.


Check to make sure you have all of the parts before beginning installation.
 Most dog doors will come with a template to use for measuring the size of the door. Trace the template onto the door and use a level to make sure that door is not installed diagonally or crooked. Then use a drill to drill a starter hole at any corner. Use your jigsaw to cut out the hole for the door.If you are drilling into an aluminum door, you may need to use a reciprocating saw.
Make sure that you position the doggie door low enough so that your dog can easily step through it.
 Insert the dog frame and door into the opening of the door and screw the frame into place using the screws that were supplied with the kit. You will have to do this on both sides of the door.In some instances, you may have to add weather stripping to the door, so make sure that you read all instructions carefully.
 If you are installing a wall mount or are not comfortable working with power tools, then you should hire a handyman to help with the installation. Cutting through walls can be extremely difficult depending on the material, and you have to take into consideration the pipes and electrical wiring that may be hidden within the walls. A local handyman can help get the job done.

