 Although it’s easy to associate babysitting as a job for thirteen year old girls, it is actually a fast and easy way to make money. Sitting doesn’t stop at children though, and can expand to include houses, pets, and gardens as well. Advertise your sitting services at nearby bulletin boards and around your neighborhood to increase the likelihood of getting hired.


Pet sitting or dog walking is a great way to earn money if you’re an animal-lover. When your friends, family, or neighbors head out on vacation, offer to take care of their pets for a low fee. This will help them out, and give you an easy opportunity to earn cash doing something you love.
House sitting is possibly the best of the “sitting” types of jobs. You get paid to stay in someone’s home and make sure there are no break-ins or accidents during a family’s time away on vacation or business. Although you may only have to make daily check-ins, this is an exceedingly easy way to earn a lot of money.
 Everyone has small tasks that they need done, whether it be cleaning the gutters, detailing their car, or deep-cleaning the house, there are plenty of tasks and chores to do. Advertise your services to friends and family who would be willing to have you do their least favorite chores at a small rate.
 A mystery shopper is a person who is paid to secretly visit stores and restaurants and report back about the visit in an online survey afterwards. You get paid about $10 on average per store, for a brief 10-15 minute run-in.


The Mystery Shoppers Providers Association regulates the third parties that are hired, so visiting their site can give you access to some safe mystery shopper programs.
If you are required to purchase something - food or clothing typically - you will be reimbursed for that item after completing the online survey.
 ChaCha is a phone service which anyone can text or call to ask any question they could possibly have. As a worker, it is your job to choose an area which you feel you know a lot about, and research and send back answers as quickly as you can.


Before being hired as a worker, you have to take a test to make sure you are compatible with their system and are able to perform the required tasks.
ChaCha workers are paid between $3-$9 an hour, with no minimum hours of work required. You simply sign into their site whenever you want to work, and do as much work as you would like., Do you love sports? Then read up on your favorite game’s rules and get paid to ref! For around $15 per hour-long game, you will get a little bit of extra cash for participating in your favorite sports. Make sure you are clear on the rules though, as you may have to deal with unhappy players if you make a bad call by accident.
 Businesses often need temporary employees, so offer your services up to a temp agency. Although this might not be the quickest way to earn cash, the jobs are easy because you won’t have time to be trained in elaborate tasks.


Become a virtual assistant. If you have administrative experience and would like an opportunity to work from home, look into virtual assisting jobs at a site like virtualAssistants.com or TaskRabbit.com. It may take about a week to be processed, but the work is extremely convenient for stay-at-home parents or for filling in the gaps of a part-time schedule.
Get a seasonal job. Many businesses and stores get extra busy at certain times of the year depending on the services they provide. Get a job that lasts a few weeks or months for a local store or office that has a busy season coming up., Many businesses need people for short periods to advertise or work for special conventions. You may be paid to stand on the street holding a sign, or to give out free samples of certain products at the mall. Typically the wages are hourly and are on a very short-term basis of a few days or weeks., This is an online job where you are assigned a simple task which is difficult for a computer to manage. These are mundane, repetitive, but incredibly basic jobs that you work at will. Typically payment is in cents per job, so although the tasks are easy you have to put in a lot of time to make much money.


Amazon offers a mechanical turk program that deposits straight into your Amazon account, but can be withdrawn as cash after you reach the $10 mark.
You get to choose which job you want to do from a list of needs, but keep in mind that these jobs can be very boring. Have perseverance and you can make a bit of money in a week of work!, Although this job is best for early birds, if you are willing to wake up in the wee hours of the morn, you can make up to $10,000 a year just delivering newspapers! The best part is, because of the hours you don’t have to worry about your paper route conflicting with your regular work or school schedule.