 The most important part of repairing stainless steel is rubbing in the same direction as the grain. Look very closely at the steel and determine which direction the surface seems to be running in. This is the grain.Working against the grain can actually make the scratches worse. That’s why it’s so important to know the direction of the grain before you begin.
The grain will generally run either from side to side (horizontally), or up and down (vertically).;
, There are a few compounds and cleaners that can be used to fill and smooth very light and minor scratches on the surface of stainless steel. Products you can try include:Bar Keeper's Friend
Perfect-It Rubbing Compound
Revere Stainless Steel and Copper Cleaner
Whitening toothpaste

, Some compounds and cleaners come in a powdered form, and these must be made into a paste before you can apply them to the steel. Mix a tablespoon (14 g) of powder with a few drops of water. Stir to combine, and add a few more drops of water until you have a smooth paste.


The consistency you're looking for is that of toothpaste., Pour a few drops of cleaner onto a clean microfiber cloth. For the paste, spoon about a quarter of the paste onto a cloth. Working in the same direction as the metal’s grain, rub the compound gently into the scratch. Because the compound isn't abrasive, you can rub back and forth over the scratch.


Continue rubbing, adding more compound as needed, until the scratch has been buffed away., Soak a clean microfiber cloth with water. Wring out all the excess so the cloth is barely damp. Wipe the surface of the steel with the cloth to remove excess compound and shine the surface., Wipe the surface with a dry microfiber cloth to remove any leftover dampness. Examine the surface of the stainless steel to assess whether the treatment was effective.


Repeat the buffing process again if the scratch improved but is still slightly visible.
If the scratch is still quite visible, you may have to take more drastic steps, such as sanding the entire surface.
 Slightly deeper scratches on the surface of stainless steel will require more work than light and fine scratches. You have three basic sanding products you can choose from, and they include:


Course (maroon) and fine (gray) scouring pads400- and 600-grit sandpaper
Scratch removal kit, Scratch removal kits come with a lubricant or polishing compound. Apply a few drops of this to the coarsest pad.For sandpaper, soak the 400-grit sandpaper in a bowl full of water for a few minutes. For scouring pads, use a spray bottle filled with water and apply a few spritzes of water to the surface of the pad.The liquid or compound acts as a lubricant, and helps the sanding product move over the surface of the metal.
 Following the grain of the metal, rub the sanding product over the surface of the stainless steel in a single direction. Apply gentle but even pressure to the sandpaper or scour pad. Use long, even strokes.It’s important to work in a single direction because rubbing back and forth over the surface can create small abrasions on the metal.
To ensure you're applying even pressure, wrap the pad or sandpaper around a wooden block before you begin.
To find the grain, look closely at the metal and see if the surface is running horizontally or vertically. This is the grain of the metal.
 Rub the entire surface of the stainless steel in this way. You can't just sand the scratched area, or the sanded section will look visibly different from the rest of the metal. The sanding process is actually re-surfacing the metal, so you have to sand it all.Continue sanding until the scratch has been sanded down and is mostly gone.
Depending on the size of the area you're sanding, this could take 15 minutes or more.
 When you finish sanding with the coarser pad, switch to the finer one. Apply polishing compound, soak the 600-grit sandpaper, or apply water to the gray scouring pad. Sand the entire surface using long, even strokes and gentle, even pressure.Continue sanding until the scratch has disappeared.
 With a clean microfiber cloth, wipe down the surface that you just sanded. This will remove sanding and metal dust, as well as leftover polishing compound or water.Even when you're cleaning, it’s important to rub and buff in the direction of the grain. Look closely at the metal to determine what direction the surfaces runs in, and make sure you rub and clean in that same direction.
 Transfer some vinegar to a spray bottle. Spray the surface of the metal with several sprays of vinegar. Use a clean microfiber cloth to wipe the metal.


The vinegar will clean the surface of the metal and remove all traces of other compounds and cleaners.
Do not use bleach, oven cleaner, abrasive cleaners, or abrasive pads when cleaning stainless steel., When the stainless steel is clean and dry, apply a few drops of oil to a clean microfiber cloth. You can use mineral oil, vegetable oil, or even olive oil. Rub the cloth against the steel, in the direction of the grain, to polish the metal.Add more oil as necessary. Continue rubbing until the entire surface has been polished.

