 In college courses, teacher evaluations carry a lot of weight toward professors winning awards, receiving tenure, or simply feeling that they do a good job. An anonymous but impactful way to thank your teacher is to leave them a detailed positive evaluation specifying exactly what you loved about their course and what their dedication meant to you., Many schools have superlative awards like "Favorite Teacher" or "Best Art Teacher." Colleges have similar awards that are partially student voted or nominated like “Outstanding Physics Department Faculty” or "Outstanding Adjunct Faculty." Do some investigative work if your teacher really went above and beyond and nominate them for an award. This will mean a lot to them and is a great way to thank them.
 If you loved a particular teacher or course, let others know! High enrollments in classes are often due to positive word of mouth, and this tells your teacher that they are doing something right. Even though this is an indirect thank you, student interest in classes matters to teachers at the high school and college levels. Spreading the word that they’re a great teacher will help them in this area and is a great way to show your appreciation., This is especially applicable in college where you’re likely to have a major project or paper as part of your curriculum. Usually you can dedicate these to someone of your choice. If you had a teacher who influenced your choice of major, specialization, or direction in college, then you might want to consider dedicating a college accomplishment to them.For example, if you had a History teacher, high school or college, who really got you interested in the Battle of Gettysburg and you end up writing your senior thesis or Master’s thesis on that subject, then it would be appropriate (but not required!) for you to dedicate that project to them. This is a great way to show your teacher not only that you appreciate them, but also that what you learned in their class stuck with you over the years.

