 There are some acids and bases that cannot be neutralized and disposed of down the sewer drain. Disposal of the following should be done through the proper hazardous waste collection channels:perchloric acid
concentrated nitric acid
fuming (concentrated), sulfuric acid
hydrofluoric acid
acids or bases with dyes or surfactants
acids of bases with heavy metals
organic acids and bases that remain toxic after neutralization

, Strong acids (pH < 2.0) and strong bases (pH > 12.0) must be neutralized before dilution and disposal down the drain.The strength of the acid or base can be determined using a pH meter or pH strips. Strong acids and bases must be neutralized to a pH range between 6.0 and 9.0.A pH meter directly measures the pH of the solution.
pH paper has a color indicator that tells you the strength of the solution.
 Work in a fume hood (or well-ventilated area) because this process emits noxious fumes. Keep the solution constantly stirring and slowly add sodium hydroxide. This reaction will release heat so it is important that the sodium hydroxide is added slowly. Keep adding sodium hydroxide until the acid is neutralized.Placing the container in a second container of ice will help avoid overheating and potential injury.
 The process of neutralizing a strong base is the same as neutralizing a strong acid except you use hydrochloric acid instead of sodium hydroxide. Slowly add the hydrochloric acid to the strong base while constantly stirring the solution.This reaction also releases heat, so add slowly and keep the container in a bucket of ice to avoid superheating the container.
 After neutralization, the pH should be in the range between 6.0 and 9.0. Use the pH meter or pH paper strips to ensure the proper neutralization of the acid or base. If the pH is not in the correct range, continue adding the neutralizing acid or base to the solution until the correct pH is reached.Acid-base indicator solutions can also be used to test the pH of the solutions. As the pH of the entire solution changes, the color of the indicator will change. If you have access to an indicator, it can make your neutralization process easier., To dilute the solution, always add the acid or the base directly to the water. Adding water to the acid or base can superheat the water and lead to explosions.Diluting the acid or base is an exothermic reaction, meaning it will give off heat. Place the container in an ice bucket to avoid superheating the container.You can calculate the amount of water needed to dilute the solution based on the strength of the acid or base.
 Once the solution has been neutralized and diluted, it can be poured directly down the drain. Keep the water running while you pour the solution down the drain to further dilute.If the waste contains a heavy metal such as copper, lead, zinc, cadmium, or mercury, you cannot dispose of it down the sink. It must be disposed of as hazardous waste by an environmental health and safety office.