 Prepare the wheel before molding your clay by:


Setting the right rotation direction (counter-clockwise if you are right-handed, clockwise if you are left-handed).
Making sure the splash pan is installed. This will catch any clay that falls or spins off as you shape the clay.
Adjusting the height of the wheel so that is comfortable for you to sit at and use.
Plugging your wheel into a power source, if applicable.
Checking to make sure that your wheel spins properly before using.
 Repeat this process until your clay is pliable and uniform in consistency.
 Place it firmly in the middle of the wheel surface (known as the bat).
 Start moving your wheel slowly, and tap at the lump of clay to make sure that it is uniformly in the center, with no large portions sticking out.
 When using a wheel, it is important to work with wet hands. This helps form a slick surface on the clay (known as a slurry or slip) as it turns, making it easier to mold. Keep a bowl of water near your wheel that you can dip your hands into as needed while you mold the clay.
 Wrap your hands around the lump and push slightly as it spins. This will shape the clay into the initial form. With a bit of practice, you will learn how to push the clay to get it into the shape you desire.


To make a relatively tall object, like a mug, keep the clay close to the center as you push at it. This will force the clay upwards.
To make a relatively wide object, like a low bowl, first push the clay slightly forward to help smooth the sides. Then, push downwards as the clay spins to make the form wider.
 This will create an initial impression. Push and pull with your fingers, whole hand, or a tool in order to get the opening into the size and shape needed for your object.


Keep the opening narrow for a relatively tall object, such as a mug or jug.
Pull at the clay to widen the opening for objects such as bowls and plates.
 This will thin the sides of the clay form. Keep working until you reach the desired shape.


For tall forms, like jugs or mugs, you may want to pull slightly upwards.
 Then slide a stretched out wire or a spatula underneath the bottom of your object. This will separate it from the wheel. Using a spatula or another flat surface, gently lift the object off of the wheel and leave it in a safe place to dry.

