 Use these characters for guidance and inspiration when creating your own Kuudere persona. For example, get to know Ciel Phantomhive from Black Butler and Mai Minakami from Nichijou.;
, Though this may seem like a contradiction, a Kuudere is at heart a caring and compassionate person, they just hide it. For example, do nice things for people, but don't let them know it's you, or don't let them think you've gone out of your way to do something nice. If someone needs something, say, a pencil, give it to them, but don't say anything, or mumble: "...here."

, Read harder books with new vocabulary. Non-Fiction is a good choice. Do remember to pay attention in school. You can even study a dictionary if you want to. Work hard to excel in school and be as smart and academically successful as you can.
 Keep a poker face on at all times. If someone insults you, don't lose your temper and fight back. Instead, use good comebacks. Always keep your cool. When someone tells you a joke, don't smile or laugh. You can laugh all you want at home or somewhere private, but a Kuudere won't ever show that emotion in front of other people.
 Don't rely on others too much. Do the things that you can do by yourself first. Then if you need assistance, ask someone close to you for help.
 Learn good etiquette and manners. Speak and act politely in public. For guys, be a gentleman. For girls, act like a proper lady. Don't use slang or profane words; use good and correct grammar. Be mature.
 Speak only when necessary, such as answering questions or giving speeches. If you want to answer, don't answer in a sentence. Answer in a phrase or as few words as possible. For example, say "boring" instead of "My summer break was pretty boring," or "nothing to do" rather than "I had nothing to do, since my parents didn't let me watch TV or go outside." Don't elaborate or explain unless asked, and even then, do so in as few words as possible.
 This can be a great way to show off your playful spirit behind your cool exterior. However, when doing these pranks, be sure not to show any emotions or expressions at all. Have that "cool vibe" around you.
 Make people wonder what you're thinking about. Keep them wondering, that's the most important part.
 If you are multi talented or gifted, if you excel at everything, don't brag about it. If you want to show your talent to people, don't make it seem like you're showing off. Do it with a poker face, and try not to care whether they like or dislike your talents. Don't show any emotions when you're performing.
 Even if you're emotionless and cold, don't be mean to people. Remember that a Kuudere only acts uncaring and distant; in fact, you should care about others just as much as anyone else.


Remember to be nice to your friends. Don't get so into acting Kuudere that you neglect your friendships. Don't worry about keeping up the act with them, just be normal and be yourself.

