 Holy Light is Uther’s Q ability, which heals the targeted ally for a burst of health. A pretty straightforward but nonetheless powerful heal that can keep an ally alive while being focused down hard-hitting abilities. The 12-second cooldown is a bit long though, so Holy Light is best used on allies that you think will take even more damage in the next few seconds, not the ones that are safe in the rear lines.
 Holy Radiance is Uther’s W ability, which shoots a ball of light that heals all allies (including yourself) and damages all enemies along its path. This ability is very useful for recouping the damage done by enemy teams with hard-hitting area-of-effect abilities, as well as punishing the enemy team should they clump up too tightly together. If you line yourself up just right for a best-case scenario, you could end up healing your team while hurting the other team with one cast., Hammer of Justice is Uther’s E ability, where he uses his hammer to stun and damage the targeted enemy. The stun from Hammer of Justice is a great way to keep enemies on their toes, either to discourage them from getting too close to you or to close in on vulnerable targets. Hammer of Justice is also a great way to disable enemy heroes with channeling skills, like Azmodan’s All Shall Burn and Nazeebo’s Ravenous Spirit., Divine Shield is Uther’s first ultimate ability, which grants a 20% movement speed buff and turns a single target hero invulnerable and immune to control effects for three seconds. You can also target yourself with Divine Shield. Timing is everything with this skill, and is best used on front-line warriors or hard-hitting assassins that are trying to get into position. You can also use Divine Shield to turn the tables on enemies that are diving deep into your team to target vulnerable heroes, punishing them for their risky maneuvers and then finishing them off once they find themselves trapped within your team’s formation., Divine Storm is Uther’s second ultimate ability, which damages all nearby enemies and stuns them for a short duration. Divine Storm is excellent when you manage to insert yourself in the enemy formation, as the subsequent stun could buy enough time for your allies to get into position and start tearing apart the enemy. It can also be used as a last-ditch effort to delay enemy heroes so you can either escape or catch up to them if they’re the ones trying to escape., Eternal Devotion is Uther’s trait, which transforms him into a spirit upon death. It lasts for ten seconds, triggers once every 180 seconds and gives Uther the Flash of Light ability as long as he is a spirit.


Flash of Light is his spirit’s Q ability that heals allies for a respectable amount and has a very short cooldown of just 1.5 seconds. This gives Uther the ability to keep his own team alive even after he dies, giving him a strong post-mortem presence in the battle even when he is first to be focused down by the enemy team.

