 Wash your hair every other day with a dandruff shampoo until the flakes subside. After that, continue to wash your hair with the anti-dandruff shampoo 2-3 times per week. Frequent washing may seem like a good idea, but it can dry out your scalp and lead to more flakes., Massage the shampoo into your scalp thoroughly, and leave it in for at least 5 minutes before rinsing. This gives the shampoo time to work.


Be sure to rinse the shampoo out of your hair thoroughly, as dried shampoo flakes can look like dandruff, and may continue to irritate or dry out your scalp.
 There are a handful of different active ingredients that are found in various shampoos. If the one you are using is not helping or is loosing effectiveness, check the ingredients list on the back to see what the active ingredient is, and try a shampoo with a different one. Different shampoos work for different scalps. Anti-dandruff shampoos usually use one of five active ingredients: zinc pyrithione, tar, selenium sulfide, salicylic acid, or ketoconazole.


Zinc pyrithione shampoos combat the amount of seborrheic dermatitis causing fungus on your scalp.
Tar-based shampoos slow down how quickly your scalp’s skin cells die and flake.
Selenium sulfide shampoos, like tar-based shampoos, slow down how quickly your skin cells die. These shampoos can cause discoloration, and those with blonde, grey, or chemically colored hair may want to avoid them. At the very least, you should be sure to rinse thoroughly.
Salicylic acid shampoos help scrub away scales, but they can dry out your scalp, and should be used with moisturizing conditioner.
Ketoconazole shampoos contain a particularly effective antifungal agent, and are a good option when other shampoos have proved ineffective. They are available in both over-the-counter and prescription strength varieties.
 Many people think “dandruff” simply means having a flaky scalp, but true dandruff is caused by a fungal infection. Anti-dandruff shampoos are designed to help fight this fungus, not moisturize skin, and they may actually make your dry scalp drier. If you have tried a couple different anti-dandruff shampoos and/or home remedies and found that they seem to only make matters worse, try switching to a normal moisturizing shampoo for a week or two, and see if it helps.If you have tried many methods without any success, consult a dermatologist. You may need a prescription strength shampoo.

