 Many minor tears will heal on their own with the help of self-care measure. However, it is difficult to determine the extent of your injury without seeing a doctor. If you are in pain, having difficulty using the affected limb, or experiencing excessive bruising and swelling, then you may want to see a doctor for a diagnosis.


A doctor can perform a physical exam of your injury and order imaging tests, such as an X-ray and an MRI. These tests can help your doctor to rule out broken bones and to find out how badly the muscle has been torn.Depending on the severity of your injury, your doctor may provide you with a brace or splint to keep the affected limb immobilized as it heals., Physical therapy may also be necessary if you have sustained a severe muscle tear. Doing physical therapy can help to ensure that the muscle will heal correctly and that you will regain full use of it.During your physical therapy session, you will learn about and perform exercises as directed by your physical therapist. These exercises will help to build strength in a safe way and increase your range of motion.
 Some conditions are related to muscle tears, but are much more serious. If you believe you have one of these conditions, then you will need to seek immediate medical care.



Compartment syndrome. If you experience severe pain with numbness and tingling, a pale limb, and a feeling of tightness, seek immediate medical attention.Compartment syndrome is an orthopedic emergency that requires surgical treatment within hours. Otherwise, you may need to have the limb removed. If you have any of these symptoms it is important you tell your doctor right away. The blood from a tear can place internal pressure on blood vessels and nerves. This cuts off circulation as the pressure builds.

Achilles tendon rupture. The Achilles tendon is located at the back of your ankle and calf.It can be ruptured by vigorous exercise, especially in men over 30. If you experience pain along the back of your foot, especially when stretching your ankle, you may have a ruptured Achilles tendon. The condition requires complete immobilization and casting in flexion.
 If you have torn your muscle completely, then you will not be able to move the affected limb. You will need to seek treatment from a qualified healthcare professional as soon as possible.The treatment and recovery time will vary based on the severity and location of the tear. For example, for a complete bicep tear, you'll need surgery with a recovery period of four to six months. Partial tears usually heal within three to six weeks.Depending on the type of tear, you may need to see an orthopedist or other specialist.
 In some cases, surgery may be necessary to repair a ruptured muscle or torn ligament.Ask your doctor about your options if he or she recommends surgery for your injury.


The need for surgery to repair a torn muscle is rare, and it may only be recommended if you are a sports professional because your performance may not return to normal without surgery.
 Your doctor will likely want to see you again in the near future for a follow-up visit. This is to ensure that your injury is healing normally. Make sure that you attend this follow-up visit.Inform your doctor right away if your injury worsens or if it does not seem to be improving.

