 It is appropriate to bring a summary judgment motion where there are no material factual disputes and you are clearly entitled to win when the law is applied to the undisputed facts. In order to decide if you meet this standard, you need to go through your discovery and check to see if there are actual factual disputes. If there are, then you cannot file the motion.


Your discovery consists of depositions, interrogatories, and relevant documents. You can use all of that information in your summary judgment motion.You do not file a summary judgment motion until after discovery closes, so you should have all relevant facts before you.;
, You can’t bring a summary judgment motion if the parties disagree about what happened. When hearing the motion, the judge will view all factual disputes in a light most favorable to the non-moving party.For example, the plaintiff might claim that she was driving through a green light at an intersection when the defendant ran a red light and slammed into her. By contrast, the defendant might claim that his light was green and the plaintiff ran through a red light in front of him. This is a clear factual dispute, and summary judgment is not appropriate to resolve it.
It really doesn’t matter if you think the other side is lying. That will be for the jury to decide.
 If the defendant claimed in a deposition that he was driving carefully, then there is a factual dispute for the jury to decide.


Not all disagreements are meaningful. For example, the parties to a lawsuit might disagree whether the car crash happened at 12:30 or 12:45 pm. However, if both parties agree the crash happened, then this difference of opinion as to the time is not meaningful.
Check if the factual disagreements are material. If there are only minor, meaningless factual disputes, then you can go ahead and bring a summary judgment motion.
 You might not know whether to file a summary judgment motion. If so, then you should meet with a lawyer. The lawyer can listen to you describe the dispute and advise whether a summary judgment motion would be appropriate.


You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.Call up the referred attorney and ask how much he or she charges. Schedule a meeting to discuss your motion.
 Most courts have local rules which explain the form, content, and timing of motions.You should get these rules and read them. You can generally find them posted on the court’s website or by calling the judge’s chambers.
 If you want to draft a summary judgment motion, then open a word processing document and set the font to a readable size and style. Try to use the same formatting that you have used in your earlier documents.


Generally, you will want a one-inch margin. Also, most court documents are typed in 14-point font, using Times New Roman or Arial.Depending on your court, you might need to print the motion on “pleading paper.” This is paper numbered down the left-hand column. Look to see if earlier documents in your case were printed on pleading paper.
 The caption contains the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number.In some courts, the caption also includes the judge’s name. You can get the caption information from any document previously filed in your case.


Also be sure to add a title. If you are the defendant in the lawsuit, then you would title the motion, “Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.”

, In the introduction, identify yourself and the reason why you are filing the motion. Mention the rule of civil procedure that gives you the right to bring this summary judgment motion.


For example, in federal court, your introduction could read: “Defendant Megan Jones, representing herself pro se, moves the Court for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s claims pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56(c). In support of this motion, Defendant represents as follows….”, You will probably need to start off with a statement of facts.You can keep them brief, but you need to give the judge an understanding of the case. Remember, the judge hasn’t read all of your discovery so he or she isn’t as familiar with the dispute as you are.


Whenever you refer to a fact, make sure to cite the document it appears in. For example, if a statement appears in the plaintiff’s deposition, then state the page or lines the statement appears at: “Plaintiff’s Dep. 12:33-36” tells you that the statement appears on page 12, lines 33-36 of the plaintiff’s deposition.
Depending on your court, you may have to create a chart of “undisputed facts” and include the source of each fact.Read your local rules to see if the judge requires this.
 At the start of your argument, you should remind the judge about the standard for summary judgment. In federal court, you can quote Rule 56 of Civil Procedure. If you are in state court, then find your applicable state rule.


For example, in federal court, you could write: “Summary judgment is appropriate when there exist no genuine issues of material facts and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56. The moving party bears the initial burden of showing the absence of genuine issues of material fact. See Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986); Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322 (1986). To defeat the motion, the responding party must set forth specific facts demonstrating the existence of an actual issue for trial. It is not enough for the responding party to point to mere allegations or denials contained in pleadings.”, If you are the defendant, then you will want to argue that the undisputed facts show that the plaintiff cannot win if you go to trial. If you are the plaintiff, then you should argue that the defendant cannot not win at trial based on the undisputed facts.


Be sure to mention specific elements of the claim. For example, if the plaintiff sued you for negligence, then the plaintiff must show four elements: (1) a duty, (2) that you breached, (3) which caused (4) the plaintiff’s damages. You might argue that summary judgment is appropriate because there is no proof that the plaintiff suffered an injury.
 After your argument, insert your conclusion. You can keep it brief. For example, you could write: “For the reasons stated above, Defendant is entitled to judgment.”, You should include a signature block at the bottom of the last page of the motion, just below the words “Respectfully Submitted.” Underneath the signature line include your name, address, and telephone number.


If you are representing yourself, then be sure to include the words “pro se” or “pro per” beside your name., You need to tell the court that you sent a copy of your motion to the other side and what delivery method you used. You should type up a certificate of service on a separate piece of paper.You could write: “I hereby certify that on , I caused a true and correct copy of this document to be filed and served upon by certified mail, return receipt requested.” Then sign the certificate.
 Some judges will want you to include a proposed judgment for them to sign. You should read your local rules. Generally, federal court judges will want you to include a proposed judgment.


On a separate piece of paper, insert the caption information. Title the document “Judgment Granting Motion for Summary Judgment.”
The body of the proposed judgment could read, “Having considered Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment and finding good cause, IT IS HEREBY ADJUDGED that Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.” Then include a line for the judge’s signature and a line for the date., You need to assemble the motion and include any supporting documents or exhibits. You should include as exhibits anything you cited in the motion to support a fact. For example, if you referred to the other side’s deposition testimony, then you should include the relevant portions of the deposition.


You can make an exhibit by attaching an exhibition sticker to the document. Designate each exhibit as Exhibit A, Exhibit B, etc., Once you complete your motion, make several copies. Some courts might want you to file several copies with the original.You also need to serve the other side with a copy.


Make sure to keep a copy of the completed motion for your records.
 Each court will schedule hearings in different ways. For example, in some courts you can go onto the judge’s calendar and select a date and time for the motion to be heard.In other courts, the clerk will help schedule a time for the motion.


You also might need to create or fill out a Notice of Hearing, which will contain the day, time, and location of the hearing. You will need to send the Notice of Hearing to the other side when you serve a copy of your summary judgment motion.
 You have to give the other side notice that you have filed the motion for summary judgment. Send the motion to the other side’s lawyer, if they have a lawyer.Be sure to send your copy using the method stated in your certificate of service.


If you file electronically, then the electronic system often will send notification to the other side that a document has been filed.
 Take your copies and the original to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date. In federal court, you may file the motion electronically.
 The judge will probably want to hear argument on the summary judgment motion. Accordingly, you should prepare for your argument by doing the following:


Read the other side’s response. After receiving a copy of your motion, the other side can file its own motion and ask the judge to deny summary judgment.Typically, the other side will argue that there are material facts in dispute or that the law is unclear as to who should win.
Outline your arguments. You shouldn’t get up at your hearing and read from a script. Instead, outline your key points using bullet points.
Attend a motion hearing. If you’ve never argued before the judge, then you might want to sit in on a hearing.Pay attention to how the lawyers talk to the judge and listen to the questions the judge asks. Also note how much time each side has to make its argument.

