 A food chain is a sequence of who eats whom. The usual order of a food chain is:


sunlight
plants
herbivore
omnivore; and/or
carnivore.;
, Millions of food chains exist around the world. The following farming food chain example is one example of a simple food chain based only on green plants, goats, microorganisms and humans.


Green grass and wildflowers use sunlight to grow in a field maintained by a farmer. This field is called a pasture.
A goat (herbivore) grazes on these delicious plants in the pasture.
In turn, the goat provides milk, meat and wool for the farmer, his or her family, and others.
The goat also provides fertilizer.
Microorganisms decompose the goats’ poop or excrement, which provides fertilizers for the grass and flowers to grow.
 Food chains that are related in an ecosystem form a food web.


In forest ecosystems, many types of herbivores eat the trees and other plant life. Carnivores, or meat-eating animals, such as tigers, lions, and wolves, prey on herbivores. They usually prey on wild animals. Sometimes, if the habitats or homes of carnivores are destroyed, they may also attack goats, sheep or cows for food. For example, in India, farmers may lose their goats to tigers; in Eastern Africa, cows may provide lunch for lions and in Western Canada and the US, wolves sometimes attack the domesticated sheep. Carnivores are an important part of biodiversity because they regulate herbivore populations so that they do not eat their favorite plant species to extinction.
 As part of a class project, either individually, or in groups, prepare a project that demonstrates the food chain and food web in the context of biodiversity. It is a good idea to select different food chains and food webs before starting, to ensure that the class learns as much as possible about different ecosystem chains, e.g., forest, marine, mountain, desert, etc. Ideas for trying include:


Preparing a talk with illustrations of the food chain and web;
Making a model of a food chain and food web, using small models made from recycled materials or reuse your small figurines, plant life, pebbles etc.;
Making a film of the interaction of life in a food web. Present each film to class; or
Making a poster featuring a food chain to display on the classroom wall.

