 It can be tempting play with your new curls or waves. But it can take the perming chemicals anywhere from 24-48 hours to lock the shape in your hair permanently. In addition, your hair will still be fragile from the process. Leaving your hair be for a couple of days can help ensure that your hair maintains its shape for the longer term.


Use your fingers to style your hair only as necessary during this time. You should also avoid brushing or combing your hair.;
, For this first 24-72 hours after you get a perm, don’t wash or condition your hair. This keeps the water or other chemicals from deactivating your perm and making your curls fall apart. It can also help keep your perm fresher for a longer time.Make sure to keep your hair as dry as possible, especially if it is raining or snowing outside.
Ask your stylist how long you should wait until washing your hair. The length of time may depend on your hair and the type of perm you got. If you absolutely can’t wait to wash your hair, call your stylist to find out the best way to handle the situation. She may suggest using dry shampoo or another product until you can get your hair wet.
 You may want to make the most of your new perm with different styles that require pins, barrettes, or winding your hair. You may even want to get your hair out of your face to play sports or study. But because your hair is still settling from the perm, it’s important to let your locks flow loosely for a few days after your perm. Putting your hair in a ponytail, braid, or other style that requires accessories can reshape parts of your hair with dents and may even break off fragile hair.You should never run your fingers through your hair with a perm because it can break up the curls and make it looser.
Use a silk scarf to gently pull back your hair if absolutely necessary. Make sure to tie it as loosely as possible to keep your hair back without leaving a mark., Keep in mind that permed hair is often stressed and needs a lot of love. This is especially true during the first week after a perm. Avoid getting any type of color treatments on your hair for at least a week after your perm. This can avoid causing your hair further stress or damage and may even prevent your hair from breaking off.Talk to your stylist about scheduling your color treatment within a safe time frame from your perm. It is best to get both your color and perm done by a professional.
Consider using a hair tint, colored powder, or color shampoo instead of color treatments because they are unlikely to harm your hair, unlike dye. Only use these products 24-48 hours after you got your perm.
Even if you do wait at least a week to color your hair, you may still experience breakage.The type of dye and the level of developer (if one is used) can make a difference in how it affects your hair. Ask your hair stylist what they recommend., No matter what, permed hair needs special and gentle aftercare. Getting specially formulated products can restore luster to stressed and fragile permed hair. In addition, they can help maintain your curls for a longer period of time.Look for product labels with ingredients such as biotin, eucalyptus oil, and soy. Avoid products with parabens and sulfates.Ask your stylist for product suggestions. Stylists have specialized knowledge about the best products to use on permed hair. However, you shouldn’t feel pressured to buy any products your stylist sells. You can also buy products for permed or chemically treated hair at most large retailers, grocery stores, pharmacies, and beauty stores. Read the product labels, which may say “for permed hair” or “for chemically treated hair.”

, Cleaning your hair can keep your curls fresh and bouncy. But washing it too often can strip your already delicate hair of essential oils and make your perm relax faster. Treat your permed hair like silk or another delicate fabric: washing it once a week is enough to keep it clean and help maintain its beauty.Wash your hair with warm water. Hot water can strip your hair of oils that help keep it moisturized and looking lustrous. Hot water can also ruin the curls.Make sure to thoroughly rinse with warm or cool water. Lingering residue in your hair can weigh it down and make it dirty more quickly. Chemicals in the residue may also keep your perm from staying fresh over time, requiring repeat perms.Use dry shampoo on your roots if your hair gets dirty in between washes. Spray a small amount ten inches from your roots and let it absorb for a couple of minutes. Then, gently massage the rest into your scalp to remove any residue. Consider a dry shampoo for chemically treated hair that can add some moisture and volume., Even the gentlest perm can strip hair of moisture, making it look dull and frizzy. Although some think that conditioner can relax your perm, it’s actually a myth. Conditioner formulated for permed hair will restore moisture and luster to your locks, keep your hair soft, and make your perm last longer. It also helps detangle curls.


Apply conditioner first by putting it on your ends, which are the driest part of your hair. Then extend the conditioner up towards your roots. Leave on the conditioner for the time specified by your product. Use warm water to rinse out the conditioner. Make sure that all of the product is removed. Remember that not rinsing long enough can leave residue that will weigh down your curls, make them appear dull, and can attract dirt to your hair.Comb your wet hair using a wide-tooth comb while the conditioner is still in it. This will minimize hair breakage.Use a treatment mask for permed or stressed hair once a week. Treatment masks are heavier than your usual conditioner and can give your hair an occasional boost of moisture. They can help keep your hair from getting more damaged and restore moisture and shine. Either leave on your treatment mask in the shower or consider putting it on overnight with a shower cap.Consider using leave-in conditioning treatments if your hair is very dry or stressed.
 Detangle your hair carefully with a wide-toothed comb after you’ve finished rinsing your hair. Don't comb your hair too often to avoid breaking or damage your strands. This can also make your hair frizzy and lose its shape more quickly than if you only comb after a shower.Make sure the teeth of your comb are spaced widely apart so that your curls are not split into little pieces that may frizz.
Comb your hair after you’ve applied conditioner while it's still wet, which helps prevent breakage. If you comb while in the shower, you shouldn’t need to comb it again once you’ve rinsed.
Use your fingers to comb your hair if you don’t have a wide-toothed comb.
 No matter how you detangle your hair, never use a brush on permed hair. This will separate your curls and can cause your hair to be frizzy. In addition, brushing may damage delicate permed strands., The best way to keep your curls bouncy and looking fresh is to scrunch them a bit with your fingers. This beauty basic can enhance your new style and create soft sultry waves.Use your hands and fingers to gently lift and scrunch up individual sections of your hair. Mist your hair with water and hold for a few seconds to better define your curls. You can also define individual curls by wrapping them around one or two fingers and holding for a few seconds.
 A hair dryer can sap moisture from any person’s hair. But if you have permed hair, it can damage already stressed hair and make it frizzy. Either allow your hair to air dry or put a diffuser on a blow drier to help define and protect your curls.


Set your hair dryer on the coolest setting possible. If you can, put the drier on a cool setting or hold down the “cold blast” button.
A diffuser attachment disperses the airflow of the hair dryer. Install your diffuser on the end of your dryer. Either turn over your entire head for extra volume and defined curls or dry individual sections. Scrunching each section as you diffuse it will make your curls bouncy.
 Just like with a hair dryer, use heated tools sparingly. Curling and flat irons can damage already stressed out tresses and may even cause your hair to break.


Try using steam to your benefit. You could wrap your hair in a few rollers for curls or even just put on a shower cap. Then get in the shower and let the steam from the warm water reactivate your curls. This can add moisture and volume to your hair without causing it more damage.
 Your hair will continue to grow and extra weight can weigh down your curls. Getting regular trims can keep your curls bouncy and your hair healthy. See your stylist every 4-6 weeks for a trim.


Ask your stylist to trim off the bare minimum if you’re concerned about losing length. Your stylist may even tell you that you can wait longer in between trims.
 Perms can last for anywhere from 6 weeks to 8 months. Caring for your perm will maintain it longer. However, once your curls start to fall apart and you have a lot of visible roots, you’ll need to get another perm.Consider only getting your roots re-permed so that your other hair doesn’t get damaged. Talk to your stylist about your best options.
 If you decide that you want to grow out your perm, you can do it without much headache. Caring for your hair with special products and little heat can keep it looking good during in-between stages. Remember that the permed hair will continue to be delicate so give it the best care you can.

