 Though it may sound unlikely, believe it or not, there is some evidence that performing exercises to physically strengthen the mouth and throat can make snoring less likely. With these muscles stronger, it's less likely that they'll collapse during sleep and obstruct your airway.Here are two tongue exercise to try:Stick your tongue out as far as it goes. Slowly move it to each side, touching it to the corners of your mouth. Move the tongue to the top of the mouth without curling it. Repeat the motions above for about 15 seconds. Repeat for at least a few minutes several times per day.
Place the tip of your tongue behind your top front teeth. Slide your tongue backward. Do this for three minutes each day.
 Another exercise you can do to prevent snoring involves strengthening your jaw muscles. Though there are several ways to do this, the basic idea is usually the same — simply imitate the motion of chewing without any food in your mouth. Follow the steps below:Open your mouth ―as far as it goes (as if biting into a large apple)― and hold it open for about ten seconds.
Close your mouth and let it rest for several seconds before repeating.
Repeat for at least a few minutes several times per day.
 Strengthening the muscles of the throat can help keep your soft palate from collapsing onto the back of your tongue. One easy throat exercise is simply to repeatedly say each vowel loudly and clearly about thirty times before bed, taking short breaks in between vowels.When the exercise is done correctly, you should sound more or less like this: "Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah ... ee, ee, ee, ee ... Oh, oh, oh ...," and so on. If you're embarrassed to do this in front of your partner, you may alternatively want to do this as you drive to work.
 One of the best throat exercises of all is to simply sing! Not only has frequent singing been shown to decrease the frequency of snoring, but it increases the quality of sleep. Singing works to increase muscle control in the throat and soft palate, thus strengthening your muscles and keeping them from collapsing during sleep.If you don't already sing, try enrolling in singing lessons, joining a local choir, or even simply singing in the car.
 Learning to play this aboriginal wind Australian instrument has reportedly decreased or eliminated snoring in adults. This is because playing the instrument helps to strengthen the throat and soft palate., It is sensible to approach snoring with less-intensive approaches. But not all snoring can be cured by natural approaches, either. Your doctor may suggest mouth appliances or other approaches. Be sure to consult a doctor if:


These approaches do not make a significant difference within two to four weeks.
You suspect sleep apnea, which may require devices such as CPAP machines or even surgery.
You are extremely fatigued during the day. This can be a dangerous situation which needs investigating before you have an accident, lose a job, or fail school.
Snoring can be a condition that feeds into a vicious circle, in which gaining weight worsens the snoring and makes the snoring even worse and so on and so on. Many of these "natural" approaches may work, but may take significant time, whereas a medical professional can sort through more quickly.

