 Make a plan for yourself that includes a series of steps that are realistic to achieve. Include a timeline for achieving each step so that you can stay focused.Be flexible with your plan. This isn’t written in stone, so if a new opportunity or contact presents itself, be flexible so you can incorporate a new direction.
Reevaluate this plan every year or two. Determine if you’re on track or if you need to make adjustments.;
, There are many paths you can follow in shoe design. For example, you can design shoes for women, men, children, athletes, and so on. What appeals to you most?


Consider which aspect of the shoe design process appeals to you most. Do you love designing shoes but you don’t care about actually making them? Do you want to actually make your own shoes? Do you want to work for a big company like Adidas or Nike, or do you want to own your own boutique?

, While it is not necessary to get a degree,a degree can help you develop skills and contacts that will be useful for succeeding in the industry. Enroll in a 2- or 4-year program at an accredited institution.Your degree doesn’t need to be in shoe design. Any degree in an art- or design-related field will be applicable. These might include shoe design, industrial design, graphic design, art, product design, fashion design, and accessory design, among others., A great shoe designer will have an interesting and original look to their designs. You can start developing your own style and brand immediately.


Limit the elements that you can use, such as restricting yourself to three colors, or two types of fabric or material. This will force you to be imaginative and innovative.
Give yourself assignments. Design shoes for different types of people, for example. What are some similarities that resound through each design?
Challenge yourself to create something new every day. Design a new shoe every day for a month. You may start to see themes in your shoe designs.
 You may have a tendency to look at other shoe designs and designers for inspiration, but this risks replicating designs. Look for inspiration in other areas of art or the world. Christian Louboutin, for example, has drawn from archaeology to influence some of his designs., There is more to shoe design than just drawing pictures. The industry is roughly divided into three parts: design or creative, manufacturing, and retail.Design/creative: This is the division where you create your design. But this involves more than sketching a shoe on paper; it also involves pattern making, and for some designers, using or making original lasts to determine shoe fit (lasts are reproductions of the foot, usually made of high-quality plastic or resin).Manufacturing: This is the division that turns your design into an actual pair of shoes. Learn about the chain of manufacturing, from selection of materials to production.

Retail: This is the division that sells your shoes. Understanding the retail side involves understanding what consumers are looking for; these are the people who will be wearing your shoes. Who are the consumers you’re hoping to target? Also consider what stores and buyers are looking for and how your shoes might suit their needs.
 Following the industry and trends in shoes will help you figure out where you can be cutting-edge and stand out. This is a competitive industry and being on top of trends is a necessity.Read design and fashion magazines to keep up with trends.
 One of the most important skills that a shoe designer has is the ability to envision something and translate that onto paper. The goal here is not to replicate what you can already see. Rather, you should imagine a shoe and sketch that out.


Sketching doesn’t have to be done on physical paper. You might use design software to create your shoe designs.
 Shoe design is not all done with pencil and paper sketches. You will need to know design software, such as the Adobe Creative Suite. This includes PhotoShop, Illustrator, InDesign and other programs. Be able to recreate your pencil sketches on the computer.


Also learn how to use computer-aided design (CAD) programs. These will enable you to create 3D digital designs.
 When you learn the different parts that go into creating a shoe from a design sketch, you will understand more about the entire shoe-making process.Make patterns for different types of shoes.
 Assemble your best shoe designs that demonstrate your skill and versatility as a designer. Aim for about 20 designs for a physical portfolio and 30 for an online portfolio. Keep the content fresh by updating your portfolio once in a while with new work.


Include a designer’s statement, in which you talk about your influences and inspirations. Also include an up-to-date resume.
 An internship is a chance for you to work with a designer and assist them in the everyday work of creating shoes. This may also expose you to other roles in a shoe company that you hadn’t previously consideredCheck with your favorite companies to see what their internship requirements are.
Some internships are not paid, but they may offer college credit in exchange for your work. It is best to receive some remuneration for your work if possible.
 Working in a shoe store or the shoe department of a major department store will expose you to all kinds of customers and salespeople. These are, after all, the core people who will come in contact with your shoes on a daily basis when you are a designer yourself. Get to know the business from the ground up by having some experience on the retail side.
 Just like in retail, working in manufacturing will give you a lot of insight into how shoes are produced. You might witness how decisions are made and how the shoes are actually put together.


This might also give you good contacts for manufacturing your own shoe designs, when you get to that point.
 A design assistant, pattern maker, sketching assistant and production assistant are different types of entry-level jobs that allow an individual to work directly with shoe designers. Through these positions, you can help convert the shoe designers' ideas into drawings and actual patterns.
 Start attending openings, trade shows, trunk shows, professional gatherings and so on. Dress smartly and introduce yourself to people. Don’t be pushy, but do focus on chatting with people in a friendly way.


Bring business cards with your contact information printed on them. This will help people remember your name and make it easy to contact you if an opportunity comes up.
You may not want to restrict yourself completely to shoe-related events. Art events more generally, for example, will be gathering places for artistically minded people who may be in a good position to help you move up in the industry.
 An informational interview is a chance to talk to someone who does the kind of job you want to do. Contact a shoe designer and set up a time to talk about the industry and their job.


Be sure to plan a time and location that is convenient for the designer.
This is not an interview for a job. You are presenting yourself as someone interested in learning more about the industry, rather than as someone looking to be hired on the spot.
 A professional organization is a network of people who participate in a similar profession. These organizations often host conferences, advocate policy, promote education and professional development, and give awards. Most are member-based, and you will have to pay an annual fee to join.


Some examples related to shoe design include: Industrial Designers Society of America,American Institute of Graphic Arts,American Apparel and Footwear Association,and Association of Sewing and Design ProfessionalsMany professional organizations have regional or local chapters and student chapters.
 Talking regularly with someone who has a solid career in shoe design can give you good insight and advice as you progress on your trajectory. You might find a mentor through a professional organization, an internship or through a university design program., Do your research on finding a good, reliable manufacturer who can produce the quality of shoe that you are looking for. In addition, their manufacturing must produce a shoe that is representative of what you have designed. Manufacturers can vary greatly, even in terms of the types of shoes they typically produce.


For example, thin-soled shoes with thin leather are more often manufactured in Portugal, while heavier-soled, rounded shoes are more often made in England or Hungary.Shop around for a manufacturer. Take your design to a few different manufacturers and ask them to make a sample shoe. Compare these to find the best choice for you.
 A trunk show is an event where you sell your work (shoes, accessories, and dresses are sold at most trunk shows) at a boutique or store. You attend the trunk show as well, talking and selling to customers. This usually lasts from a few hours to a couple of days, and offers special deals on your items that may not normally be available in stores. They are excellent promotional events, helping get your name out there., Find a local boutique that has an aesthetic that complements your shoe design style. Ask if they will carry your shoes in their store. The store will normally ask for a percentage of the sales in exchange for selling your shoes.
 Set up an online shop, either through your own website or through a storefront website, such as Etsy. This is usually an easier first step to selling your own shoes, rather than opening your own store.

