 Regular exercise can have multiple benefits for your breathing. This is especially true if you have mild to moderate MS. Exercise can build strength and tone muscles.Regular exercise also helps maintain a healthy weight, which can also relieve respiratory issues.Talk with your health care provider before starting any exercise program. Your doctor can inform if you are healthy enough to exercise. Medical professionals can also suggest the best types of exerciseyou’re your health.Aim for approximately 150 minutes of moderate exercise per week if you are able.
Try exercises that are especially good for individuals with MS. These include: walking, stretching, swimming, low-impact aerobics, stationary bicycling, yoga and tai chi.Build upper body strength. Another exercise you may want to consider is strength training. Building the muscles in your chest and back can help you breathe more easily. It may also prevent complications.Meet and work with a certified physical trainer or physical therapist. This person can help you develop a strength training program with weights and/ or resistance bands to give your respiratory system maximum benefits.;
, Fully inflating your lungs can build muscle strength and tone. Spend time every day practicing deep breathing exercises, which can relieve and manage any respiratory complications you may have.Sit up as straight as you are able in a comfortable chair. Inhale for a long and slow breath that completely inflates your lungs. This may cause your belly to expand. Count as you inhale so that you can evenly exhale and track your breathing progress. Exhale completely before taking another breath. Gradually build up your breathing exercises. For example, you may breathe in and then out for 2 counts each for the first few weeks. Once you’re comfortable, move up to 3 counts.
Perform 30 repetitions of each inhale and exhale cycle twice daily.This can help you gain the most benefits from your deep breathing exercises.
Speak with your doctor or a specialist if you are unsure of how to fully inflate your lungs.
 Exposure to stress can trigger or worsen breathing complications from MS. Limiting the stress in your life can relieve and manage your complications. You can do this by avoiding stressful situations, practicing deep breathing exercises, and meditating.Taking a few minutes to meditate by sitting in a comfortable place, closing your eyes, and breathing naturally. Let your thoughts come and go as they will.Yoga and tai chi can also be a form of meditation and exercise that relax you.
Get a massage, which can dissolve any tension making breathing symptoms worse.
Recognize that deep breathing exercises that can improve respiratory function also promote relaxation and dissolve stress.
 Smoking places a burden on your lungs. Continuing to smoke with MS may make breathing complications worse. Quit smoking to better manage any MS-related respiratory issues you have.Speak to your doctor if you are having a hard time kicking the habit. The doctor may have suggestions or treatments to help you stop smoking as quickly possible.

