 It is a bacterial infection which is caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus. This disease occurs primarily in children usually appears on the face, but it can be experienced by adults and appear in other areas of the body. It can spread to other sites of the body by scratching. This disease in contagious and is transmitted from person to person by skin contact. Impetigo has a fairly distinct look, comprised of red sores that have a "honey-colored crust" on top of them.;
, Infection of hair follicles can occur with the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus causing folliculitis. It can occur wherever in the body where there is hair. It produces acute inflammation with pain and swelling and edema of the skin. Furuncle and carbuncle are two types of infection that afflict the hair follicles. Furuncle is more superficial while carbuncle occurs in the subcutaneous layer of the skin. Carbuncle is common among diabetic patients and can predispose to infection of the blood or bacteremia. , This is an infection of the apocrine skin glands. These glands are characterized by their sweat secretion.This infection can resemble folliculitis, but its cause is unknown. See a dermatologist if treatment for presumed folliculitis does not work, as perhaps you have hidradenitis instead. Hidradenitis is much less common than folliculitis.
 Erysipelas is commonly caused by the bacterium Streptococcus.


The sites of infection are usually the face and scalp. It differs from furuncle and carbuncle in that it is an infection on the dermal layer of the skin. The rash is firm, raised, warm, and red, with distinct borders. In addition, there are systemic symptoms such as fever and acute inflammation. , Cellulitis is a general term for any bacterial infection that goes deep into the dermis or second major layer of skin. It is usually caused as a complication of more superficial skin wounds or infections. Many, many bacteria can trigger cellulitis, including strep and staph. There is inflammation of the affected area with redness and heat on the skin. It is important to treat cellulitis while it is still confined to the skin in order to avoid the very serious complication of bacteremia, or the bacteria getting into the bloodstream.
 Necrotizing fasciitis is a deeper infection of fascia, which are connective tissue layers in the body. Necrotizing fasciitis can be very serious because in this disease the bacteria travel quickly along the fascia and can cause rapid necrosis (death) of tissue. This is an uncommon disorder. The usual site of infection is the extremities and abdominal wall. This infection is usually caused by anaerobic bacteria.
 Anthrax is another very rare disease that is caused by the bacteria Bacillus anthracis. It is a spore forming gram positive bacteria that is usually found in farm animals. There are two forms — one travels via the air and infects the lungs; this is the bio-terror weapon you hear about. The same bacteria can also just cause a skin infection which can be bad but isn't necessarily deadly.
 There are two types of leprosy. These are called: tuberculoid leprosy and lepromatous leprosy. Leprosy is a common disorder in the tropical regions and is caused by Mycobacterium leprae. Tuberculoid leprosy occurs in patients who have hypersensitive T-cells which are triggered by the bacteria to attack their own skin. You will notice skin lesions which don't heal and appear lighter than your normal skin color. These areas will be less sensitive to touch, temperature, and pain.Lepromatous leprosy occurs in people with low level of activity of their immune system. In this condition, the bacteria infect the skin as well as the blood. It may also spread to the eyes.
Lepromatous leprosy is a serious medical condition that can cause massive tissue destruction and often leads to disfigurement.