 Ready your AOL account number, together with all the billing details like your name and address (which can be found on the upper part of the billing statement). You’ll need this to disconnect your service.;
, You can reach it by calling 1-800-827-6364 any time of the day. A customer service representative will assist you from the other end of the call. Inform them that you want to disconnect your Internet service, and provide all the details required by the representative (step 1).


Note that the representative will try to convince you not to discontinue your subscription; this is normal, and they’re just doing their job. Simply insist that you want to disconnect, and they will proceed in helping you out.
 Once your account has been cancelled, you’ll receive your last bill for your usage from the most-recent billing date to the date you discontinue your subscription. The bill also includes any refunds or penalties that you may need to pay. Settle this last bill, and your account will be completely cancelled.
 Once your service has been cut off, uninstall any AOL-related programs on your computer since you won’t be using it anymore. To start, go to your computer’s list of installed programs.


For Windows computers, click on the Start/Orb button on the lower-left corner of the screen and click on “Control Panel.” Inside Control Panel, click on “Programs and Features” to view the list of installed programs.
For Mac computers, launch “Finder” by clicking its icon on the shortcut dock. On the Finder window, click on “Applications” from the left menu panel to view the list of installed programs.
 Scroll down the list and uninstall any programs that have “AOL” on its name.


For Windows computers, click on the program and a small “Uninstall/Change” pop-up will appear. Click on this pop-up to remove the program from your computer.
For Mac computers, simply drag the program from the “Applications” folder to the Trash Bin app icon (located either on the dock or on the desktop). The program will be uninstalled from your Mac.

