 Milk, cheese, and ice-creams derived from soy, rice, almond, hemp seed, and oat are suitable alternatives to dairy products. Many stores now cater to vegan customers so many of these ingredients are easily and cheaply accessible.Use soy milk for most milk related recipes. The protein levels in soy milk are comparable to cow milk. Use milks made from nuts (like cashews or almonds) for lighter yogurt alternatives. And try hemp milk for more cheese-based meals. Hemp products retain an elastic-esque texture, which is similar to many cheeses.Sunflower milk is an up and coming alternative as well, but hasn’t really hit the market in full force like other non-dairy milk alternatives have., There are many ways of getting around butter. Several forms of dairy-free margarine are available by Earth Balance and Smart Balance margarine. Olive oils can be used to grease cooking pans and pots in place of butter. Some inventive cooks even purée apples for cooking purposes. Apple purée and coconut cooking oil actually adds more sweetness than butter and can then reduce the amount of sugar you add to cookies and other non-dairy pastries you whip up in your kitchen.If you are lactose intolerant, but still want the taste of butter in your diet, try making Ghee, which is a refined butter that is often entirely casein/lactose free.
 There are many different kinds of non-dairy ice-creams that are made out of soy, rice, and coconut. They also come in many different flavors and sizes. You can buy non-dairy popsicles and tubs of ice cream. Most of these ice creams are made from soy, rice, and coconut milk. They also avoid additives that require some form of dairy — you won't find any "milk" chocolate in these ice creams., Most people who adopt a vegan diet or at least a non-dairy diet report missing yogurt. Its smooth, creamy taste is hard to replicate with non-dairy origins, but you can still find tasty substitutes. Like ice-cream, you can buy yogurt made out of soy and rice, most of which are rich in vitamins B and E, fiber, potassium, and antioxidants., sliced, sprinkled, and melted —you’ll need to find a number of alternatives to suit your tastes. To replace parmesan cheese on salads and pastas, try nutritional yeasts, which are loaded with B vitamins and taste great. Sliced smoked tofu is similar in texture to mozzarella and provolone cheese. Tofu tastes great on sandwiches, crackers, and just by itself.Soy, rice, nut, and hemp cheeses are available in flavors such as cheddar, cheddar-jack, mozzarella, and provolone. Be careful with cheese — even vegetarian brands can contain milk products, usually in the form of casein. Goat's and sheep's milk cheeses seem to be okay for those with relatively mild intolerance.
Some people who try tofu for the first time claim that it is tasteless and rubbery. As with most foods, it all depends on how it’s prepared. Try tofu from a different place or with different spices. Tofu will grow on you, if you give it a chance., Dairy products are the primary source of calcium for most people. We need calcium for healthy bones and teeth. Calcium is also integral to healthy muscle and nerve cells. Fortunately, calcium-fortified nut and grain milk offer similar key nutrients as dairy milk. You can also buy calcium-fortified orange juice. This is also a good time to get acquainted with some calcium-rich foods like dark leafy greens (kale, bok choy, collards, broccoli); sardines; and almonds.