 You don’t have to use mouthwash, unless you have it available, just water. Rinsing your teeth, at a minimum, will help dislodge any food particles that may be caught in your braces.To help you remember to do this, start a routine of rinsing your mouth every time you eat. This is important not just for looks, but also for preventing gum bleeding, which is hard to control during an orthodontic treatment.
 Braces provide a lot of little spots where food particles can get caught. If food gets stuck in these areas for too long, it can degrade your teeth, increasing the chances of decay and cavities. Ideally you should bring a toothbrush and toothpaste with you to school, work, or anywhere else you go and try to brush your teeth after every meal.When you have braces it is recommended you use a soft-bristled toothbrush, whether it’s a manual or electric toothbrush.Get a new toothbrush every three months or change it when bristles start to spread., Flossing helps remove food particles and plaque that can build up under the gum line, where your toothbrush may not reach. Removing these particles every day helps ensure your gums stay healthy while you’re wearing your braces.There are two types of floss you may use: one is the regular kind and the other type has a thicker end for flossing under dental bridges and will work perfectly between brackets. You can also get floss that is pre-threaded on a holder if you prefer.
In addition to flossing, you may want to consider an oral irrigation system. (You might be more familiar with the brand name of WaterPik.) These systems can spray jets of water into your mouth to reach spots you can’t get to with a toothbrush or floss.Since flossing is easier without the wires, ask your orthodontist if you (or them) can floss when you’re at their office for an adjustment., Keeping your teeth and gums healthy on your own is an awesome first step, but try to visit your dentist for a cleaning every six months. Not only will your dentist be able to do a more thorough cleaning of your teeth and gums, they’ll be able to show you areas you may need to pay extra attention to., When you have braces you do need to pay more attention to the types of foods you eat. One reason is that really hard foods can actually break the brackets of your braces. You should try to avoid foods such as caramel, liquorice, lollipops, gum, popcorn, taffy, nuts, and jelly beans because they will turn into a constant deposit for bacteria and transform the sugar into acids. Other types of foods, like apples and carrots, are still okay to eat, but should be cut up first and not eaten whole.Ceramic brackets are designed not to stain, but clear and white elastics can. If you’re wearing clear or white elastics, you may want to stay away from foods like coffee, red wine, purple and red coloured sodas, curry (specifically the spices turmeric and curry powder), mustard, and pasta sauce.
Keep in mind that your ligatures only stay on your braces for a short period of time, and then they’re changed. So you might want to eat foods that may stain them closer to your orthodontic appointment!

, If you do any active sport, including things like skateboarding or snowboarding, you should consider wearing a mouth guard. Mouth guards help protect your teeth from being broken or even knocked completely out.It’s even more important when you wear braces, as in addition to your teeth, you want to avoid breaking the various parts of your braces or injure your oral mucosa, which is very sensitive when in contact with the metal parts of your braces.
 Smoking can cause a lot of oral problems, whether you have braces or not. Besides bad breath, smoking can stain your teeth and tongue, dull your sense of taste and smell, cause you to heal slower after oral surgery, cause gum disease and tooth loss, and cause oral cancer. If you smoked before getting braces, this would be a great time to focus on quitting., Any type of piercing inside or around your mouth can cause long-term problems. Oral piercings can cause infections and swelling inside your mouth, can cause you to choke if something were to break, or can crack a tooth if you bite too hard.The combination of oral piercings and braces is, quite frankly, a recipe for disaster that does a lot of harm to your teeth and can cause accidents during sleeping. If you have any oral piercings before getting braces, you will need to speak to your orthodontist about them. Chances are they’ll ask you to remove them before starting your orthodontic treatment.

