 Tarry black or blackish-green poop is normal during the first few days after a child is born, and is referred to as meconium.However, if black stool persists several days beyond the day of birth or appears after the neonatal period, you should contact a pediatrician. It may be due to blood in the stool from intussusception (intestinal blockage) or internal bleeding. Specks of black might also be present in the stool due to the ingestion of blood during breastfeeding., Chalky white or light gray stool can indicate a bile duct, gallbladder, pancreas, or liver problem. Those colors likely indicate that your baby is not producing enough bile, has a blockage of the bile duct, or has some other digestive issue probably involving insufficient bile., Lime green poo could indicate that your baby has a milk allergy. It might also mean your baby is not getting enough hindmilk. Hindmilk is the richer, more nutritious breast milk that can only be accessed through extended suckling.Finally, lime green poo could mean your baby has a virus.


Slimy green streaks or flecks in the poop can indicate the presence of mucus.This could be due to a viral infection, especially if the baby is sick or has a fever, or it might also simply be due to your baby swallowing excessive saliva/drool. If your baby is experiencing other signs of illness -- vomiting, lethargy, fever, poor appetite, or coughing -- contact a doctor when you see green-flecked poop. Otherwise, don’t worry if you observe a bit of mucus in your baby’s poop.
Contact your pediatrician for more information if you see lime green poo.
 A temporary change to red or rosy pink poop is often a result of having eaten something red, and is not a cause for alarm. Beets, tomatoes, red cereals, red popsicles, or red gelatin could each cause your baby to produce red or pink stool.However, it might indicate blood in the bowels. Contact your doctor if you cannot link your baby’s red poop to something it ate, or if you see obvious blood in the poop or the diaper.


Red poop could suggest that your baby has a milk allergy, internal bleeding, or a bacterial infection., Contact your baby's doctor if his or her poop is one of the warning colors (white, black, or red that cannot be linked to a food). Similarly, contact the doctor when your baby’s poop is thin, watery, or small and hard. Finally, if your child is not pooping as regularly as they usually do, they may be constipated.


If your infants attends day care or is cared for by someone else during the day, inquire with them about the frequency, quality, and color of your baby’s poo.

