 Most people who buy reptiles are inexperienced and don't realize that owning a reptile takes a lot of time and effort. Reptiles are sometimes very cautious and don't feel comfortable with loud noises (sans snakes, which are deaf) or sudden movements. If you're looking for an animal to play with, you should probably buy a dog or a cat. Reptiles aren't the type of animals who will want to play fetch with you or any games, although some reptiles such as bearded dragons and blue-tongue skinks can be quite friendly and affectionate. You also need a lot of patience owning a reptile; especially when you buy one for the first time; they might not trust you at first and back further into the cage when you approach it. It takes some time to get a reptile to trust you. You also need to set aside time to clean their enclosures, feed and water them, take them to the vets, etc. Realize that owning a reptile takes a lot of time and effort & think very hard about it before you decide to buy one.;
, Each species of reptile is different from one another; just like each dog breed is different. Think about what type of reptile you want. You'll want to start with one reptile before you start expanding. Baby reptiles are recommended because they can grow up getting used to you and trusting you, whereas adults might be more cautious and could potentially bite or attack you. If you're a beginner reptile owner, these are some reptile breeds that are perfect for first-timers;



Leopard geckos.

Bearded dragons. If you're a first-timer, do not buy a green iguana. These reptiles need a whole lot of care and they grow big and fast. Most beginners buy an iguana and realize this too late and either abandon the animal or end up giving it improper care and making the iguana ill.

Corn snakes.
Ball pythons.
 You can't learn enough or too much. There is always learning potential with every animal. Even an expert will admit to learning new things each day. Save up money and buy everything you'll need right from the beginning. You can't buy an animal and not have the proper care and place to put it! At the minimum, you'll need a nice big enclosure, a water & food source,proper lighting fixtures, some powdered vitamins and calcium you can sprinkle on their food, and a good place for your reptile to hide to feel safe (A hollow log or rock it can climb in, etc). You might need to buy other things depending on your choice of reptile. You'll need to set this up in a place where there isn't a lot of noise, where other animals can't get to it, and where it's environment can be easily controlled.
 Bring it home right away and place it in it's enclosure. Leave it alone for a couple of hours and let it get used to it's new home.
 You can buy another separate enclosure or use a giant one to keep the same species of reptile in (based on the species. Some species are best kept separately and not in a communal situation). Remember to buy everything you'll need before purchasing each new animal.
 Some animals come with not only high price tags but also high needs. Some are venomous, some are just plain dangerous, some are protected, and some are highly illegal to keep.
,