 Ending a relationship means that you have to deal with a lot of emotions. Many of those feelings are unpleasant. After a breakup, you may have experienced loneliness, disappointment, or sadness.Before you begin a rebound relationship, face up to your feelings. Your new relationship will suffer if you allow your past to impact negatively.
It's normal to feel lingering emotions. Just make sure to acknowledge them as you move on.
For example, you can face your feelings of loneliness. You can say to yourself, "I've been feeling lonely lately. I will feel better if I start dating and have companionship." You are giving yourself a healthy motivation for your rebound relationship.
 You will have a healthier rebound relationship if you can effectively move on from your ex. Spend some time allowing yourself to emotionally heal. Once you are feeling ready, you can start dating.Make a list. Write down all of the things that you won't miss about your prior relationship.
For example, you could say, "I will not miss living with someone who would not share in household chores. I was sick of doing laundry for two." Even if the things will small, listing the negatives will help you to focus on the positive.
Give yourself a break. Take the pressure off of yourself to feel a certain way.
Allow yourself to feel a range of emotions. This will help expedite the healing process.
 Breakups can be damaging to your self- esteem. A rebound relationship can help you to restore your confidence. Seek a relationship that makes you feel good about yourself.Try dating someone who compliments you. It is nice to hear something like, "Wow, you look fantastic! I'm lucky to be going to dinner with you!"
Look for a relationship that makes you feel good about yourself. A rebound relationship should make you feel worthwhile.
Seek a partner that builds you up. For example, date someone who admires your work ethic and career choice.
 In order to meet your emotional needs, you need to have a support system. As you are transitioning to a new relationship, turn to your friends and family. They can help offer you emotional support. Ask your friends to listen. Try saying, "I am really excited about my new relationship, but also nervous. Do you have some time to talk?"
Tell your family you might need some extra understanding. For example, you can tell your sister, "I really want to have fun and explore this new relationship. I won't be able to make the picnic with the extended family this weekend."
Be honest about your emotions. Communicate your needs to friends and family so that they can more effectively help you.

