 You can either test your urine or saliva. Test 60 minutes before eating a meal and 2 hours after eating. This will give you the best range of pH. Test twice a week.


Testing the pH of your urine will show how well your body is able to remove acids and maintain optimal amounts of minerals that protect the body from becoming too acidic. The "buffer minerals" include sodium, magnesium, calcium, and potassium. If you are acidic, then your body is not doing a good job at using the minerals to protect against the acid, because there is too much acid in your body. For a healthy range, your urine pH should be between 6.0 and 6.5 when you test in the morning, and between 6.5 and 7.0 when you test in the evening.
Testing the pH of your saliva will help show digestive enzyme activity in the body. For a healthy range, your saliva pH should remain between 6.5 and 7.5 all day.;
, Eat more alkaline foods and less acidic foods.


Alkaline foods include green juice, vegetable juice, fruit juice, garlic, berries, oranges, bananas, kale, pumpkins, squash, peas, green tea, and most other fruits and vegetables. However, Some fruits are quite acidic, e.g. cranberries, plums, rhubarb, blackberries and prunes. So are fruit juices that are processed, as opposed to simply squeezed from the original.
Acidic foods may include meat (animal protein), dairy, white rice, wheat and white flour, including pasta. Amaranth, millet, and quinoa are good grains. All meats are acidic though beef, pork and shellfish are the worst.
Almonds are a great alkaline protein source, but peanuts and walnuts are very acidic, pecans and cashews are also acidic.
Soy milk is alkaline, green tea and tisanes are alkaline, but black tea and alcohol are acidic.
Raw spinach is great, but cooked spinach not so much (though it’s not the worst).
 If you are not sure, speak to your doctor. If the medication is necessary and you cannot avoid it, you may help combat the acidic pH by eating alkaline foods.
 If you made dietary changes and included less acidic foods in your diet and still notice a high acid pH balance, stress could be the culprit. Utilize stress reduction techniques to help reduce acidity.

