 For a raw food style breakfast, try eating 2-3 whole fruits, like apples, oranges, pears etc. They should be seasonal and easily available.


To avoid monotony, try to eat different types of fruits on different days of the week.
 Because your breakfast is very light and focused on carbohydrates, you need to eat some protein and fat to balance the diet. You can use any type of germinated seed or nut for this purpose.


A 1/2 cup of walnuts, cashews, brazil nuts or pecans will do the job.
Soak the seeds or nuts overnight in fresh water. When the morning comes, they will be ready to eat.
 Lunch should be your largest meal of the day in a raw food diet and must contain all the essential nutrients. For this reason, you will see the greatest variation in the lunch menu.


Your lunch should be appetizing, nutrient and calorie rich, and filling.
Make sure to keep green leafy items, fruits, legumes or grains, nuts, and oil in your diet plan.
A simple menu could contain an avocado salad, for which you will need 3 cups of green vegetables (any type according your preference), 1 avocado, 1 beet, 1 carrot, 1 tomato, 1 lemon (juiced), 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of hemp oil, and a pinch of salt.
Cut your avocado in half, remove the pit and slice into strips. Put them on top of your greens and add your other ingredients. Mix well and serve to eat.
 Dinner is also a major meal of the day and you need to include all the essential nutrients. You can prepare a salad with dressing using a variety of fruits, vegetables, nuts or seeds.


Consider preparing a salad with lettuce, pear, apple, garlic (one each), and a dressing with balsamic vinegar, stone-ground mustard, olive oil, water, lemon juice, salt, and agave/honey. Mix the salad items together and pour the dressing over the salad.
You can add animal products such as milk and dairy products, egg and fish to your dinner menu.
If you do, make sure to balance them by removing other items to keep your calorie intake within your requirements.

