 If Rengar exits stealth or a bush, he will still have a .5 second window to leap. Unseen Predator will still allow Rengar to leap to his target, even if they have vision of him.

Ferocity: Rengar gains a stack of Ferocity whenever he does damage with an ability to an enemy. Once reaching 5 stacks Rengar's next basic ability is enhanced, and will have a separate cool down independent of the basic ability.

Bonetooth Necklace: Rengar will obtain a trophy whenever he participates in a kill and will gain bonuses depending on how many he has.
3 Trophies:Hunter's Domain: 25 bonus movement speed while out of combat or in a bush.
6 Trophies: Unseen Predator's Range is increased by 125.
12 Trophies: Thrill of the Hunt's duration is increased by 5 seconds.
20 Trophies: Thrill of the Hunt's bonus movement speed while stealth is doubled.;
,








Q (Empowered) - Savagery's bonus damage is increased to 30-240 (depending on level) +30% of his total Attack Damage. Also it grants Rengar 50-101% bonus attack speed and 20% Attack Damage for 5 seconds.








W (Battle Roar) - Rengar screams out a roar, dealing magic damage to nearby enemies and gains bonus armor and magic resist for 4 seconds, increased by 50% for each affected enemy or large monster.








W (Empowered) - Battle roar's basic magic damage is modified to 40-250 (depending on level). Rengar heals for 12-80 (depending on level) increased by 6.25% for every 1% missing health, healing up to a max of 75-500 (depending on level).








E (Bola Strike) - Rengar throws a bola in the targeted direction, dealing physical damage. The first target hit by bola strike will be slowed.








E (Empowered) - Bola Strike's physical damage is increased to 50-340 (depending on level), also landing it on a target will root them for 1.75 seconds.








R (Thrill of the Hunt) - Rengar goes into stealth after 1 second of not taking damage - up to 3 seconds if taking damage. He will gain vision of all nearby champions for 7 to 12 seconds. While stealthed, Rengar gains 15/30% bonus movement speed while moving towards a nearby enemy. Once exiting stealth Rengar gains bonus movement speed (25/35/45% depending on skill level) and 5 stacks of ferocity over the next 5 seconds.
 As an assassin, you want to do as much damage as you can in as little time as possible. This is the mindset behind the skill level-up order. To help with early game jungle clearing you will need to start Q to kill the camp quickly. The reason why Q will give you the fastest clear is because it can be used as a basic attack reset. What this means is that you can start off by using a basic attack then press Q and instantly get another basic attack off.
 You will want to take W at level 2, because it has AoE (Area of Effect) damage and healing. This will allow you to clear additional camps with more health.
 You will want to follow the maxing ordering shown above. Q is your strongest damage dealer, followed by E which is why you want to max your abilities in that order.
 The most standard marks for the attack damage junglers, which will work for Rengar, would be attack damage marks. However, you may prefer to use armor penetration marks; the reason behind this that it will provide you a great deal of damage early on and allow for flexibility in your build paths. The only downside is that your clears might be a little rough but W will make up for it!


Now the reasoning behind the 2% critical strike is that you start off with 0%, and 1% chance of it happening is obviously better than 0%. And at the cost of 1.28 armor penetration you can double your odds!

, Armor seals are allows taken in the jungle for 5 out of the 6 jungle camps deal physical damage. So it will allow for safe jungle clears.
 Rengar being a cool down reliant champion means you'll want to get the maximum capacity for your cool downs. This is the reasoning behind why would you chose cool down glyphs over magic resist. Just take extra caution when facing strong ability power foes.


The reasoning for these come from your marks and glyphs, with your glyphs you'll reach a 10% cool down reduction which will help you achieve maximum capacity (40%). The armor penetration is also there to help for more damage early game., These masteries are basically the safest route for learning Rengar. The keystone Thunderlord's will allow you to get an early lead and potentially snowball. The smaller masteries are there for clearing the jungle safely and supplying minor damage enhancements. When you are comfortable on Rengar, you will be able to switch them up to whatever you prefer.
 Machete start in the guide shouldn't need any explanation, the other starter gives no benefit for Rengar to start. Now the debate between starting 3 potions or refill comes up a lot between Jungle players; the reason behind why some people prefer the 3 potions is that Rengar has built in sustain so after your first clear you will not need any potions to stay healthy.
 With the armor pen runes there's no need to rush any armor pen item first, so Tiamat fills the role great, for it's raw damage and proves AoE on your basic attacks as well as Q. Also, when you can switch your trinket from the warding totem to the sweeping lenses. This will allow you to pull off ganks a bit easier, for when ganking if you active the bush before getting close enough you will be bale to disable it's vision.
 The items added onto the build will be a Zeal and Lucidity Boots. Zeal is a great item for Rengar especially while generating all those kills. The main use that comes from the zeal is the 20% crit rate provided from it, although it might seem low it'll feel higher than displayed. The reasoning behind Lucidity boots shouldn't be hard to find, like mentioned early with runes CDR scales great with Rengar.
 Now here if snowballing went successful this will be the biggest power spike in the game for you. Having these items you'll be able to assassinate any enemy fed or not. Upgrading the zeal into a Static Shiv will provide a small bonus of damage for your burst potential. The last whisper will be good to have added into the build for by now you should be a major threat to the enemies and some of them will start building some armor to try and neglect your damage. The last whisper will basically counter act the armor being bought by enemies.
 Nothing much changes here except you'll be choosing between the Hydras and Last Whisper upgrades. Choosing between the Last Whisper upgrade has no argument, you'll always take Lord Dominik's Regards. This is because the other upgrade only gives you grievous wounds bonus; however, being an assassin the enemy shouldn't be able to do any sort of damage that they'll be able to heal off of.


Now for the Hydras, taking Ravenous Hydra over titanic is better for Rengar for it'll give you life steal and has a shorter active cool down. Now notice you're not going to be rushing the hydra completion this should be done nearly last in your build, the last whisper upgrade should be done beforehand.
 The sixth component to your build will always depend on how the game is going. For the following examples:


If they enemies have a lot of Ability Power threats you'll want to grab that Maw of Malmortius.
If you're extremely ahead (4-6 levels ahead of the enemy attack damage carry) put up the Infinity Edge. This will just allow you take full control over the game and no one will be able to handle you at all.
If you feel like the 30% CDR isn't cutting it and you want some more life-steal and attack damage go for the Death's Dance - It'll be able to fill all those gaps.
The choices between Sterak's Gage and Guardian Angel are similar, if you feel like you're blowing up too fast in team fights after killing your target these will almost provide a second chance. Guardian Angel will give you that second chance for sure, but depending on how the fight goes will you re-spawn you might just end up dying again. Sterak's Gage will give you that small shield and window to maybe get out or try to heal up of nearby targets.
 When starting your golems make sure you smite them as well to get the buff from them.
 Clearing your raptors will stall out sometime for smite to be back up for red buff.
 Clearing the red camp will grant you level 3, as well as the potential to help a lane.
 Being level 3 at this point in the game will give you a small window to kill either middle or bottom lane while they are still level 2.
 When taking on Gromp his buff will not be that help for you on Rengar, but the true damage from smite will allow you to kill it faster.
 Again you will be stalling out for smite to be back up, for the buff clear will deal a bit of damage so smite will help kill it faster.
 Just like on Blue Side you will be killing you buff to acquire level 3.
 The reasoning is the same exact as mention early for Blue Side.
 When going in for a gank (ambushing an enemy laner) especially pre-level 6; you're going to need your E available as well as 5 stacks of Ferocity. Rengar isn't the most mobile champion so having the ability to root an enemy for nearly 2 seconds can greatly increase your odds of a successful gank. If the enemy gets away from the gank there's a high chance that they were forced to flashed. So now you will have a much easier creating an advantage in that lane - especially if it is a low mobility champions.
 During the early stages of the game you're going to want to clear at least 3 camps before doing any ganking. Most typically you'll get to level 3 and gank either middle lane or a side lane depending on what is happening in the game. Once completing the gank, if healthy you can go back into your jungle and rush getting to level 6. Once level 6, keep an eye on your allies health bars and see who is fighting, and if you can come get kills. You will just to rack up kills for the most part of early game.
 Now during this part of the game, almost all of the outer turrets should be destroyed, maybe a dragon or 2 have been taken. When towers are destroyed that allows your laners to start roaming, which will mean it's maybe time to group and combine everyone's lead into a team fight. How team fights will work for you is you will want to find a position where you can flank the enemies from. When joining the team fight you most likely do not want to be the engagement, allow some cool-downs to be blown so the enemies will not be able to react to you joining the fight. Do not try to 1v5 the enemy team, you will just die. Depending on your lead you can most likely 1v2, even 1v3 depending on the enemy champions.
 This is the part of the game where a single death can change the entire outcome of the game. So will need to play extra careful, constantly look at the enemy's items and see if anyone is carrying a vision ward. Also at this point in the game you should be level 16 with 3rd rank in R. The cool-down should be less than a minute so if you see the enemy ADC walking alone, use your R to see if they actually are alone before pouncing on the pray. Kills like this are called 'Picks' where you will find a target all by themselves and pick them off. With these picks you'll be able to secure dragons, barons, or even end the game.

