 In order for your blog to be subject to copyright, it must be an “original work of authorship”. This means that it cannot be copied from anyone else. You can find examples of the numerous variations of "works of authorship" in Section 102 of the Copyright Act.;
, The categories of copyright are wide-ranging and include:


literary works
musical works, including any accompanying words
dramatic works, including any accompanying music
pantomimes and choreographic works
pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works
motion pictures and other audiovisual works
sound recordings
architectural works

, An author must provide the Copyright Office with a copy of the work they intend to copyright. You have two choices for the format of the copy, hard copy and electronic copy.


Electronic copy. You may choose to upload a copy of your writings in a format that is acceptable. A list of acceptable electronic formats can be seen on the Copyright Office’s Acceptable File Types webpage. If you are unsure if your work can be submitted in electronic copy, you can call the Copyright Office at 1-877-476-0778 between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time (“EST”), Monday through Friday.
Hard copy. You may choose to mail a hard copy of your writings or deliver your work by hand to the Copyright Office. This should be done after you have completed the copyright application.
 You may watch the Electronic Copyright Office’s (“eCO”) Online System Power Point tutorial. These tutorials will walk you through the steps required for using the eCO system to file your copyright registration.
 Before using the online registration, you need to prepare your computer by adjusting the settings as follows :


Disable your browser's pop-up blocker. Depending on which browser you are using, navigate to the ‘settings’ or ‘tools’ screen and uncheck the box beside ‘pop-up blocker’. This will allow pop-ups needed for the application process. If you cannot find the pop-up blocker settings, check the troubleshooting or support page of your browser manufacturer’s website.
Set your security and privacy settings to medium. These settings are normally located under ‘settings’ or ‘tools’. Where exactly they are located will depend upon which browser you are using.
Disable any 3rd party toolbars. To disable a toolbar, right click on the toolbar area of your browser and one at a time select each toolbar you wish to disable. 3rd party toolbars may include Yahoo, AOL, or others.
 Some of the information required includes:


The title of the work. The title of the work should be something unique by which it can be identified. If the work or any copies of it contain a title, use that title. Be sure to use the title word for word.
The nature of the work. The nature and character of the work will need to be included on the application. Use a descriptive plain English phrase here, such as ‘fictional story’, ‘news article’, or ‘poem’.
Information about the creation and publication of the work. Every application must contain the year in which the creation of the writings was completed and the full date of publication including the county in which it was published.
 Log in the eCO system to begin your copyright registration application.
 The application fee for online registration is $35. Once you have completed the registration application you will be directed to a payment page at pay.gov, where you can pay by credit or debit card.
 Once you have completed payment, you will be directed to a payment confirmation screen. At the top right of this screen you will see a ‘continue’ button. Click the button and then do one of the following:


Print a shipping slip if you wish to mail or personally deliver a copy of your work. Click the ‘create shipping slip’ link. Next, click the blue shipping slip link in order to view and print a shipping slip. Make sure to attach the slip to your work before personally delivering or mailing your writings.
Upload an electronic copy of your work. To do this, click the ‘upload deposit’ link. Browse to the file you wish to submit, select it, and click upload.
 The Copyright Office may contact you by e-mail or by phone about your application. You will be notified if any further documentation or information is required. Be sure to check your spam folder so that you do not miss anything.
 You can check the status of your application by logging in to eCO. At the bottom of the screen you will see an “Open Cases” table. Click on the blue case number associated with your claim.

