 Whenever changing any piercing start by washing your hands. You don't want bacteria or infections getting into a piercing. Wash the area around your nose stud, whether you have a stud in or not. Also wash the nose stud itself.


It is really important to clean the piece of metal that you are sticking into your body. Germs on the stud could transfer straight to your nose, so make sure the stud is clean.
It's a good idea to use a saline solution or a mild antiseptic solution to make sure the area is really clean but you can use hydrogen peroxide or plain soap too. Either way, make sure that the cleaner is washed off and the stud is dry before inserting it.
 A nose bone type nose stud is a straight piece of metal with a decorative piece on one end and a small bulb of metal on the other end. To insert it you will first need to find the hole in your nose. Push the round end of the stud, the opposite end of the decorative end, in the hole making sure to be gentle and that the stud is going straight through to the other side of the hole.


You may need to hold your nostril taught with your other hand to get the small ball to go through the opening. This can definitely be a bit uncomfortable and for a lot of people it is a bit painful.
Feel free to do this slowly, pushing only a little bit at a time. You will know when the end of the stud is through to the other side, as the decorative end of the stud will be up against the outside of your nose.
 To make sure that you've put in your nose stud correctly, lift up your nostril a bit and look in the mirror. You should be able to see the end of the stud inside your nose. Twist it around a little bit to make sure its in well. If you can feel it or its just uncomfortable, readjust it's position.


Nose bone type nose studs are easy to insert but that also means that they can come out of your nose pretty easily. Be aware of this and take care that it doesn't fall out or your piercing might close up. , Taking out your nose stud is simple but a little uncomfortable. Pull it straight out of your nose, while holding onto the decorative end with one hand and pulling your nostril taught with the other hand.


Be sure to do this gently, as getting the bulb through your piercing can be uncomfortable. Remember to take your time because a nose piercing can be sensitive to pressure and force.
Once again, make sure your hands and the area around the piercing are clean before handling your nose stud!

