 In most cases, metallics work best as small accents in your wedding decor. However, you can use larger splashes of metallics to make a bolder statement. Keep in mind that your decor will have a more dramatic look, though, so a heavy dose of metallics is more suited for a formal or evening wedding.If you want to go heavy with metallics in your decorations, it’s best to pair them with a neutral color palette. A subdued color scheme allows the metallics to pop and keeps the decor from being over the top. Pair a large number of metallic decorations with white, black, gray, navy, beige, taupe, and/or brown shades.;
, When you’re using metallic decorations for your wedding, it’s important to make sure that they coordinate with the color palette that you’ve chosen. Warm shades, such as reds, oranges, and yellows, usually look best with gold metallic decorations, while cool shades, such blues, greens, and purples, typically work best with silver metallic decorations.Bronze, copper, and rose gold metallic decorations can also complement a warm color palette.
Stainless steel or aluminum decorations can also complement a cool color palette.
 If you’re planning to use metallic decorations at your wedding, think about the fabrics and materials that you’ll be pairing with them. To keep the metallics from looking too harsh, choose soft or rich fabrics to help create balance in the decor.For example, you might line the walls of the venue with gauzy curtains or fabrics panels and pair them with metallic accents.
Velvet tablecloths paired with metallic centerpieces can work well for a winter wedding.
Lace and satin decor can also help soften the look of metallic decorations.
 If you want to add a subtle metallic touch to your wedding decor, consider using metallic vases for your floral arrangements. Pair gold, silver, bronze, or copper vases with simple white or pale pink, yellow, or blue flowers to dress up the tables at your wedding.You can purchase or rent metallic vases for the big day. However, if you’re on a budget, you can make them yourself. Use metallic spray paint to paint inexpensive vases, mason jars, wine bottles, or other glass items that would work as vases.
 If you’re adorning the pews or aisle markers at the wedding venue with flowers, you can work metallics into those arrangements as well. Use metallic ribbon to hold the flowers together for another subtle pop of gold, silver, bronze, or copper. For a more dramatic look, tie the ribbon off in large bows so it really stands out amongst the flowers.You can also use metallic ribbon for the bouquets for the bride and bridesmaids. The groom and groomsmen can also incorporate metallic ribbon in their boutonnieres.
 For a subtle but unique metallic touch to your wedding’s floral arrangements, consider gilding some of the leaves. You can do it yourself or ask your florist to do it for you, but be sure to use camellia and/or magnolia leaves. They last for several days, so you can prepare the leaves ahead of time and have them ready for the wedding.To gild the leaves yourself, use a paintbrush to spread sizing glue, which is available at the craft store, on the tips of the leaves. Next, apply gold, silver, or bronze leaf to the leaves to give them a metallic edge.
 If you want to make a bold statement with metallics at your wedding, metallic sequined table cloths or seat covers can instantly brighten up the venue. You can also save the metallic sequins for just the happy couple’s chairs so they really stand out in the room.If all over sequins seem too much, look for table cloths or chair covers that feature a sequined polka dot design. It will still add shine to the venue without seeming over the top.
 Having candles as part of the table decor at your wedding helps create soft, romantic mood lighting. They also allow you to incorporate metallics into the tablescape by using gold, silver, bronze, or copper candlesticks to hold the candles.Create a striking tablescape by using candlesticks of various heights and widths.
 Silverware may be the traditional option for cutlery, but you can really dress up the place settings for your wedding by using gold instead. You can also mix up your place settings by using bronze or rose gold cutlery, which offers a softer look than gold.You’ll likely need to speak to the venue where you’re having the reception to discuss cutlery options. The venue may not have gold or other metallic cutlery available, so you’ll need to rent them from a party rental company.
 The cake is often the centerpiece of wedding decor, so don’t overlook the possibility of giving it a metallic edge. With edible gold or silver leaf, you can add a metallic layer to the cake -- or cover its entire exterior with a metallic finish so it really stands out.You can also use the metallic gold or silver leaf on fruit and other small pastries to dress up the dessert table.
 Lighting is often a concern at outdoor weddings, but it also presents an opportunity to work in some metallic accents to the decor. Use brass, bronze, or stainless steel lanterns to add light and ambiance to your outdoor wedding.You may even want to use some metallic lanterns at an indoor wedding to highlight certain areas. For example, hang one or more over the table where the happy couple is sitting to help draw attention to them.
 The guest or place cards are another opportunity to incorporate a subtle metallic touch to the decor. Use metallic font for your guests’ names an elegant bit of shine to the decor.To keep a theme throughout the wedding, you might use the same metallic font for the invitations.

