 Respect is important in a loving relationship. Always give your significant other a chance to speak and have an opinion, and when he or she talks, make sure that you listen. Respecting your significant other also means never giving him or her a reason to think that you're unfaithful. It's fun to flirt with other people, but if they see you flirting with everyone who walks down the street then they're never going to want to commit to you., You should give your significant other the same consideration you would give a good friend. This means that you should always be there for them and be unselfish in your actions. But be a good friend to your significant other because you want him or her to be happy, not because you want something from them.
 No one wants to feel trapped in a relationship. This is why many people keep themselves from getting too serious. If you give your significant other the freedom to do the things he or she loves, you will go far in making the person feel comfortable with the idea of loving you. Respect your significant other’s independence; don’t try to change them and certainly don’t invade their privacy. They are allowed to have secrets and things that are just theirs.
 Celebrate the good things about your significant other and try to accept the things that annoy you. Don’t try to get your significant other to change for you.For example, don’t force your significant other to change his or her diet or personal style. If you make suggestions along these lines and he or she says “no”, respect that and don’t bring it up again.
 Alone time and personal space are important for both of you, so don’t try to make your significant other give up his or her personal time to spend more time with you. Be respectful of your significant other’s personal space as well and don’t try to rearrange your significant other’s room or go through his or her things.


Do things on your own or with your friends a couple of times each week. Don’t force your significant other to spend every waking moment with you or he or she may feel suffocated.

