 The reason behind this is to spare you the possibility of contemplating linking up again for the sake of soothing the pain, or because it is convenient. Neither reason is solid enough to make a good relationship the second time round.;
, Even though crying doesn't change the situation, it makes you feel better. You might need a pillow too, in case you feel fit to punch and scream into it. Getting out your feelings is a big step into getting over them. And remember, it's okay to cry. Your feelings are valid.
 Don't let them apologize without explaining why he or she did what they did. Even then, the reasoning will likely be self-justifying and unreasonable, so if you must listen, do so with your ears and eyes wide open to the selfishness of their reasoning. In the end, it should let you know and remember why you broke up with them in the first place.
 This is usually the hardest stage. Remember that you don't deserve to be treated in the manner that hurt you and if he or she is not going to treat you like the gold you are, then he or she has lost you. Be very specific in the letter, phone call, email, etc. Tell him or her why it's over very plainly if they seem not to get the message. They know what they have done; you have made a decision they are not to be trusted again with your heart.
 When you're not around him or her, you won't think about him or her as much. However, if you do have to see him or her (like at church, work or school, etc.), just ignore him or her as much as possible.
 If you're busy with something else, then you won't think about him or her as much. Dig into your work, your hobby, your studies, whatever you have to keep you occupied. Spend more time with family and friends.
 Looking at others should really help to take your mind off your ex, especially if you are intent on finding the right person. But be careful of the rebound; don't just jump into a relationship as a way of getting over the last person. Only get involved with someone else if you genuinely like them and want to proceed with a serious, mature relationship. Anything other than that could put that relationship in the same place that your last one was.
 Vent to your friends initially and get it out of your system but then stop. Don't bring him or her up all the time. This can really hurt your friendships if you are always talking about him or her over a long period of time–it becomes boring and frustrating. Remember, you're over and you don't need him or her, so just move on.

