 The Sailor Scouts are actually pretty nice, all of them. Even Rei Hino would do anything to help out her friends. Be nice to everyone you meet, and be especially kind to your friends. Also be very kind to animals and nature.
 Don't be a bystander If someone is being bullied or picked on, go help them, and don't be afraid to yell at the bully! It's what the Sailor Scouts would do. Don't beat them up, however. That's NOT what a Sailor Scout would do.
 Don't be mean and/or boss people around too much. People see the Sailor Scouts as natural leaders. And they are! Make yourself a natural leader too. After all, you just might end up being a moon princess!


Don't let people boss you around! Show them who's boss! Ask yourself, "What Would A Sailor Scout Do?"

, Almost all of the Sailor Scouts have a crush on someone, and many of them can come off as a bit boy-crazy sometimes, especially Usagi.


If you think you might have a crush on some, don't just ignore it! Daydream and talk about him, even take it a step further and ask the guy out. Come on, don't be scared. If you're a teenager, you could even end up being this dude's legit girlfriend!
But whatever you do, DON'T try to make yourself like someone. It just doesn't work that way. Love can be made, but true love is born, not made.
 It must take a LOT of bravery to fight scary monsters like that all the time! Don't you think so too? To be a good Sailor Scout, there is definitely going to be a lot of bravery involved. Can you make yourself braver? Well, here's an idea- if you're a Harry Potter fan, and in a scary situation, to act braver, just say "I'm a Gryffindor" over and over again. If you're not an HP fan, just say "If <favorite fictional character> can do <dangerous thing they have done>, then I can do this!"


Just follow those tips and you'll be braver in no time!

, You wouldn't the bad guys to find out your true identity, now, would you? Make sure not to tell ANYONE you are a Sailor Scout, and if they ask, just say something like "What makes you think that?" or just say "Umm...." and walk away.


You can tell some of your close friends and recruit them to be Sailor Scouts too! If they have never seen Sailor Moon, make sure you get them into it before officially making them a Sailor Scout.
