 The types available include Indica, Sativa, and hybrids, each of which is better for treating different illnesses due to varying amounts of the active ingredients THC, Cannabinol, and Cannabidiol. Various strains of Indica and Sativa will have different smells, tastes, and potencies, which will appeal to different users.


Choosing strains for your condition – For a quick guide to the best strains for each condition, see http://www.unitedpatientsgroup.com/resources/medical-marijuana-strains. For a more in-depth guide to strains, try http://www.medicalmarijuanastrains.com/strain-guide/.
Choosing strains by taste and potency – All marijuana contains the same ingredients, so though some is specifically recommended for ailments, any strain will provide relief. If your more interested in choosing by taste or potency, consult http://www.medicalmarijuanastrains.com/strain-guide/.
Picking strains that are easy to grow – If you don't have much of a green thumb, you'll want to pick one of the easy to grow strains like AK-48, Northern Light, Aurora Indica, Jack Herer, Super Lemon Haze;
, The buds in flowers are what contain the active ingredients that produce a high, so getting your plants to flower is vital.Unlike normal cannabis, which requires 24 hours of light to grow and then a 12 hour light cycle to flower, auto-flowering plants flower with 24 hours of light. This means faster flowering and no need to separate growing plants (24 hours of light) and flowering plants (12 hours of light)., Marijuana plants come in female and male varieties, and only female plants produce the buds that yield a high. That means the more females you grow, the higher your yield will be. Luckily, you can purchase feminized seeds to ensure that your crop will be all female.Be aware that under stress, female plants will become hermaphrodites and produce male flowers. You can avoid this by growing your plants in a low stress environment.
 Websites such as Herbies, Sensi Seeds, Bonza Seeds, or Marijuana-seeds.nl will offer discretion, as well as quality seeds that are what they say they are.