 Once you've pursued adequate education and experience, you can begin writing your resume. A good resume can help set you apart from the competition when pursuing a job at UPS.


Be consistent about formatting choices. For example, if you use bullet points to list your experience for one job do not list your experience in sentences for your next position.Include only relevant experience. If you're applying for a marketing position, for example, potential employees are not going to care that you stocked shelves over the summer to make ends meet. However, your marketing internship your junior year of college can help set you apart.Phase your experience in the most impressive terms possible. For example, say you're applying for a sales position and include your experience at Radio Shack in your resume. Do not say "Helped customers choose electronic devices." Instead, say, "Consulted with customers on their specific at-home needs to help them select the best products for their personal needs." You can find lists of resume buzzwords online that can help you phrase your experience in impressive terms.
A solid design can help set your resume apart, especially if you're applying for a job in a more creative field. You can find lists of fun, creative resume templates online to help inspire you., The UPS website is user friendly and can easily be searched for job positions. You can search by location, field, position, keyword, and more. If you're looking for a job with UPS specifically, their website is the best place to start However, you may occasionally end up stumbling across a UPS job on another website.
 Through UPS's website, you are required to complete a profile that includes your personal information such as address, email address, telephone number, and Social Security number (SSN). Applications vary depending on the position. Some may require you include references. Include a reference you have worked with professionally rather than a friend or a family member.
 If you are contacted for an interview, there are specific regulations UPS follows when conducting interviews and hiring employees. Usually, around 10 to 15 people interview for a job at a time. The specific questions you can expect depend on the position you're applying for.


If you're applying for a job that requires manual labor, you'll probably be asked about the physical demands of the job. An interviewer will ask you if you're able to lift up to 70 pounds and whether you've played sports in the past. Drivers will be asked questions about their ability to follow direction and interpret maps.Questions for jobs like management and corporate positions focus on broader qualities. You'll be asked how you've dealt with past conflicts and how you plan to manage and motivate employees.The UPS website has videos of mock interviews. These can be helpful to view in preparation for your UPS interview., Due to demands on holiday delivery, UPS often hires workers for seasonable employment. Be on the lookout for such jobs. They could lead to full time positions down the road and bolster your resume when applying for more permanent UPS work.