 Talk to a friend who has already started shaving about how they convinced their parents to let them start. Ask an older sister, if you have one, what she said to your parents that worked.


You can ask questions like: What did your parents respond well to? How did they react? What age were you? Did you have to make a deal with them?
You can even have a sister, friend, or friend’s parents talk to your parents if you need help later to convince them.;
, Sit your parents down for a talk in the living room or dining room, or wherever you’re comfortable having a conversation. If you don’t want to make it a big deal, you can slip the question into a casual conversation about something else.


If you sit your parents down for a serious discussion, you can start with something like: “Mom, Dad, I want to talk to you about something. I’m starting to grow hair on my legs, and I’d really like to shave it. Will you give me permission to buy a razor and start shaving?”
If you want to slip a question about shaving into another conversation like an upcoming trip to a pool or waterpark, for example, you can say: “Yeah, I want to wear my new blue bathing suit to the pool, but I just feel really uncomfortable about showing my legs. All the other girls are shaving them and mine are hairy. Do you think it would be okay if I shaved mine?”
If you’re too embarrassed by talking to them in person at all, you can even send them an email or text with your request to shave., Listen carefully to what your parents have to say about why they don’t want you shaving yet if they say no. Don’t use their reasons to start an argument or complain that they’re not fair. Instead, consider what they say and see if you can use it to do your own research and come up with a new, mature argument that you can use after some time has passed.


For example, if your parents say they don’t like the risk of you cutting yourself with a razor, you can do some research into alternative methods like waxing or hair removal cream, and show them what you find. If they are concerned about the expense of razors, start saving up money so you can offer to pay for all the supplies yourself.
 Let your parents have time to consider your question, ask their own questions, and give you an answer.


You can even tell them not to answer right away by saying, “I don’t even want you to say yes or no right now. Please consider my request carefully and I’ll come back to you tomorrow for your answer.”

, Ask your parents to imagine what it’s like to be in your position, where you have hair in new and weird places, friends your age who are already shaving their legs, and you feel like you have to hide your hairy legs all the time.


Ask what they would do in your situation. Chances are they’ll remember what it was like when they were preteens and have more sympathy for your situation.
Don’t push it. Even if your parents had similar feelings and experiences as a preteen, they may still have important reasons as parents to say no.

