 Note that the vampires in Twilight don’t appear monstrous (like Nosferatu) or drastically transform when they attack (as they do in Buffy the Vampire Slayer or From Dusk Til Dawn) or even have fangs.Aim for subtle touches that will set you slightly apart from humans.;
, Stay as pale as possible. If your skin is already tanned or dark in tone (or if you want to appear even paler then you already are), use makeup to cover it up. Apply a very light foundation (a shade or two lighter than your own skin tone) over your exposed skin.Wet a cotton pad with cleansing water to get rid of any existing makeup as well as any dirt, sweat, or grime. Then rub some moisturizer in your hands and pat it into your skin to keep it hydrated.With a foundation brush, begin brushing the foundation on, starting in the center of the area that you are covering (such as the center of your cheek or forehead). Work your way outward from the center, blending as you go for an even application.
Once you are finished, wet a makeup sponge to further blend any uneven areas. Roll the sponge over your skin, rather than wipe in a straight line.
Apply a small amount of concealer to your fingertip and lightly pat it over any dark marks that still show through the foundation.
 Sparkly skin sets Twilight’s characters apart from other vampires. So make the distinction apparent by applying a shimmering face powder over your skin.Use a makeup brush to sweep your skin with it after applying your foundation..


Start small. Pick one area to begin and apply slight amounts of powder at a time. Work your way up toward a desired amount, rather than overdo it right from the start.Less is more. Be selective about where you apply it. Start with your forehead, then add some to your cheeks if desired.
Avoid areas with deep lines in your skin, since powder here will attract attention.
Powder may cling to your brush even after rinsing, so designate one brush as your special sparkly brush to avoid transferring powder to other products by mistake.

