 Do not hesitate to let the airline staff know about your pregnancy. This may especially help when selecting a seat on the flight.


Inform the airline staff of the pregnancy and request the desired seat if the option is available. For instance, an aisle seat near the restroom may provide convenience for frequent trips to the toilet, while a seat at the bulkhead of the plane would offer extra legroom and personal space.Women who have difficulty standing for long periods or walking considerable distances through the airport may also request wheelchair delivery and pick-up or escort on an airport indoor vehicle to drop them off and pick them up at the gate.
Blankets and pillows are usually available upon request as well.
 Do not hesitate to request assistance loading or unloading a bag into the overhead carriers, as you should avoid strenuous activity while pregnant., During the flight, many flight attendants will gladly serve additional beverages (particularly water or tea) or snacks to customers who request it.On long flights, stewards and stewardesses may also provide certain luxuries to pregnant customers otherwise only reserved for first class patrons, such as hot towels, lotions, eye masks, and more.
 During a flight of any length, make sure you pack the essentials. A neck pillow, empty water bottle, heat pack, and healthy snacks may make a trying travel experience more pleasant.It is important to drink plenty of water during and after the flight; air travel can dehydrate, so fill up after security or request water once seated.
For women traveling early in pregnancy, crackers and other snacks that may help quell nausea are vital.
 It is important to keep blood flowing and reduce swelling or discomfort during a flight. One of the biggest risks of flying while pregnant is deep vein thrombosis. Moving around and stretching your calves can help minimize this risk. Flex your knees and roll your ankles and wrists in small circles. Occasionally, do leg lifts, back stretches, and short walks up and down the aisle. These small exercises can help reduce stiffness and minimize cramps or swelling when there is no turbulence, just take care to maintain balance by holding onto the seatbacks or the overhead bins., Support hosiery can aid leg circulation during long periods of standing in line or sitting on the plane and help lower the risk of DVT.