 When you click the "File" tab or Office button and select "New," you'll be shown a variety of different templates to pick from.


For certain versions of Excel, such as Excel 2011 for Mac, you'll need to select "New from Template" from the File menu instead of "New."
Creating a calendar from a template will allow you to create a blank calendar that you can fill in with events. It will not convert any of your data into calendar format. If you want to convert a list of Excel data into an Outlook calendar, see the next section.;
, Depending on the version of Office you are using, there may be a "Calendars" section, or you can just type "calendar" into the search field. Some versions of Excel will have a few calendar templates highlighted on the main page. If these meet your needs, you can use them, or you can search for all the different calendar templates available online.You can get more specific with your search depending on your needs. For example, if you want an academic calendar, you can search "academic calendar" instead.
 Once the template loads, you'll see your new blank calendar. The date will likely be incorrect, but you can usually change this using the menu that appears when you select the date.


The process will be a little different depending on the template you are using. Usually you can select the displayed year or month and then click the ▼ button that appears next to it. This will display the options you can pick from, and the calendar will adjust automatically.
You can usually set the day the week starts as well by selecting it and choosing a new one.
 Many templates will have a text box with tips that can inform you on how to change the dates or adjust other settings for the calendar template. You'll need to delete these tip text boxes if you don't want them to appear on your printed calendar.
 You can adjust the look of any of the elements by selecting one and then making changes in the Home tab. You can change the font, color, size, and more just like you would any object in Excel.
 After your calendar is configured correctly, you can begin entering events and information into it. Select the cell you want to add an event to and start typing. If you need to put more than one thing on a single day, you may have to get creative with your spacing.

