 For women who want to prevent an unplanned pregnancy and, coincidentally, also desire larger breasts, birth control pills can be an effective solution for both problems, as breast growth is a common side-effect of many hormone-based birth control pills. Most birth control pills contain the female sex hormone estrogen, which, as discussed below, can cause slight breast growth. However, you should never take birth control just to get bigger breasts, as it's a powerful medication that can have serious side effects (though these are rare). Because not all birth control pills contain estrogen and because birth controls that do contain this hormone can have a variety of other effects on the body, it's important to talk with your doctor before beginning to take birth control. The side effects of birth control can include:Mood swings
Nausea
Headaches
Decreased libido
Weight gain
Unexpected bleeding (or spotting).
Note that not all women get bigger breasts while taking birth control and that any growth that does occur may be minor.
 Estrogen, a naturally-occurring female sex hormone, can be prescribed to women for a variety of reasons. For instance, it is frequently prescribed to middle-aged women to relieve the troublesome symptoms of menopause. One of the side effects of taking estrogen can be mild breast enlargement. Again, however, you should never try to take estrogen just to make your breasts bigger. Because replacing your body's natural supply of estrogen with artificial supplements has a variety of other side effects and can increase your chances for certain health problems in the long term, you should only consider taking estrogen if your doctor has already suggested it for some other health concern. Side effects of estrogen include:Headaches
Nausea
Weight gain
Vaginal discharge
Breast tenderness
A slight increase in the likelihood of breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancer.
A slight increase in the likelihood of strokes or blood clots.
 Progesterone is another naturally-occurring female sex hormone that can be prescribed for a number of reasons. For example, progesterone is frequently prescribed to prevent the overgrowth of the uterine lining in women who are taking estrogen. Like estrogen, progesterone can cause mild growth in the breasts. However, also like estrogen, progesterone is a serious medication and should not be taken merely to enlarge the breasts. Only consider taking this hormone if a doctor has already recommended for other reasons. Side effects of progesterone can include:Acne or hair growth
Cough
Weight change
Joint pain
Vaginal irritation
Symptoms similar to those of estrogen therapy (including an increase in the likelihood of certain cancers and serious health conditions)
Rarely, depression

, Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, are a common type of antidepressant which can cause moderate breast enlargement as a side-effect.Although SSRIs are relatively safe and complication-free compared to other forms of antidepressant, it can still be unsafe to take them without cause, so, once again, you should only consider this option if your physician has already recommended that you should start taking antidepressants. Never take SSRIs just to get bigger breasts. Besides breast enlargement, side effects of SSRIs include:Nausea
Reduced libido
Headache
Difficulty sleeping
Dry mouth
Weight gain
Drowsiness

