


This isn't just something you can do between classes. Try asking your parents to drop you off at school early, or see if you can stay at school late one day to focus on getting your locker in shape.
You may need as little as 5 minutes to clean and organize your locker, but depending on how bad it is you may want to plan for as much as 20 minutes. Be honest with yourself; overestimating is better than underestimating when it comes to time.
Double check that your locker cleaning session won't be interrupted by another activity, and check with your parents and/or your school to make sure the time you picked is acceptable.;
,


Decide what it is that is making your locker messy and inefficient in the first place. Is it a big pile of old gym clothes? Do you have too many bulky decorations? Are there old books and papers or a lack of sufficient shelf space? It may sound stupid, but you can't solve the problem if you don't know what the problem really is.
Determine a simple solution. If you had too many decorations for example, your solution could be to get rid of some of them. This will help you get the results you want out of your locker, since you will have a more structured goal to accomplish.



Empty your locker first to make organizing easier later.
If you find any obvious trash such as empty water bottles, old bag lunches, or candy wrappers, throw them away or recycle them.
Put any items such as gym clothes, art projects, or personal items you know you want to take home in your backpack or another bag.



Find any old packets, fliers, tests, or worksheets and either recycle them or put them in a bag to bring home. This will clear some of the clutter from your locker.
Any papers you still need, you should put them in their proper binders or folders. If you don't have any folders or binders, you should consider getting them in order to carry things easier and find them better.
Papers you are unsure about, put them in a special pile or folder. You should ask your teachers about them before discarding to be sure they're not important.



If you've never used it or it takes up needed shelf space, it is unnecessary. Throw it away or put it in a bag to take home. Even if you like it, you need to remember that a clean and efficient locker is your first priority, not a fancy decorated one.
Shelves, baskets, and bags that go in your locker can be useful for storage, but realize that they can also be unnecessary space-wasters. See if your bags, shelves, and baskets are really worth keeping; if they always jam your locker or are never used, they can go.



Anything in your locker that isn't yours should be brought back to the owner, assuming you know who's stuff it is. If you don't, drop it off at the lost and found.
Put your loose writing utensils in a pencil pouch, paper clips and rubber bands in the trash, and anything else where it belongs. Having loose odds and ends in your locker takes up more space than you might think.



You could use a wet paper towel or cleaning supplies of your choice. The goal here is to pick up any food crumbs, dirt, and dust that may have accumulated in your locker over time.



A good way to go about this is to think practically. You probably don't want to put folders and notebooks you need for class every day under a big pile of binders and textbooks; you'll have to tear apart your locker to get them out, and they probably won't get put back where they belong after use.
You could put heavier items such as textbooks on the bottom shelf of your locker, and lighter or smaller items such as pencils on the top. Items you need every day for class should be easily accessible and towards the middle/top of your locker.
You could also divide your locker in half. Top: backpack, gym clothes, pencil pouch, notebooks sometimes. Bottom: Text books, binders, notebooks.
Save a little bit of room in your locker so that if you need to put a new folder or class project there you will have enough space. It also makes things easier to pull out and put back in if they aren't packed in super tight.



Make a mental note of how it looks. That is how it should look all of the time!
You will need to put in a few extra minutes each week to keep it looking nice and functioning efficiently.



At the beginning of the day, neatly put all of your homework materials back where they belong. This will ensure you know where everything is, and that your locker stays efficient.
At the end of the day when packing your homework materials, double check that everything is in its place.
It may sound like a lot of extra work, but once you get into the habit of doing it, you will often find your locker looking and functioning great without doing anything.



If you feel your locker layout isn't working the way you'd like, fix it! You can go to school early or stay after school to change things around a bit. You could even do it between classes if it's a simple enough fix.
Keeping your locker efficient and clean is your main goal. If you find yourself rearranging a lot, rethink what you want your locker to be like and make it happen. Remember that it will never be perfect!

