 You can use iBackupBot on your computer to insert a line of code that will reset your Restrictions passcode.

You can find the Settings app on one of your Home screens, and it may be in a folder labeled "Utilities." The icon looks like a gray cog.
,, You’ll need to enter it wrong so that the "# Failed Passcode Attempts" notification appears below the passcode.,, You’ll need to create a backup of your iPhone that you can extract the current passcode from. You can do this from iTunes.

If you don’t have iTunes installed, you can download it from Apple.
 You’ll see the button for your iPhone appear at the top of the iTunes window., This will begin backing up your device to your computer., You’ll need to download a special program that can access the backup file for your iPhone., This program can scour your backup file and allow you to change the Restrictions code.,, You can do everything you need to for this procedure using the free trial., You’ll see it in your browser’s Downloads area, or you can find it in the Downloads folder on your computer., You can leave the settings at their default during installation., You’ll find a shortcut on your desktop, and it may launch automatically after installation., iBackupBot will display all of the iOS device backups it detects on your computer. If you have multiple devices, make sure to select the one you need to reset the Restrictions passcode for.

If your device has multiple backups, look at the date and time each one was created.
,,,, You’ll see the search field in the upper-right corner of the window.,, You can also use Notepad, but the included editor will be easier to read., It’s not necessary to perform these actions., You’ll see <integer>#</integer> beneath it, and # should match the number of failed attempts you’ve made., You’ll be entering ew code here.,,, It looks like an old disk., This will return you to the main iBackupBot window., You’ll find this at the top of the window.,,, The backup will be restored to your iPhone, which will reboot after the restore is complete., Open the Settings app, tap General, and then tap Restrictions. Type 1111 as your passcode and you should be able to access the Restrictions menu. You can then set a new passcode or disable Restrictions completely., You may encounter an error code when trying to restore the backup to your iPhone. Try the following fixes:Disable Find My iPhone in the iCloud section of your device’s Settings menu, then try the restore again.
Turn the screen lock passcode off in the Touch ID & Passcode section of the Settings menu, then try the restore again.

