 Most of the best cards require good to excellent credit. Your FICO score (the term refers to the company that created the formula for determining the score) shows lenders how much of a credit risk you are. The score goes from 350 to 850, and the higher your score is, the better. If you live in the United States, you are entitled by law to one free credit report per year from each of the three major credit monitoring companies, Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion.Check your credit score using any of the free credit score monitoring sites, such as CreditKarma and Credit Sesame.
Applying for too many credit cards at once can hurt your credit.Therefore, do research ahead of time to determine which cards may be out of reach for you.
If you have poor credit, consider a secured credit card. These cards usually require a security deposit, but they can be a good way to rebuild your credit after a devastating event like foreclosure or bankruptcy. They are also good for people with no credit history.;
, If you need to use your card for one or more big purchases after which you’ll be unlikely to pay off the balance right away, you may be better off choosing a card with a low interest rate. If you need to carry a balance, choosing a card with a lower rate will help you avoid that balance becoming too large over time.


Cards with lower interest rates tend not to have good rewards programs. But cards with good rewards also tend to have much higher rates, and are best for people who pay off their balances in full every month. Consider transferring to a card with a better rewards program after you’ve paid off your balance in full.
 If you currently have multiple cards that you don’t want, you may be able to transfer those balances to a balance transfer credit card.These cards usually come with a very low interest rate and are good for people who want to wipe out multiple existing card balances.


Balance transfer cards are generally restricted to people with high credit scores.
 Charge cards different from credit cards mainly in the fact that their balances must be paid off in full each month. In other words, there is no option to carry a balance to the next month by paying an amount between the minimum payment and card balance. Charge cards have no credit limit, meaning that they can be used by those who would only qualify for a small credit card credit limit and those who do not qualify for a credit card at all. In this way, they are useful for rebuilding your credit.

However, the fact that they have no credit limit can be dangerous if you cannot control your spending.
Any unpaid balance usually comes with a large penalty around 36 percent annualized., Some cards offer frequent-flier miles with certain airlines based on how much you spend. These cards can offer excellent value, especially for international travel. But they are generally only worth it to people who travel frequently.


Some cards may offer mile conversion for only one airline. These cards usually also come with added benefits when you fly with that airline, such as a free checked bag.
Beware of frequent-flier cards that offer miles redeemable on any airline. These cards often come with restrictions that make upgrading to business class or first class for international travel extremely difficult., Some cards offer points as rewards. Most of these cards give you points on every purchase you make. But points cards often vary in terms of how many points you’ll get per purchase. That variation depends on factors like the time of year, where you shop, and what you buy.


Points cards often give you the choice of redeeming your points as cash, gift cards for different businesses, or as merchandise. Take stock of how those points are redeemed to find the right card for your preferences.
Some cards place limits on the number of points you can earn at any one time. Others set expiration dates on points. Be sure to redeem your points frequently if you sign up for one of these cards.
 Some cards offer cash back every month (the best you can typically do is around 2% of every purchase). These cards don’t offer rewards other than cash, but if you don’t have the patience or time to deal with redeeming points, cash back cards can be extremely lucrative.


Credit card companies only make money on cash back cards through late fees. Therefore these cards tend to come with especially high interest rates. You should only sign up for a cash back card if you plan on paying the statement balance in full each month., Some major department stores offer unsecured cards with different discounts. These cards are often easy to get. But because the discounts are typically tied to the store, you should only apply for one if you shop at that store a lot.


Store credit cards often carry high interest rates. If you sign up for one, avoid carrying a balance on it., If you have a good credit score (over about 700), you may qualify for credit cards with an introductory zero-interest period. This means that you can use the card for a set period of time while carrying a balance and not paying any interest, provided you pay off the balance within the period. This period may last between one and two years, depending on the card's terms.

For example, you might use the card to pay for dental services or another large purchase. If you pay off the balance within the zero-interest period, you will have effectively financed your purchase interest-free.
However, if you don't pay off your balance in time or skip a payment, you will start to earn interest and may even be responsible for accrued interest on your balance that you avoided paying during the zero-interest period., Some cards come with recurring annual fees, which can range from $45 to nearly $100 per year. Many people refuse to sign up for these cards due to the large number of fee-free cards on the market. But these cards often come with generous rewards programs. If you use one of these cards exclusively (or nearly so), you can often accumulate rewards in excess of the annual fee.Because the credit card business is so competitive, many companies will waive the annual fee for the first year as an incentive.
 There are so many different credit cards out there that picking the right one can seem overwhelming. But there are also several websites, such as CreditCards.com, NerdWallet.com, and CompareCards.com, that can help you compare different card offers based on your finances. You should also factor in promotional offers you may receive in the mail. , Many card companies will offer lucrative sign-up bonuses, especially to people with good credit. One of these bonuses may be enough to offset negative factors like a high annual fee or interest rate.Sign-up bonuses typically involve the bank giving you lots of extra points or miles after you spend a certain amount of money in the first few months of using the card.
 Having multiple lines of credit open can be good for your credit score, since it can decrease your ratio of debt to credit. But having more lines of credit open than you’re using can hurt your credit score. This is especially true if you open too many lines of credit too quickly. Doing so makes it look like you need fast cash. Don’t sign up for more credit cards than you absolutely need., Most cards will offer interest based on APR, which stands for Annual Percentage Rate. It refers to the rate your bank will charge you on your outstanding balance at the end of each month.But card companies may calculate APR differently based on your spending habits or other factors. Do careful research to determine which rate works best for you.


In some cases it’s better to know what the daily interest rate is for a particular card. Doing so can give you a better idea of how much your bank will charge month-to-month., Only sign up for a new credit card once you’re certain that it’s the right one for you. Repeatedly opening and closing multiple cards every year can cause serious damage to your credit score. Always remember that in the end, you want to build a stable credit history using only as many lines of credit as you need.

