 You have to look the part before you can act the part. A true player should look smooth, but like he's not trying too hard. His clothes should have one goal--to help him find women who want to rip them off. Here are some ways to wear the perfect clothes:


Wear a nice long-sleeved button down shirt over a tight tank top. The ladies will want to get you down to your tight shirt so they can feel your muscles. Always wear shirts that hint at or display your killer biceps.
Wear pants that are a little loose so they can hang low. Show the ladies just a hint of your boxers, and find excuses to lift up your shirt so they can see your rock hard abs. Once they see your happy trail, they'll want to follow it all the way down.
Have smart shoes. Whether you're out at a fancy restaurant or wearing more casual sneakers at the gym, make it clear that your shoes are brand-new and expensive. The ladies will think you'll shell out the same amount of cash that you spent on your shoes on your fancy dates.
Wear a few key accessories. Have a fun wallet, a big gold chain, and flashy jewelry. You are not trying to be subtle, player. Have a leather belt with a flashy buckle, so the ladies are already looking in the right direction.
 Being a player isn't all fun and games. To keep up the player look, you have to put in long hours at the gym. You won't be able to seduce the ladies if your biceps look like string beans. Here's how to do it:


Develop your cardio. Start by running for just one or two miles, but learn to run for at least five miles without getting winded. You won't be much of a Don Juan if you're wheezing while you leading your latest conquest up a staircase.
Build muscle. Do whatever you can to have rock-hard abs, impeccable pecs, and strong shoulders. Hit up the bench press at the gym, or try a sport that will help build muscle, like boxing or basketball.
Eat right. If you're taking a lady on a dinner date, you can eat something manly like a juicy steak, but when you're on your own, try to eat a healthy balance of fruits, veggies, proteins, and carbs. Eating the right foods, especially proteins, can help you burn fat and build muscle.
 Having an open and assertive body will show your lady of the week that you're not only confident but that you're focusing all of your energy on her--for the time being. Here's how to do it:


Make killer eye contact. When you're talking to a lady, look deep into her eyes, like you could jump right into them. This will make her blush and will easily turn her on. Make her feel like the only girl not only in the room, but in the world.
Lean in closely when you talk. When you talk to girl who is obviously into you, lean in real close, like you could kiss her at any moment. This will leave her wanting more.
Face your arms and body in her direction. Don't cross your arms, or turn your legs away from her. Everything about your body should say, "Hey baby, I'm ready."

, Hygiene is just as important as having the right clothes or body language. The ladies won't be charmed by you if you smell like you spend the night in an alley. Here's how to seduce them by your ability to clean up:


Wear a powerful, manly cologne. That will make the ladies want to faint in your arms.
Shower and wash your hair at least once a day. Use a manly body wash and shampoo to leave the ladies swooning.
Use hair gel. Give your hair an extra kick with some gel--the ladies will want to run their fingers through it.
Always have fresh breath. You'll need it for close-talking.
Have a fresh face. Shave off your facial hair, and run your hands over your face. Turn to your girl and say, "Feel how smooth that is, girl."

, To complete the part of a player, you not only have to look like a player, but your crib has to be worthy of the ladies too. Here's how to have a sexy crash pad for your lady:


Keep it clean. Since you can bring home a lady at the blink of any eye, you should always keep fresh sheets, clean counters, and most importantly--a spotless bathroom. If your lady is grossed out as soon as she walks into your place, she'll be calling for a cab before you can make your first move.
Always have reinforcements. Stock your home with bottles of wine and sexy snacks like grapes or strawberries.
Keep it sleek. Leather couches, shiny lamps, and a flat-screen TV will make your lady feel at home in your love nest. If you can't afford to have a killer bachelor pad, focus on keeping your place clean.

