 A "pendulum" slide involves sliding a gloved hand along the ground as you perform a powerslide. This involves becoming lower to the ground. Carve out to the side, crouch down, and put all your weight on the front foot. Put a gloved hand on the side you’re sliding away from and perform a powerslide. Use your back foot to kick out and slide and reduce speed. Bring your foot back to continue rolling on your board while also retracting your gloved hand.


Do not put your gloved hand either too far away from your body or too close to your body, as you’ll run the risk of not being able to perform the pendulum or completely falling off your board by being bucked forward.
Performing this maneuver will require a lot of practice and messing up, so don’t worry if you don’t immediately catch on. Keep at it until you perform the maneuver with ease, adding your own style and flare in the process.
Try not to become overly reliant on your hand. Your hand his there to help maintain balance and ensure you can maneuver your legs properly to get the best slide you can.
 Begin by setting your feet up square on the board. Carve out to one side of the road. With a gloved hand, crouch down and begin running your hand along the ground. Kick your feet out in a powerslide maneuver while leaning back on your heels. Weight should be evenly distributed from the front to back. Slide 180 degrees and continue on your way. If performed correctly, you’ll lose a lot of speed but continue forward.


Your free hand can grab your board to help maintain balance. Do not, however, grab the board in between your legs. Grab the board near your back foot instead to avoid interference with the maneuver.
 You can slow your speed drastically by performing two slides at once. This involves performing two successive powerslides. To begin, carve out to one side of the road. Lean back while also placing your weight on your front foot as a pivot before turning your hips and shoulders. Kick out your back foot to perform a power slide before transferring your weight back by leaning forward. Perform the same maneuver again by switching your weight back to the front and rotating your hips the same way as before.


It’s not necessary to use your hands in this maneuver along the ground, as you’ll be typically using them for balance in the air.

