 Mix together 1 tsp (5 mL) of bleach and 1 gallon (4 L) of water.Let the pumpkin soak in this solution for at least 1 hour.


The water is intended to hydrate the pumpkin flesh and prevent it from drying out too quickly. The bleach is an antimicrobial agent that will kill most of the surface bacteria and mold spores on the pumpkin.
You can soak the pumpkin up to 8 hours, but soaking it too long can actually infuse the flesh with too much moisture, making it more prone to rot.;
, Use a clean rag or paper towels to remove most of the moisture puddled inside the pumpkin. Dry the outside of the pumpkin, as well.


Leaving too much moisture puddled inside can actually cause the pumpkin to rot.
 Combine 1 Tbsp (15 mL) of bleach with 1 quart (1 L) of water in a spray bottle. Douse the exposed flesh with this stronger bleach solution.


The bleach used in the soaking solution was a small amount only intended to stop the growth of surface bacteria. Using too much bleach in the soaking solution can weaken the pumpkin. By spraying the pumpkin with a stronger bleach solution after soaking it, you can sanitize it further without weakening the structure of the pumpkin.
 Prevent puddles of moisture from sitting inside the pumpkin by inverting it onto a clean, dry rag and letting it dry completely.


Give the pumpkin at least 20 minutes to dry. You could let it sit up to 1 hour if desired, though.



The petroleum jelly will lock in moisture, preventing the pumpkin from dehydrating as quickly as it might do otherwise. It will also block out new bacteria and mold.
Do not use petroleum jelly without first using bleach. The bleach is needed in order to kill bacteria and mold already on the pumpkin. If you skip this step and go straight to the petroleum jelly, you will actually trap preexisting bacteria and mold on the surface of the pumpkin, thereby speeding the decay process.
Vegetable oil or a vegetable oil spray could also be used instead of petroleum jelly.
 If you got excess petroleum jelly on the non-carved portions of the pumpkin, wipe it away with a clean rag or paper towel.


Note that this is more for the sake of appearance rather than necessity.
 A shaded area works best.


Heat will speed the decay process and placing it in a dry area will cause the flesh to dehydrate.
When not in use, consider storing the pumpkin in a refrigerator or draping a damp towel over it.

