 If you’re looking to mix jackfruit in with other healthy greens, you can include canned jackfruit in a spicy salad with red chilies, scallions, and other spices. Purchase a can of green jackfruit in water, and cook the contents on “low” in a crockpot for 4–5 hours to soften the flesh.

Once the jackfruit is cooked, you can break it apart easily using a fork or a spoon.
 Use vegetable oil or butter to sautée 3–4 red chilies, 5–6 cloves of garlic, and the white tops of your scallions, and sautée for about 5 minutes. Add the jackfruit and 1/8 cup (30 mL) of fish sauce, and sautée for 2 more minutes.Dice two shallots and cook these in a pan of vegetable oil for 2–3 minutes. Strain the shallots, let them cool, and then toss the fried shallots with the prepared jackfruit mixture. Add ¼ cup (59 mL) of fresh mint and ¼ cup (59 mL) of fresh cilantro, and serve immediately.
 Jackfruit is a common vegan pork substitute, as its texture when cooked and “pulled” is similar to the texture of pulled pork. To make a jackfruit “pork” sandwich, purchase 3 20-ounce cans of jackfruit; remove the jackfruit seeds and cut the fruit pieces into bite-size chunks. Sautée ½ of an onion and 3 cloves of garlic together, and then add the jackfruit, along with 1 teaspoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of brown sugar, and 1 ½ teaspoons (7.4 mL) of liquid smoke.

Avoid purchasing jackfruit canned in syrup, as the taste will be too sweet and overwhelm the other flavors in the sandwich.
 Continue to sautée the jackfruit, onion, and garlic mixture as you stir in several spices, including cayenne pepper, cumin, chili powder, and paprika. Add 1 cup of vegetable broth and simmer the mixture for 10–15 minutes, until the jackfruit has absorbed all of the liquid.Set the oven to 400°F (204°C), and spread the jackfruit “pork” mixture on a baking tray. Press the jackfruit with a spatula until it takes the consistency of pulled pork. Add ½ cup (118 mL) of BBQ sauce, and cook for 30–35 minutes.
Once the jackfruit is lightly browned, remove the pan from the oven and spoon the jackfruit “pork” mixture onto a roll or bun. Serve once it has cooled.
 Purchase a can of jackfruit packed in water, and use a fork to pull the flesh of the fruit apart. After pouring out the jackfruit water, sautée the jackfruit in butter or vegetable oil.

As the jackfruit cooks, add to the pan ½ cup (118 mL) of onion and 2 cloves of minced garlic.
 While the jackfruit mixture is cooking, in a bowl mash 1 cup of cooked great white northern beans and then add lemon juice, Dijon mustard, pickle relish, ¼ cup of mayonnaise, and ½ teaspoon (2.5 mL) of dried tarragon.Once it’s finished sautéing, add the jackfruit mixture, and mix everything together. Spoon the jackfruit “tuna” salad atop a bread of your choice, and add a handful of shredded cheese and a couple slices of tomato.

