 Make sure they know the purpose of homework and what they should be gaining by doing it. If they don’t understand the reasons behind doing it, it might just seem like busywork or a chore they have to drudge through.Ask them first why they think its important to direct your conversation accordingly.


Homework provides a chance to review and practice concepts or skills they learned in class.
Practicing offers a chance to see where more explanation might be needed before the next class.
It teaches necessary study skills and self-discipline for succeeding as schoolwork becomes more involved and specialized as teens, like time management and independence.
It gives them the chance to explore a subject or idea more fully than was possible in the classroom.
It teaches them how to process and use information in general, which will help in every aspect of life as they get older.
Children who do more homework, in general, score better on standardized tests through secondary school., Teach your child good study habits by doing them yourself. While they do homework, consider doing something academic too. Read a book or newspaper, start learning a new language or skill, balance your checkbook or go over and return your emails.Get a language program like Rosetta Stone, or download a free phone app, and work on lessons while your child does homework. Since you have to speak during lessons, sit in a nearby room or open room while they work at their desk in the bedroom or office. Show them your progress to encourage them to study hard throughout the year.
Going over your expenses or checkbook demonstrates why learning math is important. Instead of using a calculator, let younger kids see you do the work by hand like they do.
If your child needs to visit the library, pick out some books on a topic about which you want to learn. Don’t always choose the same subject, but learn something new to show your child that it’s important to expand your knowledge., An online tutoring site might be enough help, but your child may need one-on-one assistance. A knowledgeable tutor may be able to identify where they are having difficulty and approach the subject in a new way. They also will be less emotionally involved than you are.
 It’s better to set goals before workload starts increasing and problems arise. Children best meet their goals when they help make them, so ask what they hope to achieve this year. Set 2-3 goals for the year or semester, and write them down in a prominent place to refer to monthly.Ask what, if any, problems or stumbling blocks they had the previous year or semester. Did they start homework too late in the evening to finish before bedtime? Did they have trouble concentrating in the location where they tried to work?
Where do they see areas for improvement? Are there certain subjects that they need to spend more time on each day? Is there another time or area where they might be able to study better?
If they didn’t enjoy a certain task, like reading, discuss ways to make it more fun. Maybe you could set up a special reading nook under a small tent in a corner, or designate a comfortable chair for reading and let your child decorate the space around it.
 Pick a time during the week when they will do their homework every night. Give them Friday evenings off, if they want to celebrate the end of the week, but include time during the weekend for regular study, too. Get a calendar for them to write down study time and any due dates, if applicable, for larger projects.If the teacher provided a syllabus, add test dates to the calendar, and schedule practice tests or extra study time ahead of them.
Give your child a 30 minute break right after school for a snack and down-time, but no screens!Make a rule together that they can spend this time doing certain things—playing a quick game of basketball, walking the dog, having a brief dance party—or something else active that won’t grab their attention too much to get to work afterwards.
Make sure to account for after-school activities or sports on the weekends. Some days they might need to do homework at a different time to adjust for other activities.Try different times for studying at the beginning of the year, before homework gets heavy, to evaluate together when your child works best. Maybe they concentrate better after dinner than before. Perhaps they find it more helpful to do homework after their 30 minute break, while lessons from the school day are still fresh on their mind.
 What kinds of assignments take longer or need to be prepared for? When should they start projects and papers, and what advantages are there to finishing these early. Are there study tools your child might want to try out: flashcards, practice tests, study games, etc.?Help your child learn to organize their time efficiently early in their school career so they will be able to do it on their own by high school.
It’s best to learn study tips early in elementary school, instead of waiting until homework becomes unmanageable simply because they haven’t developed a way to break up larger tasks.
 Younger kids might work best at the dinner table while you are working nearby. Older kids may need to be in a separate room at a desk. Wherever it is, make sure they have all the materials needed to work (pencils, erasers, a sharpener, pens, paper, books, a dictionary, etc) and eliminate distractions. Ensure there is good lighting and a comfortable (but not too comfortable) seat.


Turn the TV off or don’t include one in the room where they will be working.
Let them listen to background music if it helps them concentrate, but make sure it isn’t distracting. Instrumental music is best.
Have a computer if they need one, but set up filters to make sure they don’t get caught up in internet. Ask the teacher if they post assignments or examples on their own website or a school-run blackboard. Sometimes, students can send questions via the web to teachers as they are working.Keep loud siblings away. For older kids, if there is not a place in the house where they can be alone, the library may be a better study spot.