 When you end your relationship with your partner, make sure you are honest. Don't avoid telling your partner exactly why you feel you need to move on and end the relationship. This will only cause problems for you and your partner in the long run.


This doesn't mean you have to be harsh. Honesty does not have to be damaging to your partner's feelings., One of the worse things you can do is get riled up and tense when you are getting ready to breakup with your long term partner. This will make the situations even more stressful for you. The process is not going to be easy, but stressing about it is not going to change it.


Take time to relax as you decide the best way to tell your partner. You want to explain your reasons for breaking up with a clear head and calm demeanor. This may be difficult, but it is possible.
If you are extremely stressed, do something that relaxes you, such as reading or listening to music., There is no reason to bring up the past when you are breaking up with your long term partner. The reasons that you want to break it off are current and about how your relationship is now. Don't bring up how your relationship used to be or any old fights while telling your partner it's over.


This will just add salt to wounds and make the breakup that much harder., Avoid changing your behavior in order to get your partner to end the relationship first. This will end up making the breakup nastier than it needs to be. Approach the situation like an adult and be honest with your partner instead of trying to make them break up with you.


Avoid being overly aggressive or petty towards your partner and don't make life miserable for both of you. This will help no one in the long run., You don't want your breakup to turn ugly, so avoid placing blame on anyone in the relationship for its failure. Relationships are complicated and never black and white, so try to focus on breaking up with them in a way that does not place blame or sound accusatory.


If there is a reason for you breaking up with your partner that is not your fault, such as your partner cheating on you, still try to take the high road. Blame and bitterness will only make the breakup harder., In the modern technology age, people have a tendency to overshare. When you are going through your breakup, avoid slamming your partner on any social media platform. This will only make the breakup get ugly. You want to give your partner and your relationship its due respect.


You can talk to your friends about your breakup, but do so on the phone or text message instead of public social media accounts.