 If you want any expensive item, including a diary, you want you show your parents you're mature. Your parents are more likely to trust you with nice things if you've proven your'e responsible. For a few weeks before asking your parents, work on showcasing your maturity.Keep up with things like schoolwork and household chores. Work on completing your homework after school. Do not argue when your parents ask you to do something around the house.
Do a little extra here and there. For example, do the dishes for your dad after dinner without being asked.;
, Before going into the conversation, think about the potential reasons you may get "no" as an answer. Think about how you could combat those reasons. Try to find a way to truly make your parents see the dairy is important to you.Your parents may worry about money. They may not want you to spend a lot of money on something they worry you won't take care of or use. Try to think of what you could say to this. For example, "I know it's a lot of money, but I earned it with my paper route and I promise I'll take good care of the diary."
Your parents may have other concerns. They may, for example, worry about you writing negative things in the diary, or using it to keep secrets from them. You could say something like, "I want to be able to vent somewhere on occasion, but I promise I'll share anything important in my life with you guys."

, Before the talk, try to figure out how you can express what you need and feel. You want your parents to understand why you want the diary. Make sure you think of a few good reasons the diary would fulfill certain needs. Really figure out why you feel you need this diary.There could be a lot of reasons the diary feels important to you. You could feel slightly overwhelmed emotionally, and want space to vent. You could feel a little crowded in your home, and want a space for your own privacy.
Instead of talking about the diary in and of itself, emphasize your feelings. Identify how you feel and think of a way to express this to a parent. For example, "Dad, I don't want you to take this the wrong way, but our house is crowded. Sometimes, I feel like I have no space for myself. I think a diary would give me a creative outlet to work through my feelings."

, You want to pick a time to talk that's relatively stress free. Pay attention to your schedule, as well as your parents' schedules. Choose a time when everyone is usually relaxed and not busy.For example, maybe the weekdays are stressful. Both your parents work full time, and you participate in a lot of extracurriculars that take up weeknights.
Instead of talking on a Tuesday in this scenario, you could talk on a Saturday afternoon. Maybe your parents are usually relaxed on Saturdays. You could bring up the diary shortly after breakfast then.
 There is no sense beating around the bush when asking your parents for something. You want to make sure your parents fully understand where you're coming from. Even if you feel nervous, be direct when beginning the conversation.Make it clear you want to discuss something going into the conversation. For example, say something like, "Mom, Dad, I wanted to ask you something."
From there, state what you want outright. For example, "I saw a really nice diary that I wanted to buy. It's a little expensive, but I've saved up for awhile now, and I would really appreciate it if you would let me make this purchase."

, If you come off as entitled or demanding, your parents will likely get frustrated. When asking their permission, try to do so with gratitude. Find ways to thank your parents and praise them while making the request. Let them know you still respect their authority over you, even though you're trying to make some of your own spending decisions.For example, say something like, "I really appreciate how you guys teach me the value of money. I like that you try to guide me towards sound spending decisions. Thank you for that."
Showing your parents some gratitude may make them more likely to want to give in to you. Even in moments where you feel frustrated, try to proceed with gratitude instead of making demands.
 Your parents may have hesitations about allowing you to purchase a diary. They may feel a cheaper diary should be sufficient, and not want you to waste your money. You should strive to actually hear their concerns. Your parents may make a good point that you could consider.Do not interrupt if your parents express hesitance. Simply stay quiet and listen to their concerns. Avoid arguing or talking over them.
If you can understand, say so. Your parents may be more likely to say "Yes" if they can see you're mature enough to view the situation from their point of view. For example, you could say something like, "I understand why you think $30 is a lot for a diary. I think that's a valid concern."

, Blowing up at your parents will not get you anywhere. Even if the conversation is not going the way you wanted, stay calm. Take deep breaths if you feel your temper rising. Getting angry will make your parents much less likely to hear you out.If you're having trouble understanding your parents perspective, it's appropriate to ask. Just make sure you ask respectfully.For example, don't say, "Why won't you let me buy it? It's my money!" Instead, say something like, "I'm sorry, but I'm not sure I'm hearing you. Could you please explain again why you don't think this is a good purchasing decision? I would really appreciate that."

, Complaining or being argumentative will shut down the discussion. Even if your parents are frustrating you, do not argue or whine if they say "No." Instead, remain calm and see if you can reach a compromise.It's always appropriate to put the conversation on pause if you get frustrated. You can say something like, "I'm sorry - I'm getting angry. Can we talk later?" Then, do something to calm down. Go for a walk or run, and revisit the topic later.
 If your parents initially say "No," see if there's something you can do to earn the dairy. You can, for example, offer to bring up your grades, do extra chores around the house, or work on spending more time with your parents.Be specific when making an offer. Do not just say, "I'll get good grades this term." Instead, say something like, "I can try to bring up my math grade from a B-minus to a B-plus. Can you agree to let me get the diary if I meet that goal?"

, A compromise may be necessary. If your parents are averse to a pricey, fancy diary, see if you can meet them in the middle.Maybe you could see if they'd let you get a different diary. Instead of spending $30 on the diary you wanted, maybe you can find a nice diary for around $15.
 Even if you try your best to ask maturely, your parents may still stay "No." If this is the case, accept the answer. Your parents are more likely to change their minds in the future if they see you're able to maturely accept their rules. Say something like, "Thanks for listening anyway," and then end the conversation.You can revisit the issue in a few months. Your parents may change their minds, especially if you show you can maturely handle them saying "No."

