 Many people will use a modified basket to carry their puppies as they ride on a bike or take a brief walk. Just make sure that the basket isn’t too large and that the puppy can reach its head out for air and to look around. Practice with your puppy at home before taking basket-riding public.It is best if you buy a basket specifically designed to carry an animal. These will often come with some sort of safety leash or instructions regarding safe use.
 This is a piece of fabric that you position and wrap across your body. You then place the puppy within the fabric in front of you with its head peeking out. The way that you wrap the fabric around your body provides a tightness that will then serve to support and hold the rest of your puppy’s body.These can be purchased in pet stores and look very much like slings used to hold babies. In fact, some people say that you can use baby slings to hold puppies--just be very careful to watch for head clearance.
 A dog backpack is exactly what it sounds like, although they can come with a variety of modifications. Look for a backpack that is the most comfortable for you both. It needs to be adjustable so that you puppy won’t sink down in it and lose airspace. It should also be at least partially machine washable.One drawback to using a dog backpack is that you lose visibility of your puppy while they are on your back. You can remedy this by wearing the backpack on your chest instead. Or, you can wait until your puppy is large enough to see if you turn your head around while wearing the backpack.
 If you will be carrying your puppy onto a plane, train, or other moving vehicle you may want to use a soft-sided travel carrier. This carrier will give your puppy a bit of room while providing protection at the same time.Check your airlines website for exact size requirements and restrictions regarding pet carrying cases.
 If you choose to carry your puppy in a carrier, be aware that it is only a matter of time before it will need to use the restroom. You can get a general estimate as to how long your puppy can wait by adding a 1 onto their age. So, a 4-month-old puppy could probably wait for five hours, although a quicker break would be better., If you have a small puppy it may be tempting to simply place it in your purse and go, but that can be quite dangerous. Your puppy can suffocate or ingest dangerous materials while sitting in your purse. Puppies can also simply fall (or jump) out of makeshift carriers.

