 The beginning point for any piece of writing should be general research into the topic. This will mean different things for different types of writing:


Fiction – Explore in-depth details that are important to the story. This might mean learning more about the job of the main character, or the setting. The goal is to learn enough to start writing. Don't worry about learning every little detail.
Academic non-fiction – Background research means being aware of the literature in the field regarding your topic. You should have read and digested all the works that your own article or book is in dialogue with.
Professional writing – Whether writing a pitch or a pleading, you'll again want to have researched the important details. Know enough to frame the outline of your argument. Then, fill in that frame as you write.
 Wikipedia is a great place to start for general information. But never settle for internet research. Sources online are famously unreliable. Be sure to verify any information you are going to use with at least three independent sources.When doing research, peer-reviewed journal articles in your field are the gold standard. Books from well-respected publishers, especially university presses, and government sources are also places to look. Always try to find the most reputable sources possible.
 Whether writing fiction, non-fiction, or a professional document, you'll end up wasting time if you try to research every little thing before you start writing. This is because it's impossible to know exactly what information you'll need until you start writing. It is much more efficient to learn the basics, establish an outline, and then fill in the details you need as you go.
 If you find an interesting fact in a book, use the citation to find out where it came from. Read that. This is a great way to get to primary sources. That's where you want to be: looking at the actual material so you can provide your own insights or put your own spin on things.
 College and university librarians, in particular, can be a great resource. They can guide you to useful sources that you might not otherwise find. And they are usually happy to help. It's their job., Take careful notes regarding where you found any information that you are considering using. For non-fiction writing, citing your sources is vital to establish the legitimacy of your argument and to avoid accusations of plagiarism. But even when researching for fiction, it is helpful to know where you found things in case you need to look them up again.

