 Pour a small amount of smoothing hair milk or cream onto your palm and rub your palms together. Then, gently work the milk or cream into your hair, running your fingers between the strands. Try to focus on the ends and outer portion of your hair, where it is driest and less on the roots. When choosing a smoothing hair milk or cream, look for something that does not contain sulfates and silicones.


Silicones are plastics that can only be washed out with sulfates, which are harsh, drying, and damaging cleaning agents.;
, Dilute some of your hair conditioner with water and apply it to your hair to help tame the frizz and hydrate your curls.Gently work it into the strands, focusing more on the ends of the hair, and less on the scalp. This won't get rid of the dryness forever, but it will help conceal it until the next time you wash your hair.
 It may be expensive, but it is incredibly good for your hair. Try to use pure Argan oil, as opposed to products containing Argan oil (especially if those same products contain harmful silicones and sulfates). It not only moisturizes your hair, but also nourishes it and helps it appear smoother. It is also great for kinky curly hair. Simply apply a pea-sized drop to your hair, working small sections at a time.If you do not have any Argan oil and need to fix your hair fast, consider using another natural oil, such as coconut oil or olive oil

, Brushing dry curls can lead to even more frizz. If your curls start to become unruly during the day, run a wet, wide-toothed comb or wet fingers through your hair instead.Try to re-sculpt your curls by winding your locks around your finger, and gently letting go.
 Sometimes, curly hair is just plain stubborn and there is little you can do while out on the run. If you don't have time for a shower, and if your hair simply won't behave, pull it back into a ponytail, a braid, or some other hair style. The hair style won't make the frizz go away, but it can help hide and disguise it.


If you have shorter hair, consider clipping parts of it back, or even tying a chic bandana around your head.

