 If you want to operate a giving fund on a somewhat larger scale, you should talk to people you know. Find a group of like-minded people at work or other friends and discuss the idea of creating a group giving fund. With more people involved, you will be able to generate more money and do more good for others.When a small group of people become involved, the title may change to a “giving circle” or a “giving club.” But the principles remain the same.
 As a group, you should decide on some basic issues. While no written by-laws of any type are required, it may be a good idea to write down some key operating details, especially if you want your group to exist over time. Some things to decide early on are:Will you hold regular meetings? If so, when, where and how often?
Will regular contributions be required? How much from each member of the group?
What is your group’s mission or outreach? Will you have a particular focus?
How will your group decide who to give money to?

, If you create a personal giving fund for yourself, you can mange just setting the money aside in any safe place. However, when you involve a group of people with more money, you should create a separate bank account. You may want to talk with an attorney or tax adviser for advice about naming the account and about any tax issues that may be related to it., This goes along with discussing your group’s mission and outreach. You should determine what types of needs you will seek to address. This will help you make decisions about donations in the future, and it may also help bring some attention to your group and generate additional giving.Some ideas might be to focus on local schools, non-profit arts organizations, assisting underfunded animal shelters, or anything else that interests your group members.
 As a group, you should decide in advance how you will plan to make donations out of your fund. Determine if you will want to have groups apply to you or if you will want to make the donations unilaterally based on members’ suggestions. What criteria will you consider in choosing any one group over another? How formal a process do you want to create? These are all considerations that you should review before beginning your work together., You should not rely solely on memory for future donations. As you make grants to various individuals or organizations, you should keep records of dates and amounts. These records will help you in the future, if the names come up again. You can decide whether you wish to donate to the same organization multiple times, and in what amounts., Especially in the early stages, you should develop a process of reviewing your group’s operations. Decide if the group is functioning as all the members had wished. If you are not meeting the goals you had set for yourselves, then you should examine why. Make any changes in your operating structure that you feel are necessary to help meet those goals.