 This will need to be folded over the cardigan on completion.;
, You will need a deep neck three quarter sleeve black cardigan or jumper. To this black cardigan, add a red bow tie to the left hand side on the neck of the collar, near where the breast pocket of a man's shirt would be, securing this firmly with a pin.



Fold both white shirt and black cardigan sleeve to elbow length.
Pop the collar and leave it up and exposed as much as possible around neck area. If this is difficult, an idea may be to get a larger size then simply wear a corset (hardcore cosplayers) or tight strapless vest (amateur level) over the white shirt under the jumper. This keeps the body shape you want, while giving you enough collar to show.
 Simply tie a loose white tie and place around the neck at the appropriate length.
 Use a red skirt (preferably in a straight or a line design in either cotton or velvet, appliqué different size black strips of velvet and cotton in a tartan design across skirt. Be sure to get a large pleated skirt.
 Replace black string with red string for black knee high lace up heeled boots and tie in a bow.

Shoes should have red laces and bows facing forward.
 Use an actual bow tie however this may be a little on the small side, so in place of this a red hair bow tie may be better to used as this is the right size and volume.
 Junko changes her tie with her costume also so you can either go with the plain white cotton tie or a plain white tie with small black designs (black polka dots will do).
 Make the Monokuma design on black material; the right clip is completely white with dot eyes, while the left is completely black with red eyes. If you're not a hardcore cosplayer and struggling just a little with this part, then simply buy two panda design hair ties (one black one white) and using either paint or a permanent marker colour their eyes the corresponding colour. Put hair into two bunches and attach.

Couple with sky blue eye contacts and a little mascara. The makeup is pretty minimal with a finishing of blush.
Finish off the look with long red nails.

