 This recipe has two main parts – creating the pizza dough crust and preparing the toppings. You can substitute purchased pizza dough for the homemade dough if you want to save some time.If you use purchased dough, the recipe will take about 40 minutes to complete.
If you make the homemade dough, it will take an additional hour and 15 minutes.
The ingredients will make 1 pound (450 grams) of pizza dough for the Chocolate Pizza.;
, Put these two ingredients in a small bowl and blend them together. The water needs to be at a temperature between 105°F to 110°F (40.5°C to 43°C). Depending on how hot your tap gets, you may be able to use water straight from it. Run the tap until it gets warm and fill a measuring cup. Use a kitchen thermometer to test the temperature before adding the yeast.If the water is not warm enough, put it in the microwave for a few seconds or heat it up slightly on your stove.
If it’s too warm, let it sit for a minute or so and then use the thermometer to check the temperature again.
After you’ve combined the yeast and water, allow the mixture to stand for about 5 minutes while the yeast dissolves.
 A food processor isn’t required, but the results are usually more consistent and it’s much easier to work with. If you don’t have a food processor, you will need to stir the ingredients vigorously at every stage., Once the flour and salt are mixed, blend 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of olive oil in. After the oil is well-mixed, keep the food processor running and add in the yeast mixture (make sure the yeast is dissolved first). Continue blending until the ingredients are mixed together and a ball of dough forms.

Carefully remove the dough from the machine., Knead the dough until the texture is smooth, which should take about 1 minute. To knead, push the dough down and then stretch it out with the heels of your hands. Then fold over the top half of the dough and press down into it. Push out again with the heels of your hands.Repeat these same gestures to knead the dough.
Continue the kneading process for 1 minute.
 Turn the bowl so that the sides are coated. Place your dough ball into the oiled bowl. Turn the dough over several times so that it’s coated in the oil. Cover the bowl (plastic wrap will work fine) and place it in a warm area, away from any drafts. Let the dough set until it doubles in size, which will take about an hour. Once it has doubled, punch down into the dough one time and then form it back into a ball shape.The pizza dough is now ready to use.
You can use it right away or store it in your refrigerator for up to 24 hours in an airtight container.
 Sprinkle a flat work surface lightly with flour and use a rolling pin to flatten the dough into a round shape that is about 9 inches in diameter. If the dough sticks to your rolling pin, rub a little flour all over the pin and then roll the dough out again.Preheat your oven to 450°F (232°C) and place the oven rack on the bottom of the oven.
 Use parchment paper to line a large baking sheet. Once you’ve rolled the dough into a 9-inch round, carefully place it on the parchment paper. Make small indentions all over the dough – you can use your fingers for this. Warm up about a tablespoon of butter and brush it evenly onto the surface of the dough.

Put it into the preheated oven and bake it for about 20 minutes.
The crust is ready to be taken out when it looks golden brown and lightly crisp., Use about ¼ cup (60 grams) of the spread and apply it to the crust immediately upon removing it from the oven. Sprinkle the 3 different kinds of chocolate chips all over the top. Place the pizza back into the oven for about 1 minute, or until you see the chocolate starting to melt.Feel free to add peanut butter chips, shredded sweetened coconut, chopped nuts or any other toppings of your choice.Remove the pizza from the oven carefully and then sprinkle the toasted hazelnuts on top.
Cut it into wedges using a pizza cutter and serve the dessert immediately.

