 If you own your car outright, then you can get an auto equity loan. Generally, you can borrow 100% of your car’s value, though this amount will differ depending on your credit history.If you haven’t paid off your car loan, then the car is currently serving as collateral for that loan.
However, you might have paid off some of your loan. In that situation, you can get a new loan for a higher amount, using the car as collateral.;
, There are a couple types of secured loans you can get using your home as collateral, and there are many lenders willing to make these loans. Consider the following types:Home equity loan. You get a loan for a fixed sum of money and repay it in equal monthly installments. If you don’t repay per your agreement, the lender can foreclose. Generally, you can get a loan equal to 85% of the equity in your home.
Home equity line of credit. A HELOC operates like a credit card. You borrow as much as you need, up to the limit set by your lender, and make payments on the amount you borrow. Typically, you can borrow up to 85% of the equity in your home. If you default, your lender can seize your home.
 Some banks extend loans to customers who have a savings account with them. Because the account secures the loan, you generally can’t access the account until you pay the loan back.You can also use a certificate of deposit as collateral for a bank loan., You can get a secured loan using all kinds of assets as collateral. Consider any personal property that has value and which you own, such as the following:


watercraft
motorcycles
equipmentfurniture
computer

, If you have investments with a private bank or investment broker, then they may lend you money using your accounts as collateral. Often, you can get a loan up to the full amount of your account., Some banks will give you a “cash advance loan” or “salary advance loan” backed up by your future paychecks. Generally, these are short-term loans due when you receive your next check.Many lenders offer legitimate salary-advance loans. Don’t confuse these with “payday” loans, which have sky high interest rates and are illegal in many states.
Payday lenders tend to operate out of storefront offices, like pawn shops. By contrast, banks and credit unions offer salary-advance loans.
 Businesses can use many assets to secure a loan for their business. For example, a client might issue a large purchase order. To fulfill the order, you need to hire staff or make other investments. Banks will often lend against your assets, such as accounts receivable or inventory., Banks make secured personal and business loans. If you already do business with a bank, then stop in and ask about how you can apply for a secured loan.


Generally, you need better credit to get a loan from a bank. You can contact the bank’s lending department and ask if your credit score will qualify you., Credit unions are a great option if you don’t qualify for a bank loan. Credit unions often give loans to people with credit histories that are less than stellar.You can find a credit union by visiting here: https://www.mycreditunion.gov/pages/mcu-map.aspx.
 Online lending is a growing field, and there’s usually an online lender willing to lend to just about anyone. However, you need to do thorough research because there are some shady businesses out there.


Only apply with a lender whose website is secure. The website URL should read “https,” not “http.”Reputable lenders will look at your credit history. Avoid anyone who claims not to care about your credit history.
Avoid any lender that requires access to your bank account. Reputable lenders should accept a variety of payment methods, not simply electronic transfers.
Check out any complaints at the Better Business Bureau. You can also check the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s complaints database., Your ability to get a loan will depend on your credit history, including your credit score, overall indebtedness, and your income. You should obtain a free copy of your credit report and review it for errors. Dispute anything that is inaccurate.


Get your free copy by calling 1-877-322-8228 or visiting http://www.annualcreditreport.com. You’ll need to provide your name, address, date of birth, and Social Security Number.Common errors include accounts with the wrong balance or limit listed, or accounts inaccurately reported as delinquent or closed., If you default on your loan, your credit history will take a hit. Also, you’ll lose the collateral you pledged. Accordingly, calculate what you can afford for a loan payment each month.You may need to create a budget to determine how much you can comfortably borrow. Calculate your fixed expenses, such as your rent or mortgage, and then see how much you can reduce other expenses, such as entertainment or travel expenses.
Avoid borrowing too much. Because you likely will receive a lower interest rate on a secured loan, you might be tempted to borrow more than you need. Don’t.
 Get the process started by contacting lenders and asking for a secured loan. Tell them the amount you want and what you are willing to pledge as collateral. Ask them about the application process and any timelines.


Find out what collateral they accept. Lenders aren’t required to accept collateral, so you should check whether or not they will accept what you have to offer. If not, talk about what else you might be able to pledge.
 Each application will differ depending on the lender. However, you generally will be asked for similar information. You can complete some applications online, while other lenders will require a paper application. Provide the following information:


Social Security information
personal information, including address
income information
employment information
information for a co-borrower
information about your collateral

, The lender will review your application and decide whether or not to extend a loan. The length of this process will depend on the lender. If you have questions, call the loan officer you have been working with., You need to comparison shop by looking at the terms offered by many different lenders. Remember, you haven’t taken out the loan until you sign for it. Compare the following:APR. The annual percentage rate is the interest rate you will pay on the loan. It also might include other charges, such as credit charges. Typically, the lower the APR, the less expensive the loan.
Length of the loan repayment. The longer you have to pay back the loan, the less you will pay each month. However, you will pay more in total.
Monthly payment amount.
Prepayment penalties. Some lenders charge extra fees if you pay off a loan early. Try to find a lender who doesn’t charge these penalties.
 Ask the lender if you can get copies of all the documents you need to sign.You’ll want sufficient time to review everything. Make sure you understand all conditions before signing.


If you don’t understand what you are reading, then contact an attorney to help you.
At closing, remember to review the documents to make sure nothing has changed since you were approved for the loan. In fact, you should ask the lender officer if anything has changed.
 Generally, most home equity borrowers get at least three business days from closing to cancel their loan. Business days include Saturdays but not Sundays or public holidays.Depending on your circumstances, you may have more time (possibly up to three years).The clock starts ticking the day you sign the contract, receive a Truth in Lending disclosure, and get a Truth in Lending notice that explains your right to cancel.
If you’ve missed the deadline, consult with an attorney. You may have additional rights under your state’s laws.
 You can’t cancel in person or over the telephone. Instead, you must send the lender a letter.Don’t delay. You must mail the letter before midnight of the third business day.


Mail the letter certified mail, return receipt requested so you will know when it has been received.
Also hold onto all correspondence with your lender.
 Your lender has 20 days after you cancel to release the security interest in your home. The lender also must return any money or property you paid as part of the transaction.You also must return the lender’s money. Once you receive a release of your security interest, you must offer to return the creditor’s property or money., Contact your state’s Attorney General’s Office or banking regulatory office if you think the lender used deceptive or unfair practices.Be prepared to provide evidence to back up your assertions.

