 Once you’ve been diagnosed with coronary artery disease, you will need to work with your cardiologist to determine how frequently you need to schedule checkups in order to prevent more advanced coronary syndromes such as high blood pressure, heart attack, and stroke., These ongoing care plans may incorporate a number of treatments depending on the severity of your coronary artery disease. In most cases, cardiac rehabilitation begins the moment you’re diagnosed. Your plan typically includes behavior and lifestyle changes, diet and exercise, surgery, prescription medications, and after care. All of this is done under the supervision and assistance of a trained cardiac rehabilitation specialist., Skipping even one day may be detrimental to your prevention or recovery plan. Never discontinue treatment, but contact your physician or cardiologist right away if you experience extreme side effects. Your medicinal regimen may be as simple as taking aspirin daily, or it could include any number of more advanced prescription medications.


Your doctor may prescribe a beta blocker especially if you have experienced a heart attack. Beta blockers help prevent arrhythmia.
ACE inhibitors are often prescribed to prevent advanced coronary attacks as these medications relax blood vessels and increase blood flow.
An aspirin regimen may be the first course of action recommended by your physician, and taking one aspirin each day has proven effective in reducing risk for acute cardiac syndromes in people with coronary artery disease.
If you have conditions that are risk factors for coronary artery disease, such as hypertension, diabetes, or high blood cholesterol, your doctor will also prescribe medications to treat or control these conditions., Surgery can be preventative to stop blockage, or may be used to reduce blockage as an intervening measure prior to a severe cardiac event like heart attack or stroke.


You may need to undergo preventative procedures like balloon angioplasty (opening the artery with an inflatable device) and stent placement (opening the artery by placing a sick-like object to force it open). These procedures are typically completed in-office as a way of reducing blockage or stopping it. These treatments are minimally invasive, and they are completed by a cardiologist who accesses the heart by inserting a small tube through the blood vessels.
Enhanced external counterpulsation is another minimally invasive procedure performed to create a natural bypass around clogged arteries for those patients who are unable to receive angioplasty or stent placement, but whose symptoms have not advanced to the level of needing a full bypass surgery.
Coronary artery bypass surgery is conducted to reroute blood flow around a blocked artery. This is completed by grafting one or more new blood vessels creating a new pathway to the heart., Two common myths that may make you feel less inclined to seek early intervention for coronary artery disease are: only older people develop heart disease and symptoms would be apparent. People can begin developing blockage in their teens and the symptoms are often subtle or nonexistent. That’s why it’s so important for you to understand the basics of coronary artery disease.Angina, chronic or frequent chest pain, occurs when the heart is unable to receive adequate amounts of oxygen rich blood due to blockage. This warning sign of heart disease typically only occurs in advanced stages.
Ischemia, a type of muscular cramp, is another warning sign of coronary artery disease. It occurs when your heart is deprived of necessary oxygen and nutrients due to the blockage in arteries. This commonly occurs during exercise, and can be relieved by resting. Because you can make a full recovery after rest, you may not recognize ischemia as a warning sign of heart disease.