 Fill the bottom of a large pot with water and set another pot on top. You can also use a heat-resistant bowl instead. Make sure that the bottom of the upper pot or bowl is not touching the water. The double boiler will allow you to melt the marshmallows slowly so that you can use them as a dip or in fondant.;
, This will prevent the marshmallows from sticking to the pot and spatula as they melt.
 You will need a 16 ounce bag (about 400 grams) of marshmallows. You can use large marshmallows or miniature marshmallows, although you may find that the miniature marshmallows melt easier. You can even use colored or flavored marshmallows, but be sure that they are all the same color and flavor.

If you use multiple colors all at once, the colors will mix together and make brown. If you use different flavors all at once, the flavors will combine, and the ending result may not be very tasty.
 You will notice that the marshmallows are starting to melt.
 If you are using white-colored marshmallows, you can tint them another color with a few drops of food coloring. If you wish to add flavor to your marshmallows, you can add one teaspoon of vanilla extract or flavoring. Make sure that the flavoring you are using is clear, or your marshmallows will take on the color of the extract: brown., If you use high heat, you will risk scorching the marshmallows.
 Once the marshmallows begin to melt, add two more tablespoons of water. This is to prevent them from drying out. Make sure that you stir the mixture so that the marshmallows heat evenly. If you find that the marshmallows are starting to stick to your spatula, wipe them off and re-grease your spatula.
 If you wish to use your melted marshmallows as a fondant, you will need to add some powdered sugar into the mixture.

Using a greased spatula, stir the sugar one cup (125 grams) at a time into the mixture. Once it thickens, place the mixture onto a well-greased surface and knead it. Make sure that your hands are well-greased as well; this will prevent the marshmallow mixture from sticking. Once the fondant reaches the desired texture, wrap it and place it in the fridge overnight. The next day, you can roll it out and use it for decorating.The fondant will tear if it is too dry. If this happens, add ½ teaspoon of water and knead. Keep adding more water, ½ teaspoon at a time, and kneading until the fondant no longer tears.