 These are really helpful resources to just sit right and start learning Computer Programming (from any place with an internet connection). Some of these websites are: codecademy.com; code.org; codeschool.com; udacity.com; coderace.me; girldevelopit.com;programr.com;
, Codec academy website offers really nice stuff at this from the basics. If you're looking forward to start your own online entrepreneurship, then PHP and MySQL are a very mighty choice for this. Most of the small online business ventures are built in these open source technologies.
 Learning computer programming is nothing less than taking part in the technological evolution of the world. Because, technology we see around us today (for example Android features, Computer Operating Systems such as Windows, Mac etc..) is only the code which finally transforms into the Binary Digits 0 and 1. When you start to study this stuff like you do for non-fiction, you will love it all and that should motivate you enough.
 Any interest/skill without determined practice is like a stove without the fire, you can never cook anything on it. Whenever you can find time, just sit and start practicing to write computer programs from basic level. You can just browse the internet for finding out the various kind of programs to learn programming. But always remember PRACTICE is utmost important in this field as in any other field.
 For developing skills in computer science all you need is a PC, proper compilers (which are mostly available for free), internet. A computer is the costliest item listed above but then it is also a basic requirement for people these days. So, for computer science students or an for enthusiasts who're looking forward to learn the skills, it won't at all cost top dollar to get hands practice with the skill and possibly build a career out of it, unlike other science fields like mechanics, electrical and electronics, chemistry, physics etc., where the learner needs lot of equipment to learn stuff. Of course, those fields too, are very vital for the development of the world.

