 Identifying the sex of a canary is challenging, as males and females have very similar appearances. While singing likely indicates a male, this will not be apparent at birth. Check the cloaca area, or the area just in front of the underside of the bird's tail feathers. Blow on the area to improve visibility. If there is a bump in this area, the bird is likely a male.If you don’t have a canary yet and you want to make sure you get one that sings, you can always wait for proof.
You can get canaries from breeders who will know which of their birds love to sing. Similarly, visit pet stores until you hear a bird sing for yourself!
Female canaries also sing, though their song is much simpler and less expressive than that of a male canary.;
, In the wild, male canaries learn to sing by hearing other canaries sing. They will also emulate other songbirds or similar noises. Many of the tunes that a male canary hears will affect the development of their own personal song. You can even teach your canary to make video-game-like noises by playing recordings of these sounds.Most often, your canary will sing the songs it believes are most likely to attract a mate.
Once a canary is sexually mature at around 6 months of age, they will likely begin to stick to traditional canary songs., Males sing for one reason: attracting a female canary. If you keep a male and female canary together, the male won’t be searching for a mate, and will not sing. That said, a male canary may be more likely to sing if a female canary is close enough to him to hear the noises she makes. For instance, if you keep a female canary in another room, your male canary won’t be able to help himself from singing non-stop, especially during the mating season., Speaking to your canary in a soft, soothing voice will also provide him with motivation to sing. Similarly, softly singing to him may goad him into outdoing you with his vastly superior singing abilities. Further, the emotional stress caused by loneliness may keep some canaries from singing. Your company may provide him with comfort., In the wild, canaries’ mating season is determined by seasonal changes in daylight and temperature. If you keep your canary indoors, you’ll need to control the amount of light and the temperature of the room. This will keep your canary healthy, as well as affect when he is most likely to sing. Your canary will start thinking about breeding if you slowly increase the amount of light they’re receiving. Meanwhile, keep the room they are kept in between 65 °F (18 °C) and 75 °F (24 °C).Depending on where you live, natural light can likely be utilized most of the time. You can have lights turn on before sunrise and stay on until the room is naturally lit, or cover a cage early in the evening if there is too much natural light.
Use a timer to help control the amount of light your canary gets. For instance, set a timer to turn lights on near your canary’s cage and run for 12 hours.
Each week, increase the amount of time you leave the lights on by 30 minutes, either by having the lights turn on earlier or run longer.
Stop increasing the amount of light at 14 hours. Canaries will begin to molt as the “days” reach 15 hours, concluding their breeding season.

