 Monitoring may start before your child even has a social media account. Figure out how to use the sites and become familiar with them. Decide whether your child is mature enough to use them responsibly. Some social media sites are geared toward adults, not children. Content may pop up that is not appropriate for your child, so make sure you give them a safe platform to use.For example, Yoursphere (a kids social network) is designed specifically for children’s safety and privacy.
Most social media websites have age restrictions upon sign-up. For Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, Snapchat, and Pinterest, an individual must be 13 to get an account. YouTube has a minimum age requirement of 18, but someone 13 or older can sign up with permission from a parent. Vine and Tinder require a person to be 17 to hold an account.
You may want to set up your own account a few months in advance of letting your child set their account up. This will give you a chance to get a feel for the site and its daily happenings.;
, Many large providers for email allow children to have email addresses. You can help your young child create their own email address and adjust the settings to have all emails forwarded to you. This can help you monitor their communications and contacts through email.Children must be 13 or older in order to have a Google or Yahoo account.
Keep in mind that most communications between teens will happen through direct private messages on their social media account.
 Once your child is 13 or older and you’ve decided they are mature enough to have their social media account of choice, set it up together. Go through the site’s privacy settings and talk about why some things are okay to have and some are not. Monitoring what is originally put onto the page or website is an important part of keeping your child safe from the onset.Setting up an account together means that you know all the content that is going on your child’s page, what the web address is, and how to access it.
Make sure your child knows not to change their content or privacy settings without your consent and make the consequences for doing so clear if they do.
 While you’re sitting down and talking about the settings, toggle some off. Turn off features like “geotagging” on photos or posts, which shows your child’s location. Adjust the setting so that all posts are private (shared with friends or connections only) and not public.For example, it’s not appropriate to include the child’s phone number, email address, or address.
As you adjust these settings, make sure your child understands why it’s important to keep some things private.
 Keep your eyes out for inappropriate photos, disrespectful language, bullying, or words or images meant to hurt or offend others. Make sure no pictures or text endorse illegal activity such as drinking, smoking, or doing drugs. Also make sure that your child knows that sending nude photos can be considered as distributing child pornography, and they may be prosecuted for it. You may want to check your child’s friends or connections to make sure they are not being preyed on or speaking with someone who might hurt them.Depending on how much content you are monitoring, check their messages to make sure they are not sharing private information (like their phone number or address) with strangers. Notice who their friends are and where they know them from.
 With a younger child, you may wish to have their passwords and check on their activity. This can help keep them accountable for engaging in sexually inappropriate behavior, sharing inappropriate photos or personal information, or perpetuating cyberbullying. As your child develops and matures, you may back off more and give them more independence and trust.Be sure to let them know what they have done to earn your trust and why they are being rewarded with more privacy. Let them know what consequences they can expect if they violate you trust as well.


There’s no hard and fast rule for when it’s appropriate to have your child’s passwords and when it is not. Use your discretion to assess your child’s risk.
 One way to monitor your child’s activity in a less invasive way than having their passwords is to friend or follow them. Just like you monitor your child’s television, this is one way to monitor their activity on social media. Tell children that what they post now might seem harmless, but it could have a negative impact on their future.Be aware of your child’s activity. For example, some children use a different account so that parents cannot see their posts. Set up a Google alert with your child’s name to see any new activity through your Google account.
 It’s ultimately up to you what sites you let them join, how much information they can share, and how much time they spend on social media. Be firm in what expectations you have and what consequences exist if they break a rule or do something behind your back. If your child has a smartphone, set clear boundaries for its use.Let them know how you will keep them accountable; don’t sneak around and check on them.
Consider writing a behavior contract that clearly states what is and is not allowed regarding social media, especially on your child’s cellphone.
 Clearly define what your child can and cannot do on social media, and post them somewhere that your child will see them often. It’s best to do this before they set up an account. However, you can do it after if your child already has a profile. For example, tell them that they cannot “friend” anyone they do not know and that it is never okay to share their password with anyone.Talk about potential dangers of social media. You may want to share scary stories with your children. While this may be uncomfortable, it’s beneficial for them to know that dangers are ever-present and that it’s important for them to be safe., Consider not allowing computer or cellphone usage in your child’s bedroom. Only allow your child to interact with social media in an open and more public location in your home. Putting the family computer somewhere public like the living room or kitchen will help you casually keep tabs on your child’s activity without being entirely invasive.For example, allow your children to use the computer when another person is present in the room.
If you allow your child their own laptop or tablet, set certain parameters for use and remind them that using it is a privilege, not a right.
 Whether it’s a computer, laptop, tablet, or cellphone, have a password for each device in your home. This way, your kids have to come to you if they want to use it. This is especially helpful for younger children. If your children must come to you for permission, you can know each time they use the device and for how long they use it.Children will undoubtedly try to guess your passwords, so make sure it’s something you can remember yet your children will not guess correctly.
 While it’s important to set up social media boundaries for your child, be cautious and less hands-on with older children. They may interpret heavy monitoring as an invasion of their privacy and begin to resent you. Older children want to be trusted and have some privacy from their parents.However, it is also important to show an interest in them, show them respect, and be approachable to discuss tough topics. Nurture your relationship with them outside of social media. Be sure to give them some space when it comes to monitoring their social media usage as well. Communicate your trust in their good judgment. Remember, your child’s desire for privacy does not necessarily mean that they are hiding something.Don’t listen in to phone conversations or access their accounts in a sneaky way. If you’re worried about your child’s activity, ask them about it first.
If you feel strongly about monitoring usage, have routine phone checks to assess usage. Don’t spring a check on your older child.
 No amount of monitoring can keep all children safe at all times. If your child does experience cyberbullying or received sexual messages, use the experience to teach them about internet safety. Remind them to protect their identity with strangers and maintain their reputation both online and offline.For example, if your child is being bullied online, show empathy and give them support. Then, give them tools to deal with the bullying, such as blocking the person, calling another child’s parents, or reporting the content. Reiterate the importance of respect when online.
 If you notice an inappropriate photo, bring it up to your child. Tell them why it’s inappropriate and request them to delete it off of their social media account. For example, let your child know that sexually suggestive photos are not appropriate for a teenager and may actually be dangerous in the wrong hands.Say, “I noticed a picture that’s not appropriate on your social media account. I don’t think you meant anything bad with it, but it makes me nervous for other people to see that photo of you. Please remove it.”
If your child has distributed child pornography, take this seriously. Even if they meant no harm, it’s important to handle the situation in the appropriate way by alerting authorities and not spreading the images any further.
 It’s easy for parents to be curious or worried about their child and sneak onto their account to check on them. However, recognize when you need to back up or give your child more privacy. You want to protect them from harm, yet don’t encroach on their right to privacy. This can damage your relationship and push them away.Ask your teen what freedoms they would like and find a compromise that you can live with. If your child is upset by your restrictions, communicate why you create restrictions and what you hope they will do to keep your child safe.
If you’re giving your child more space, have some trial periods where they can prove that they can be trusted and not break rules.
If you are unsure about how to strike a good balance, then you may want to speak with a mental health professional for some guidance.

