 Don’t worry, the procedure is the same whether your dryer is electric or gas, but both need to be shut off before cleaning.
 Your dryer has one of two designs – either the lint filter is located on the top, or it’s located in a front panel.Consult the user manual for your appliance if you have any concerns.
 You’ll need a screwdriver to do this, but otherwise dryers are built so that getting into them is fairly easy. Look beneath the filter – you should see a few screws there. Remove them using your screwdriver.


Remove the top of the dryer from the catches. Do this by pulling the top of the dryer forward and then jerk it upward. You should then be able to easily remove the top from the catches at the corners.Disconnect the door-switch wires in the front corner and remove the front panel of the dryer by unscrewing the two screws near the top of the panel.
Tip the dryer forward slightly and you’ll be able to remove the front panel easily. You should now be able to see the inner workings of the dryer.
Brush out the lint carefully from the inside of the dryer and vacuum all around the drum using the long neck vacuum attachment.
Clean the heating element thoroughly, but be very careful around the wires and small parts.Put the front panel back into place. Put the front screws back in and reattach the wires.
Set the top back down into place and secure the screws under the filter.
 You’ll need a screwdriver to do this, but otherwise dryers are built so that getting into them is fairly easy. Remove the front bottom panel by sliding a screwdriver into the top of the bottom panel. This will release it from the two catches that hold it in place.If your dryer has a removable front panel, you won’t need to use a screwdriver in this way. Simply release the catches, remove any screws, and remove the panel. You should now be able to see the inner workings of the dryer.
Vacuum around the dryer motor and inner workings of the machine using the long neck attachment.
Wipe around electrical workings and small parts very carefully to avoid breaking them.
Put the front panel back into place. If your dryer has screws holding it into place, don’t forget to screw them back in securely.
 When working with the power sources, be sure to work carefully around the tubing behind the appliance.

