 If you have written a book on knitting, your customers may be members of online knitting groups or forums. They may be visiting knitting related websites. Make a list of places to find your customer.;
, Listen carefully to what they are looking for and interested in. Participate in the discussion where appropriate, but be careful not to blatantly advertise your product or service. Building a repertoire with your potential customers will go much further to establish yourself as an expert and promote your business. When posting to groups or forums, include your website address and contact information in your signature.
 Email the site owners and introduce yourself. Invite them to your website. Again, don't advertise; just write a simple and straightforward email. If they accept advertising, find out how much they charge. If they accept article submissions, find out what their guidelines are. If they do link exchanges, exchange links with them. Even if the site is a potential competitor, you'd be surprised how many people are willing to collaborate in some respect for mutual gain.
 However, you want your members to receive more benefits than just the privilege of receiving your advertising emails. Make sure your mailing list signup form is featured prominently, preferably on every page of your website. Let your website visitors know that mailing list members get discounts, special offers, exclusive news, etc.
 Google has an advertising program called AdWords, which allows businesses with any budget to place targeted ads on its search results pages. When a Google visitor searches a term related to your product, your advertisement appears alongside the results. The amount you pay varies, depending on competition in your industry and how close to the top of they page you want to appear. AdWords provides the advertiser a lot of flexibility, with daily budget limits and a robust control panel that allows you to adjust your ads and spending limits at will. The best part is that you only pay when someone clicks on your link.
 Asking your existing customers their preferences and opinions leads to repeat buying and very valuable personal referrals.
 When other websites will publish your articles, they will include your author bio and a link to your website.
 And there are online B2B services available that can get you leads from "ready to purchase" buyers. Most of these services provides "Pre Qualified" leads. These sites provides a unique services where buyer's can do their research and put in a quote request from the supplier.
 (www.youtube.com) Make sure to post a great description and keyword phrases to ensure your video shows up when people type in keywords related to your topic. Also, make sure to have your URL appear in the video so people can find you after watching the video. There are many videos on YouTube being viewed thousands, and sometimes millions of times. So make sure the video you create is chock-full of information to get people to visit your site.

