 Especially for young children, decide when they are allowed to use a smartphone. Are they forbidden from using it until their homework is done? Can they bring it to school? Do they need to hand the phone off to you when it’s time for bed? Create parameters around when it is okay for them to use a smartphone and when it is not.For example, set a rule for no texting or entertainment until homework is completed.
 If you fear your child may become absorbed in their phone, set time limits for their cellphone use. Don’t buy an unlimited plan and instead, opt for limited texts, calls, and data. That way, they will know when they’ve used up their plan and will use it more sparingly.Under parental controls, turn certain applications on or off depending on how long your child is allowed to use them. For example, turn games on only after your child is home from school and has completed their homework and chores.
 If you’re trying to keep an eye on their activity, it’s hard to do if they’re in their room, especially past their bedtime. Some children engage in inappropriate activity and often do so when they are alone in their bedrooms. Safeguard your child from potential predators or unsafe situations by not allowing a cell phone in their bedroom.Knowing that your eye is on them can help kids stay away from unsafe sites or people.
Try creating areas where they need to leave their phones at certain times, such as before going to bed. You may ask them to leave their phones to charge in the kitchen at night, for example.
 Have certain rooms where cell phones or tablets are not allowed. For example, don’t allow any family members to bring technology to the dinner table. Have one room where your family spends time together and specify that cell phones are not allowed in that room.When your family does activities together, request that children either do not bring cell phones or limit their use.
 What worked for your then-9-year-old may not work for your now-15-year-old. Be flexible and willing to adjust the rules as your teen becomes more mature and/or wants more freedom. Start with strict rules for young children then loosen them up over time. Reward their good behavior or show them your trust with more freedom.This is especially useful for older teens who will attend college or get a full-time job soon and need to learn personal responsibility.

