 God has said in the Bible that obedience pleases Him more than sacrifices (e.g. Is. 1:11-20). Pay more attention to your responsibilities and obey what you must do. Be cheerful and happy every day and let nothing keep you idle for too long that you skip your good-works.


Obey what you know must be obeyed. Develop respect for your being. It helps if you have someone to look up to. You feel more relaxed instead of tense during tougher times. If you could respect someone for something respectable in them, you could deserve to be respected for striving to live a good life. Make it good to the best of your capacity. Pay more attention to your responsibilities. Do not be lazy or reciprocate bad attitudes.
If you do not find someone to obey or respect, it is still fine. You can set good standards for yourself and follow them so you can respect yourself.
 Don't be lazy or idle. Sloth is an invitation to evil into your life. By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through (Ec. 10:18). Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labour is not in vain in the Lord (I Cor. 15:58).


The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour. (Pr. 21:25)
The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh. (Ec. 4:5)
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute. (Pr. 12:24)
Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. (Pr. 31:10-30)

, Never stop working rightly and doing justice in your life. Learn all that you need, and apply that knowledge to prosper in life. Do justice in all you do, including school, work, or any other task. When you are working and responsible, do not stay idle and allow yourself to get into unhelpful or evil activities. Remember, an idle mind is the devil's workshop.


Make your boast in the Lord that He has overcome the flesh; arrogance is iniquity: "But as it is, you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is evil" (James 4:17).
Be informed and resist false words. Do not spread, listen to or accept unfounded opinions such as gossip, bias/prejudice and rumors (Eph. 4:29, Pr. 6:16-19, Mt. 12:36, Ps. 64:2-4).
 People and responsibilities pose many challenges in the day-to-day life. They may even try your patience till you lash out. Under conflicting situations if you lose your temper or mind and act rashly, you may create some negativity around you by hurting someone. You may also appear an ill-tempered individual yourself. This reputation may hurt you in many ways. Let go of conflicting arguments. Speak only what you have to speak and remain calm in the rest of the stressful situation.
 Anger has a bad reputation as being disruptive and unproductive. So, when losing temper, one may act threateningly to others and oneself. Anger is not bad just as a knife is not bad. It can be used as a tool. It is given unto you to use, and you must not allow yourself to misuse it. Likewise, use anger to empower your disciplining of the unruly, undisciplined and the aggressive ones. Do not stay submissive or too lenient, for evil may take over and hurt you and those connected. Evil is opportunistic, doing as it pleases when you make an opening for it.


Be disciplined and aware of what not to do, and try to bring discipline around you as much as you are capable. Do not force it, but do it wisely keeping your past experience and problem-solving abilities in mind.
Remember Jesus became angry when His place of worship was turned into a marketplace (Mt. 21:12-13). Be angry keeping the level of unlawfulness or mistake in mind. Use anger keeping an end result in mind and not just to show that you are angry. Do it as well as you could.
 Unfortunately, even near and dear ones may be tempted or be used as temporary instruments to lure you towards evil. So it is advisable to not allow any and everything that they suggest just because they are close to you. Use your understanding to see the good and the bad in what they say or suggest.


As you understand and act upon their behavior, try not to act roughly with them. They may not be aware of what they are doing and what you have gauged from their behavior. Try to guide and hint them amicably according to their nature. If you make them feel bad, it will hurt them and may create more troubles in return. Try to minimize conflicting reactions with the use of a careful and tactful dialogue.
 The best way to control your own temper and maintain sanity is by being forgiving. Forgive yourself and others. You don't have to make friends with conflicting beings but you can just not hold any maligning thoughts against them. In your heart and mind, know that you will never hate or hold any negativity for evildoers. If you do hold grudges then you give them a place in your psyche permanently. This makes it easier for them to manifest their wicked ways starting right from within you i.e. your mind.


Forgiving and not feeling agitated may not happen instantly. It is natural to feel this way. However, try not to let your present set of feelings push you towards any further evil. Hold yourself back and practice self-control.
Be forgiving but don't be vulnerable.
 Moral strength gives enough strength to face all evils may it be from people, temptations or any experience. No, moral strength cannot be gained in any other way than exercising righteousness. You must try to be truthful. You will fail or you may find yourself wanting to escape all the tests. But if you seek to be true in your heart, you will eventually get used to following the right path at all times. With this, you will gain immense strength which can't be broken by an evil mind.
 All that evil tries to do is for the world to reach a stage where there is no hope or goodness left. To defy evil and the devil, you must never allow all of the evil's maneuvering to get to you. Maintain your mental equilibrium and fight all forms of evil with hope and goodness.


Be patient towards the irritable.
Be forgiving towards the evil-minded.
Be cheerful in your heart and try to spread cheers among the hopeless.
Reach out and counsel those who are distressed.
Take a break and get back when you feel you can't take any more of the negativity.
 Equip yourself. As you observe what has occurred around you or with you and you try to rationalize you will learn what will be used to dilute the effects of the wrongdoing. Realize that your greatest strength under all the circumstances will be 'patience'. Patience is the strongest because it does not resort to petty fights or verbal salvo. It waits till the right time to make a strike. And when it does, it eliminates all the destruction. To be able to have that impact you don't have to be something special. You can be just yourself but slightly more patient and watchful. The one who waits and watches gets a better understanding of when, how and what/ whom to strike.


There are evildoers and there are those who promote or prompt evildoers. Pinpoint on these masterminds and maintain a clear stance with them. Deal with these evil minds with patience and do not involve in a petty fight with them. It will only boost their ego that they managed to stir your emotions enough to fight. Such people are neither ever too humiliated to stop or too 'taught' to make them understand.
Develop your self-defense. They may try all their tactics to attack you. Do not react on what they do or say. React with a reluctance to react. Let them know clearly that you will never be interested or annoyed by them. This will disappoint them. They may even move to a softer target than you.
Do not lose your calm. Always prepare yourself from evildoers common tricks.
 Don't react with any sudden, odd notion or unpredictable change, by being erratic: He's such a capricious boss I never know how he'll react.For example, people may "go off" (expressing sudden anger), perhaps based on gossip, bias/prejudice and rumors. Deciding good or bad before seeing and hearing true evidence is prejudging. Judge rightly.


Do not entertain unfounded opinions pro or con about people, without enough facts to base it upon.
 This includes bullying. Do not continue to observe or laugh, smile or even secretly to admire or enjoy bad behavior or any such thing.
 What you see and experience has a reason. It has a beginning and a way or a path that has led to some damage. Figure out what was the 'intent' of the occurrence and beat it. One way to do it is by getting stronger.
 Avoid giving too much responsibility to persons who need to prove themselves dependable enough. Yet, the Bible shows that God loves to use the common and the weak; so be open to building up new helpers, to an appropriate level of understanding.


Avoid rewarding inexperienced or permissive persons by leaving them in charge of important events. Also, protect the vulnerable, such as defenseless children who are so accepting and fun loving. Realize that some youth may act for lack of a vision or temporarily fail due to being inexperienced, or because of seeking excitement and not knowing the reality of danger and harm from unwise behavior.
 Strive to have a clear conscience. Stir clear of all negative thoughts such as:


Judging others even if they do something that is clearly right or wrong. What others do is their business and not yours to judge. If you must do something about others, think well of them and/ or offer help.
Taking the liberty to speak hurtful truths in the name of being forthright or frank.
Abusing - physically, verbally, emotionally or sexually.
Giving back anger for anger. React to bring a solution, however, do not overreact when provoked.
Do not envy someone who has something that you like. Let go of them and do enjoy what you have.
Do not nod along to any and everything someone says. Everyone has the ability to think and make a decision. Hold on to what you 'know' is right. When unsure, say it that you are not sure yet and hence you do not intend to make a hasty decision or judgment.
 If you resort to crime or wrong routes to help escape from difficult situations, you may not see beyond all the evil. Search the right path knowing that it may be tough. Walk on thorny steps if it is the right thing to do. Deny any comfort that makes you drift from the simple fruits of true labor. Such efforts and hard work will give you true protection. It will give you moral strength to keep going and be enriched as a human being and not just know about it.
 Merely having the desire to protect yourself from evil or making a plan may only remain in your mind and never go into action. Waiting for the right time, the right state of mind or the right reason seems good to keep in mind before acting. But, if you stay idle and slack for too long, you may unknowingly fall prey to being lazy. Act when it seems advisable. Your progress is your responsibility to fulfill.


Proactively work to your capacity instead of waiting for something you can do perfectly. While you wait you may allow a series of unhelpful thoughts to take place in your mind which may help it turn into negative actions without intending to do badly.
 Prepare yourself to accept the benefits of your efforts, as rewards often come in small installments. You need to be able to see what is the reward for all your fights with evil to be able to benefit from it. Some just do not see it and let it go. They also wonder whether they are doing enough to protect themselves from evil, or whether they are not fighting enough for positivity.


Experience is preparation. Prepare your mind, heart and body to receive rewards, but merely saying that you are prepared won't help. Actions give you experience and that can empower you to fight all the evil around. Stay alert and do not fall prey to inactivity and lose your chance to prosper. But, calmly reflect upon the happenings of life especially during distressing events.
Work keeping the end result you desire in mind. As you do that you will be prepared to accept completely what you have worked for. There are many who get what they want, but they lose it either because they fail to see it or because they feel inefficient to accept it.
 A greedy desire is one that you will never feel comfortable to give up. God said in Matthew 16:25, "But if you give up your life for my sake, you will save it. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life because of Me will find it". How far are you willing to give up your most loved possessions and dreams? If you must have them, how can you be brave enough to give your best, if need be, as God leads and guides by His word in The Bible. It is your test which will leave you stronger and blessed with all your hearts desires yielded to Him.


Remember how Abraham, after waiting for years for a child, was quick to obey God. So that he went ahead as if to give up his only son -- the son Abraham had after many years of waiting. No, you don't have to sacrifice someone, but you must be willing to leave and go to God's path as He expects of you. Take note that God waited for Abraham's decision, and his final act of giving. God spoke right when he was about to give up his child. Likewise, be willing to give up your plans and believe that He knows what He is doing. This will give you immense strength to protect yourself from evil, as God can show His strength for you when you are in your weakest moment.
Control your indulgences. Sometimes you want too much or try to gather beyond your needs or reach. You may be tempted to go to evil means to get what you set your eyes on. Know what you need and how much will suffice your needs. God wants you to ask for and to receive prosperity. The desire to prosper is different from greed. Greed is when you don't care if what you achieve is at the cost of others, and you don't feel anything wrong in stealing or resorting to illegal ways to amass your wealth, or treasure. Also, what you get by compromising your honesty and loyalty towards humanity, as well as near and dear ones, points towards your drifting away from the right path.
 Reread the best books. The more you read the more you may get the solutions to your problems and questions. What you couldn't grasp earlier will make more sense to you today. So pick up a book and reap the benefits of having a better understanding of the society, the world and your own mind.
 Writing has been scientifically proven to relax the mind. Writing your thoughts, fears, worries -- such as writing a diary about everyday events -- helps interpret everything and think about it a second time with a more focused mind. Dealing with negativities of life has a lot to do with your own understanding and ease of tackling various situations. Writing makes increases the chances of making you a better decision maker in the process.


You need not keep a record of everything you write. You can write and discard it later so no one reads what you wrote.
 Speak to a matured and empathetic person you know and seek good counsel. Sometimes even a small conversation leads to big solutions. Good conversations can open the mind and broaden the perspective. You would not want to miss out on these possibilities. No matter how mature or well-versed you feel you have become, continue interacting with the unbiased and those with good judgment. Share with them and ask them what they think, and then do what you feel is right for you. This way, you share and make up your own mind while taking the onus off any outcome of making the decision.


Continued interactions and prudent information sharing will help in bringing hope and better judgment to you in the longer run.

