 College puts you in charge of all your meals. You can buy a meal plan through the college dining hall if you don't want to cook for yourself. Most campuses also have an option to place money on a card to be used in student center food areas.


Many dining hall meal plans gives you open access to all dining hall food. If you are struggling with overeating or a food addiction, this may be too much for you. You may do better with putting money on your card so you can choose what food you want and be charged for those items, which limits how much you eat.
If you are dealing with anorexia, a dining hall may provide many different choices. You may be able to find something that you want to eat more easily.
Find out what healthy options your college dining hall and student centers offer. Many campuses offer salads, pasta bars, sandwich stations, and a variety of fruits and vegetables.
If the dorm has a stove, oven, and refrigerator, or you live in off-campus housing, you may decide to cook your own meals to maintain your eating habits.
 The dining hall is not the only source of food while you are at college. You can look into local restaurants or food trucks. Buy food at grocery stores. You can also visit local farmer’s markets. Decide what your needs are and what is available to you.You may also want to prepare for any temptation or trigger foods. For example, if you know there are three donut shops in town, you show be aware of this and avoid them.
 Depending on your eating disorder, you may need to make sure you eat every meal or make sure you don’t eat too much between meals. Finding a way to regulate your eating can help reduce stress. This can help you keep your focus on the college experience instead of food.For example, during high stress times, like exam times, make sure you are scheduling breaks so that you can eat and not skipping meals. During times of stress and when doing important coursework, it’s important to keep your energy and nutrition up.
Make yourself contained, healthy study snacks. If you splurge on junk food, do it in small doses. For example, have one serving of ice cream or potato chips instead of the whole container or bag. Take a break to eat so you can pay attention and enjoy the food. Don’t mindlessly snack so that you overeat.

