 Pick up any large, or even small, sticks and rocks, and throw them over the fence. Even a relatively tiny stone, when jabbed into the soft spot of a horse's hoof, can seriously cripple the horse for the rest of its life. Make sure this doesn't happen, and that the entire ring is free of holes and obstructions. If you do find a hole that you think could potentially cause harm to your horse, fill it immediately, and make sure the fill dirt is solid. Even if it looks filled, if the dirt is too loose, your horse could still stumble. If at a Horse Show, inform the Steward or Judge in nearby rings, or the Show Manager that there is a hole or some large rocks, it is there responsibility to remove them not yours. Simply ride around them.;
, This includes all jumps, barrels, and anything else you may need. If you are setting up simple jumps, always remember to use relatively flexible material, such as plastic PCB pipe, on a very loose hold. This is to assure that, if your horse nicks the jump with its hoof, the jump will give way and not cause any harm to the horse. If you want a more solid and official-looking jump, Build a Horse Jump may be of some use to you. If at a show, this is not required, but having a second person with you to pick up a fallen jump or falling cone, so other riders can continue to warm up without too much hassle.
 Groom, bridle, and saddle your horse before venturing into the ring. This will save time and will make it easier to watch your horse while walking to the ring and make sure all tack is on properly.
 You can do this by riding atop your horse, or just leading them by their reins. If there are other horses nearby that may end up being problems to your horse while getting to the ring, walk beside your horse, keeping a strong hand on the reins. (Or lead rope.) If the other horses do end up causing problems, or your horse bolts, you can easily get away without the risk of falling off a running horse.
 If the horse is of a hot-blooded variety, small changes can make it anxious and inattentive. You want to avoid this; let your horse roam around the ring at its leisure for a few minutes, so that it can get used to the area. This can also help for if you may have missed a small hole or two- give your horse time to examine the ground itself.
 If you don't have a lunge line, or your horse is not yet accustomed to the lunge line, just mount and begin riding slowly.
, Walk your horse around the ring at a slow, easy pace. Walk around, or over the lower, jumps at this pace. Attempting to jump them while walking so slow is not only difficult to clear, it is also frustrating to the horse. If you are preparing for barrel races, go around the individual barrels, and make your horse accustomed to the ground around the barrels, as well as the barrels themselves. Pay close attention to if the horse's gait breaks or if you feel anything sliding irregularly. If either happens, dismount and figure out the problem. The horse may have a pebble in its hoof; remove, and remount.


While walking, go in different directions, an equal amount of time for each direction. This will make it so that the horse will not think that, when going one way, you expect one specific thing, and then when going another way, will expect another. This also assists with balance.
Also try going in different shapes. Serpentine shapes, just going back and forth in wavy lines, and small circles are recommended, as well as doing the large circle of the riding ring.
Try different speeds of walking. Many horses try to keep one constant speed while walking, but this is not good. Try convincing your horse to do slower and faster walking paces without going into a completely different gait. This assists with delicate signals between you and your horse.
Finally, before moving on to faster gaits, try making your horse back up. There are many ways of doing this, try to find the best way for your individual horse. If your horse is more anxious to go faster, it is also a good idea to try to practice halting, no matter how basic it may seem. If you are going to compete in a show, a large portion of your time will be spent waiting at a halt; if your horse cannot stay still, you will have problems, so you should work on this.
 Move up to a trot after a bit of time, maybe ten minutes or so, of just simple walking in the ring. After this, and you're sure that the horse has no problems gait-wise, move up to a canter and, if your ring is large enough, an eventual gallop. Once you've gotten up to a medium trot, then start attempting to jump the smaller jumps. Only try the larger jumps once your horse has gained up enough momentum for you to feel confident in the horse.
 Slowly start to go back down to a canter, then a trot, and then finally a walk. At this point, you should feel confident that the horse has been warmed up enough to do the real work, and can leave the ring.

