 Your title should let readers know exactly what the tutorial is about, so you should therefore avoid using titles that are abstract, referential or metaphorical. For example, a tutorial for making ant-fabric baby bloomers should be called, "How to Make Ant-Fabric Baby Bloomers," rather than, "Ants on My Pants.";
, Introduce the craft by including a clear picture of the finished product, so crafters know exactly what they will be making, and write a tutorial introduction with the following information:


Name of the craft. Part of writing craft tutorials is coming up with descriptive, creative and relevant craft names. Use specifics about the craft that makes it stand out. For example, instead of calling the craft a jewelry box, call it a rhinestone treasure box.
Purpose of the craft. Describe what it could be used for, who might use it and for what occasions.
Level of difficulty. It's a good idea to include a general age range for people who would most likely be able to successfully complete the craft project, plus an estimation of the effort it takes for completion (easy, medium or hard).
Forewarning: If, for example, your craft requires special considerations, like ventilation, high heat or power tools, mention those before outlining the craft instructions.
List the things needed to finish the project. Your list should include tools and supplies, and should be comprehensive enough for crafters to use at the store for shopping. Provide exact amounts and measurements. Additionally, provide resources for hard to find supplies, if applicable.
 When you write a tutorial, follow these guidelines for creating procedure steps:


Each step should involve only 1 action, such as, "Cut all the pattern pieces."
Begin each step with an action verb (i.e. measure, draw, glue, etc.).
Number the steps of your craft tutorial so they are clearly differentiated.
Use bold and/or italicized font to accent important information.
Include tips, warnings and pointers along the way, as necessary. When you write a tutorial, it helps to tell readers what mistakes you made that they can avoid, as well as useful shortcuts you learned through experience.
Provide a picture for each step.
 Be sure to run the spelling and grammar check, as well as to read your tutorial out loud several times through in order to identify and correct any mistakes. You may also want to have someone else read it and provide feedback so that you know your tutorial makes sense logically and chronologically, and that your instructions are easy for readers to understand.

