 Whatever season you're in, it's a beautiful one and you owe it to yourself to see its beauty. Even in the middle of a freezing winter or a searing summer, there is beauty to be found for those who look. To share this beauty, here are a few things you can do:


Point out to people how lovely the day is. Point out the symmetry of the snowflakes, the shimmering haze on the horizon or the changing colors of the leaves. They may not have seen the beauty amid all their troubles all by themselves but you can bring them there through your exquisite shares of real natural beauty.
Enjoy the seasonal events to their fullest. Whether it's Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas, or any other occasion, share the joy of that season by celebrating it and sharing tokens of beauty related to the event. The seasonal event provides myriad opportunities to appreciate the beauty of the season.
Make nature craft items that celebrate the abundance and beauty of nature's abundance. There are many possibilities, including making wreaths from twigs and leaves, nut sculptures, leaf prints, photos of landscapes turned into artworks, seed pictures, seed pod figurines, and much more. Give to friends and family after creating, or share your images of your creations on sites such as Pinterest.
 Crocus blends in well with grass and is one of the first flowers to blossom in the spring. You can go further and plant them surreptitiously in your neighborhood park or along a favorite walking path. They're fairly hardy and need no weeding or fertilizer when established.


Of course, never plant pest plants randomly. Always take into account what's native to your area and stick to increasing the amount of that rather than spreading invasive species!

, Many perennials and shrubs are available. As for flowers, their blooms will attract the gaze of passers-by and visitors alike, for there are few people who wouldn't feel joy at seeing flowers in full bloom!


Talk to your local greenhouse or nursery about what plants will do best in your area, as plants used to local conditions will always thrive best. By growing a locally-derived garden, not only are you beautifying the area, you are also providing yet another carbon dioxide recycling area on planet earth.

