 They will most likely yell back, rather than listen to what you are trying to tell them. When your parents hear you yelling, both of you will be in trouble!;
, Remember: your parents are in charge, not you. Hitting your siblings just makes them tell on you. That gets you in the bad books with your parents, and that definitely won't increase your chances of them backing you up on your argument.
 Little kids have very short attention spans, so make sure if they're cleaning the room, they're not doing anything else.
 Most people see cleaning up as a chore, and that's why they don't do it. Don't make the same mistake!

Find a time when your sibling is free, such as before dinner, or after school, and then nicely ask them. Make it a game! If you have a TV in your room, tell your sibling that they can watch a show after they clean up the room. They will likely be more motivated, but make sure your parents allow this.
 Don't jump on them and scream at them to clean their room. Explain gradually that the mess is getting pretty big, and they really should clean it.
 Since they are still young, they will grow up with the knowledge that cleaning can be fun!

, Find where the mess mainly is. This works if your siblings are still getting distracted by TV, drawing or other things, trick them into cleaning. Targeting where the mess is will help you devise a plan to stop it.


Find out what they're doing wrong after you target the mess. Then, show them your method. If they don't want to do your method, but modify it, don't teach your way. As long as they keep their room neat, it doesn't really matter how they do it. You can organize things as much as you like, but it won't teach your sibling to clean up unless you show them your method.
 You can make a sticker chart:

Every time your sibling cleans up the room, you can add a sticker to their chart. Set goals:
20 stickers and they get a new toy, a cookie, or something else you know they want.
 If there's one thing that inspires little kids to do something, it's "I bet you can't...". They get so eager to prove you wrong, they try extra hard. You know your sibling best, so devise a plan that works for them and motivates them.


Have regular cleanups. They will be much quicker! When you leave the mess to pile up for a long time, it builds up, making the clean up longer because you have to sort through everything.
 Even if they didn't really do a good job. When you're teaching a little child something, there's no such thing as "No", "Wrong" or "Don't". Remember to praise them especially well if they clean up without you asking them to.
 Teach your sibling to do it with their own free will. Reward her occasionally, but never promise a reward. If you run out of the reward, she may throw a tantrum. Plus, next time she's told to clean her room, she'll expect a reward. That turns out bad because your sibling gets the idea that she doesn't have to clean her room, she's just doing it for the reward.
 Tell them why they need to clean their room. Devise a timetable such as "Once a week you should clean your room". For the first few times, help them clean, then just leave them to it. Ignore any smart remarks; they will stop.
 Give them time to adjust to the fact that they might not have as much free time to watch TV or sing and dance anymore.

