 Once someone becomes HIV positive, the virus will never leave the person's body. However, medical treatment is still vital for delaying the progress of the infection, which can eventually reach the more serious condition called AIDS. Modern medicine has been able to slow down the spread of the virus and help HIV+ patients live relatively comfortable lives, but there is no cure. Infecting others remains a concern even if the HIV+ person has had stable health for years or decades.
 Find an infectious disease (ID) specialist in your area, or ask any doctor to refer you to a specialist. Be aware that, depending on your condition, he or she may ask you to see other doctors as well to address other aspects of your health. If you follow your doctors' instructions and have access to adequate medical care, you can potentially prevent your HIV from developing into AIDS, and lead a relatively healthy life.
 Make a list of any concerns, questions, symptoms and other medical conditions you have. This will help your doctor guide the conversation during your appointment. Certain medications are not compatible and the doctor may need to look over your medication regimen and your symptoms to ensure that your are maximizing the benefits of your medications. Also use the time before an appointment to write down any questions or concerns. Having an expert discuss these thoughts with you will decrease your stress levels, help you find valuable sources of information and set expectations for future problems that may arise.


Be informed about your specific diagnosis. Do research. No question is unimportant. HIV is a life-changing disease and the more information you have, the better you will be able to cope with your condition.
 Like many other diseases, there is a trial and error process with finding the right medications. Be sure to be open with your doctor about any side effects you may be experiencing as these may be a sign of a more serious problem. Don't get discouraged during this adjustment process. Some of the side effects may be unpleasant, but modern medicine has greatly increased the overall health, well-being, and lifespan of HIV patients.
 Because HIV affects your immune system, this will exacerbate any other infections or diseases you may acquire. Be sure to take precautions during flu season or if you feel like you might be exposed to a virus.
 AIDS can be a deadly disease. Many people need help coping with the stress and uncertainty of their situation. Things like community support groups, open dialogue with family and friends, and counselors can all help you deal with the ups and downs of being diagnosed.
 If you are keeping your HIV+ status a secret, as many people choose to, then it becomes your responsibility to try to limit the exposure of the uninfected people around you. Always let future sexual partners know you are HIV+ and inform them about prevention practices before you have any type of sex. Allow them to make their own informed decision about how best to proceed.
 Take all of your medications on time and do not skip any doses. By doing this, you ensure that your "viral load" in your body fluids is low. This will keep your body healthier and prevent the chance of infecting those around you.
 If you're pregnant, talk to your doctor about options. While there is no vaccine or cure for this disease, there are medications that can be taken to reduce the chance of a mother passing the virus to a baby throughout the pregnancy, during labor and though breast-feeding. While this is not 100% effective, it does significantly reduce the risk.

