 To grow crystals using this method, you will need alum, two jars, a spoon, hot water, a pencil, some clear string, plastic wrap, and food coloring (optional).The food coloring can be used to alter the color of the crystal if you wish, but is not necessary to the creation of the crystal.


Alum can be found in the spice aisle at the grocery store. It is generally used for pickling vegetables.Alum is nontoxic, but can cause irritation to the eyes. Avoid touching your eyes or wear protective glasses.Glass jars are recommended because you will be using hot water. Also, it is easier to see the crystals form.
The pencil needs to be long enough to sit on top of the jar.;
, In order to start growing your crystal, you need to make a solution of hot water and alum. A saturated solution means that you add enough alum that it can no longer dissolve in the water.The water does not have to be boiling, but the alum will dissolve in warm water faster than in cold water.


Add a cup of hot water to one jar. Stir in a tablespoon of alum until it dissolves. Keep adding alum and stirring until the alum no longer dissolves. You may see a small amount of alum powder at the bottom of the jar.
Add food coloring at this stage to color the water.
 If there is no powder at the bottom of the jar, you can skip this step. If there is powder, pour the alum solution into a new jar, making sure none of the powder gets into the new jar.


In order to grow good crystals, you don’t want any particles in the solution.
Wash the original jar, you will use it again later for the second stage of growing.
 You want to keep any dust or dirt particles out of the jar. Do this by covering the lid with plastic wrap, foil, or placing a piece of cardboard over the top. Plastic wrap or foil are preferable because you can make a tighter seal.For a strong seal, wrap a rubber band around the plastic wrap or foil.
 Store the jar in a place that is out of the way and won’t be bumped by anyone. If the jar gets jostled, no crystals will form. Locations with warmer air will help the crystals grow faster. Let the jar sit for at least 24 hours. After 24 hours check for crystal formation.You can leave the jar for longer, but if you have crystals at the bottom, you can use these as seeds to grow larger crystals.
 Once you have crystals formed at the bottom of the jar, you need to transfer the solution to a new jar so you can choose your seed crystals. When you pour, take care not to let any crystals fall into the new jar. You want only the alum solution to be in the new jar.


You can also add another spoonful of alum to the jar to replace the alum that formed into crystals.
 Pour the crystals out of the bottom of the jar and dry them off with a paper towel. Examine them and choose the largest transparent crystal with flat sides. This crystal will serve as the base to grow your larger crystal.You may notice that some of the crystals are overlapping. These will not work well to grow larger crystals. Choose a single crystal to use as a seed.

