 If you don't love yourself, your lack of confidence and self-esteem may bleed into the interactions you have with your husband. Confidence is an attractive quality, and conversely, a lack of confidence can make you seem unattractive.Tell yourself that you are sexy, attractive, and interesting. Focus on your favorite qualities about yourself, and remember that your husband fell in love with you for a good reason.


Speaking confidently and having a confident, upright posture will help you demonstrate your self-esteem.
If you are unable to remove the negative thoughts you have about yourself, consider taking up practices like meditation or therapy for a little extra help.
 Being able to care for yourself emotionally can help you maintain a more positive attitude. If you depend on your husband completely, you are more likely to feel critical when your husband fails to make you feel better. This criticism could push him further away.In order to work on being your own person, you can:


Spend time with your close friends and family
Work on a hobby
Take a class in something you are interested in

, Don't take your husband for granted. Value the time you spend together, and seek out quality time with him.Schedule dates or other ways to check in throughout the day. Talk to one another on the phone, Skype, or text at least once a day in order to display that he is in your thoughts.
 It can be hard to focus on a marriage when you have kids, careers, homes, and other responsibilities. Be sure that you don't have too much on your plate if you want to concentrate on attracting your husband.If you find the stress building up, find someone who can help share the load. This will also help reduce the likelihood of nagging, which is a buzzkill. You could:


Ask your husband to do more chores
Ask a friend to help you out around the house
Hire a babysitter to give you some relief
Use a cleaning service to take care of chores at home

, Remaining curious about your husband is key to revitalizing your marriage. Don't act like he is predictable or boring: tell yourself there is always more to learn about him.Ask him to talk about his life, emotions, and experiences in order to grow your relationship and your attraction to one another.
 Don't keep your emotions a secret from your husband. Tell him what you are thinking and feeling. Don't be ashamed if you need extra support.Be honest and tell yourself that sharing your emotions is key to growing and developing a marriage rooted in mutual attraction.
 As you grow older, you might start treating life with a greater degree of seriousness than you did as a young newlywed. Be serious when seriousness is called for, but make sure that you still know how to laugh—and make sure your husband knows that you can still laugh, too. In order to keep your sense of humor alive in your marriage, you can:


Develop inside jokes
Go to a live comedy show
Rent a funny movie
Let go of your inhibitions and act goofy or silly sometimes

, Show him that you still find him attractive. He will be more attracted to you in turn. There is nothing more attractive than being seen by others as attractive. In order to show your husband how attractive he is, you can:


Tell your husband how much you love him
Flirt with him
Make eye contact
Compliment his appearance and personality
Initiate sex

, Pay attention to your husband's needs and desires. Give him emotional and physical support when he's feeling low, even if he isn't honest about needing that support. Make sure your husband can feel love emanating from you through the sort of treatment you give him.


Take an interest in his interests. You don't need to force yourself to love everything he feels passionately about, but encourage him to talk to you about his passions by being an active listener.
Do something special for him every once in a while. Plan a surprise party on his birthday or cook his favorite meal. Offer to pack him a lunch or give him a shoulder massage after an especially long, tiresome day at work.
Show sympathy if he is having a hard time.
 You might be tempted to think that making your husband jealous will cause him to come rushing to your side. However, this sort of thinking backfires more often than not. Attract your husband with your honesty and care, not with dangerous games.
 Don't let problems in your marriage fester. Talk through your conflicts and problems in order to clear the air.If your husband seems distant or withdrawn, sit down with him and talk about what the problem is. Once everything is brought out into the open, the two of you can figure out how to make things better together.


Understand that problems in your marriage might have nothing to do with you. If your husband no longer finds you attractive, there could be a medical problem behind it, or there can be something going on with him psychologically, spiritually, or emotionally that you have no control over.

