 Copyright law is a subset of intellectual property law and is usually only practiced by specialized lawyers. Due to the complexity of copyright law, if you are planning on suing someone for copyright infringement, you should hire the right person for the job.


When looking for attorneys, try to find a copyright lawyer comfortable with federal law and federal practice. Because copyright law is almost exclusively managed at the federal level, any attorney you hire need to be able to practice in front of the federal court you file in.;
, Start your search process by asking friends and family for recommendations. This is one of the best ways to find an attorney you can trust. If someone has a recommendation, ask them how they know the attorney and how comfortable they are making an introduction.
 If you cannot get a personal recommendation, contact your state bar association. Every state has a lawyer referral service you can use to get in contact with qualified attorneys in your area. You can usually find contact information by searching on your state bar's website. When you call the state bar, they will ask you a series of questions in order to assess your legal needs. After the questionnaire is completed, you will be put in contact with a number of qualified attorneys in your area.
 When you have a list of three or four qualified federal copyright attorneys, contact each one to set up an initial consultation. This meeting will give you an opportunity to ask questions and feel out the lawyer and their work. In addition, it will give the lawyer an opportunity to hear about your case and offer suggestions. Some lawyers will offer this meeting free of charge while others may charge a fee. Conduct initial consultations with the lawyers offering free consultations before moving forward with others. While at your initial consultation, bring as much documentation of the copyright infringement as possible and ask some of the following questions:


How long has the attorney been practicing copyright law?
Does the attorney specialize in software licensing cases? If not, have they dealt with them before?
Do they usually represent the plaintiff or the defendant?
Does the attorney have a good relationship with federal judges in the area?
What is their rate of success in these types of cases?
How strong is your case?
What are the legal fees the attorney charges for their services?

, When you have completed your initial consultations, take a moment to reflect on your research. Ask yourself who you can trust and who gives you the best chance of success. While cost is certainly an important factor in your hiring decision, it should not be the sole factor. You might have to pay more to get the representation you deserve. When you make your choice, contact that attorney and make sure to complete a written representation agreement.


Do not hire an attorney who does not seem comfortable with your case or who does not seem trustworthy. You may be working with this attorney for months, or even years, so you want to hire someone you feel good working with.
 The software you or your company has created is copyrightable. While a copyright attaches as soon as the software is published, you only get certain legal rights if you register your copyright. In general, you cannot sue for copyright infringement unless the copyright has been registered. While you may be able to sue for some related harm (e.g., breach of contract), you will not be a true threat to the future defendant until you register.


To register your copyright, visit the government copyright website and register through their "eCO" system. This process can take up to eight months.If you are anticipating litigation while registering, you may qualify for expedited registration and recordation, which will cut your processing time down to around seven days. You will have to pay an extra fee for this service.If you register within five years of publication (or before), your registration will establish prima facie evidence in an infringement lawsuit of the validity of your copyright and of the facts stated in your registration certificate. If this is not the case, you will have to prove your copyright exists in court.
Importantly, if your copyright is registered within three months of publication or prior to an infringement of your work, statutory damages and attorneys fees will be available to you. If this is not the case, only actual damages will be available to you., Under certain circumstances, copyright infringement can amount to a criminal offense. If copyright infringement has occurred, contact the FBI's Intellectual Property Program of the Financial Institution Fraud Unit or the Cyber Unit. After you file a complaint, they will conduct an investigation and ask you for more information if necessary. If charges are filed, the Department of Justice will handle the prosecution. While you may be asked to be a witness, you will not be responsible for handling any portion of the criminal case.


To file a complaint, you can contact your local FBI field office and explain your problem. The complaint will be forwarded to the correct representative. You can also file a complaint online with the FBI.Finally, you can submit a tip to the FBI if you believe criminal activity may be taking place., A suit for copyright infringement must be filed within three years of the date the claim accrued.While this gives you some time to prepare and file your case, you should move as quickly as possible to ensure witnesses are available and evidence is not lost.
 Copyright law is almost entirely made up of federal statutes and regulations. Therefore, if infringement occurs, you will sue under the federal Copyright Law of the United States. As the owner of a copyright, you have certain exclusive rights set out by federal law. Those rights include the ability to reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute copies of the work, perform the work, and display the work. Anyone who violates any of your rights is infringing on your copyright. Most importantly, anyone who does not get your permission to engage in any of the activities is infringing on your copyright.For example, if you own word processing software that you license to businesses in your community, any business who wants to use your software will have to get your permission. Usually, this permission will come in the form of purchasing your product and agreeing to the terms of use. If your terms of use allow only one computer to use the software, and the business installs the software on two computers, they are infringing on your copyright.
 An infringer on your copyright will be liable for either the actual damages incurred along with any additional profits of the infringer, or statutory damages. You will have to elect which route to take before final judgment is entered. The court can also choose to award attorneys fees to the prevailing party in addition to whatever damages you elect to seek.


Actual damages will generally include the monetary harm caused by the infringing activity. Put another way, these damages often reflect the extent to which the market value of the software has been injured by the infringement. The value of a copyright can be hard to value any your attorney should be well-trained in this area of litigation.Statutory damages will vary depending on the severity of the case and the mindset of the defendant. For normal infringement cases, you can collect a maximum of $30,000. However, if the infringement was committed willfully, you can collect a maximum of $150,000.Attorneys fees may be awarded to the prevailing party and can help greatly in keeping your cost of litigation down. Attorneys fees will usually be five figures (i.e., at least $10,000) before a case ever gets to trial. If your case goes to trial, the fees could be six figures (i.e., at least $100,000).
 In order to file a lawsuit in federal court you have to be able to prove the court has jurisdiction. In copyright infringement cases, you can do this under the concept of federal question jurisdiction, which allows you to file in federal court if your claim involves questions of federal law. Because copyright law is almost exclusively federal law, you will have no problem getting into federal court.
 A complaint is a pleading that starts a lawsuit. It will contain information about why the court you are filing in has jurisdiction, the causes of action you are alleging (i.e., copyright infringement), and a demand for relief (i.e., the damages you are requesting).


The complaint will usually be written on pleading paper, which your attorney will have.
The beginning of your complaint will contain a caption that will name the court, the parties to the lawsuit, and will convey other important information about the case (e.g., case number or docket number)., A summons is a notice that will be attached to your complaint when you file. The summons tells the defendant that he or she is being sued and how they need to respond. A summons form can usually be found online at the federal court's website., Once you have completed your complaint and summons, you will file originals with the court clerk along with multiple copies. When you file, the court clerk will process your case along with a filing fee of $350.Once your fee is paid, the clerk will stamp your originals and give you back your copies. You should keep at least one copy for your own records and you will need to use another copy to serve on the defendant.
 When you sue someone, you have to give them notice of the lawsuit against them. This is done by serving them with a copy of the summons and your complaint. In federal court, anyone over the age of 18 who is not a party can serve these papers on the defendant. In addition, you can pay a small fee and have a U.S. Marshal serve the papers for you., Once service has been completed, you will need to notify the court. This can be done through an affidavit, which must be signed by the person who served the defendant for you. If you had service completed by a U.S. Marshal, you will not be required to file an affidavit., After your lawsuit is filed, the defendant will have 21 days to respond. In the defendant's response, often called an answer, the defendant will admit or deny the allegations you made in your complaint. In addition, the defendant may make counterclaims or may file motions to try and have the case dismissed.When you get served with the defendant's answer, read through it with your attorney. Talk together and determine the best course of action moving forward. If the defendant filed any counterclaims or motions, you will have to respond to them.
 Discovery is a pretrial phase when you and the defendant will have an opportunity to collect and exchange information about the case. During discovery you will collect facts, interview witnesses, find out what the defendant is going to say, and see how good your case is. You can use the following tools to help you successfully navigate the discovery process:Informal discovery, which includes interviewing witnesses, accessing publicly available documents, and taking photographs.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to other parties or witnesses. The recipient is required to answer under oath and their answers can be used in court.
Depositions, which are in-person interviews with parties and witnesses. They are conducted under oath and answers can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are written requests asking the other party to produce documents otherwise unavailable to the public. Examples include emails, text messages, and internal memos.
Subpoenas, which are court orders requiring someone to do something (e.g., handing over documents or answering questions).
 After discovery most defendants will file a motion for summary judgment. This motion, if successful, will end the litigation and the court will rule in the defendant's favor immediately. The defendant will have to show, through evidence and affidavits, that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant has to prove to the court that there is no way you can win given the circumstances and facts of the case.


To defend against this motion, you will file your response stating there are genuine disputes of fact that need to be settled by the trier of fact. You will submit evidence and affidavits to help prove your points. The judge will make all assumptions in your favor., As your trial gets closer, you may want to try and settle to avoid the additional cost and time necessary to go through that process. Settlement talks usually start with a settlement conference, which is a meeting with both parties and the judge. At this meeting, the judge will talk to each party about trying to settle and will help move the discussion between the parties in the right direction. If an agreement cannot be reached here, you may want to try some alternative dispute resolution processes. For example, you could try:


Mediation, which occurs when a neutral third party is hired who has expertise in finding common ground and novel ways of settling disputes. The court clerk will often have a list of mediators or you can always contact the American Arbitration Association. The mediator will not make any substantive decisions and will not make conclusions about your case.
If mediation does not work, you may choose to go through arbitration. During arbitration, a neutral third party will act like a judge and listen to each party's case. After both parties have presented evidence, the arbitrator will analyze it and draft a written opinion. The opinion will state whose case is strongest and will offer an opinion about a possible award. At this stage, most arbitration will be non-binding, which means neither party will be required to adhere to the opinion and either party can ignore it.
 Right before trial starts, either party may choose to file various pretrial motions, which are court documents asking the court to do something. Either party can file these motions and the party that does not file will have an opportunity to respond. Common pretrial motions include:Motions to dismiss, which ask the court to throw a case out because there is not enough evidence or if the facts alleged do not amount to copyright infringement.
Motions to suppress, which ask the court to keep evidence out of trial because they do not comply with the federal rules of evidence.
 If all else fails, you will go to trial and present your case in front of a judge or jury. If you choose to have a jury, you will conduct a process called "voire dire" in order to pick your jury. When trial begins, you and the other party will make opening statements, which tell the court about the case and how you expect it to go. Then you will present your case, which involves presenting evidence and calling witnesses to the stand. The defendant will have an opportunity to cross-examine any witness you call. When you rest, the defendant will present their case and you will have an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses. At the end of the trial, you and the defendant will offer closing statements and the trial will be over.


If you win, you will be awarded damages in an amount decided by the judge or jury. If you lose, you may have the opportunity to appeal the decision, although this will only be possible in limited situations.

