 You may choose to have your pet cremated after they have died. There are pet cremation services who can do this for you. When you cremate your pet, you do not have to deal with burying your pet.Pet cremation may be a good choice if you want to keep the ashes.
Pet cremation is also way a to deal with your pet’s remains when you cannot bury your pet anywhere.
 Pet crematories are available in many cities. Often, the pet crematory will come get the remains of your pet from your home or the veterinarian’s office. Many vet offices provide cremation services if the pet died there was euthanized in the office. However, this may come at an additional expense.Search online for a pet crematory service in your area, ask your vet, or contact the local humane society.
 There are different types of dog cremations. The types include private, semi-private, and communal. The choice depends on whether you want to keep your dog’s ashes in an urn and the price you want to pay.A private cremation means your dog is in a chamber alone. If you want to keep your dog’s ashes in an urn, this may be the choice for you. However, this process is the most expensive and can reach up to $400.
A semi-private cremation places multiple dogs in the same chamber in different partitions. During this process, the ashes can end up mixing together slightly. Some places advertise this as private cremation, so you may want to discuss what private means when talking to the crematory. The price for this process can reach up to $250.
A communal cremation is when they place multiple pets into the same chamber so all of the ashes are combined. You will not receive an urn after this process. This is the cheapest option.
 After your dog has been cremated, you have multiple options for what to do with the ashes. You can bury the ashes in your yard. You may decide to spread the ashes somewhere, like in your yard, in the woods, or in water. You can also keep the ashes in your home in a decorative urn.You can find pet urns online and in pet magazines.

