 Eye shadow is made with a pigmented mineral called mica mixed with a little oil and alcohol to moisten and preserve it. You can make powdered or pressed eye shadow. Buy the following supplies:


Mica pigments, available at online sources like tkbtrading.com. Buy several colors if you want to blend them to make a customized pigment, or choose one to make eye shadow in your favorite color.
Jojoba oil, available at health food stores
Rubbing alcohol
An eye shadow container, either new or recycled
A piece of cloth
A bottle lid or other small, flat item

, Two ounces of mica will fill two standard eye shadow containers. You can weigh the mica on a small food scale or eyeball it by using two tablespoons total. Place the pigments in a small glass bowl. If you're using more than one, make sure they are thoroughly mixed, and that no lumps remain.









To make sure the pigments are completely integrated, you can place them in a spice grinder and grind them together for a few seconds. Use a grinder you don't plan to use again to grind spices to eat.
Try the following pigment mixtures to create unique custom colors:

Make violet eyeshadow: Mix 1 ounce purple mica with 1 ounce blue.
Make sea green eyeshadow: Mix 1 ounce emerald mica with 1 ounce yellow.
Make mocha eyeshadow: Mix 1 ounce brown mica with 1 ounce bronze.
 The oil provides a medium to help the powder stick to your eyelids. Add 1/8 teaspoon jojoba oil for every 2 ounces of mica. Stir until the oil is thoroughly combined with the mica.
 Alcohol preserves and binds the powder. Fill a spray bottle with some rubbing alcohol and spray the powder until it is thoroughly moistened, but not dripping wet. Stir the mixture until it is combined.
 Use a measuring spoon or small scoop to transfer the powder from the bowl to the eyeshadow container. If you have a lot of powder, feel free to mound it up a little, since you'll be pressing it into place.
 Place the cloth over the eyeshadow container so that it completely covers the opening. Use the flat side of a bottle lid or another small, flat surface to press on the cloth, flattening the eyeshadow. Gently lift the cloth from the container.









If the mixture still looks wet, place a different section of the cloth over the container and press it again.
Don't press too hard, or you may break up the powder as you lift the cloth.
 Use a lid with the container to store the eyeshadow for later use. When you're ready to use it, use an eye shadow brush to apply the shadow to your eyelids.








