 The standard milestones indicate what children should be capable of at different stages of their education. Knowing what the milestones are for each grade level can help you better understand how your child is doing in school. You can also use this knowledge to help you decide which schoolwork best documents your child’s progress towards specific milestones.Check the websites from your school, school district, or state’s Board of Education for lists of milestones.
Ask your child’s teacher or principal for resources that can help you identify typical milestones.
Consult with your pediatrician about the guidelines they use. Your pediatrician can also tell you how well they think your child is meeting milestones.
Visit your local library to look for lists of educational milestones.
 By comparing your child’s progress with standard educational milestones, you can better track their academic development. Tracking your child’s milestones can let you know if they are performing at grade level. It can also alert you to any learning delays or let you know if your child is achieving above their grade level.Start by making a checklist of standard milestones for each grade level and updating it as your child reaches those milestones.
Report cards and results from standardized testing can help you monitor milestones.
Check in regularly with your child’s teachers about how your child is doing. You can ask about specific indicators of your child’s progress, like lexile levels or college readiness.
Ask your child to perform short tasks associated with specific milestones, like solving mental math problems or describing the characters in a story.Describe your child’s progress in school and any concerns you have in your journal of your child’s milestones.
 If your child is not reaching expected milestones, they may not have the knowledge and skills needed for them to go on to the next level of learning, including the next grade level.This can also be a sign of developmental delays. Extra academic support, including tutoring, can help your child do their best in school.


Have your child tested for developmental delays.
Consult with the school or school district about tutoring, or other assistance for children with learning delays.

