 You'll need the frame of the wall already installed, as well as one side of the actual wall. You will then stuff the wall with sound-proofing before sealing up the wall.


If you're working on a wall, you can seal up either side first -- it shouldn't matter.
If you're working on the ceiling, you want to soundproof it from the top. Seal up the ceiling of one room, then work on the floor of the room above it.;
, This material, though often used to prevent electrical fires, molds beautifully onto electrical boxes, wires, and other uneven items in the wall.
 Made from recycled newspaper, you spray this on the wall, where it naturally fills into cracks and holes for even, solid insulation. Cover up any outlets or pipes with electrical tape before beginning. Wearing a respirator, use the damp-blown cellulose hose to cover the entire wall, starting from the bottom up.









You'll need roughly 260 bags of cellulose for a 4000-square foot house.The fumes are not harmful, but you should still always wear a dust mask., Using the roller or scrubber provided with the damp-blown cellulose, flatten the insulation to the wall, filling in any gaps as you work.You will need to wait a day for the flattened cellulose to dry before proceeding.
 Clean up any excess insulation so that it is flush with the wall, then hang the first layer of sheetrock to cover up the insulation. A double sheet of drywall will significantly help dampen sound. If you're set on a single layer, however, apply soundproofing adhesive to the back of the drywall now.
 Use an acoustic-damping sealant to get every edge of the drywall. Don't skimp here -- any air path you have needs to be closed off to prevent noise. Acoustic sealant remains permanently flexible, making it a great soundproofing solution. Make sure you caulk:









The ceiling line
The floor line
Where the sheets of meet drywall.
Any outlet or electrical holes.
 Take your tube of green glue and cover the back of your sheetrock with the glue. You'll likely need 1-2 full tubes for each 6-foot sheet. While it looks like a thin, useless layer, the Green Glue forms a thin, sound-proofing layer to absorb vibrations and significantly dampen noise.
 Cover the back of the pad with zig-zagging acoustic glue, install the sheet, and repeat. Note that, if you're not double-hanging the drywall, you can still add this glue to your first round of sheet rock to dampen some sound.









Re-caulk over any exposed edges when done.
Good drywall installations never let the seams overlap between the first and second layers. They are staggered., Because of the double drywall, the room is about 5/8" shorter than it would normally be.

