 If you've suffered an injury, getting rest is one of the best things you can do. Try to avoid any activities that require using the injured body part or putting weight on that appendage.


The duration of rest will vary, but generally speaking it's best to allow the injury to rest for at least one to two days before trying to use or put weight on the injured appendage.
 Bed rest is one of the best ways to recover from a cold or flu. It helps the body heal at both the molecular and system-wide levels, and should be considered an important part of getting well after an illness., Most adults need between seven and nine hours of sleep each night, but if you're recovering from an illness or injury you may need even more sleep.How much sleep you need is also affected by your age.Newborns who are under four months old require 14 to 17 hours of sleep each night.
Infants (between four and 11 months old) require 12 to 15 hours of sleep each night.
Toddlers (one to two years old) require 11 and 14 hours of sleep each night.
Preschoolers (between three and five years old) require 10 to 13 hours of sleep each night.
Children ages six to 13 require between nine and 11 hours of sleep each night.
Teenagers ages 14 to 17 require eight to 10 hours of sleep each night.
Adults (ages 18 to 64) require seven to nine hours of sleep each night.
Older adults (age 65 and older) require seven to eight hours of sleep each night.
 If you're feeling sick, injured, or just generally worn out with fatigue, you may need to get a better night's sleep.In addition to getting enough sleep each night, it's important to get quality sleep. Fortunately, there are several steps you can take to ensure a good night's sleep.


Stay on schedule. Try to go to bed at the same time each night, and if you can't sleep after 15 minutes, try getting up and doing something relaxing until you feel sleepy. Staying on a regular sleep schedule can help ensure that you get a good night's sleep every night.Avoid caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol. Caffeine and nicotine are both stimulants that can take hours to completely wear off. And while alcohol may make you feel sleepy at first, it tends to disrupt sleep patterns throughout the night.Keep your room cool, dark, and quiet. Use blinds or thick curtains to block outside light from your windows, and try earplugs or white noise to help you sleep through outside noise.Manage stress. Don't dwell on what you'll need to do in the morning. Just write it down and allow yourself to disengage for the night.You can also try relaxation techniques, such as yoga, meditation, and tai chi, to help manage stress and keep you calm before bed.