 The cold temperatures will cause your stomach muscles to cramp, resulting in additional pain during your menstrual cycle. Although cold treats - such as ice cream, frozen slushies, and ice water - may seem to be good remedies for alleviating discomfort during your period, they only worsen it. Instead, use heat to relax your stomach muscles. Hot water will allow your body to make instant use of it. You could also add herbs and tea to reduce the pain. Additionally, heat up your food before eating it.;
, There are many different foods that worsen cramps, such as alcohol, chocolate, and salty foods. These foods often contain high levels of chemicals, sodium, or caffeine, which results in unnecessary cramping. During your menstrual cycle, it is best to eat healthy, fresh foods in order to encourage pain relief and good health. Replenish the nutrients that your body is flushing out.


Write down a list of food items that you should temporarily eliminate from your diet. Tape it to the pantry or refrigerator as a reminder, then reward yourself at the end of your period for resisting the temptation to eat.
Eat plenty of fruits. They contain a high level of nutrients, as well as healthy juices to hydrate your body. They also have good sugar, which may help satisfy cravings for sweet foods.
 Constantly moving your body will help loosen your muscles and prevent cramps. Exercise also releases beta-endorphins, which help lessen the pain and reduce the muscular contractions causing cramps. It also boosts your health and raises your energy levels, giving you more strength to work through your menstrual cycle. You will also be able to fall asleep faster at night, and rest is one of the greatest remedies for periods.
 Receiving at least eight hours of sleep per night is important in avoiding cramps. Rest will give time for your muscles to stretch and become pliant, resulting in less pain during the day. It will also reduce stress, which allows your body to remain relaxed throughout the day.
 Although your diet may be the greatest cause of your cramps, anxiety is also a contributing factor. Remove as much stress as possible from your life in order to allow your body to relax. Consider the situations that are causing your stress, and do your best to find appropriate solutions. Keep in mind that some problems may take time before they can be solved. Find help if needed.

