 Focus on a healthy lifestyle and diet. There is plenty of room in the modeling world for short people, but there isn’t any room for models without work ethic. To keep a high level of work ethic and determination, you’ll need to be in good health. Drink plenty of water throughout the day.


Exercise at least twice a week.
Limit the amount of alcohol and drugs you consume.
Consume plenty of vegetables, grains, and eat organically as much as possible.
 Concentrate on your eyes, and learn how to project different emotions without moving the rest of your face. Follow other models on social media and see the range they can portray. Spend time in front of the mirror practicing different looks and body poses.


You should be able to portray an emotion if a photographer asks for it on the spot. Work on developing faces that express some of the quintessential emotions like being happy, sad, frustrated, confused, or awe-struck.
Develop subtle and exaggerate versions of each emotion to widen your range as a model.
 Instead of going to modeling school and spending money, attend a convention full of agents and talent scouts. Do a quick search to find the closest one to you and prepare for the convention. Before going to the convention, bring several copies of both your portfolio and headshot.A credible convention you can attend is ‘’Faces West’’. This is a good convention for an aspiring model without an agent.
 If you market yourself properly, you find jobs that are seeking small and petite models. Some firms will hire you as a teen model, even if you're 25 years old because of your height and proportions. Some other avenues you can choose are body parts modeling and face/beauty modeling.


Evaluate what parts of your body you find the most appealing. For example, if you think you have above average feet, market them.
If you are constantly being complemented for your eyes and beauty of your face, market your face as a platform for make-up modeling., Even after working as hard as you can, sometimes your height will truly limit your options. You need to seek out realistic jobs instead of striving for the runway. The runway is not as realistic for a model under 5'6. There is, however, plenty of other types of jobs doing commercial, catalog, and print based modeling.


Strive for your goals as a model, but if certain avenues don't pan out, seek out more attainable jobs.

