 Start at the ends of your hair, and work your way up to the roots. Never run a comb stair down from the roots to the ends if your hair is tangled.


Avoid using hairbrushes on wet hair, especially if you have curly hair. This can lead to frizz.;
, Do not rub the towel over your hair. Instead, use it to gently squeeze out any excess water from your hair.


If you have curly or delicate hair, you might want to use a t-shirt or a microfiber towel instead. The coarse fibers of a regular towel can snag and tear delicate hair.
 Depending on how thick or long your hair is, this can take anywhere between 20 to 30 minutes. You want your hair to be still damp when you blow dry it, but not soaking wet. This can help reduce frizz.
 The only time when you can bring the hairdryer closer is when you are styling your hair. Holding the hairdryer too close to your hair can result in heat damage. Damaged hair is often frizzy.
 Never use the high heat setting. The best setting to use is "cool" or "no heat." If you are in a hurry, you can use a low heat setting.
 Start from your scalp, and work your way down. This way, the airflow will cause the hair cuticles to lay flat instead of curling upwards. It will make your hair appear shinier and smoother.


Consider blow drying your hair in intervals if you are using a medium or low heat setting. Blow dry your hair a little bit, then let it cool down by itself for five minutes with no blow drying. Once your hair is cool to the touch, continue blow drying it. This will prevent your hair from drying out, which can lead to frizz.
 Avoid using a regular hairbrush, especially if your hair is still wet. The brush can damage your hair and make it look frizzy.


Once your hair has started to dry, you can transition to a normal hair brush, unless you have curly hair. If you have curly hair, continue using your fingers or a wide-toothed comb. A regular hairbrush will disrupt the natural curl pattern of your hair and lead to poof.
 Do this only when your hair is almost all dry. Place the brush under a section of hair, close to the roots. Point the nozzle of the hairdryer over the hair section. Slowly bring the brush and hairdryer down towards the tips of your hair at the same time. Keep the hair sandwiched between the brush and the nozzle. You may have to repeat this a few times before the section is smooth.


If you don't have a round hairbrush, you can try substituting a regular paddle hairbrush.
 Turn your hair dryer to a cool setting. Aim the nozzle downwards, and blow dry your hair using smooth strokes. Start from the roots and move the dryer down to the tips. This will help smooth and seal the hair cuticle, making your hair appear shinier and smoother.

