 As long as you're in their house, they need to be okay with what you're planning. Talk to them about your guest list, your activity ideas, and your food plans. Run your ideas by them, and even ask them to help you plan and throw the party. Make sure your party stays within any rules they might have and wins their full approval.;
, You can choose separate ones for the party and sleepover or keep the same one. Think of something that will not only spark your interest but also the people you will be inviting. But still make sure that you enjoy it. Spa nights and movie nights are very popular for slumber parties. Gather all of the supplies you will need beforehand and be sure there's enough.
 Whichever you choose is your decision. Keep the number of guests to a minimum so that everybody can have more fun. Too many people can cause chaos and difficulty. No more than 5 guests would be appropriate.
 Make sure you have enough -- food is the most basic and perhaps the most important part of your sleepover. Have a variety of options available for meals and snacks throughout the day/night to keep everyone happy and full. To pass up the time you could also wait until they arrive and have recipes ready so you and your pals can make something delicious together. Pizza is always a great option whether you make or purchase it.


Check with your guests to see if they have any allergies or are vegan/vegetarian. Make sure you'll have something tasty for everyone.
 This is optional, but it will give off more of a "party" theme. Buy some banners or streamers and hang them up. Also, be sure to have 'Goody bags' filled with chocolate,hard candy, treats, and fun stuff as a souvenir for your friends. Don't forget to take pictures! You want it to be memorable!

, Have good crafts, games, activities, movies, music, and magazines available to keep everyone busy throughout those long 24 hours! You don't want anybody to be bored at your party. Plan games like Truth or Dare, pick a few movies to watch, or even have a pinata. This will keep you and your friends happy and entertained all night.

