 A big part of treating comorbid anxiety and ADHD is tuning in to yourself to understand how these two conditions affect one another. Pay attention to the triggers of your anxiety—that is, those situations or events that worsen anxiety symptoms.It can help to track anxious thoughts with a log or journal. Patterns will likely emerge. You can bring this log to your therapy session and try to challenge these unrealistic thoughts with your therapist.
You may find that certain situations or events are powerful triggers for your anxiety.
 Dealing with worry and stress is a major part of alleviating anxiety symptoms and making sure your ADHD treatment works. The best route is to practice calming exercises regularly—don’t wait until you feel anxious. Regular practice will help you better call on these techniques in a pinch.Try deep breathing, meditation, progressive muscle relaxation, or guided imagery. Decide on a few techniques that are most helpful to you. Look for guided meditations on Youtube to help you get started.
 Exercising, eating a balanced diet, and getting enough rest are important for managing comorbid anxiety and ADHD symptoms. In general, stay away from junk foods or processed foods that often worsen symptoms. Remove caffeine or alcohol from your diet. Choose real, unprocessed foods like fresh produce, whole grains, and lean sources of protein.Talk to your doctor or a registered dietitian about making positive changes to your diet to improve anxiety and ADHD symptoms.
 Being around negative influences will only make your co-occurring anxiety and ADHD worsen. Choose to spend time with people who support and value who you are as a person, and generally make you feel good.Reduce your time with people who judge, criticize, or influence you to make unhealthy choices like using alcohol or drugs.
You may find that there may be an environmental cause to your anxiety, which you can eliminate to decrease your anxiety. For example, decreasing distractions and notifications from your smartphone may help to decrease your symptoms.

