 Using a food scale, weigh-out two-to-three grams of tobacco and place it aside. The exact amount of tobacco required will depend on the size of the wrap and personal preference, but three-grams is the average.Many smokers prefer a slower burning cigarillo. To roll a cigarillo that burns slower, use more tobacco and pack it densely.;
, When cigarillo wraps are packaged at the factory, they are rolled around a soft plastic tube that protects them from any unwanted creasing or folding that can occur during transit. If this is your first attempt rolling a cigarillo, you may want to consider purchasing a couple of wraps since they are delicate and can tear easily.









Cigarillo wraps can be purchased at your local tobacco specialty shop, convenience store, or gas station.
A cigar can be gutted and used as a cigarillo wrap.
 Be sure to place the wrap down so that it's curl faces upward. This curl will help hold the tobacco in place while you roll.


If the wrap lies flat, you can curl it yourself using a pencil or pen.
 Using your thumb, index, and middle fingers, sprinkle the tobacco evenly throughout the wrap. Do your best to make sure that the tobacco is equally distributed, otherwise, the cigarillo may burn unevenly.








Be careful not to overfill the wrap, or you won't be able to seal it properly.
 With both hands, use your index finger and thumb to pick the loaded wrap up by its ends. Once you pick the wrap up, support it from beneath with the fingertips of your thumb, index, and middle fingers. Your palms and thumb should be facing toward you.
 Gently slide your fingertips to the center of the wrap. When you begin rolling, you will start in the middle and finish at the tips.
 Begin with a very small back-and-forth motion--as if you are rubbing your thumb and index fingertips together--and work your way up to a larger roll.








Some tobacco may begin to spill out of the sides. Don't worry.
 Once the tobacco has settled, roll your thumbs down until the cigarillo is being pinched between the tips of your thumbs and the flat surface of your index and middle fingers. Using your thumb tips, roll the edge of the cigarillo wrap over the tobacco and tuck it under the opposite side.








This will take quite a bit of practice.
Be careful not to pinch to hard, or you may crease the wrap.
 Again, begin with a very small back-and-forth motion and work your way to a larger roll. Once ready, use the tips of your thumbs to tuck the edges in.
 At this point, the cigarillo is rolled and is now ready to be sealed.









With practice, your rolling technique will get better and you will be able to produce more consistently rolled cigarillos.
 Lick the inside of the edge that has not been tucked in and then roll it over the top of the cigarillo. Gently apply pressure as the wrap dries and seals.








