 Add 8 cups (1.9 l) of chicken stock, 2 minced cloves of garlic, and 1 tablespoon (3 g) of minced ginger to a large stockpot. Heat the mixture on medium to bring it to a simmer before reducing the heat to low and simmering it for an additional 10 to 15 minutes.You can use homemade stock or a high-quality, store-bought stock for the ramen zoodles.;
, After the stock has simmered for at least 10 minutes, strain it with a sieve to remove the garlic and ginger. Next, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of soy sauce and sea salt to taste, and mix well to season the stock.If you prefer, you can substitute coconut aminos for the soy sauce. It has a similar taste to soy sauce, but is soy and gluten free.
 After you’ve seasoned the stock, add 8 cremini mushrooms that have been washed and sliced to the pot. Reduce the heat to the lowest setting and allow the stock to simmer while you work on the rest of the ingredients.You can substitute white or shiitake mushrooms for the cremini if you prefer.
 To prepare the zoodles, you’ll need a 9-inch (23-cm) cast iron skillet. Place it on the stove and heat it on medium high for 5 minutes to ensure that it is hot., Once the skillet is hot, add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of avocado oil and 2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts that have been cut into bite-size pieces. Cook the chicken for 8 minutes on the first side and flip it over. Allow it to cook for another 8 to 10 minutes on the other side, or until it’s no longer pink.If you’re short on time, you can use an already prepared rotisserie chicken from the grocery store. You don’t need to cook it; simply shred the chicken from the bones with a fork and set it aside for the moment.
 When the chicken is finished cooking, transfer it to a plate and set it aside to cool. Next, add 4 cups (900 g) of spinach to the skillet, and cook it until it is just wilted, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute kale for the spinach if you prefer.
If there are a lot of brown bits stuck to the bottom of the skillet after you remove the chicken, you may want to add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of water to loosen them before adding the greens.
 When the spinach is wilted, remove it from the pan and set it aside for the moment. Add 4 large zucchini that have been spiralized into noodles to the pan and cook them for 2 to 4 minutes, or until the noodles are as tender as you’d like.You can use a spiralizer or a julienne peeler to cut the zucchini into spirals.
 Once the zoodles are tender, place an even amount in 4 to 6 bowls. Add some of the greens and chicken as well to create equal portions., After you’ve divided the zoodles, chicken, and greens between the bowls, pour the hot broth over the top over each. Next, drizzle a little toasted sesame oil over the bowls and serve.You can also garnish the ramen zoodles with chopped green onions and some nori or other edible seaweed.

