 Despite what you think about your teeth, there are always people with worse teeth than you. There may be something about your teeth, such as the crooked tooth in the front, the gap in between the top and bottom teeth, or their color, that you think is so apparent and awful that no one will ever want to look at you. This is usually not the case. You stare at your teeth every day and see each and every imperfection. Most people pay very little attention to your teeth and will never notice the imperfections you see.


Even if they do notice, most people won't care. Very few people have perfect teeth.;
, Even if you feel self conscious, you should own your teeth. Present yourself with confidence and a sincere smile and no one will pay attention to things such as bad teeth. The confidence and smile can give a great impression no matter the condition of your teeth.


Practice smiling confidently in the mirror.
 If you are really worried about your teeth, try not to draw too much attention to your mouth. Don't wear bright, bold lipstick or lip liner. This will cause people's eye to go directly to your mouth. Instead, wear clear gloss or balm. This will make your lips look normal and not draw attention to them.


You also shouldn't place your hands near your mouth or chew on your fingernails. If you do, people will look at your mouth and teeth, which is not what you want.
 If you are worried about people paying too much attention to your teeth, trying pulling people's attention away from it. Try wearing mascara or bright eyeshadow if you wear makeup. If you don't, try an interesting pair of glasses to draw attention to your eyes instead of your teeth.


Be expressive with your eyes, especially when smiling. Using your eyes to show your emotion not only makes your smile feel warmer and more engaging, it also draws attention away from your teeth., If your best feature is not your teeth, try calling attention to the parts of you appearance that you do like. This will direct attention to parts of your appearance you feel confident about instead of your teeth. If you wear jewelry, wear attractive earrings, such as a pair with sparkles or ones that dangle. They will do a great job of drawing attention.


Try wearing more accessories. Pick out a new hat, grab a new bracelet or wrist cuff, wear a great pair of shoes, or throw on a flashy necklace. This will make people notice you for how stylish you look, not for your teeth.
Get an alluring haircut. Try styles with a dramatic cut or bold color to focus attention on your hair. You can try fun hairstyles as well., If you still fill self conscious about your teeth, you can try seeming confident without showing your teeth. Many people smile like this anyway, so it won't seem out of the ordinary if you try it. This way, you will seem nice and friendly without having to show your teeth.


Practice smiling different ways in the mirror. Also try opening your mouth more or less to see what looks good but still looks natural.
Look at old photographs of yourself smiling and find the smiles you like best.

