 You need to familiarize yourself with all of the ways that galleries advertise for employees. Read the trade journals, visit individual gallery websites, and stay current on job-seeking websites. Post your resume online so that it is visible to as many gallery owners as possible. Be open to many different possibilities when starting your job hunt., By the time you are ready to apply for jobs, you will have finished your degree, and hopefully an internship. Ask your former professors and supervisors to help you navigate the job market. They are a wealth of information about your chosen career, so don't be afraid to ask questions.


As you search for a job, make sure to keep networking. Attend as many art related functions as possible in a continued effort to meet people and make valuable connections., Many companies (and galleries) use social media to advertise their current activities, including job openings. Follow major players in the art scene on social media. Don't be afraid to use social media to reach out and make new connections in the art world., Your cover letter is your first opportunity to make an impression, so you want to make it a good one. Whenever possible, address the letter to a specific person. Even if you are applying for many jobs, take the time to focus each letter on the individual gallery you are writing to. Highlight your strengths, and clearly detail how you will be an asset to their staff.Edit very carefully. Read your cover letter out loud to catch any awkward sentences. Ask a friend to serve as an extra set of eyes.
 Your resume should be organized and well-edited. Your name and contact information should be clearly visible at the top of the page. Make sure to tailor each resume to the specific job to which you are applying. Only include relevant work experience. Be clear, concise, and confident., An informational interview is a one-on-one conversation with someone who has a job in the field in which you are applying. These are informal conversations, often over coffee, in which you can ask questions about the company or the industry.Reach out and contact someone who works at a gallery. Explain your interest, and ask if they'd be willing to speak to you.
There are many benefits to the informational interview. You'll learn some inside information, and you'll also make a new contact.
 When you are called in for an interview, make sure to appear confident. Practice for your interview by having a friend ask you questions. Have some answers ready to go. Before you go in, try some relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing. If you feel confident, you will project an air of expertise!, During the job application process, there is often a lot of down time while you're waiting to hear from potential employers. Use this free time to your advantage. Keep networking and scheduling informational interviews. This is also a great time to continue polishing your cover letter and resume.

