 The pan that you use does not have to be large or deep. Wild rice should only be popped in small quantities to prevent overcooking. All the pan needs to have is enough space to spread out a layer of rice and oil. A standard frying pan or saute pan will do.;
, Vegetable oil, with a high smoking point, works well for quickly popping the rice without affecting the flavor. Add ½ to 1 inch (12.7-25.4 mm) of your oil to the pan or otherwise enough to lightly coat the bottom of the pan..Other oil can easily be substituted in for vegetable oil.
Different oils have different costs, fat contents, and heating temperatures. For example, vegetable oil smokes at 450 degrees F (237 C), which reduces your risk of getting the oil too hot.
 No matter what oil you’re using, you want to get it heated but not smoking. Turn the oil up to high heat, letting the oil go until it is boiling. If it starts to smoke, reduce the heat.


You can use a fryer thermometer to test the temperature.
 To make sure the oil is ready to use, drop a single grain of rice into the oil. If the rice sizzles and then pops, you’ll know you are ready to cook a larger batch. Remove the rice using a spoon or other cooking implement., The amount of rice you add to the hot oil should, at most, only be enough to coat the bottom of the pan. A tablespoon to ¼ cup (59.15 mL) at a time is enough. If the rice forms more than one layer, quickly scoop out some of the rice.


The rice will expand as you cook it. You’ll need to be able to see this so you know to remove the rice.
 Soon the rice will start to make a sound. This is the rice expanding, which signifies that it’s ready to be removed. The pop will not be as loud as popcorn, but you will be able to hear it if you left the pan uncovered. You’ll also see the grains grow larger until they split open.
 At the first sign of the rice popping, get the pan away from high heat so that the rice doesn’t burn. Lift the pan up or reduce the heat to medium-high or lower. The rice should stay in the pan so that the rest of the grains continue to pop., Whether you remove the pan from heat or lower the heat, use your wrist to shake up the rice. Move the pan back and forth to keep the popped grains from burning. After about 30 seconds or when the popping has slowed, it is time to remove the rice from the pan.
 Using a strainer is optional and it is possible to eat the rice right after popping it. Putting it in a strainer removes excess cooking oil while allowing you to transfer the rice to another container.The rice can also be popped in a wire strainer lowered into the oil.
 If you wish to remove more oil, paper towels will absorb oil left on the rice. The easiest way to do this is to line a kitchen bowl with paper towels. Use the strainer to transfer the rice to the bowl. Leave the rice for several minutes or until you’re done making batches of rice., Popped wild rice can be eaten as a simple, quick snack. Simply sprinkle a little salt until the taste is to your liking.
