 For the purposes of this article, combination hair is defined as hair that has both oil and damage problems. Most of the suggestions below aim to give the best combination of ingredients mentioned in the previous two methods, seeking to fix both issues.



Yogurt: probiotic, natural yogurt provides essential nutrients and moisture, including protein which is important as protein is the building-blocks of hair. It encourages hair growth and repair, but also helps to rinse away build up and grease making it ideal for combination hair. It's easily combined with other ingredients such as avocado if you wanted extra moisture, or strawberries if you need more oil regulation.

Mayonnaise and strawberries: mayonnaise provides moisture and nutrients to help moisturize and repair the dry areas of your hair, while the strawberries regulate oil production, and give a boost of vitamin C to the hair. Try using three mashed strawberries mixed into two or three tbsp mayonnaise.

Eggs and apple cider vinegar: eggs provide protein which is essential for repairing any damaged areas of the hair, as well as giving the hair nutrients and moisture without being too heavy. The apple cider vinegar would get rid of any dullness, rinse away any build up of grease and cosmetic product residue while being kind to the scalp by regulating it's pH and helping with dandruff. Try mixing 1 or 2 tablespoon (14.8 or 29.6 ml) apple cider vinegar into two beaten eggs.

Baking soda and yogurt: baking soda loosens any dirt, grime, grease or build up from the hair and scalp, while the yogurt would ensure that the hair receives all the nutrients and moisture it needs. Try mixing a teaspoon of baking soda into two tablespoons of yogurt.
 To find what works for your hair, and what doesn't, try different combinations of ingredients which you think might work for your hair type, adjust the length of time to leave it on your hair (generally between 10 and 20 minutes is fine), and the quantities of each ingredient in the mixture you use. Everybody's hair is different, so your ideal recipe will be unique too.


Enjoy your healthy, voluminous, shiny, clean hair!

