 Once you’ve gained an overall perspective of your income and expenses, you’re ready to write your budget for medical expenses. You can write your own budget or use an online tool or smartphone app to guide you.For example, the Federal Trade Commission offers a basic worksheet to create a budget that includes medical expenses.Use the budget as your baseline for how much you can reasonably spend on your diabetic medical expenses.


Tweak your budget for medical expenses if you have more income than you expected. Likewise, if you have less income than you expected, you can cut out non-essentials to help defray the cost of your medical expenses.
 If you are able, consider working with a financial planner to compose your budget for medical expenses. The CFP, or certified financial planner, can advise you on how best to use your income, insurance, and other programs to cover medical expenses. In addition, a CFP may have knowledge of tax credits and aid programs that may further assist you with medical expenses.Work only with a certified financial planner, who is licensed to advise your financial situation. In the United States, you can find a certified financial planner in your local area at http://www.napfa.org. Looking for associations of CFPs in other countries can point you to someone who can advise you on a budget for your diabetic medical expenses.
Consider the planner’s pay structure. Someone who works on commission may have incentive to steer your decisions in a particular direction. A CFP who charges an hourly fee may be a better option., You may have medical expenses for your diabetes throughout the month. One way to ensure you have enough is to break down your budget per paycheck. You can then set aside the money to cover your medical expenses every time you get paid. This can ensure that you stick to the budget and have enough to pay for what you need.Consider setting aside cash and keeping in a place where you can access when you need it. For example, you could have a separate wallet with cash for your medical expenses that you only take when you’re purchasing supplies or medications. This can ensure that you don’t spend the money on unnecessary things.
 Any time you purchase something—medical expense or otherwise— keep the receipt and write it down in the same place you keep your budget. You can write down expenses every day or once a week. This can ensure that you stick to your budget and adjust for unexpected changes in income. It can also help you with long-term planning and budgeting.Make sure to write down every purchase—even the seemingly little ones. Those can add up and throw off the budget.
 Sometimes people experience unexpected events that require payment for services. This includes medical emergencies, such as going into diabetic shock that requires hospitalization. The costs of this can run into the thousands of dollars. If you are able, include money for savings in your budget. Save whatever amount you can based on your necessary expenses. This may help you pay for medical expenses related to your diabetes.Build an emergency fund by setting aside one dollar a day. You can save this through simple things such as switching to filter coffee from fancy drinks or opting for a smaller or less expensive at a restaurant.
 Every six months to a year, you should reassess your expenditures and budget for diabetic care costs. This can help you stay on track without getting behind in payments or having to skip medications. Items such as reductions or increases in income or bills and emergencies can have a significant impact on your budget for medical expenses from diabetes.

