 Whatever type of position you have available, there are probably military veterans with skills and experience that are directly relevant to your needs. During their service, veterans receive training and experience in teamwork and leadership, and many veterans build experience in non-combat jobs., The job you are offering may have a military equivalent. For example, computer programmers work in all military branches, while a sales manager position might be related to military recruiters and navy counselors.Visit the Civilian-to-Military Occupation Translator at http://www.careeronestop.org/businesscenter/civilian-to-military/civilian-to-military-translator.aspx.


When you search with the Civilian-to-Military Occupation Translator, you will notice that military jobs each have a military code. For example, 79R refers to an enlisted army recruiter.Refer to relevant codes when advertising for applicants.
 Because veterans often face barriers when searching for employment, the federal government offers a federal tax credit to employers who hire military veterans. The maximum tax credit varies from $1,200 to $9,600, depending upon the employee.To apply for the tax credit, you must submit two forms to your state's workforce agency within 28 days of the employee's start date. The forms are IRS Form 8850 and ETA Form 9061 or 9062.You can find additional instructions at http://www.doleta.gov/business/incentives/opptax/wotcEmployers.cfm#HowDoIApply.
 Transitioning veterans receive a "permanent change of station allowance" from the Department of Defense, and many are willing to use their allowance to move themselves and their families to the location of their next job. Therefore, you should not feel restricted to your local geographical area when searching for qualified applicants. You may find interested and well-qualified applicants who are willing to relocate over a considerable distance.
 A good job description should inform potential applicants of the job title, the location of your business, the tasks to be performed, and any required education and experience.Specify also that veterans are encouraged to apply.


The U.S. Department of Labor sponsors an online job description creator at http://www.careeronestop.org/businesscenter/jdw/gettingstarted.aspx. Simply answer the questions, and the program will draft a job description for you.
Also consider including the military code of any military job that is analogous or relevant to the position you are advertising.
 You can speak to a Veterans Employment Representative by calling your local American Job Center. The representative can help find qualified veteran applicants to fill the position. Locate your local American Job Center by searching the online database at http://www.careeronestop.org/businesscenter/findjobcenters/american-job-center-finder.aspx.
 Job banks are state-run websites where employers can post job openings for free. You will need to register an account to post your job.You can find links to job banks by state at http://www.careeronestop.org/jobsearch/findjobs/state-job-banks.aspx?frd=true.
 There are many websites devoted to helping veterans find employment. At each of these sites, you can post your job, where it will be publicly visible to potential veteran applicants. Consider posting to multiple sites. This will increase the number of potential applicants who see your advertised position. Some veteran job sites include:


Hire Heroes USA
Hire Our Heroes
Hire Veterans
MilitaryHire.com
National Veterans Foundation

