 If you're doing Job 2, what time do the kids need to be in bed by? How long do their routines take? Though jobs 1 and 4 should only be completed once the children are in bed, what time can you expect the children to be asleep by? How soon after that do you start?

,

Job 1: Get all the presents from where Santa hid them and arrange them around the tree. Don't just clump them all in one corner, actually spread them out under the tree. If there are different types of wrapping paper, mix it up. The gifts in snowman paper don't all have to be together, and it looks better with a mix.






Job 2: Get the kids through their evening routine. Every family has a different one, but typically you'll need to get them a bath, have them brush their teeth and hair, use the bathroom, and tuck them into bed. You may want to or have to read them a story. Twas the Night Before Christmas is the classic Christmas Eve story, but it can be any story. See this article for advice.






Job 3: You will probably want to be either in the childrens' room or just outside. You can set up a chair before they're asleep so you don't have to stand. You can read by flashlight or play a handheld game with no sound, or do any quiet time passer. If the kids try to sneak out of the room or start asking questions, move to Job 5 or call the person in charge of it.






Job 4: Gather all the stocking stuffers for the first stocking. Put something small and round, square, or soft in the toe. This could be balled up socks or scarves or doll clothes. Adjust it to fill the toe out. Add another similar shaped item to the heel of the stocking and a small handful of sweets or small toys. Put anything longer or rectangular, such as a book, in next, coming up the leg, and arrange the other items in around it. It looks nice to have something sticking out of the top, such as a candy cane or stuffed animal. Once you are done with the first stocking gather the supplies for the next.






Job 5: This job sometimes carries over to Christmas morning, too. If the children ask questions about Santa or try to leave their room on Christmas Eve, have an answer. If the kids wake up and want to peek, tell them that Santa hasn't come yet, or that he's still downstairs but will take away all their presents if they try to peek.







