 You will want to purchase a well-constructed and spacious cage for your Palomino rabbit to live in when its not allowed to roam. The ideal cage size varies depending on the size of the rabbit, but a minimum size for the cage should be 12 square feet.The cage should be wide enough that your rabbit can stretch out fully, high enough that its head doesn’t touch the ceiling when it stands on its hind legs, and long enough for the rabbit to hop 3-4 times.;
, The cage should also have enough room for all of the necessary supplies: a cat litter box, food and water dishes, and a box for the rabbit to rest in. When you buy these supplies, make sure they fit easily into the cage.


You have two choices to provide water in: a sipper bottle or a ceramic water dish. While sipper bottles are easier to keep clean, rabbits seem to like to drink out of ceramic dishes.
Only use litter made from pelleted paper, as sometimes rabbits will snack on their litter. Pelleted paper won’t hurt an adventurous eater and will pass through the body without harm. This can be purchased on-line or through a pet store which carries rabbit supplies.
 If you are not comfortable letting your rabbit roam in a room, you still need to provide it with the ability to exercise. Use a puppy exercise pen to let your bunny hop around in to get exercise.


Make sure the rabbit can easily access its cage when it is out and about, and also place one or two extra litter boxes in the room or pen, so your bunny always has an easy toileting area.
When you first bring your rabbit home confine it to its cage until you know for sure it will use the litter box.After your rabbit is reliably using its litter box to go to the bathroom in you can let it out of the cage and into your rabbit proof room or pen for exercise.
 You don’t have to rabbit proof your entire house. Generally people chose one or two rooms where the rabbit will have access, like a living room or other room where the family hangs out.
 Before you even bring your Palomino rabbit home, you will need to rabbit proof your house or your bunny will destroy things with its constant chewing. Cover cords with hard plastic tubing (split lengthwise and tuck cords inside), spiral wrap, or any of the available concealers to keep them out of sight. Rabbits will chew exposed electrical cords and, if so, they can burn or electrocute themselves in the process., A rabbit’s teeth continuously grow so they need to constantly chew to keep the teeth at their proper length. Rabbits will chew on any and all wooden objects around them, including trim, door edges and furniture legs. They may also decide to chew up your wallpaper, sheetrock, and carpet up to as high as they can stand on their back legs.


Watch your bunny carefully when it is out and give it an acceptable chewing object if it tries to go after these things., Items you can keep out for your bunny to chew on include fresh branches (aspen, willow, apple), alfalfa cubes, hay, rolled up cotton towels, paper towel cardboard tubes stuffed with dry hay, or untreated fresh pine boards.These should be readily available to the rabbit, so that it chooses these over your furniture or your cords.
 Your rabbit needs to be able to drink water whenever it desires it. Make sure to always put out fresh water daily. Also remember to clean the water and food bowls once a week (at minimum) with a good scrubbing in warm water and dish soap.
 A rabbit has special dietary needs that need to be strictly adhered to or it will become seriously ill. The most important requirement is appropriate fiber with plenty of moisture, to keep its gut working properly and smoothly.


Timothy hay is frequently sold for rabbits. Alfalfa and clover hay has too much protein and calcium to feed to a rabbit, unless it is a treat., Throw out any uneaten or spoiled pellets before putting fresh pellets in the rabbit’s dish. Pellets are made so that they are balanced nutritionally for the rabbit. Young rabbits can have unlimited access to pellets while they are growing, however, a Palomino adult rabbit can have ¼ to ½ cup of pellets a day. , These can include lettuce (not iceberg though), bok choy, arugula, broccoli stems and leaves, and carrot tops are great fiber and water sources for a rabbit. Feed up to 2-3 cups a day to a full grown Palomino rabbit. However, slowly introduce new greens to a rabbit so it doesn’t cause diarrhea., There are foods that can cause severe intestinal upset and may kill a rabbit. Never feed these to a rabbit:


Human foods, other than leafy green vegetables.
Corn and other grains or seeds. Corn hulls can also hurt the rabbit.
Only give small amounts of starchy vegetables, like carrots and small pieces of fruit. These are considered treats not a main part of the diet.
 If you do not plan on breeding your rabbit, you should have it neutered (male) or spayed (females) when it is 4-6 months of age. Neutering or spaying helps prevent a number of serious issues in rabbits including:


Preventing unwanted pregnancies if you have rabbits of opposite sexes.
Decreasing negative behaviors, such as urine spraying and aggression.
Lowering the risk of life-threatening illnesses, like uterine cancer and infections.
 You will need to bring your rabbit to the veterinarian once a year for a check-up. While your are there remember to bring any concerns that you have up with the veterinarian.


One key thing the veterinarian should do is to check your rabbit's teeth. They will need to make sure the teeth are wearing down appropriately. Some rabbits have misaligned teeth that do not wear evenly that can lead to overgrown teeth that cut into the lip or make the rabbit unable to eat properly.
If the teeth need trimming leave it to the veterinarian to clip them. Otherwise you risk cracking your rabbit's tooth, which can become infected or abscessed.
 It is your job to watch out for signs of ill health or injury. Between veterinary visits watch for signs of illness, some of which may be very serious. If your rabbit exhibits any of these signs, contact your veterinarian as soon as possible to have it examined and treated:Eye or nasal discharge
Drooling (which may indicate overgrown teeth)
Not eating or drinking
Swellings, reddened skin, or fur loss anywhere on the body
Not hopping or moving like normal or unable to use back legs
Diarrhea or a lack of droppings for a day
Dark red urine
Fever of more than 105 °F

, Some rabbit's love to hang out with their humans, while others do not. While it is important bond with your pet and let it warm up to you, you should also accept its natural temperament to some degree.


For example, if your rabbit doesn't like being picked up, then don't try to do it unless necessary.
 You don't even have to buy them, as a rabbit can be fully engaged by a cardboard box or a cardboard tube. For example, cardboard boxes with small holes cut in the side make a good hiding spot for your bunny. They can also be thrown away and replaced cheaply when the bunny is done chewing on them.


Cardboard boxes can also be put together to make a fun tunnel for your rabbit to run through.
A small, thick cardboard box stuffed with hay makes a fun chew station for your rabbit.
Cardboard rolls from paper towels or toilet paper also make fun toys for rabbits.
 Due to its friendly nature, make sure you spend time each day with your Palomino rabbit so it doesn’t become too lonely. This is a very important part of keeping it healthy and happy.


Sitting with your rabbit while it explores and nibbles on hay, brushing it to remove loose fur, tossing toys away from it to chase, or just stroking it will let the rabbit know it is a loved and valued household member.

