 One way to prevent your nipples from being visible through your clothing is to cover them up with nipple tape or pasties.You can find these in the lingerie section of most department stores or in lingerie specialty stores.


To use pasties, remove the adhesive from the pasty and apply it over your nipple.
To use nipple tape, apply a couple of strips over your nipples in the form of an X.
You can also try silicone nipple covers. These are reusable and they will stick to your body without adhesive or glue. These work with just about every kind of fabric and every cut of clothing.
 Avoid clothing that is made with thin or sheer fabric. Thin fabric could expose your nipples, especially if the fabric is a light color. If you want to wear a top or dress like this without a bra, try wearing it over an undershirt or slip.Silk or satin tops might not be a good choice when you go braless because the material is thin and it may be too revealing.
 Dark colors are less likely to become see through in bright light or if your shirt becomes wet. If you will be outside on a sunny day or there’s a chance of rain, wear tops that are made with dark fabric. Otherwise, your nipples may be visible through the fabric.Fabric with patterns, especially small patterns, may also help to conceal your nipples.
 You may feel more confident if you tape the neckline of a low cut top or dress to your chest. This will help to prevent the fabric from slipping and showing your nipples. Toupee tape is ideal for keeping your neckline in place.Place the tape along the edges of your neckline and then press the other side of the tape against your skin to hold it in place.
Tape can’t make up for clothing that just doesn’t fit right. If you’re going to go without a bra, it’s essential that you make sure your clothes fit properly., Surgical tape is a heavy-duty tape made to stick to skin, so it works well for taping over your nipples and keeping your breasts in place when you go braless. You can find surgical tape in drug stores. To properly apply surgical tape:


Lean over slightly to lift your breasts. Apply a strip of tape 12 to 16 inches long from the side of one breast (near the armpit) to the other side, with the middle of the tape running along the underside of your breasts and pulling them together.
Stand up straight and apply another strip of tape horizontally across your breasts, pulling them together, so that the tape covers your nipples. Each end of the second piece of tape should touch the ends of the first strip of tape.
Taping is uncomfortable, so it is best to save this for special occasions. However, for some types of clothing, occasional taping may be worth the discomfort.