 Try mixing your puppy’s dry food with wet or canned food. Because canned food is moist, it is highly palatable. By increasing the palatability of your puppy’s food, you may be able to persuade your puppy to eat. Replace ¼ cup of your puppy’s quality dry puppy food with a 3 oz. can of quality puppy wet food.For example, if you feed your puppy one half cup of dry food per day, then feed your puppy a ¼ cup of dry food mixed with a 3 oz. can of wet food per day.;
, This tip is especially helpful if your puppy is teething. Puppies teethe between 12 to 20 weeks of age. Mixing dry food with water will soften your puppy’s food. Softening your puppy’s food will reduce any pain your puppy might feel when eating dry food. This will encourage your puppy to eat.Pour 1/4 or 1/3 cup of water over your puppy’s dry dog food. Let the dry food soak up the water for a minute before feeding your puppy.
Alternatively, you can soak your puppy’s food in plain chicken or beef broth. Make sure the broth is plain and not seasoned with onions, garlic, or high in sodium.
 Warming up your puppy’s food will enhance its aroma, which will improve its palatability. Warm up your puppy’s food in the oven or microwave. Afterwards, hold your hand about an inch above the food to test the warmth and also stir up the food to even out the temperature before serving it to your puppy.For dry food, place it in an oven on low heat for a few minutes before feeding your puppy.
For wet food, place the food in the microwave and heat it for six to 10 seconds. Do not overheat it. Overheating can zap the food’s nutrients.
Alternatively, pour warm water or broth over your puppy’s food before feeding it.
 Mixing in homemade food can greatly improve the palatability of your puppy’s food. Mix in homemade foods like scrambled eggs, cooked vegetables like carrots or peas, or a starch, like potatoes or rice. You can also add in small amounts of cooked meat, like shredded boneless chicken or ground beef.Make sure the food is thoroughly cooked before adding it to your puppy’s bowl.
Mixing in oregano, basil, or parsley can improve the palatability of your puppy’s food, as well. Mix in ¼ teaspoon of seasoning with its food.
Don’t put alcohol, avocado, chocolate, coffee, citrus, coconut, grapes, raisins, nuts, garlic, onion, chives, salt, salty snacks, dairy or uncooked meats in with your puppy’s food. These can all have negative effects on your dog’s health., Preservatives and other chemicals in commercial dog food brands can taint the smell and taste of your puppy's food. Therefore, you might need to switch to a more natural, high quality brand of dog food such as Orijen, Natural Balance, or Blue Buffalo.Additionally, make sure that the dog food is either specifically for puppies or for “all life stages.” When switching your puppy's dog food from one brand to another, you will need to do so gradually so that the drastic change doesn’t have a negative impact on digestion. It will generally take a week to completely switch from one brand to another. Switch your puppy's food by:Mixing in 25% of the new food with 75% of the old (current) food on the first day.
Mixing in 40% of the new food with 60% of the old food on the second day.
Mixing 50% of the new food with 50% of the old food on the third day.
Mixing 60% of the new food with 40% of the old food on the fourth day.
Mixing 75% of the new food with 25% of the old food on the fifth day.
Feeding it 90 to 100% of the new food on the sixth day.
 Before making any big dietary or feeding changes, always talk to your vet. Your vet will be able to tell you how and when to change your puppy's diet. They will also be able to tell you important information specific to your puppy's breed.

