 If they say they were left out, teased, pushed around, beaten up, or assaulted, believe them. Your teen needs a safe environment with supportive adults.
 If the boys on their sports team are mean, tell them you'll support them whether they choose to stay or quit. If Aunt Bessie makes snide comments during the family reunion, suggest that they hang out in the kitchen away from her, and run interference if she bothers your teen. If doctor visits end in sobbing, offer to find a new doctor.
 Send the message that you will take any bullying or harassment seriously. Work with the school to make sure that the bullies are handled seriously, and that they are not allowed to continue making your teen miserable.
 Your teen knows they are fat. They know how to diet and exercise. People who point it out do not have your teen's best interests in mind. Teach them that advice is only to be given if asked for, and that it is not acceptable to comment on others' health or weight. These are important life lessons that unfortunately some people do not understand.
 If your child feels unsafe, or is assaulted, this is a situation for the police to get involved. If the school refuses to stop bullies, or allows a teacher to bully your teen, threatening to call a lawyer can make them reconsider their harmful actions.


Practice saying "So you brought me here to ask if I intend to sue the school for the harm done to my child?" This can make unhelpful teachers and principals stop in their tracks.
 You can educate people, but you cannot change the world. Your child will face bullying and discrimination. "Just ignore them" or "Tell an adult" won't always solve their problem. They need to know how to...


Walk away
Keep the bullies out of their heads ("I'm okay, you're mean")
Tell trusted adults
Cope if an adult refuses to take it seriously, or sides with the bullies
Find emotional support

, This sends the message that people need to be below a certain BMI in order to be treated with human dignity, and that any bullying is the child's fault for failing to meet that standard. Make it very clear that bullying is always wrong, and your child's weight is their business (and theirs alone).

