 One of the first rules of weddings, especially in America, is that the only person wearing white should be the bride. This goes for the wedding and any other festivities surrounding it like bridal showers and rehearsal dinners. Even if your white outfit is your favorite one, leave it in the closet for these occasions.This goes for off-white as well. It is safest to avoid it altogether.
It is okay to have white accents or elements, but you should avoid solid white., While you don’t want to look like the bride in a white lace dress, you also don’t want to look like you are attending a funeral, or mourning the death of your friend’s single life. Don't dress in all black.A little black is fine, or even a black dress or suit paired with colored accessories or shoes. Just don’t cover yourself in black from head to toe.
 You want to look great and stylish, but you should not outshine the bride and groom. This is their day and you don’t want to take attention away from them by drawing attention to yourself with your outfit.Avoid too much bling. Clothes that have too much glitz and glamour can outshine the couple. This includes sequined dresses or lots of lace.
You can have a little glitz in your accessories, like a bold necklace, but avoid it in your clothes.
While you may be able to afford a more expensive suit or gown than the happy couple, you don’t want to flaunt it on their wedding day.
 Show respect for the occasion with your outfit. No matter how casual the wedding is, it’s better to avoid really casual clothing choices. This includes denim, t-shirts, sweats, tight leggings, and cargo shorts.It is better to overdress than underdress for the occasion.
 Short sleeve dress shirts are frowned upon for men. It may be hot, but men, if you are going to wear a dress shirt, make it a long-sleeved dress shirt. If you get too hot, rolling the sleeves up is perfectly acceptable., This is especially important for men. Definitely don’t wear caps or beanies, and other hats should be avoided as well. Wearing hats indoors is generally poor etiquette, and even outdoor weddings should be hat-free zones.On the other hand, there are exemptions to this rule for headwear relevant to religious traditions like the Jewish kippah, or Indian scarves.
 Wear nice dress shoes which match your outfit. A low heel for women or nice leather dress shoes for men are ideal. Nice sandals for women or loafers for men can pass at a summer wedding. Flip-flops and tennis shoes should be avoided., While you want your kids to look good, you also don't want them to get fussy. Many of these same rules apply to children, but you also need to keep their comfort in mind.It’s okay to put them in shorts when it’s hot. You can class up the outfit with some suspenders.
Choose sandals over heels for a young girl.
Bring play clothes for them to change into after the ceremony.

