 Small bathrooms tend to have limited floor space, but what about the unused area above the toilet or next to the window? If your bathroom has a spot on the wall that isn't getting much use, consider installing some sturdy shelves where you can store towels, extra shampoo and soap, or small decorations.


Be sure to place the shelving above your head level - you don't want to be bumping your forehead each time you step out of the shower.
If you have a free corner, choose corner shelves to maximize space even more.






If your bathroom seems too small for shelves, install some hooks instead. Choose a style that matches the décor of your bathroom and hang three or four in a row on the wall. Use them to hang your towels, loofah, body brush, or other bathroom equipment., The shower itself can be a storage area and a place to decorate. Hang a cute wire shower caddy over the shower head and store your shampoo and conditioner there. You could also look into installing waterproof shelving inside the shower to hold these items.
 If you have a cabinet under your sink, there's no need to have an extra dresser in another corner of the bathroom. Clear away decorative tables, laundry hampers (they can go in your bedroom instead) and any other piece of furniture that sits on the floor of your bathroom. You'll be amazed at what a difference clearing away even a small piece of furniture can make.


If you absolutely must keep a dresser or small piece of furniture in your bathroom, try to maximize space by creating a second level of usage. For example, a small dresser can double as a vanity if you hang a mirror on the wall above it.






If you have a large clothes hamper that you prefer to keep in the bathroom, consider getting a cloth laundry bag instead. These take up much less space than large basket hampers.
 If you're prepared to spend some money to decorate your small bathroom, you may want to look into getting a smaller bathtub, or converting your bathtub to a shower that takes up less space. You could also get a a smaller sink fixture to replace one that is large and bulky.

