 This icon is locked into your Google taskbar and positioned to the far right of your address bar.


The icon looks like three horizontal bars stacked one on top of the next.
Clicking on the icon will give you access to a variety of settings, bookmarks, and other browser information.
 The "Settings" option is listed toward the bottom of the drop-down menu.


"Settings" is located in the seventh divided section from the top. The option is fourteenth from the top.
Selection "Settings" will cause a separate tab to open. This tab will list a variety of setting-related features for you to change to your liking.
 At the bottom of this page is the option to “Show advanced settings.” Click on this to expand the “Settings” page further.
 Click on the "Clear browsing data..." button to option the corresponding dialogue box.


Clicking on this button will open up a separate dialogue box. The box will pop up rather than opening in the same tab or in a new tab.
 The "Empty the cache" checkbox is located third from the top. If you only want to clear your cache and nothing else, check the box next to this option while making sure that none of the other boxes are checked.


If you want to clear other Internet browsing data simultaneously, select some of the other boxes, as well.
"Clear browsing history" erases all records of any websites you have visited, while "Clear download history" erases all record of the data you have downloaded.
"Delete cookies and other site and plug-in data" will clear out your Internet cookies, which consist of data sent to your browser from various websites.
"Clear saved passwords" will erase passwords saved to your personalized Google account. Similarly, "Clear saved Autofill form data" will pre-set form information saved to your account.
"Clear data from hosted apps" will erase information sent to your computer from third-party applications. "Deauthorize content licenses" will revoke any permissions granted to third-party sources.
 Above the checkboxes is an option that allows you to specify the time frame you want to clear the information from. This option is introduced with the phrase "Obliterate the following information from." Selecting "the beginning of time" will clear your entire cache.


The drop-down menu will also offer you the options of "the past hour," "the past day," "the past week," and "the last 4 weeks."

, This button is located in the lower right corner of the dialogue box and will finalize the clearing of your cache.


Note that this step is final. You will not be given an "undo" option if you are dissatisfied with the results.

