 When an email is sent to be deleted, it may linger in the Trash or Deleted section for a while before being removed. Check these locations to see if the mail you need may still be there.


Many people file the messages into custom folders. If you've accidentally files your message, it may be difficult to find. Use your email client's search function to try to track it down.
 If you are using an email client to access messages from a web-based email service like Gmail or Yahoo, your message may still exist online. Log into your account and check the Inbox, Trash, and any other locations for your missing message.
 This is only possible if you are using a Microsoft Exchange server for your email (typically in a corporate setting). Click the Folder tab, and then click the "Recover Deleted Items" button. Outlook will attempt to recover deleted messages from the Exchange server.Your Exchange administrator dictates how long messages are retained before they are permanently deleted.
 Your email server administrator may have backup copies of all the email messages that pass through the server. Contact the administrator to see if he or she can access the backups for your account. The chances of this succeeding depend on how your company manages its email servers.
 If you have permanently deleted emails from your email client, your last resort will be using a data recovery program. When files are deleted from a computer, they are marked to be overwritten by new data. If you haven't saved anything or accessed your hard drive since the message was deleted, there is a chance that it can be recovered.


As soon as you realize that you've accidentally deleted a message you need, avoid using your hard drive.
Use another computer to install a portable file recovery program on a USB drive. A portable recovery program is essential to ensure that your hard drive is not modified by the program being installed.
Some popular programs include PhotoRec, Recuva, Glary Undelete, and Puran File Recovery.
These programs can be used for recovering any type of file, including deleted email messages.
Using a recovery program is not guaranteed to recover your deleted messages. It is very possible that the files have been overwritten, even if you act immediately.

