 What if your crush doesn't know you well or at all? He's a guy you've seen from afar, and you like him, but you're not even sure he knows who you are.


Go to places where he is likely to be, although don't over do this. But if you know he likes to attend basketball games or hangs out at a certain restaurant, you could show up too. This would work best if there are a group of people going, so ask some of your friends to tag along at first.
You could let him know through friends that you like him, so they can get a sense of his reaction before you approach him directly. This is a subtler way to clue him in than telling him yourself.
Go up and talk to him! Keep it casual. But start a conversation. Smile, and say hi, and then next time, talk to him a bit more. Maybe ask him something about a class you're in or that he's had, or something easy-going like that.
 Most boys want a girl they can hang out with who isn’t too much work. Of course, it helps to be pretty. But do highlight your natural beauty. Guys are visual creatures.


No one wants to run their fingers through hair coated with hair spray. Guys tend to like shiny, healthy hair that has bounce to it and that makes them want to run their fingers through it!
If you’re old enough, a little mascara, a little blush, and a little lip gloss should be all you need. Avoid overly dramatic makeup or heavy eye shadow in bright colors.
That doesn’t mean you should look messy. Take care of yourself, and dress nicely. Just be who you really are, and be OK with that. You don’t have to wear expensive or designer clothes to look good. You should also eat right and stay in shape. That’s just healthy and of course being healthy will increase your appeal.
 You want to be someone he could introduce to his friends or his mom. That means showing you have class.


Dress well, but in a way that is true to your personality. You don't need to overdo it for him, but spend some time figuring out what you look best in.
Don’t always dress in sweatpants or a hoodie, either, though. Show him you're making an effort.
Wear a light body spray only. You don’t want to smell like a grandmother or a department store. But a little hint of something – like vanilla – will drive him crazy. You should have a signature scent, so he gets used to how you smell.

