 You can write in cursive with any writing implement, but a felt-tip, gel, or ballpoint pen is going to give you the smoothest writing. Once you’re more experienced with cursive, you can move on to special calligraphy pens that have wider tips., The lines will give you guidance as you practice your letters. You can just use regular notebook paper, or print off the sample paper at the beginning of this article. The sample has a dotted line halfway between each solid line to give you another reference point while writing., There are two worksheets attached at the beginning of this article that feature the lowercase and uppercase cursive alphabets. The arrows show you the direction your pen should go when you start each letter. Use these as a reference as you begin writing.


If you want a more detailed guide, you can also search online for worksheets that show the direction that each individual stroke should go., Good posture is important since how you sit will affect how you hold your pen. Straighten your back, relax your shoulders, and sit with your feet flat on the floor., Pinch your thumb and forefinger together to hold the pen, then let it rest on your middle finger. Keep your grip loose and comfortable. If your fingernails are white, you’re holding it too tightly. A too-tight grip can lead to writing that looks stiff., Aim for about a 45-degree angle between your pen and the page. However, the specific angle you choose isn’t as important when you’re just starting out. What matters is that you keep the angle consistent while you’re writing., If you’re right-handed, turn the paper counterclockwise until the top right corner and bottom left corner line up in front of your nose. If you’re left-handed, turn the paper clockwise, and reverse those instructions.Your free hand should rest on the edge of the paper to hold it still.
 Speed will come with time, but you need to learn accuracy first. If your letters aren’t coming out the way you want, you probably need to slow down even more. It may seem tedious at first, but once you have mastered the shape of the strokes, then you can practice them faster and faster.
 In the lowercase alphabet, b, f, h, i, j, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, and z all begin with an upward stroke. It’s easier to practice these letters together because your pen will be making a very similar motion each time you start a letter., In the lowercase alphabet, a, c, d, e, g, o, and q all begin with a curved stroke. Practice these together to get the feel of this curving motion with your hand., Uppercase cursive letters are often slightly different from their lowercase counterparts. Wait until you’re comfortable with all the lowercase letters before moving on so that you don’t get confused.While you mostly just use your fingers to write lowercase letters, you should use your whole hand to write uppercase letters. This will vary up your movements to prevent cramping., When you’re comfortable with all uppercase and lowercase letters you can begin connecting them. Once you finish a letter, rather than lifting your pen to start the next one, keep it on the paper. Glide from the end of one letter into the beginning of the next.
 Some letters are easier to connect than others, but the trick to smooth writing is developing a rhythm. In general, your upstrokes should take the same amount of time as your downstrokes. If you’re having trouble keeping it consistent, slow down, then work your way back up to speed.








If you’re using a felt-tip pen, listen to the squeak of the tip as you write. This noise can help you get a sense for your rhythm.
 Like any other skill, you need to practice cursive regularly to master it. Aim to write in cursive for about 20 minutes a day. Even if you only have one minute, you can still do some movement exercises.


Use your pen to draw connecting ovals or connecting curves all the way across the page. These exercises will help to tone and train the muscles in your hand.