 Carefully arrange your storage containers and covers in a large stockpot. They should be able to stand upright without knocking into each other.


Note that the size of your stockpot will vary depending on the size of your storage containers, and the size of your storage containers will vary depending on how much liquid you have.
Glass containers work best. Canning jars with metal lids are recommended for beginners, but thick glass bottles with cork stoppers can also be used.
To prevent the containers from knocking into each other during the sterilization process, you may wish to place a clean dish towel at the bottom of the stockpot. Do so now instead of waiting until after the water boils.
 Fill the stockpot with enough water to completely cover the storage containers and covers.


It is best to arrange the containers inside of the stockpot before bringing the water to a boil. Glass tends to crack or otherwise break when exposed to rapid changes in temperature, so submerging the jars after the water has already reached a boil is not recommended.
 Set the stockpot on the stove over high heat. Continue heating the water until it reaches a steady boil, then allow the containers and covers to stay submerged for 10 minutes.


Start the time only after the water has reached a steady boil. Do not start the time as soon as you place the stockpot on the stove.
 Turn the heat off and carefully lift the containers and covers out of the hot water. Set them aside on clean, dry dish towels and allow them to air dry.


Use caution when removing the glass containers since they can still break easily at this stage. Lift the containers out using jar tongs or a similar utensil; do not attempt to use your bare hands.
Even though air drying is recommended, you can speed up the process by drying the containers and covers with clean, dry dish towels. Wait until after the jars and covers have had a chance to cool down slightly, though, to prevent the hot glass from burning your skin. Also the cork will need to air dry; you will not be able to sufficiently dry a cork stopper using a towel.
Do not place the containers in a refrigerator or freezer to speed the cooling process. Doing so will cause the glass to break.
It is strongly recommended that you do not allow the containers to cool completely to room temperature. Containers that are slightly warm are less likely to break during pasteurization.

