 Regardless of what caused your loss of trust or the feeling of betrayal, your relationship won’t be able to move forward unless you and your boyfriend can communicate with each other about what occurred to cause a lack of trust and discuss how you are both feeling.


Make sure you have this conversation face-to-face. Trying to communicate openly and honestly is hard to do over the phone, via email, or through text messages because you can’t look into someone’s eyes and gauge their behavior and expressions.Try to be as honest as possible when you discuss these difficult topics. While it might initially be less painful to avoid analyzing or reliving a painful event, chances are good that the unpleasant questions about what happened will re-emerge if you don’t confront them head on.As calmly as you can, explain what your boyfriend did to make you feel like he betrayed your trust. Instead of making this an accusation, explain that this is something you are feeling or thinking. Open the conversation with phrases such as "I am worried about. . ." or "I am concerned that. . ." The situation might not be what you think it is, and you don't want to potentially damage your relationship. Even if your trust has been violated, accusing your boyfriend will probably make him defensive and angry, making the conversation even more unpleasant.
If you feel like this conversation is too difficult to have without help, set up an appointment with a counselor or therapist who can facilitate the discussion.
 While no one wants to deal with a betrayal or loss of trust, think about the opportunities that emerge from this situation. Consider this a chance to strengthen, solidify, or rebuild your relationship and address underlying problems.


Viewing your situation in this way can help you cope with the betrayal and learn to trust your boyfriend again.
 If you've lost trust in your boyfriend as a result of a betrayal, you need to establish or negotiate new guidelines for your relationship because it’s changed and you don't want to repeat the same mistakes. Setting new terms will help make sure you are both on the same page and have the same expectations.


Think about stressors that might have led to the feeling of betrayal or mistrust. For example, if you lost trust in your partner over an issue with money, agree on how you both will spend money in the future. Set specific guidelines and commit to following them.
If you never set any guidelines or rules in your relationship, this is an excellent time to start and will make sure you have the same expectations and agree on what is appropriate behavior and what is not.
 Regardless of who experienced a loss of trust in the relationship, you need to both be sensitive and empathetic toward each other’s feelings and concerns. This will help get your relationship back on track and improve your ability to communicate with one another.


No one wants to continue talking with someone who can’t be sensitive to their emotions or try to understand how their significant other feels.
 To rebuild trust in your relationship, you’ll need to learn to trust your own instincts, which can be difficult after a betrayal. The more you trust your own ability to tell if someone is being honest and open, the more confident you can be placing trust in your boyfriend again.To make you more aware of what your instincts are telling you, experts suggest paying attention what your body is telling you. Do you feel a prickling sensation on your skin or a sense of physical discomfort? If so, your instincts might be telling you to be wary.Research suggests you should also pay attention to your initial reactions or first response to a situation. This doesn't mean you should fly off the handle without evidence, but consider what your inner voice might be telling you before you dismiss it., The fear of betrayal can seriously hinder your ability to trust your boyfriend and move forward with your relationship. Avoid letting your fears control your relationship and prevent you from being happy.Think critically about where your fears seem to come from. Are they based in truth or do they suggest your lack of confidence in the relationship?
Talk with your boyfriend about what you could both do to prevent these fears from gaining ground. Is there a simple way to reassure yourself or for your boyfriend to reassure you that these fears are not grounded in truth?
The more confidence you have in your instincts, the better able you will be to manage and handle your fears.
 Rebuilding trust in a relationship is challenging, and you shouldn’t feel embarrassed or ashamed about asking for help. A couples therapist, marriage counselor, or other licensed mental-health professional can help you and your boyfriend rebuild trust after a betrayal and move forward with your relationship.They are trained to deal with these situations, and having someone to mediate communication can help you and your boyfriend re-establish trust in your relationship.

