 If it is already painted, you will want to carefully strip the paint away with scrapers and sandpaper. Make sure to take the time to invest time in this process, since the preparation exposes the initial layer of redwood, allowing it to breathe and absorb the primer and paint.;
, Check into the health regulations regarding this toxic material. Rinse well with water and allow the redwood to dry.


Use eye-protection, gloves, long-sleeved shirts and pants when working with TSP. Make sure no animals or children get near it. Dispose of excess TSP at a toxic waste disposal site.
Do not allow your newly stripped redwood sit long without staining. Because it is soft, it can easily absorb moisture and dirt.
 Test it on a small area. You want to make sure it is ready to absorb the primer.
 Ask your hardware store if they have any specially formulated redwood primers. Use the roller on the straight parts of the sidings and use the brush to apply the primer in all cracks and sides of the siding.
 An optional step is to coat the primer with 1 coat of "Duration" or a similar product that will help your paint job to last longer.
 This acrylic paint will stretch and shrink with the wood as it ages. Buy a top-quality paint, if it is in your budget, and the paint job is more likely to last longer.


Use a clean roller and brush to apply the coats of paint. You may want to begin by brushing the edges and then rolling the straight parts to get a uniform coat. Make sure to follow the paint's directions of drying times between coats. This can be between a couple of days and a week.
Try to apply your paint in dry temperatures over 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius). This will help to avoid bubbling or peeling due to humidity.
For redwood that has maintained its looks, you may be able to use a paint sprayer. This is how paint is applied on most new redwood siding.
 Wash your siding with a water sprayer and some soap periodically to maintain the paint job. Rinse well and allow it to dry.

