 For practical applications, outdoor patio furniture like PVC tables and chairs are the most common items. Consider a matched set with the traditional centerpiece table and 4 chairs. Bar stools are also a popular choice. Search for design plans, and get ideas from conventional furniture sources such as catalogs or online stores.;
, PVC pipe and connection fittings are easily obtainable at hardware or plumbing stores. When determining the size of the pipe and fittings, remember thicker pipe is more sturdy. Standard size for PVC chairs should be at least 1-1/4 inches (3.6 cm) in diameter, allowing for the weight of a typical adult.
 Follow a specific plan to ensure an accurate fit when assembling. Although building PVC furniture seems unorthodox, employing standard sizes is recommended. Use a tape measure for correct measurements. Keeping the blade straight for an even cut, saw through the pipe with a hacksaw or an electric reciprocating saw. Use a pencil to lightly mark the pieces.
 Use fine grit sandpaper, if necessary, to remove any burrs or rough edges on the cuts. Locate the pencil marks to match the fittings. Use "T's", "elbows," and 3- or 4-way fittings in the areas where the pipe needs to be connected. For example, "elbows" are required where the pipe needs to change to a 90 degree angle.
 Start at the base and connect the correct pipe pieces to the fittings, using a twisting motion. Be sure the pipe "bottoms out" by tapping firmly with a rubber mallet. Glue should not be necessary to make PVC furniture, unless the fittings are loose. Use PVC glue sparingly to avoid staining the pipe.
 Building PVC furniture for years of enjoyment can be completed with the addition of wooden seats designed to fit snugly on the chair frames. PVC tables and chairs can then be introduced to your guests at an outdoor party or summer gathering.


Cut notches in the corners of a water resistant portion of plywood to accommodate the pipes on the frames of the chairs.
Woven fabric can be attached to the PVC by looping around the front and back of the chair frame and sewing the end of the fabric together.
Your PVC table surface can be made of wood, as well. Teak or other rot-resistant wood should be used for outdoors. Simply cut to fit on top of frame.
For more stability, bolt the table top down by drilling holes through wood and the PVC frame, using bolts, washers and nuts. Tighten firmly with adjustable wrench.

