 It can be hard to enjoy one another’s companionship if both of your lives are dominated by the daily grind. In order to reconnect with one another, make a point of dedicating one night each week to having fun together. Even better, try to make plans that have a romantic component to reinvigorate some playful affection between you.Take turns deciding on an activity, but always try to choose something to do that your partner will enjoy as well. An old-fashioned dinner date may do the trick, but if you’re really trying to rekindle the romantic flame, get somewhere private with a sunset and something to share that you’ll both enjoy.
 Is there anything you used to enjoy together and don't do anymore? In particular, think of things you did together early on in your relationship. For instance, maybe you have a ritual of always choosing a bottle of wine together at the grocery store. Or maybe a particular date will come to mind that both of your especially enjoyed. Rekindle a bit of the excitement from when you first met by doing something that will bring you both back.For instance, take your partner to the place you realized you were in love with them. When you're there, tell them about it.
 Another way to reconnect with one another is scheduling an escape from your daily lives together. You don’t have to go far, but it’s worth removing yourselves from the everyday contexts in which you live.This is also a great way to facilitate important conversations, as you’ll be spending lots of time together, and will have the space to talk about anything that’s been on either of your minds.
 Even happy, healthy relationships include periods of time where the excitement that often comes with sex dwindles. This is nothing to be ashamed of or worried about - it’s something to address. Instead of waiting for a fizzling sex life to all-of-the-sudden return to how it used to be, shake things up on purpose.


Ask your partner something like, “Is there anything you’ve been wanting to try sexually?” or offer any ideas that have come to mind in personal fantasies.
As another idea for date night, swing by a safe-sex or adult novelty shop after dinner.
 Sometimes, relationships simply oscillate from a whirlwind of romance to a relatively tame, uneventful life together. This can feel like a rough patch, especially if one of you begins to worry that something is wrong. If you’ve talked about how you’re both feeling and you both still want to be together, take steps to spend more time together. One of the best ways to do so is by getting a pet.A dog is an especially good pet to raise together, as they are active and sociable. Not only will you have shared responsibilities, you’ll also have ample opportunities to have fun all together.

