 One of the major barriers to your getting help for a mental illness is often misinformation. By counting only on our own self-criticisms and the nonchalance of others who are insensitive to mental health suffering, our struggle worsens. Educating yourself about your symptoms or the disorder you are struggling with is the first step towards overcoming self-stigma and others' stigma.Perform a cursory online search of your symptoms or disorder to gain a better understanding of it. Be sure to stick to credible mental health sites, such as the National Institute of Mental Health, PsychCentral, or the American Psychiatric Association., Another method you can use to build up your confidence to get help and reduce stigma is logging on to a support group. These groups allow you to hear the personal stories of others who are struggling with similar issues. You might learn helpful information, such as natural remedies to alleviate certain symptoms, practical coping strategies, and get suggestions for effective treatment approaches in these forums., Most people begin with their general practitioners when it comes to finally gathering the courage to get help. Simply mentioning any symptoms or concerns you have should be an effective way to initiate a candid discussion with your doctor.Keep in mind, however, that while your family doctor may be able to offer some preliminary suggestions or even write a prescription, it's probably best to ask for a referral to see a mental health specialist.These professionals have specialized experience in treating mental illness, and can offer you the best chance at recovery.
Once you do see a mental health provider, you should discuss any natural treatment regimens with them before starting. Never try to treat yourself for a mental illness, because, even if someone has the exact same disorder as you, the way others experience that illness may vary slightly from your own experience. Always allow a doctor or therapist to fully evaluate you in order to know which treatment approaches are right for you.

