 A magic ring is a basic type of adjustable ring made by forming a ring with yarn, pulling a loop through it, and chain stitching to form the sides of the ring. It does not count as your first round.


Form a loop around your fingers with the working end to the right and the tail to the left.
Insert the hook through the loop, grab the working end of the yarn from the back, and pull it through to the front.
Chain stitch twice.
Pull the two ends in opposite directions to draw the ring to a close.;
, Make ten double crochet stitches into the magic ring. When done, join the final double stitch to the first using a slip stitch.


To make a double crochet, wrap the yarn over the hook, insert the hook into the ring, and yarn over the hook again.

Pull this yarn through the ring, yarn over the hook again, and pull the top portion of yarn through the two loops on the hook.
Yarn over the hook once more and pull this new portion through the last two loops on the hook.


To make a slip stitch, insert the hook into the next stitch in the round, hook the yarn, and pull it through the stitch of your project and the loop on your hook.
 Crochet two chain stitches. In the next stitch from the previous round, double crochet stitch once. Make another three chain stitches, then work two single stitches around the post or vertical portion of the previous double crochet stitch. Slip stitch into the next stitch from the first round.


For a single crochet stitch, insert your hook through the appropriate stitch, catch the yarn, and pull the yarn back through the stitch.

Catch the yarn again.
Pull the yarn back through the two loops on your hook so that only one loop remains on the hook.


When making this double crochet stitch, insert the hook into the first stitch of the previous round. Complete the double crochet steps as before to make the stitch.
 Form four more points using the same technique you used for the first point. When done, finish the last by making a slip stitch into the first stitch of your original round.


Crochet two chain stitches.
In the next stitch, double crochet once.
Make another three chain stitches.
Slip stitch into the next stitch.
Work two single stitches around the post of the double crochet stitch.
Slip stitch into the next stitch to complete each point.
 Cut the yarn and weave the ends in to hide them. With this, your star should be finished.


You can use a darning needle to weave the ends in, or you can knot the tail end of yarn onto one of the stitches and trim the tail to hide it from sight.







