 Your cat may be keeping its eyes partially closed or rubbing at its eyes repeatedly. In addition, if you try to pet it on the head, near its eyes, it may move away., There are subtle symptoms of a slow progressing glaucoma. If the pressure rises slowly within the eye it allows the globe to stretch over time. These changes tend to be gradual and less painful, but can be seen in a difference in the size of the cat's eyes.Compare one eye with the other to see if one looks bigger. Comparing eye sizes can be helpful in cases where glaucoma is only present in one eye or if it progresses more quickly in one eye than the other.
 Cats with glaucoma may have unequal pupil size. When the retina becomes damaged by the increased pressure, it cause damage to the nerves and the pupil may no longer be responsive to bright light. This leads to a large, fixed pupil that doesn’t get smaller in response to bright light., There may be bluing or mistiness of the surface of the eye. The cornea is normally clear so that light can pass through uninterrupted. As the globe stretches, the cornea can become hazy or misty looking, but this doesn't happen in every case.


The eyes may also appear red and have a clear, watery discharge., The vet should perform a thorough physical examination to check the cat’s overall health. The vet may also look for any illnesses could have caused the glaucoma. For example, if the vet is suspicious of feline immunodeficiency syndrome, then he or she may run a blood test to check if the cat is negative or positive.


The vet examines the eye by starting with the pupil’s response to bright light. The vet also compares one eye with the other to see if they are the same size.
Using an ophthalmoscope (an instrument that has a light source and magnifying lenses) the vet then examines the internal structures of the eye, including looking at the iris to check for inflammation that could block the drainage angle of the eye.
 A definitive diagnosis of glaucoma is given by measuring the pressure within the eye. To do this, the vet uses a device called a tonometer.


There are different types of tonometers. The simplest form is a tiny plunger that drops against the surface of the cornea to see how far it rebounds back up. More sophisticated tonometers use tiny puffs of air to measure the pressure.Normal eye pressure is around 12.3 mmHg +/- 4 mmHg. Readings constantly above 25 mmHg are considered highly suggestive of glaucoma.The pressure in the eye can vary depending on the time of day, and so multiple measurements are advisable to confirm glaucoma.
 Feline glaucoma is not curable, however, the problem can be treated with eye drops which help to reduce eye pressure. This can slow the progression of glaucoma and protect eyesight, as well as alleviating any pain associated with the illness.Even with treatment, your cat may eventually lose its sight. If pain persists, your cat may even need to have one or both of its eyes removed. If you would like a second opinion or information on other treatments, consult with a veterinary ophthalmologist., The eye is a round sphere that contains fluid and, much like the air in a balloon, it is this fluid that maintains the circular shape of the eye. There is a delicate balance where the rate the fluid that is produced in the eye is balanced against the rate it drains away. This maintains the correct pressure within the eye.


In glaucoma, fluid builds up within the eye, usually because there is a problem with it draining away. Thus more fluid is produced than leaks away, which results in a rise in pressure., Glaucoma can take two forms, a sudden spike in pressure over a few hours or days, which causes severe sudden illness, and a slower form where pressure builds slowly over weeks to months. Cats tend to suffer from the second, slow form of glaucoma. Since the signs come on very slowly and are less dramatic, they are difficult to spot and may not be noticeable until the glaucoma is severe., Cats can suffer from primary or secondary glaucoma. Primary glaucoma refers to it being an illness in its own right. This is usually the result of a genetic tendency to glaucoma. This occurs in certain breeds, such as the Siamese and Burmese, and the glaucoma usually presents in middle to old age. This genetic form of the disease usually affects both eyes.Secondary glaucoma refers to the problem arising as a consequence of another disease. Typically this might be due to trauma, such as a blow to the eye which causes inflammation and blocks the drain inside the eye, or due to a disease associated with inflammation, such as FeLV (feline leukemia virus), FIV (feline immunodeficiency virus), or FIP (feline infectious peritonitis). This can occur in just one eye or in both eyes.