 Wash 2 small tomatoes and dice them into small pieces. Put them in a fine mesh strainer and sprinkle them with several pinches of kosher salt. Toss the tomatoes so they're coated and let them sit and drain while you make the rest of the salad.The salt will bring out the excess moisture in the tomatoes so you don't end up with a soggy salad.;
, Peel 1 small red onion and mince it into very fine pieces. Put the onion in a small bowl and pour enough white wine vinegar to cover the onion. Set the onion aside to marinate while you make the rest of the salad., Slice several pieces of bacon into 1/2 inch (12 mm) pieces. You'll need about 1/2 cup (115 g) of sliced bacon. Put it into a skillet and fry the bacon over medium-high heat. Stir and fry the bacon for about 5 minutes. It should become crispy. Transfer the bacon to paper towels to drain.Leave the fat in the skillet once you've finished frying the bacon.
 Turn the heat on the skillet down to medium heat and add 1/2 cup (45 g) of fresh bread crumbs to the fat in the pan. Stir and cook the breadcrumbs for 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer the breadcrumbs to a plate lined with paper towels. Sprinkle the crumbs with salt and pepper.The breadcrumbs will become golden brown and crispy once they've finished toasting.
 Put 2 ounces (57 g) of mild blue cheese into a mixing bowl and mash it a little with a whisk or potato masher. Whisk in the remaining blue cheese dressing ingredients until the dressing is mostly smooth (there may be some blue cheese lumps). You'll need to whisk in:1/2 cup (116 g) mayonnaise
1/2 cup (115 g) sour cream
1/2 cup (120 ml) buttermilk
1 tablespoon fresh juice
Fresh ground pepper to taste

, Wash 1 head of iceberg lettuce and thoroughly dry it. Peel away and discard the outer leaves. Use a large knife to carefully cut the iceberg lettuce in half. Slice each half in half so you get 4 wedges. Place each wedge on a serving plate., Drizzle each wedge with some of the blue cheese dressing. Sprinkle some of the drained, diced tomatoes over the salads and drain the minced onions. Scatter some of the marinated onions over each salad and top each with some of the bacon and toasted breadcrumbs.For an extra garnish, mince a few chives or green onions and sprinkle them on each salad.

