 Studies have been mixed on the effectiveness of duct tape as a removal treatment for warts. Many physicians believe the duct tape treatment to be no better than a placebo and not a very effective way to remove warts. However, there has been some documented success with the use of duct tape on warts.You can try the duct tape method by covering the wart in duct tape or electrical tape for six days. After six days, you can soak the wart in water and then gently remove any dead skin on or around the wart with a pumice stone or an emery board.
You will need to then let the wart be exposed to the open air for 12 hours and repeat the process again until the wart is removed.
 This home remedy claims that the caustic effect of garlic can make the warts blister and fall off. Keep in mind this is not a medically verified treatment and may not work as effectively as medical treatments for warts.Crush one to two cloves of garlic in a mortar and pestle until it forms a paste. Apply the garlic to the warts and cover them with bandages so the garlic can interact with the warts.
Re apply fresh garlic to the warts once a day but avoid putting the garlic on any of the healthy skin surrounding the warts. You can smear the healthy skin with petroleum jelly so the garlic does not stick to the skin.
 Apple cider vinegar will not kill the HPV that is causing the warts but it has a high acidity content that can help the skin on the wart to peel off and fall away. You may experience some soreness and swelling on the warts once you apply the apple cider vinegar, but this should fade after a few days. Keep in mind this is not a medically proven removal method for warts.Soak one to two cotton balls in two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar. Squeeze out any excess vinegar from the cotton balls but make sure they are thoroughly soaked.
Apply the cotton balls to your warts and secure each cotton ball with gauze or medical tape. Leave the apple cider vinegar on the warts overnight. Repeat this every night with fresh cotton balls for one to two weeks. After several days, the warts may appear darker or black, which is a good sign the apple cider vinegar is working. They will eventually fall off on their own.
 Fresh basil contains several anti-viral components and can help to speed up the removal process of the warts. Be aware this is not a medically proven method for wart removal and should be used at your own discretion.Use clean hands or a mortar and pestle to crush 1/4 cup of fresh basil leaves until they appear mushy and wet. Gently apply the crushed basil to your warts and cover the warts with a clean bandage or a clean cloth.
Re apply the basil for one to two weeks until the warts fall off.

