 Viruses are one of the many factors that can make your computer considerably slower. The first thing you should do is to check if your computer has any viruses. You can do this by using an anti virus program. If you already have one, great, but for those who don’t, you should get a free version of AVG. Link: http://free.avg.com/ This program will walk you through the process of getting rid of those pesky viruses.;
, A bigger issue than viruses is in general, malware. All kinds of malware can infect your computer but AVG will only delete the virus. In order to fix infected objects download MalwareBytes from download.com and update and run scans weekly.
 A strange thing about computers is that, as you add more and more software to your hard drive, the data is scattered all over your hard drive. This can cause potential problems, as your computer may have to look in several places rather than one to launch a program. Defragmenting your hard drive will rearrange your hard drive so that it is easier for your computer to find certain things. Luckily for you, your computer should already come with a defragmenter program. Click start, then programs, then accessories, then system tools, and then finally launch the program entitled, Disk Defragmenter. All you have to do when the program has opened is click defragment.
 The next thing you should do is to stop any of the things that run in the background of your computer that you don’t need. Do this by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Delete at the same time. This then brings up the list of processes that are running at the moment. You can also use a program called ProcessScanner.
 If you run a lot of programs at the same time, then it eats up more RAM. You can figure out how much RAM you have by clicking Start, then Control Panel, then System. Then you will have to look at how much slots your motherboard has available. A good place to find a step-by-step guide on how to install RAM is http://www.ehow.com/how_895_install-ram.html.
 Another thing you can do to speed up your computer is to free up some space. One way to do this is to run Disk Cleanup, and luckily for you, it already comes preinstalled on your PC. Click Start, select All Programs, click Accessories, then select System Tools, and finally click Disk Cleanup. If several drives are available, you might be prompted to specify which drive you want to clean.
 To do this, first click Start, then My Computer. Next, you will have to right-click the hard drive you will want to scan and select Properties. When the Properties window opens, select the Tools tab and click the Check Now button. In the Check Disk window, select the Scan for and attempt recovery of bad sectors box, and finally click Start.
 A quick way to see these programs and eliminate them is to click Start, then Run, and then type in MSCONFIG. That should get you started

,,,,