 If you’re young, chances are you may be dealing with braces. You shouldn’t avoid kissing someone with braces, but if they’ve just gotten them, it’s best to steer clear until they’ve had time to heal.


When you do go in for the kiss, go slowly. The last thing you want to do is to come in fast and get stuck if you’re both wearing braces.Steer clear of braces with your tongue. While you can still enjoy the pleasure of using your tongue during kissing, you should avoid rubbing your teeth over braces. This could result in an injury, which would be awkward for both parties involved.
 Regardless of your age, kissing can be physically demanding. This is particularly true if your partner isn’t the same height as you, which could result in a sore neck from straining to get to their level.


If you are shorter than your partner, try wearing heels or sitting on a bar stool. If you are taller, try leaning against a wall and have your partner stand between your legs to get on even footing.
 At some point in your life, you’ll inevitably encounter someone who is less experienced than you at kissing. Luckily, most bad kissers can become good kissers with a little bit of patience and encouragement.


Show your partner what you consider to be good kissing. When the other person starts to follow your lead, respond positively and obviously so that he or she knows you like it.
Never criticize someone’s kissing style. Instead, ask them to try something different with you and show them the way you like to be kissed., One of the most important things to remember is that confidence goes a long way when it comes to kissing. If you feel self-conscious you may act unnatural, which could result in an awkward kiss or no kiss at all.


Think positively about yourself and your abilities. Even if you’re a first timer, visualize yourself as an excellent kisser.
Replace any negative thoughts with positive ones. The more confident you feel on the inside, the more confident you’ll appear to others.If you’re still feeling nervous, take a deep breath and smile. This will help you to relax and will give off a confident vibe.
It's OK to laugh. If something awkward does happen, try to laugh about it. This will help your partner to relax as well. Chances are you can both have a good laugh before trying it again.

