 There are a sizable number of such websites in existence, and many of them even specialize in the sale of pianos. For the most part, there will be a fee for either posting an ad or successfully making a sale. In some cases, there may even be a fee for both. Look into the reputation and requirements of various websites and determine which would offer you the greatest benefit at the lowest cost.


The downside of these websites comes in the form of heightened competition. With so many people advertising their used pianos in one place, it will be more difficult to make your own piano stand out. On the upside, though, anyone who visits the website is definitely interested in buying a piano, so you can be fairly certain that your ad is reaching the right audience.;
, Not every blogging community or message board will allow you to advertise, so make sure you check the policy on advertisements before posting yours.


Some music and piano message boards have a special forum set aside for advertisements or will allow you to make an advertisement in your signature, especially forums dedicated to music lessons and instruments.
If a music blog you follow has been known to mention instrument sales in the past, contact the blog owner and ask about advertising your piano there. Do not simply post about it in the comments unless the blog specifically gives you permission to do so. Otherwise, plastering your advertisement in someone else’s web space is rude and may even get you banned from the blog.
 These websites specialize in the sale of used goods. Moreover, if you choose a classifieds website that allows you to advertise to your local area, you will have more leeway about how to ship or deliver the piano than you would if you sold the piano to a customer on the other side of the country. Each classifieds community has its own rules about placing ads, so make sure to review these before attempting to sell your piano there.
 Online auction websites are some of the oldest online resources for selling used goods, and they also remain some of the most frequently used websites today. For the most part, you can either set a price at which a buyer can purchase the piano flat out or you can allow users to make bids on the piano.
 Setting up a blog for the purpose of selling your piano is probably not the best use of resources unless you plan on frequently selling musical instruments through it. If you already have a blog, though, and you actually have people who follow it, mentioning that you have a piano for sale can be a good way to spread the word. This can be even more effective if you have a music-related blog, but your blog does not necessarily need to be about music for you to advertise on it.

