 You will need a dressmaking dummy to be able to see the garment as you work on it, and make sure it fits a human form. If you don’t have one, you can create a makeshift one yourself, in your own size.Put on a shirt that you don’t want, and cover it completely with duct tape while wearing it. This will create a stiff duct tape form in the shape of your body.
Remove it by cutting it down the side, from your hip to your armpit, and then up along the sleeve.
Tape back over the cut to make the form whole again. Stuff it with newspaper, and close up the bottom, neck, and sleeves with more duct tape. You can decide whether to keep the arms, or cut them off.
 Use a pencil in case of mistakes, and label each section to avoid confusion later. Remember the old carpenters’ adage: measure twice, cut once. You can waste a lot of time with a single mistake. When you’re done, cut out the shapes.Ideally you should know a thing or two about pattern making before attempting this, but you don’t have to be an expert. You do need to be able to envision how your garment will be put together, however, and have the skills to execute it., Lay the butcher paper pieces of your pattern onto muslin, and trace them. Cut these out too, and pin them into the basic shape of your garment., Introduce your pinned muslin garment to your sewing machine. Remove the pins, and put the garment on a mannequin, or on your own body if you are designing for yourself.
 Look at how it fits. Think about the shape. What’s working? What isn’t? Take notes, make sketches, draw on or cut the muslin, or whatever helps you make sense of the changes you want to make., How close is the mock-up to what you had envisioned? Are you ready to move forward with this design? Do you need to make another before you try it with nicer fabric? Depending on how your mock-up looks, you may want to go back to the drawing board completely, or you may be ready to move on to sewing the actual garment., It’s time to bring your design to life. Proceed as you did with the muslin mock-up.Remember, you are going to make mistakes, especially the first few times around. Make sure you buy more fabric than you think you need, give yourself lots of extra time, and always double-check your measurements. Things will not always go according to plan. Be prepared to problem solve, or tweak your design as you go. Sometimes the most exciting innovations come from mistakes.

