 If you plan to ride, and the ground is slippery ask your farrier about shoes with pads and ice caulks. Pads will prevent snow balls and may help prevent ice bruising on their soles. You can also use hoof-oil or petroleum jelly on the sole of the horse's feet as this also helps stop snow balling in them.;
, When riding in the snow remember that it is harder work for the horse. Plan your time in the saddle and your speed accordingly. Think of what it's like for you to flounder through the snow--deep snow can be similar for your horse.
 Plan to school or work at a slower pace so your horse does not sweat as much. Cooling down can take much longer, and chilled muscles take longer to warm up. Horses sometimes need time to adjust to the footing in an arena if they're used to walking on frozen, uneven ground and their gaits may feel a bit stilted until they learn they can step out with confidence.
 Plan extra time to cool down after your ride. Don't put a sweating horse out in the cold, wind or damp. Rug them up so that moisture wicks away from your horse's coat, and change the blanket if it becomes damp. When the horse is dry to the skin, you can turn it out.
 If your horse is used to being stabled and rugged consider using a ‘rump rug’ or ‘quarter sheet’ to keep his muscles from getting chilled while riding. Try the rump rug before you get on however, so your horse gets used to the feel of it. You don't want it spooking at the strange blanket over its haunches when you're in the saddle.
 Dress yourself in layers that can be removed easily if you get warm while working your horse. Fabric that wicks sweat away and dries quickly is best for any athletic winter activity. There is a variety of under and outerwear made especially for riders. Ear warmers can be worn under your helmet, or hoods can be put over your helmet.
 You may want to wear warmer boots while riding in the winter. Be sure they are not so bulky as to get wedged into your stirrups. They should still slide out easily if you take a spill.
 When riding out, make sure you stay away from areas where holes, branches, poles or other hazards might be hidden under the snow. Injury to you and your horse could occur if the horse trips or falls over a something hidden under the snow cover.
 A frosty cold bit can be uncomfortable for your horse. Keep bridles in the house, warm the bit with your hands, or put a warm (not hot) gel pack around the bit before putting it in your horse's mouth. The Bit Blanket is a great tool for warming a bit in a cold barn.
 Pack a granola bar and a vacuum flask of hot cider or chocolate to warm you up after your ride. Working hard in cold dry weather can be dehydrating so don’t forget to drink water or Pack along a bottle of water or sport drink too.
 The horse’s back, not the rider’s. A horse with a broad enough back can be lovely to sit on in winter. They are natural seat warmers. A narrower horse, while still warm, isn’t as cushion-y to sit upon.
 A thorough daily brushing will help his circulation and bring dirt that can cause irritation to the surface, especially in a long, winter coat. Curry the horse thoroughly, then use a soft brush to remove dust and dirt. Fluff his coat. You can also put a blanket on your horse in the winter.