 Miniature roses are available in an assortment of colors and varieties, divided into 4 primary types:


Micro-Minis are the smallest variety of rose plants, ranging from 8 to 15 inches (20 to 38 cm) tall. The flowers these plants produce grow to 0.25 to 1 inch (0.6 to 2.5 cm).
Minifloras have a slightly larger plant and flower size, with plants growing 2 to 4 feet (0.6 to 1.2 m) tall.
Climbers are mini-roses that produce trailers. These plants can climb trellises and other supports.
Trailers also produce trailing shoots; but unlike climbers, trailers have a cascading growth habit which makes them a popular choice for hanging baskets. These also work well for growing on tops of walls with trailers cascading down.;
,


Choose a spot where the miniature rose will not be crowded out or overtaken by other garden plants. Miniature roses are commonly used in edgings, borders, and as accent plants in flower gardens.
Pick a place that gets full sun. Some varieties of mini roses will also tolerate partial shade.
 Roses like rich, moist, well drained soil.
 The hole should be around the same depth as the pot that currently holds the plant. However, if you are planting a mini-rose in the garden, dig the hole approximately 1 foot (0.3 m) wider than the pot.
 Remove the rose from the pot carefully and use your fingers to gently loosen its roots. If the roots have become pot-bound, use a knife to score the root ball. Place the plant in the hole, taking care to spread the roots. Fill the hole with soil and pack it down gently to help the roots make good soil contact.
 Water from the base of the plant and avoid getting the foliage wet.
, The combination fertilizer should include N (nitrogen), P (phosphorous) and K (potassium) in a ratio of 5-9-6. Deep-water the plants before feeding them.


Feed the plants when new leaves are just beginning to grow and again after each heavy bloom.
Stop feeding the roses to discourage new growth 6 to 8 weeks before the first frost is expected if you live in a cool climate.
 Cut off dead wood and remove up to 1/3 of the plant as needed for shaping or to encourage new growth. Unlike full size roses, minis do not require heavy pruning.
 If you live in an area with harsh winters, collar the plants and add mulch to help them survive the winter.

