 Perhaps you are jealous of your friends for going on vacation when you don’t have the money to do so, or maybe you feel envious when others get married because you don’t have a partner. Work to make peace with these circumstances and to change them if you can.


For instance, you will likely not be able to find a spouse quickly, but you can begin dating and find people whose values align with your own.
Maybe you can’t take an exotic vacation, but perhaps you can make a day trip to a nearby city or spend some time at your local lake or pool.;
, Social media is often what stokes FOMO more than anything else. If you are feeling very down in the dumps from seeing all of the fun that others are having, take a break from your accounts. Deactivate them for a while, and do so permanently if you feel that it helps.You can also choose to unfollow or unfriend certain people.
 Avoid spending a lot of time with braggarts or those who are showy about their wealth or abilities. Instead, surround yourself with kind and compassionate people who will not rub things in your face.
 In addition to ridding yourself of certain friends, apps, or sites, also work to declutter the space surrounding you. Overindulgence in materials might be causing you to feel that you are missing out on other material possessions. Clear out the things in your closet that you don’t wear anymore and take some time to clean up your room, home, and/or office. Work to get back to the basics., Even though you might have FOMO, know that you don’t always have to say yes to everything. Spend your time, energy and money investing in things that you care about and enjoy. Say no to anything that is wasteful, unproductive, or not fun to you., Know that you can also agree to do things that are fun so that you don’t actually have to miss out. If you have the funds and the time, do the things that others invite you to do and have a little fun. Take a few days off of work if you can spare it., Know that with every choice you make, there is also a loss. If you choose to go to bed early, you might miss out on going out with friends. If you spend all night up binge watching a show, you might not be productive at work the next day. Make decisions that align with your priorities and allow you to keep up with your responsibilities.