 You should see options to either log in or sign up in the upper right of the screen.


If you are on a tablet or smartphone, you could be redirected to the mobile website of Twitter.;
, This will start the process of creating a new Twitter account. After clicking signup, you will be redirected to the first step of the sign-up process.


Go to this link if you want to skip directly to this step: https://twitter.com/signup


, It is recommended you use your real name so your friends can easily recognize your Twitter account.
 Any e-mails or news from Twitter will be sent to this e-mail address. Don't worry, if you do not want to be spammed by Twitter, you can always block the address. Read our article about how to block an e-mail address.


This will be used for recovering your account if you ever forget your information.
You can also use your mobile phone number if you want that option for account recovery.
 In addition to your real name, this will be shown on your profile and will be another way people can find you. If you have ever seen an @ symbol, followed by a name, it is likely a Twitter username.


Twitter will also automatically suggest some names for you based off of your real name. The username isn't too important, so any one of these options would be fine.
 If checked, this option will allow Twitter to look through your browser history on websites with the Twitter widget and suggest people to follow based on your patterns. Many websites have this Twitter widget, so it could be helpful if you want some suggestions on interesting accounts to follow. However, if you would like more privacy online, do not check this box.
 Be sure that your password is not too easy to guess, but no so hard that you can't remember it. Read out article about how to create a password for some advice. Note down the password somewhere so you don't forget it.
 If you used an e-mail account in one of the previous steps, you will be prompted to enter a valid phone number. After registering your number, you will receive a text with a confirmation code. If you do not receive this text, you likely entered in the wrong number.


Enter in the code after clicking "Next." Now, if you forget your login credentials, Twitter can send them to this number.
 By this point, you should have received an e-mail from Twitter to the address you previously entered. Follow the instructions in the e-mail to confirm your address.


Now, if you forget your login credentials, Twitter can e-mail them to this address.
 Search for and follow friends and your favorite celebrities. Twitter is a great way to get engaged with organizations, celebrities, and friends.

