 A while before you begin the grooming process, you need to stock up on brushes, combs, clippers, shampoos, and conditioners.


For brushes, bristle brushes can be used on all coat types. In general, the longer the coat the more widely spaced and longer the bristles should be. Wire-tipped brushes without rubber ends are also a good choice for dogs with long, coarse, or curly coats. If your dog has a lot of mats or tangles, slicker brushes are a useful tool to remove such problems. After you brush your dog down with a brush, use a comb designed for dogs to ensure that all tangles or mats are gone.Combs are used to get right down to skin and also tease out tangles.
Clippers should be purchased, and you can get a recommendation from a local pet store for your dog's specific needs. Clipper coolant or lubricant is also necessary, as clippers become hot when used and need to be cooled off to avoid burning your dog. There is a place for scissors when used with care.For shampoo and conditioner, use baby shampoo or special skin condition shampoo. Avoid flea removal shampoos; these rarely effective and have no action at all once the pet is dry.Dog toothpaste and toothbrushes, which are available at pet stores and most department stores.
Sharp, guillotine type nail clippers.Cotton balls and ear cleaner to clean your dogs ears, and tweezers to pluck out unwanted ear hair.Detangler should be available in the event of any difficult mats or tangles.;
, Brush your dogs back, legs, underbelly, chin, and neck with your slicker brush, targeting tangled or mated fur. Brush any featherings on the dog's legs, tail, thighs, neck, and back.


If you encounter any particularly difficult tangles or mats, put a dime-sized glob of detangler on the mat and working it out with a comb and your fingers.A lot of dead hairs will likely fall off during this process, leaving a pile of dog fur on the floor. Brush your dog on a surface that's easy to sweep or vacuum. If available, use a grooming table.
 Brushing in the direction the coat grows, go over your dog's coat again with a bristle brush to smooth out the detangled hair.
 Due to the twisty nature of a dog's ear canal, it's easy for parasites and bacteria to thrive. Once-weekly cleaning is key to your dog's well-being and should be incorporated into any grooming routine.


Dampen a cotton ball and use it to gently swap the dog's ear with ear cleaning solution. Never insert anything, like q-tips, into the dog's ear canal. Stick to the exterior lining.Earwax may rub off on the cotton ball. The wax is usually brown or black. If you notice crusty skin, redness, discharge, bad smells, or swelling this can be a sign of an infection and should be addressed by a veterinarian.Use tweezers to pull out unwanted hair, which can tangle and cause mats to form in the ear canal. However, discuss tweezing with your vet beforehand. Ear hair removal is not necessary for every dog breed., Dogs should be groomed every day, but bathed just once a month. Before beginning the bathing process, get the tub ready for your canine companion. Place a rubber bathmat on the bottom of the tub so your dog can keep his footing, and fill the tub with 3 to 5 inches (7.6 to 13 cm) of lukewarm water. Make sure the water is comfortable to the touch as water that is too hot or too cold causes your dog undue distress., If possible, use a sink or bathtub with a spray attachment. This is easier to handle than a faucet or bucket, and more comfortable for your dog.


Spray your dog's back and legs with water until he is damp but not dripping wet.
Spray his underbelly, neck, and chin.
When wetting the head, avoid getting water in your dog's eyes or ears. You can place cotton balls in a dog's ear before a bath to prevent water contamination and cover the dog's eyes with your hand when spraying his head.This process may take awhile with a longhaired dog, so be patient. A good 5 to 10 minutes is necessary to get your dog completely wet.
 Working from head to tail, gently massage the shampoo into your dog's coat until it forms a thick lather.


When washing the head, be especially careful not to get soap in your dog's eyes. Tilt his head up so the soap flows away from his eyes. Lather his scalp and ears.
You can apply a line of shampoo along the dog's back and lather the product into his back, hips, shoulders, and legs.
Use your fingers to comb the shampoo in, as this can help remove unwanted dirt and debris from your dog's fur.Work the suds down and under the dog's tail, his underside, his legs, and paws.
Remember to clean under your dog's neck, in facial wrinkles, and in ear flaps., Use the spray attachment, faucet, or bucket to thoroughly rinse any soap residue from your dog.


When dealing with the head, make sure to tilt your dog's head back again to avoid getting soap in his eyes.
Rinse until the water runs clear when poured over the dog. Leaving soap in can cause dry skin and irritation for your dog as well as allergic reactions. The dog can also ingest soap when licking, so do not stop rinsing until the water is clear.You can knead the dogs coat to work the soap out. With a longhaired dog, it can take a particularly long time to rinse so be patient and don't hesitate to use your hands.
 Conditioner makes your dog's coat easier to brush out after a bath and makes the coat softer and adds shine. Using a small amount of conditioner in the palm of your hand, smooth the conditioner over the top of the neck to the end of the tail. Cover the outside of the ears, the legs, the chest, feathering and the rest of the body. Different conditioners have different requirements, so follow the instructions on the bottle to see how long to leave it in before rinsing. Some conditioners are leave-in, so you do not need to rinse them out.
 Dry your dog with a large towel until he is damp.


Allow your dog to shake. With longhaired breeds, this lifts and separates the fur and makes the drying process faster.
If needed, squeeze excess water from your dog's fur using your hands.
If you placed cotton balls in your dog's ears during the bathing process, remove them now.
Be especially diligent when drying around your dog's ears. Wetness can make ear infections more likely.
Avoid heavy rubbing, as this can tangle the fur of a long-haired dog. Instead, try to blot dry.
When you finish drying your dog, give him a quick brush over with a bristle brush until his fur is smooth and tangle-free., Depending on breed, or the purpose for clipping, you will have different goals and need different tools for grooming your dog. Make these decisions before beginning the clipping process.


If your shortening your dog's fur for summer, you may feel the need to shave him completely. However, this is not recommended as his long coat actually helps regulate his temperature. It provided insulation, which cools your dog in the summer, and can also prevent sunburn and other skin damage. It's best to trim down your dog's hair, focusing especially on long hair on his legs and snipping any mats from his coat.Making your dog "show-ready" can be complicated, and difficult to achieve without professional training. If you're going at it on your own, and do not have a background in dog grooming and showing, it's best just to strive to make your dog look less shaggy and remove any troublesome mats or tangles.
 A variety of clippers and shears are available for dog-grooming, and the options can initially be overwhelming. However, some diligence, patience, and research are all you need to make the right decision for your dog.


Understand the difference between scissors and clippers. Clippers are operated electronically and can be outfitted with a selection of blades to fit your dog's needs. They are also easier to use for DIY grooming, as they're easier to handle and remove hair quicker and neater than scissors. Scissors, or grooming shears, are non-electronic and look much like a conventional pair of sewing or craft scissors. They are recommended for trimming around delicate areas, like your dog's eyes and muzzle.Choose a brand of clippers specifically designed for your dog's breed, or the closest approximation of your dog's breed. This should be listed on the label, and you can also ask an employee at your local pet store if you are unsure.Select your blade number depending on how long you want to leave your dog's coat. The lower the blade number, the longer the dog's hair will be. A #5 blade leaves a hair length of 1/4, while a #30 blade leaves a hair length of 1/100. The most commonly used blade is a #10, as this works well for body trimming of most breeds, but might not be the best choice for long-haired dogs if you wan to leave them some fur. A #5 or #7 blade might be a better choice.The speeds can be an important consideration when you’re picking out your clippers. For the most part, they come in two different varieties: single-speed and two-speed. The single speed clippers will be lighter and easier to use for extended periods, two-speeds will be more versatile and better for dogs with exceptionally thick hair.
 Using your scissors, as the feet are a sensitive area, remove any unwanted fur from your dog's feet and tail.


With long-haired breeds, hair around the feet and pads need trimming. The hair here can get long and cause the dog to lose traction and slip on certain surfaces like hardwood floors.Clip around the tail. Long feathers on the tail should be shortened, as these can become tangled with fecal matter and other debris., When you finish grooming your dog's body, still using your scissors over your clippers, move to the head and muzzle.


Be wary of any movements of your dog's ears, eyelashes, and muzzle. Place the clippers flat against the dog's head, with the blade spokes facing to the rear. Clip backwards, to push unwanted hair away from the dog's eyes.Trim the muzzle. Begin at the bridge of the nose and move downward towards the dog's eyes. Then, gently wrap your hand around your dog's muzzle and point it towards the ceiling. Trim down the throat to remove unwanted hairs from the muzzle., You can now begin the process of trimming down your dog's hair with your clippers, providing a smooth and even look for your pet.


Start at the back of the neck. Do not push the clippers too fast, as to avoid leaving lines, and go with the growth of the hair. This makes the hair look smooth and natural.
Hold your dog gently to prevent movement, as wiggling and resisting can cause uneven lines and hairs.
Groom one side of the body, starting from the back of the neck, moving to the whole side, and finishing on the back of the leg. Turn the dog around and repeat this process on the other side.
Groom the front legs and then move onto the belly. The belly requires extra clean shaving, as it's prone to trapping dirt and debris and is not at a high risk of sunburn. Go against the growth of the hair on the belly for a finer shave., Once your dog is clipped and bathed, you can make him show ready by brushing and fluffing his hair. Use a soft bristle brush and brush your dog from the bottom up, lifting the roots and giving him the full effect of his long hair. After brushing his hair in the wrong direction, start at the feet and brush to direct the hair back down. Continue brushing until your dog is fluffy and tangle free., Regular dental care for your dog can prevent the development of gum disease, a serious ailment for dogs. Like ear care, it should be incorporated into a grooming routine.


Put a pea-sized amount of toothpaste on the toothbrush. Place one hand over the top of your dog's muzzle and gently lift his lips. With your other hand, gently brush the outside of his gums and teeth.
Gently place one hand over the top of your dog's muzzle and open his mouth. Put the brush in the dog's mouth and brush the roof of his mouth and the inside of his gums and teeth., Many dogs are squeamish about having their feet touched or handled, so be sure to ease your dog into the process of nail-clipping to avoid injury during the process.


Associate nail-clipping with good things. If your dog learns tolerating nail-clippings leads to treats, walks, or new toys they're more likely to behave during the process. Whenever you trim your dogs nails, make sure you immediately follow up with some kind of reward.
Handle your dog's toes and feet regularly, picking up his paws and touching his nails. This gets him used to the sensation of having his feet touched. You can also try touching the dogs nails to the clippers and immediately following this up with a treat.
 Once your dog is used to having his feet handled, you can begin the nail trimming process. Use guillotine clippers, which provide a small hole that nails are inserted into. The blade is then pushed up to remove the nail.


Take your dog's toe and hold it firmly in your hand. Insert his nail into the clipper hole. Hold the trimmer perpendicular to the nail, as you'll be cutting from bottom to top.
Know where to trim. If your dog has clear nails, you can see a sliver of pink towards the base of the nail. This is the live quick and you should not clip into this area as this will cause pain and bleeding. Make sure you are at least 2 millimeters away when you make the cut.
If your dog has dark nails, cut away one small sliver of nail at a time starting with the tip. Look at the exposed edge each time and eventually a gray or pink oval will start to appear. Stop trimming when you see this oval.