 Your daily skin care regimen should start and end with washing your face. Use a gentle face wash and warm water to remove impurities, oils and bacteria.Although washing is important, too much washing can irritate your acne blemishes and make them more irritated. Do not over wash and do not use a rough washcloth that can further irritate your skin.
Use a mild cleanser (such as Cetaphil, Aveeno or specific acne cleanser) twice a day. If you experience any irritation, stop using the product and try something else.
Learn more about how to Wash Your Face here.
 The fairness of your skin makes it essential that you take precautions to protect it from the damaging effects of the sun. Wear an oil-free sunscreen with at least SPF 30 every day, even if you will be inside most of the day. Many acne products can make your skin even more sensitive to the sun and getting red or burning can lead to increased irritation and worsening of acne. In addition, you greatly increase your risk of skin cancer and skin aging by exposing yourself to the sun without proper protection.


Consider wearing a wide-brimmed hat , sunglasses, and protective clothing to add another layer of protection.Try to avoid going outside during peak sun exposure, between 10am and 4pm., Exfoliating removes dead skin cells and debris that accumulate over your skin and clog pores. As with too much washing, exfoliating too often can irritate your skin; thus, limit this to two to three times a week.


After washing your face, apply a small amount of the product and gently rub onto the skin using a circular motion. Avoid exfoliating around the eyes. Rinse off the product and pat dry your skin.
Avoid harsh products and applying too much pressure. This will only irritate your skin.
Ask your dermatologist for advice on the best exfoliation products for your skin.
Learn more about how to Exfoliate Your Skin.
 If your dermatologist has prescribed or recommended you use an acne cream (such as benzoyl peroxide, retinoid, or tretinoin cream), apply that over the affected area.


Use only small amounts according to the product label or as recommended by your doctor.
If you are using a new treatment, watch for signs of skin irritation. If you experience mild irritation (pain or burning), this might be normal and should resolve quickly. However, if you experience long-lasting irritation or severe pain/burning or a rash, stop using the product and call your doctor., To finish off your daily routine, apply an oil-free face cream to hydrate your skin and prevent dryness and irritation.It is important that you use the a product that is suitable for fair skin and is also suitable for acne. Oily moisturizers clog your pores and cause further acne breakouts.
Consult your dermatologist and ask what moisturizer he recommend for your skin. If you are using a new product, watch for signs of irritation (redness, dryness, oiliness, burning). If you experience any irritation, you may want to switch products.

