 Prepare the list of words you need to memorize. Either get them from your teacher, your textbook, a play, song lyrics, or whatever source that you’ll be taking them from. It is best to print out the words and then write the word out next to the printed word before you even begin. This will be your first step in memorizing them.
 Drawing a picture that describes each word will help you remember it better. Make sure to maintain the original meaning of each word as best as you can.


Nouns might be easiest, as you’ll just have to draw the person, place, or thing.
Adjectives will be somewhat easy. Words like “big” and “beautiful” will be relatively easy to draw.
Verbs might be more difficult. For a word like “associate” try to draw its meaning (the connection between things).This works best for vocabulary and spelling.
 Word association webs will help you remember words by associating them with other words. This is a great visual way of memorizing words quickly and will complement other visual approaches to memorization.


Write the word you want to remember on the center of a sheet of paper.
Draw lines outward from the center connecting the center word to other words that you associate with it. For example, if the word is “winter” draw a line outward connecting it to “snow” and another line on the other side connecting it to “freezing” and another line on the side connecting it to “ice.” Repeat this process outward until you’re confident you will remember it.
This should not take more than 3-5 minutes per word.
If you're memorizing lines for a play or music lyrics, try a linear approach, put your words in order, and connect them with lines. Branch out from your lyrics with other words that have a similar meaning or evoke a similar feeling., Creating a picture story is similar to creating a word or sentence story, but instead of writing it out, you’ll be drawing your story. This method works great for very visual and artistic learners who might be overwhelmed with writing out vocabulary and building sentences.


Take your list of words and quickly draw a picture for each word.
Try to maintain the original meaning of the word, if you can.
Organize the pictures so they make a story you can remember.
This will work great when paired with word association and mnemonic devices.
This will also work great for memorizing lyrics or play lines. As you'll be associating pictures with your words., The more time your spend looking at and thinking about your visual aids, the better prepared you’ll be and the better you’ll remember your word list. Spread this out over a couple days if possible. Review your visual aids when you have time. Consider:


Reviewing them while eating.
Looking at them when you have down time in between other tasks and projects.
Spending a couple minutes looking at them and thinking about them when you wake up and before you go to sleep.

