 To check for leaks you’ll need to look out for discoloration on the inside roof and walls of the shed. You’ll need to check for any discoloration to the structure, particularly stains and darker patches. Check the sides of the shed for dark patches or streaks as this may indicate dripping or running water.


You should also look for discoloration on fabric, as it could mean there is mold growing. There may also be signs of mold, especially on any fabric stored in the shed. Check fabric for any dark spots of mildew. However, keep in mind that mold can also be caused by condensation.;
, You should also look for discoloration, like patches of rust, on your tools and any other metal items.


The items affected may not be directly under the source of the leak as water may be running down the walls and collecting elsewhere.
 If you are having trouble spotting discoloration, you could examine your shed after it rains. If there are puddles anywhere in the shed, it means you have a leak. The puddles will most likely form under or near where the crack in the shed is.
 Condensation occurs when the moisture in the air forms water droplets on a cold surface. Don’t confuse condensation with a leak. A properly-ventilated shed is unlikely to have major problems with condensation but you can expect colder parts of the shed to attract condensation.


Avoid problems caused by condensation by keeping your shed well-ventilated and ensuring the contents aren’t too close together as this prevents slows down air circulation. Try not to stack things against the external walls, as these may transfer condensation to whatever touches them.
 Guttering is a means of moving water away from the shed by directing it to drains in the ground. Check that any guttering you have on your shed is clear and moving water as it should do. If it is leaking it can cause water damage.


Gutters can get clogged up with dirt, moss, leaves and dropped fruit from trees. Clear this if it is causing a problem.
 You should also take the opportunity to clear vegetation or any dirt growing against the external walls of the shed. As the shed is unlikely to have waterproofing in its walls, it needs to be able to circulate air to remove dampness.

