 If you want a simple, inexpensive camera with a low learning curve, consider a point and shoot digital camera. These have a viewfinder that's simply a "window" through the camera, rather than an exact image of what the camera will photograph, and may have fewer settings to alter.The picture quality will likely be worse because of this, but there is a wide range of quality in point and shoot cameras, so do not rule them out before you investigate.;
, An SLR digital camera (sometimes referred to as DSLR) provides you with much more creative control. Most of these have both automatic and manual adjustment for lighting and focusing. If you want additional control over the technical aspects of photography, or if you enjoy playing around with color settings and flash, look for digital SLR cameras. Be aware that these are almost always more expensive than point and shoot cameras.


SLR stands for "single-lens reflex" and describes the mirror and prism system that sends an accurate image to the viewfinder. Nowadays, most digital cameras of this type have an electronic display, but they are still referred to as SLR or DSLR cameras.
 Remember that sometimes an inexpensive camera will satisfy your needs better than a more expensive one. Similarly, brand names are sometimes associated with higher quality, but that does not mean a less well known brand won't satisfy you. Judge cameras based on their qualities, not on the hype of a price tag or advertisement.
 Before you get carried away with the extra features and higher quality of a fancy camera, keep in mind that you'll have to carry the camera away as well. Generally speaking, a small camera is lower quality than a larger one, but the sacrifice may be worth it if you plan to carry the camera on a whirlwind tour of Europe.


Consider the case it comes with as well, and how much protection it provides. You may wish to purchase a higher quality case if you are going to be traveling. Soft camera cases are portable and easy to store, while hard camera cases provide better protection and waterproofing, which may be necessary for non-compact cameras., Even some larger cameras have uncomfortably small hand grips, while many small cameras have no grip at all. Ideally, the grip should just fill the inside curve of your fingers, or the camera should be light enough that you can comfortably hold it steady. Will you get a major finger cramp just trying to hold on?


Small cameras without grips should still have a loop of nylon or other material that you can slip around your wrist. This could save your camera from damage if it is dropped or knocked from your fingers.
 Before you compare the cost of cameras, add the cost of a memory card and memory card reader if necessary. An extra set of batteries and extra charger are also a good idea. Decide whether to buy a more protective case as well. Once all of these are added up for your top two or three choices, you have a much better idea of how much each option will cost you.

