 Before applying a pore strip, you should always wash your face. This will remove dirt and oil. The warmth will also open up your pores, making the strips more effective.It is important that you are not wearing any makeup when you apply the pore strips.;
, You should use equal parts milk and gelatin. Approximately a tablespoon of each should work, but you might find that you can use less than this.Any type of milk should work. You can use whole, skim, almond, or soy milk.
The gelatin should be unflavored, so as to avoid introducing extraneous substances into the pore strip.
Some people recommend adding a drop of lavender essential oil to the mixture.
 Use a utensil, possibly the brush you will use later, to mix the milk and gelatin together. By the time that you are done, it should have a thick, chunky, cloudy appearance., You will need the mixture to be warm, but not hot. You can either microwave it or heat it on the stove. If you microwave it, be sure to do so in a microwave safe container.


If microwaving, heat the mixture for 10 seconds.
If using the stove, place in a small container. Heat slowly, mixing as it heats. This method will allow you to better monitor the temperature. Stop when the mixture is warm, but not hot., If you used the microwave, remove the container from the microwave. Allow it to cool for 20 seconds. It should look even cloudier than before.
 Use the brush to test the temperature on your hand. It should be warm, but not hot. Put a small amount of the mixture on the brush and see how it feels on your hand.
 Use a makeup brush or your fingers to spread the mixture across your face. Be sure to target areas in which you have had outbreaks in the past.If you use a makeup brush, clean it off thoroughly before using it again.
 As the mixture cools it should solidify and form a mask. This could take anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes. The longer you wait, the more likely it is that the mixture will attach to the dirt in your pores. This will allow you to better pull out the dirt. Therefore, it is best to error on the side of leaving the mixture on for a longer period of time., Start from the outside and peel the hardened mixture off your face. Progress slowly. If you try to rip the whole mask off at once, you might hurt yourself., After removing the strip, rinse your face with cold water to remove any additional pieces of the mixture from your face. The cold water will also close your pores. Afterward, apply moisturizer.