 Different varieties of plastic require different glues. The easiest way to identify the type is to search for a recycling symbol on the plastic itself, the label, or the packaging the object came in. This symbol is a triangle formed by three arrows, and contains a number, letter or both inside or below the triangle., A recycling symbol containing a 6 or PS signifies the plastic type "polystyrene". This is best glued with a poly cement (also called plastic cement), or a specialized plastic glue such as Loctite Epoxy Plastic Binder or Super Glue Plastic Fusion.Other adhesives that will work include a cyanoacrylate (also called "instant glue" or "cyano"), or an epoxy., If your material is labeled 2, 4, 5, HDPE, LDPE, PP, or UMHW, you have a type of "polyethylene" or "polypropylene". These plastics are much more difficult to glue, and you'll need to look for a specific product that names these types on its label, such as Loctite Plastics Bonding System or Scotch Weld DP 8010.
 The miscellany category marked 7 or the ABS type marked 9 can indicate a variety of plastic resins, with many possible letters indicating subtypes. Your best bet for gluing it is an epoxy or cyanoacrylate.
 If there is no recyclable system, you may have to guess at which type of plastic it is before you can select a glue. Here's a guide to help you accomplish this task:Lego bricks are made from a type of plastic called "ABS", and are best glued using epoxy cement. ABS solvent cement will also work, but may alter the shape of the material's surface.
Imitation glass, cheap toys, CD cases, and similar brittle, often clear plastic is usually "polystyrene" and can be glued using a number of adhesives. For best results, use a poly cement or a glue advertised for plastic bonding.
Glue tough, hard plastic found in bottles, buckets, crates, and food containers using a product that specifically advertises the ability to bond "polyethylene" and "polypropylene". These are impossible to glue by most normal methods, so don't assume a product labeled "for plastic" will work unless it specifically mentions "polyethylene" or "polypropylene".
 If you are gluing plastic to wood, metal, glass, or even a different type of plastic, you'll need to commit to further research. If you can't find an answer online or by asking an experienced handyman, go to the hardware store and look at each brand of adhesive you've determined you could use following the above steps. The packaging should tell you what substances it can glue onto plastic.


Visit This to That for extensive advice on which glue to use for each combination of materials. This advice will be most helpful for common types of plastic, especially polystyrene.
If you are unsure which to use, try testing an adhesive with scrap material of the same types, or in an unobtrusive corner of your object in need of gluing.

