 Many music blogs offer free downloads of mixtapes, singles, or EP tracks as a promotion for the bands and artists coming out with new records. Doing some exploring in the world of music journalism can help you come up with some promotional singles and free downloads.


Pitchfork, Aquarium Drunkard, and the collection are good sites for finding out about new music and picking up the occasional free downloads. These websites generally make their music available in the form of MP3’s that you can directly drop into your iTunes library.
Although the quality of the tracks are sometimes questionable, they’re a quick and dirty way to get the songs you need quickly and for free. These tracks are already MP3s, so they can definitely be played on iTunes.Just open iTunes, open your Library, and drag and drop your tracks into the window, or right-click and open them in iTunes. After a few moments, they should be processed and available for listening.
 Hip-hop acts, both mainstream and underground, have embraced a new digital way of networking, revolving around free downloads of album-length projects called mix-tapes. As old analog mix-tapes were once passed from artists to record execs, new mix-tapes are available for free online as a way of advertising new music and keeping buzz around established artists.


Some artists choose to release mix-tapes directly from their own websites or Bandcamp pages, but the website DatPiff is the home of mix-tape culture on the internet. The "Featured Mix-Tapes" tab allows unregistered users to download as many "Featured" tapes as you want, at no cost.
While the site caters to unsigned artists and underground acts like Mick Jenkins or Action Bronson, established rappers from Lil Wayne to T.I. to Raekwon also frequently release free mix-tapes to keep the buzz going around their next record.
There are limits on unfettered tapes, though for-pay memberships will allow you to download as many tapes as you want. If you're a hip-hop head, DatPiff is an essential free shopping place.
 Radiohead changed the way the music business works by releasing their record In Rainbows based on a pay-what-you-want scale. The idea that many music listeners will listen to anything, as long as its free, many undiscovered artists are eager to get their music out to listeners, and are less concerned with immediate revenues, so they release tracks and EPs or even full albums without charge on websites such as SoundCloud or Bandcamp. Explore these websites based on genre descriptions or popular "Featured" artist pages to find out about free tunes you might be able to nab and explore.


Pay-what-you-want pay scales often look as if you're going to be required to pay, but you can just insert a zero in the payment window. You won't be charged anything.
 Many online radio shows and podcasts will play music that allow you to essentially listen to music for free. While you won't be able to download the individual tracks, you can subscribe to the podcast and listen to free tunes as much as you want. Free music podcasts available for downloading to your mobile device or desktop computer include:


Country Classics. Hosted by Joe Bussard, the man with the largest collection of 78 rpm records in the world, this podcast features pre-war country, blues, and hillbilly music. It's a wonderful collection of oddities hosted by a total weirdo. And it's free!
NPR's Tiny Desk Concerts. Short concerts held in the NPR studios and made available for free download. A great way to hear your favorite artists in an intimate setting, for free.Theme Time Radio Hour. Originally included on Sirius XM Radio, you can download all of Bob Dylan's radio show, featuring everything from Koco Taylor to the Beastie Boys, for free online.
 You can find an enormous collection of music on YouTube, and many websites offer video-downloading services that allow you to download a file that contains the stripped audio track of a YouTube video, allowing you to paste in the URL of a YouTube video, it’ll give you an MP3 track of just the sound.


Listen to YouTube, Tube To MP3, and YouTube to MP3, and All2MP3 are freeware programs that will all accomplish this for you. Download the software, install it, and copy the link into the browser. These will produce MP3's, so you can put them right into iTunes.
The best trick is to find artists on YouTube first and then browse their profiles for links to other media-sharing sites, where they may make available more extensive discographies of their music, check out their Bandcamp pages or other social media for options and for new artists.
 Ask friends whose taste you trust to make you mix CDs of their favorite songs and then upload them into your iTunes list. Better yet, there are many file-storing and sharing services available for free, like Dropbox, which allows you to store documents, files, and folders online that you can share with others. Make your own separate accounts, and then simply have them drop any good tracks they have into a shared folder that you can retrieve from your own computer and onto iTunes.
 Torrents are large, encrypted files that need to be unpacked after downloading, using a Torrent downloading client, such as uTorrent or Frostwire. Use online torrent finders like Pirate Bay to find specific files and unpack and download them using the torrent client, or just search directly on the client itself. Once downloaded, drag and drop the files directly into iTunes to listen.

