 Flex your arms, butt, or legs, now hold it for about thirty seconds to one minute. This is a great, and subtle, exercise, especially for desk jockeys, as you can do it even while sitting down. It promotes leanness and toning of muscle.;
, First step: Buy a set of dumbbells. I recommend starting at ten/fifteen pounds for men, and five/ten for women. Once or twice a week, weight lift for about twenty minutes, or until your muscle fails and you can't lift the weights anymore. Why do this? Studies show that when your muscles are stressed to the point of failure, they add mass*(see tips)*, and therefore strength. How to do it: Count 2 on the way up, and count 4 on the way down. Any faster than that and you are cheating with momentum.
 You'll work your chest, shoulders, triceps, back and abs.


Position yourself face down on the floor, balancing on your toes/knees and hands. Your hands should be wider than shoulders, body in a straight line from head to toe.
Don't sag in the middle and don't stick your butt up in the air.
Slowly bend your arms and lower your body to the floor, stopping when your elbows are at 90 degrees.
Exhale and push back up. Variations include incline, decline, wall pushups or, for masochists, one-armed pushups.
 Squats can be done before dinner, right before work, whenever! They work your glutes, quads, hamstrings and calves all at once. How to Do it: Stand with feet hip-width apart, toes facing straight ahead or angled slightly outward. Slowly bend the knees and lower hips towards the floor, keeping your torso straight and abs pulled in tight. Keep your knees behind your toes; make sure everything's pointing in the same direction. Do not go lower than 90 degrees.
 A brisk twenty minute walk every night doesn't necessarily stress your muscles, but it will help keep your heart healthy. The human body was meant to move, to stretch, to bend, and by staying still we're not helping ourselves. So don't feel silly jogging in place for a minute, or squeezing your butt until your muscle trembles. It's good for us .

