 If you want fresh pumpkin seeds, you may take the seeds straight from a pumpkin you purchase at a grocery store. To start, carefully use a knife to cut a circle around the top of the pumpkin near the stem. Then, remove the section you cut out.


Use your hands, or a spoon if you'd prefer, to scoop out the insides of the pumpkin.
In addition to scooping out seeds, you'll find some orange pulp. You will have to wash this off the seeds later. Collect the seeds and pulp in a bowl.;
, When you've fully cleaned out the inside of the pumpkin, you should clean the seeds until they're free of any pulp and juice. You can clean them by placing the seeds and pulp in a strainer. Then, run the strainer under cool water in your kitchen sink until most of the pulp is removed.


It's okay to leave some pulp on the seeds, as some of it can be stubborn to get off. However, you should make sure to get most of the pulp off of the seeds, especially if you plan to roast the pumpkins later. Excess pulp could burn in the oven., Now, you can begin the process of removing the hard exterior shells from the pumpkin. These shells are non-toxic, so it's safe to leave them on, but many people prefer the softer seeds within. To start, spread the seeds out on a hard surface, like a counter top or cutting board.Try to spread the seeds out evenly, so there's little overlap between seeds.
Take a rolling pin. Gently roll the pin over the seeds, using enough force to produce light cracks in the shell.
Do not use too much force here. You do not want to damage the soft seeds within. Just roll hard enough to lightly fracture the surface of the shells.
 Boil a pot of water big enough to hold all your pumpkin seeds. Take your seeds and pour them into the water. The boiling process should cause the shells to gradually fall off.Keep an eye on the seeds as they boil and remove the seeds from the heat once most of the shells have shed. You'll notice the shells have slipped off of the seeds and are floating in the water or congregated at the bottom of the pan.
This process generally takes around 5 minutes, but it may take slightly more or less depending on how many seeds you're boiling. Less seeds may be ready in a couple of minutes, while more seeds may take closer to 10 minutes for the shells to shed.
 Once the shells are gone, remove the seeds from the heat. Strain them over the sink, using a sifter or strainer, and then set them out to dry.


You can set the seeds over tray or countertop covered in paper towel to absorb the water.
If there are any small bits of shell left on the seeds, you can pick these bits off using your fingers once the seeds are dry to the touch. Make sure to wash your hands first.

