 A daffodil is a common flower in the U.S., with yellow petals and an orange bulb. You can grow your own daffodils or buy them from your local florist or greenhouse.You will also need a clean towel made from thin cloth.


Make sure you are familiar with daffodils before applying one to your skin. Different plants have a variety of properties, so you want to make sure you have the right flower to use in this remedy. If you're not sure that you have daffodils growing in your yard, pick one, take it to your local florist, and ask for help identifying your plant.
Many people report skin irritation after coming in contact with daffodil bulbs. If you have sensitive skin, you might not want to try this remedy. You should also ask your doctor for advice about using any plants that are commonly known to cause irritation., Using scissors or a knife, remove the stem and petals from the daffodil. Place the bulb on a flat surface such as a counter or cutting board. Flatten the bulb, using your hands. You can also use any common item, such as pressing on it with a small plate. You can also use your fingers to pull the pollen-like substance from the stems.


You may want to wear a pair of disposable gloves for this process. Daffodils can irritate the skin.
 Collect the extract from the daffodil bulb. It will look and feel somewhat like pollen. Mix a small amount of water with the extract. Use the back of a spoon to mix the water and extract together to make a plaster, or paste.


Consider wearing latex gloves during this step. You may not want to have undiluted extract come in contact with your skin.
 Put the plaster in a thin, soft towel. Lightly press the compress to the area where your wart is located. Hold in place for several minutes. Then rinse the area with soap and water.Make sure to clean your hands thoroughly after handling the daffodil bulb. You should also wipe down the area where you made the paste.
If this method does not get rid of your wart on the first try, you may want to ask your doctor or pharmacist to recommend another remedy.

