 Hurting your arm is the worst part if you are a pitcher. After stretching try to use athletic bands to stretch your arm again. You don't want to hurt your arm. After that try to get a light jog in.;
, Try to stay close to your partner at first and when you start to get warm, take a step back each time you receive the ball. This process is called long tossing. Once your arm is feeling good, take a step forward every time you receive the ball until you and your partner are 10 feet (3.0 m) away.
 Go over the signs and what kinds of pitches you will throw that game. Then sit in the dugout as your team practices and takes infield. Be sure to wear something warm to keep your arm warm.
 Bullpen is a practice pitchers mound where a pitcher can warm up. In the Bullpen try to test all your pitches out and see if your fastball and your off speed is working. This way you can know what pitch is working for you or know what pitch is the best that day.
 If the catcher says any pitch is not working for you that day, then don't throw that pitch in the game. Try to work on some of the off speed pitches like curve ball, change up, knuckle or any other off speed pitches. That way the catcher can also get used to your off speed pitches.
 If your arm is hurting in the Bullpen then be sure to tell your coach, because you will rather miss one game then pitching with a hurt arm and sitting out the rest of the season. The coach will probably ask you "how is your arm hurting?" If he asks any question don't be scared to tell the truth.
 This is the best part of baseball. When the game starts and it is your turn to pitch go to the mound and throw a couple of times. There is usually a hole where the pitchers step on the front side of the mound, so if that bothers you try to kick some dirt in there and cover up the mound.
 If you can't see the catcher's sign take a time out and talk to him. The catcher then will use his body parts as a sign instead of his fingers. If you follow these steps you will be properly ready to pitch.

