 When you breathe, your body and gun move up and down and affect where your shot lands. To minimize these effects, use your natural respiratory pause to steady yourself when you fire your shot.Do this by inhaling and exhaling, then holding your breath while you pull the trigger. The less forced it feels, the more natural shooting your rifle will feel.


Don't hold your breath for too long or your sight picture may begin to blur. The sight picture is what you see when looking through your guns front and rear sights.When firing multiple shots in quick succession, take shorter breaths so you can utilize your natural respiratory pause every time you fire the gun.
During the pause your respiratory muscles are more relaxed which makes it easy to stay on target.;
, The prone position is when the shooter is laying on his stomach while aiming his shot. This position is the most natural and accurate shooting position to learn if you're firing a rifle.Other stances are not as effective. This includes firing while you are standing, which is the hardest way to shoot a rifle and is inaccurate across long distances.If you are trying to improve your long range accuracy, master shooting in the prone position before moving on to harder shooting positions.


Other positions including sitting or kneeling.
Do not stand up with your rifle. Put the gun on the ground, stand up, then pick it up while you are standing.
 Follow through entails keeping your gun still while the bullet exits the barrel. To improve your follow through, keep your eye on the target for the entire duration of the shot. Don't move your head after you pull the trigger, and keep the pressure on the trigger even after you've fired.Allowing your finger to bounce forward can affect the gun's natural point of aim.
Do not keep the trigger pulled if you are using a fully automatic rifle.
By developing good follow through, you'll be able to spot where your shots landed, and how to adjust your aim for the next shot., Shooting slings can help you keep your gun close to your shoulder and in the right position, especially if you don't have a bipod to keep your rifle steady. Shooting slings can act as carrying straps, but double as gun to shoulder support. To alter your sling to act as a shooting sling, detach the sling from the rear of the rifle, and create a loop at the end of the sling. This loop will anchor to your supporting arm and help you steady your aim.This will help keep your rifle steady as you take your shot.

