 Federal courts generally have jurisdiction over claims involving federal law, or if you are suing someone who is a resident of a different state.The state of Virginia is divided into two federal districts, so you need to choose the one that encompasses the county where the person you're suing lives or does business.Each district has multiple courts. For example, there are seven courts in the western district. If the person you want to sue lives or does business in Salem, Virginia, for example, you would need to file your lawsuit in the Roanoke court., Federal rules are extremely complicated, and if you file the suit on your own you will be expected to know and understand them the same as attorneys are expected to know them.Not only are you responsible for the federal rules of evidence and civil procedure, you also must understand the local rules of the district where you're filing your case. These rules differ from court to court., Each type of claim has a statute of limitations, which provides a deadline before which you must file your suit. You must do legal research to determine what the statute of limitations would be for your claim, when the clock started to run, and whether your deadline has passed., Search online for a form or other complaint filed in the same court that you can use as a guide.


The federal courts have a number of forms available online. Review the local rules to determine other documents such as civil cover sheets that you'll need to file with your complaint.
If you can't find the correct form for your particular case, you may be able to find a few sample complaints filed in other cases in the same court that you can use as guides.At a minimum, you must comply with the form set forth in Rule 8 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.Your complaint must identify you and the people you're suing, including names and addresses. Next, you must explain how the court has jurisdiction.
Following this information in numbered paragraphs, explain the facts of your case. Each specific fact or allegation usually is a separate numbered paragraph.
The last paragraph of your complaint explains what form of relief you want from the court, be it monetary damages or for the court to order the defendant either to do something or to stop doing something., The local rules of the court where you're filing may require other documents such as a cover sheet be included with your complaint., If you have any documents or other evidence such as photographs that support your claim, you should attach them to your complaint.
 Federal rules require you to sign your complaint for it to be valid.


Your signature must be accompanied by your full name printed out along with your address, email address, and telephone number.
Your signature doesn't need to be verified or signed in the presence of a notary public to be valid.Once you've signed your complaint, assemble all the documents you need to file together and make enough copies that you can send one to the person you're suing and keep at least one for your own records. The court will keep the originals when you file your suit., To complete the act of filing you must take your complaint and all copies to the clerk's office along with a fee.


The fee to open a lawsuit in federal court is $400. If you can't afford the fee, you can file a motion asking the court to waive it., After you've filed your complaint you must arrange to have it sent to the other side so he has notice of the lawsuit.


Generally you must follow the process in Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to serve the complaint on the person or company you're suing. You may use a private process server or the U.S. marshal.It is your responsibility to have the other side served within 120 days of filing your complaint., After he receives notice of the suit, the defendant has 21 days to file a response or you may win your case by default., If the defendant disputes any part of your claim, you must engage in discovery and other pre-trial activities.


Discovery gives you the opportunity to ask the person you're suing questions or request documents from him that you believe will assist you in preparing your case. You also have the ability to call in witnesses and interview them on the record.