 Your eye cream will absorb better if you place it on a clean surface. Take care to wash your face before you apply eye cream. Do this whether you are using a night cream, a day cream, or both.Use warm water to wash your face. If the water is too hot, it can strip your face of moisture.
Choose a gentle cleanser. Use a cream cleanser to add extra moisture to your skin.
Wet your face, then gently massage cleanser onto your entire face, using circular motions. Rinse the cleanser off, then pat your face dry with a clean, soft towel.;
, After washing and drying your face, apply any serums or toners that you use. Your eye cream should be the last thing that you apply in your skin care routine. Make sure to wash your hands before touching the cream.Most eye creams come in small jars. After washing your hands, use your ring finger to scoop cream from the jar.
Eye creams are typically much thicker than regular moisturizers. Because of this, a little goes a long way.
You will need an amount of cream about the size of a pea. Start small, and add more if you need to.
If you are using a gel instead of a cream, use the same process. You might need a slightly larger amount.
 It is important to use your ring (or fourth) finger to apply eye cream. It is the weakest of your fingers. By using your ring finger, you are less likely to accidentally apply too much pressure and damage the sensitive skin around your eyes.Pat the cream onto the area around your eye. Do not rub, as you could tear the gentle skin.
Take care to go all the way around your orbital socket, which is the bone that surrounds your eye. You can feel its circular shape. Eye cream needs to be applied to this entire area.
Use your sunglasses as a guideline. You should apply cream to any part of your face that is covered by your shades.
 Some eye creams are made specifically to use at night. They are typically thicker, and may have anti-aging ingredients. Apply your eye cream at least 15 minutes before going to bed.It is important to allow your skin time to absorb the cream. Otherwise, it could run into your eyes when you lie down. You also don't want it to rub off on your pillow.
If you feel that your eye cream stings your eyes, you might be applying it too close to bedtime. Try putting it on earlier in the evening so it has time to absorb. Always avoid the eye lids.
If you are especially concerned about the skin around your eyes, you may also want to use a morning eye cream. Allow it to set for 15 minutes after application before applying makeup.

