 You want the oils to build up in your hair before you try to curl it.


If your scalp gets too oily, try putting some dry shampoo at your scalp but leaving the rest of your hair alone.;
, This will give you nice waves that you can build on with your curling iron. This works especially well if your hair is damp when you braid it. Simply rinse your hair (don't shampoo it), lightly dry it with a towel, and then place it in braids.









You can put your hair in as many braids as you like. Make sure that however many you do, that it will be comfortable to sleep on.
You can also roll your hair up into little buns to get a similar effect. Simply section off your damp hair into about four sections and twist them up into little buns, holding them up with bobby pins.When you take the buns out, your hair will be even curlier than if you braided it, but it will be more uncomfortable to sleep on.
 The last thing you want to do is fry your hair, so protect is as much as you can from the extreme heat produced by a curling iron. This will protect your strands from the damage a curling iron can do.
 This will help to maximize your curls, keeping them soft and not frizzy. Curl booster comes in a gel or spray form. Use whichever type you like.
 This will help your hair set once it has curled.









There are some mousses that are formulated specifically for curls. Choose one of these if you are buying the product specifically for curling your hair. If you already have a mousse you use regularly, try to use that one before buying a brand new product.
 You don't want to comb or brush your hair out totally if it has some curls from the braids you put in. However, you do want to make sure you can get individual pieces separated into sections to curl. You will want to be able to separate one inch sections all the way around your head with the tip of a comb.
 Curl each area individually, starting at the section closest to your face.








Take a one inch section and, holding your curling iron vertically, clamp onto the end of it. Roll the iron towards your head, stopping far enough away from your head that you don't burn it., You want to coil the curl up and then pin it so that it keeps that shape. It's important to leave all of these little coils pinned up until they are completely cool.This will help your curls stay.
 The products you put in before you curled your hair, in combination with the waves from braiding and pinning up all the curls while they cool, should help hold your curls.









There are a wide variety of ways you can style your curly hair. Some prefer to have their hair in a simple ponytail with a wispy bit down their face and others just like to let their hair loose down their back. It is entirely up to you!

,