 Start the engine and press your foot down on the brake pedal. Move the gear shift to the “R” position. You’ll now be ready to back out of the spot.








Don’t forget to disengage the parking brake if you put it on while parking.
 Before you begin backing out, turn your head to scan for oncoming vehicles. They might be harder to see when exiting the spot, so look twice just to be on the safe side. Don’t start backing out until you’re sure no one is approaching.








Look over the same shoulder as the direction you’ll be turning.The white reversing lights on the back of your vehicle will alert other drivers that you’re preparing to pull out of the parking spot.
 Pull straight out of the spot, using the brake to control your speed. Keep your foot on the brake the whole time you’re easing out. Check again for oncoming traffic once your line of sight is clear. 








Never back out of a parking spot with your foot on the accelerator.
Vehicles in the travel lane technically have the right of way, so be sure to stop if you see another car coming., When you’re halfway out of the spot, start cutting the wheel gradually in the same direction you pulled in. Since the spot is at an angle, you won’t need to turn much. Just make a smooth, loose arc, reversing until you’re pointed straight ahead.








The key to steering in reverse is to turn the wheel whichever way you want the rear of the vehicle to go.
Angled spots are meant to be exited the same way they’re entered. Cutting the wrong way will force you to make a much sharper turn and may leave you facing the wrong direction.
 Come to a complete stop, then shift the vehicle into drive (the “D” position on the gear shift). Rotate the steering wheel to straighten out your front tires. Wait until the lane ahead of you is clear to begin moving forward.









Make sure you have adequate clearance on all sides before you proceed to drive off.Keep an eye out for other drivers attempting to leave their parking spots.
 Once you're safely out of the parking spot, increase your speed and return to the flow of traffic. Congratulations, you’ve successfully angle parked!









Watch your speed until you’re out of the parking lot or garage.

