 Separate everything into tops, bottoms, dresses, etc. Color code your tops and sort your bottoms by length.;
, What are your favorite colors? What are popular colors? Do you need more of these? Here are general numbers of what you should have in your wardrobe:


20-30 t-shirts, cute tops, blouses, etc
5-15 tanks and camis
2-6 hoodies and sweatshirts
3-6 pairs of jeans
3-4 denim Bermuda shorts
3-4 short denim shorts
1-2 sweatpants
2-3 athletic shorts
2-3 formal dresses
3-4 sundresses
1-2 belts
Lots of accessories and undergarments
4 pairs of shoes

, Go shopping every month or every other month and buy a few things every time. During the summer, go shopping lots with friends. Save up between every time so you'll have more money to spend. After buying a few things every month/every other month, you'll notice that things really add up.
 Sure, that shirt looks cute but $30? Why not use that to buy a pair of jeans that you actually need? Some shopping tips: Think - the more I save, the more I'll have next time. I always tell myself - never buy a shirt that's more than $15 and never buy a pair of jeans, skirt, etc that's more than $30. Figure out your priorities so you don't spend lots of money on things you don't need.
 Don't buy something that's extremely tight. Buy something that's a little loose or big on you. Better for it to be big and fit for 2-3 years than buy it small and have it only fit for a few months.
 Should you really get that top from Abercrombie for $20 or should you go to Aeropostale and get something that looks almost exactly the same for only $10? And don't spend all your money on things like graphic tees (a few are okay though). Why spend $25 on a shirt that just says Hollister on it?

, Don't be afraid to ask. Want to wear a dress but don't have a cardigan to put over it? Ask a friend. Just be sure to be careful with it and always return it.
 There are tons of DIY videos on how to do this on YouTube., Have a diverse closet, not just a lot of the same things. It's good to save money. Go shopping every month or every other month and get 3-4 things each trip. Things will really add up and before you know it, you'll have an amazing and stylish wardrobe.
 For example: Abercrombie and Fitch, Hollister, American Eagle, Lacoste, Pac Sun, Ed Hardy, Bluenotes, Aeropostale, Diesel, Delias, and Forever 21. Go online first to get an idea of what these stores sell before going shopping. More info on these these stores is right below:


Abercrombie and Fitch- The clothes are preppy and classy, but it's usually over-expensive.
American Eagle- They send out many coupons through the year so the clothes become very affordable. You can probably sign up to get the coupons through membership online.
Lacoste- Lacoste has preppy, nice clothing but it is very expensive.
PacSun- It's a great store with variety. They carry many brands (DC, Hurley, Billabong, Element, Zoo York, etc.)
Ed Hardy- The colors here are very bright with the tattoo look.
Bluenotes- The clothes are unique and often have great deals.
Aeropostale- It's a very popular store. If you're a kid there's a store called PS which is basically Aeropostale for kids. Most of there clothes are tighter and form-fitting, and most of the shirts say "Aero" on them.
Diesel- Very expensive jeans ($200+), but are very comfortable and are extremely well-made. However, if you are still growing, especially fast, don't buy these as in 3-5 months you'll have outgrown $200.
Delias- Delias has lots of clothing variety. It has many sales and coupons that normally save you lots of money.
Forever 21- Forever 21 has reasonable prices and has everything you'll want to find from accessories to fancy dresses.

