 If you are a citizen of an EU country, the US, Canada, and some other countries, you won't need a visa to enter Spain as a tourist for 90 days or fewer.For the most part, if you are a citizen of a country in South America, Asia, or Africa, you must get a Schengen visa if you want to travel to Spain as a tourist.
A complete list of the countries for which citizens need a Schengen visa to travel to Spain for fewer than 90 days can be found at http://www.exteriores.gob.es/Consulados/LONDRES/en/Consulado/Pages/CheckPassport.aspx.
 You can pick up a Schengen tourist visa application form from the Spanish consulate nearest you. You also can download the application from the website of the Schengen visa department at www.schengenvisa.cc.The application form has space for you to provide your name, address, and birthdate. You also must include information about your passport and citizenship, employment, and finances.
The application also requires you to provide dates you will be entering and leaving Spain, other Schengen countries you will be visiting, and where you plan to stay while you are in Spain. You also must describe your reason for visiting Spain.
For most of the information you list on the form, you must provide documentation to back up your statements.
 Along with your application, you must submit copies of your travel itinerary, proof of health and travel insurance, and information about your income.You can get a list of the documents required from the consulate, or by visiting the consulate's website. Take note of the documents that must be translated into Spanish.
Generally, you will need a letter from your employer that provides information about your job and annual income. The Spanish government wants to make sure that you will be able to support yourself during your stay and that you aren't planning on staying in Spain in violation of their immigration laws, but that you have a job to return to. If you are self-employed, submit a copy of your most recent tax return.
 A Schengen visa allows you to enter any one of the countries participating in the Schengen Agreement. However, you must apply for your visa at the consulate of your main destination, if you plan to visit more than one country.You don't have to visit the consulate in person to apply for a Schengen visa. You can mail it to the correct consulate, but make sure you're leaving enough time for it to get there and be processed before you start your travel.
You can only apply for a visa from a consulate or embassy where you are a legal resident. For example, if you are a legal resident of the United States, you cannot submit an application to the Spanish consulate in Portugal.
A Schengen visa application must be accompanied by a non-refundable visa fee of 64 euros. This fee is payable by cash or money order only.
 From the day the consulate receives your Schengen visa application, it typically takes one or two weeks to be approved. It may take longer at certain high-volume times of the year, or if the consulate requires additional information from you.