 Though you may not share the same goals as Democrats, you can still seek to maintain a demeanor around them that is friendly and positive. This way, you can all still interact and get along, despite your political differences.When you first see a Democrat, greet him or her in a courteous manner and show the respect of a handshake or a wave when you say, “Hello.” Maintain eye contact with them to show them you are willing to engage in a positive way with them.;
, You can use open body language around Democrats so you do not seem standoffish, defensive or confrontational. Though you will not be all smiles all the time with Democrats, you need to engage in peaceful disagreement without rancor or being especially unfriendly.Open body language means keeping your arms relaxed at your sides and turning your body toward the person you are speaking to, rather than crossing your arms or turning your back. You will seem more involved, if you maintain eye contact when speaking to the person, and nod to show you are listening.
 You should feel comfortable wearing a Republican party pin in public or wearing a shirt that shows your support for Republicans, as this is your right under the laws of free speech. However, you can still show your support for your political party without being overly confrontational or scornful toward Democrats. Appearing non-confrontational will allow you to still interact with Democrats with respect and tolerance.If you are wearing or carrying items that support the Republican party, do not wave them in the faces of the Democrats around you. Wear and display these items openly but also respectfully, so you do not appear inflammatory.
It is important to avoid raising your voice loudly when speaking to Democrats. Respect the others' personal spaces and avoid getting right up in their faces. Instead, stand at a polite, arm’s length distance when possible as you engage in a healthy discussion or debate about politics.
 Though you have difficulty accepting the beliefs and policies of Democrats, you can still show a reasonable interest in what they say, to answer their points. A big part of having a lively, healthy political discussion is being willing to ask authentic questions of the other person, not just rhetorical questions, to which you do not intend to get an answer. This will further the conversation and allow you both to acknowledge the others' points, or at least listen to each other.For example, you may ask/tell the Democrat, “I want to hear why the death penalty is seen as wrong” or “Why would one oppose the death penalty? I am curious about your stance on this.” You may also say, “Tell me more about supporting abortion. I would like to know how you came to your stance on this issue.”

, Though you likely will not agree on key points with the Democrat as a Republican, you may start to notice some points of agreement. Finding these small points of agreement can help you to avoid being in continual, unproductive conflict with the Democrat.For example, you may share and discuss the general belief that people should be guaranteed liberty and freedom in the country they live in. Or, you both agree on the other person's exercise of free speech, though you may disagree on many political goals.
You may also be a Republican who agrees with traditional marriage as a conservative, but realize the Democratic stance on gay marriage was supported by a U.S. Supreme Court majority. Or, you might be a Republican who does not entirely agree with your party’s stance on abortion or immigration.

