 Shih Tzu have a double coat: an undercoat and a topcoat. Both coat layers need to be brushed regularly to prevent tangles and mats (knots of tangled hair). Daily brushing is ideal. If you do not have time to brush your Shih Tzu every day, brush it at least a few days a week.If your Shih Tzu’s coat is clipped short, brushing a few times a week may be enough to keep the coat nice and smooth.;
, High-quality combs and brushes are worth the cost. They will last longer than cheap tools and make it easier to care for your Shih Tzu’s coat.Below are the tools to use for grooming your Shih Tzu’s coat:Pin brush
Steel comb
Detangling comb and spray
Small pair of scissors

, Since your Shih Tzu is so small, you may be able to hold it in your lap to brush its coat. However, if your Shih Tzu won’t stay still on your lap, put it on a solid surface, such as your floor or a table.However you position your Shih Tzu, let it relax before you start brushing it. Talk to it in a soft voice to help it feel comfortable., To make brushing easier, spray the detangling spray throughout the coat first. Then, working in small sections and outwards from the skin, brush the coat with the pin brush.It doesn’t matter where you start and finish with the brushing—just be consistent each time.Keep the pin brush flat and brush with long, sweeping strokes. Twisting or turning the brush could cause hair breakage.Don’t forget to brush your Shih Tzu’s armpits and the insides of the legs.These areas can be easy to miss.
If you get to a tangle or mat, don’t yank through it with the brush. If you can’t brush through it, save it until later to work on.
 After using the pin brush, use the steel-toothed comb to remove tangles and mats.As with the brush, though, do not yank the comb to try to get the tangles out. This will hurt your Shih Tzu.


Use a face comb to comb the hair and whiskers on your Shih Tzu’s face.Face combs are available at your local pet store.
 If any tangles or mats remain after combing and brushing your Shih Tzu, you’ll need to take extra time to remove them. You might want to use a little more detangling spray. There are a few different ways to remove knotted hair:With your fingers: If the knots are small, break them apart with your fingers, then gently comb or brush through them.
With a steel comb: Pick apart the knot with the comb, then comb or brush through it.
With a de-tangling comb
With a pair of scissors: If the knots are large, point the scissors away from the skin and make small cuts in the knots. Comb through the small sections of the knots.

