 When it comes time to repay your federal student loan, the government provides a series of plans for how to do so. The default plan is known as the Standard Plan. This plan typically has the highest monthly payments, but allows you to pay your loans off quickly over time.


The payments for the Standard Plan are fixed and can be made for up to 10 years.
If the payment under the Standard Plan are simply too high for you, or you want lower payments, you will need to consider another one of the repayment plans available.
Studentaid.gov is the main resource for student loan plan information. Visiting this website can help you apply for plans and learn about plans.
These programs will likely not be available if you borrowed through a private lender. If your loans are not federal, you will have to follow up with your bank or credit union to see if you have any alternative payment options.;
, The Extended Plan is the first plan to consider if the standard payments are too high. The Extended Plan simply takes the amount you owe and stretches it for up to 25 years. This has the effect of immediately lowering your student loan payments.

The con is that you will pay much more interest over time, and will have the burden of a loan to deal with for a longer period.
This plan is also flexible, in the sense that you can opt for fixed or graduated payments. This means that your payments can be the same over your payment period, or they can gradually grow as your income grows.
To apply, contact your loan service provider and inquire about the Extended Plan.
 If you are currently in a situation where you are unable to pay full payments, but you expect your income to rise steadily over time, the Graduated Repayment Plan allows you to start with a low payment, and have it grow every two years.This program blends the Standard Plan and the Extended Plan. In this plan, you still must pay off your loan within 10 years. This means that you will pay less interest over time than with the extended plan. You also have the option of starting with fairly low payments, and having them grow every two years.
If you are in a career where there is solid income growth, this may be an option to consider.
This is perfect for an individual who cannot handle the Standard Plan repayments but does not need as much flexibility as the Extended Plan offers.
 If the main three types of plan are still too difficult to repay, the government offers three "Income-Driven Repayment Plans". These plans all tie your monthly payment to your income. If you are currently making very little or have high expenses, these options are wise to consider. Under all three plans, any remaining debt leftover after the payment period is forgiven.All of these plans, with the exception of the "Income-Contingent Plan", require you to demonstrate financial hardship..

Income-Based Repayment Plan: This plan makes your payments equal to 15% of your discretionary income. Discretionary income can be complex to calculate (your loan service provider will help you), but it basically means your leftover income after all your essential expenses are paid for. The loans can be repaid for 20 years if you are a new borrower.

Pay-As-You-Earn Repayment Plan: This plan is only available for people who received loans after October 1st, 2011. This plan allows you to repay for 25 years, and makes your payment only 10% of your discretionary income.Income-Contingent Payment Plan:This plan allows you to pay either 20% of your discretionary income, or what you would pay on a 12 year Standard Repayment Plan -- whichever is lower. This plan allows you 25 years to repay.
 An in-depth discussion with your loan service provider is necessary to both understand and apply for income driven plans. Your loan service provider can help you understand the sometimes complex eligibility requirements for these plans, and guide you through the application process.


Certain types of loans are only eligible for certain plans, and your loan service provider can tell you if your loan is eligible and if you are eligible based on your financial status.
 Understand that no matter what repayment plan you choose, you may have to cut basic expenses and forego luxuries in order to prioritize your monthly payments.
 It’s important to understand that if you pay less each month, you will typically wind up paying more over time. It’s understandable to choose the lowest possible monthly payment, but think about your long-term goals, and consider paying more if you can. To illustrate, take the average federal student loan debt, $26,946:On the standard plan, your payment would be $272 a month. When your loans are paid off, you’ll have spent a grand total of $32,585.
On the graduated plan, you might pay something like $152 a month in the beginning. This payment would increase to around $455 a month over time. You’ll ultimately spend a grand total of $33,979.
On a “pay as you earn” plan, you might pay something like $104 a month in the beginning. This payment would increase to around $272 a month. You’ll ultimately spend a grand total of $39,509.

