 Hieroglyphs can actually be read in almost any direction: left to right, right to left, and top to bottom. To determine how to read a specific set of glyphs, start by locating a glyph with a head. If the head is facing to the left, start reading from the left and work you way towards the head. If the head is facing the right, start reading from the right and work you way towards the head.If the glyphs appear in vertical columns, always start at the top and work your way down. However, you still need to determine if you read right to left or left to right.
Note that some glyphs may be grouped together to save space. Tall glyphs are usually drawn on their own while short glyphs may be stacked on top of one another. This means one line of hieroglyphs may require you to read both horizontally and vertically.
 Hieroglyphs have two types of nouns, gender nouns (masculine vs. feminine) and quantity nouns (singular, plural, or dual).In most, but not all cases, when a noun is followed by the bread loaf glyph it indicates that the word is feminine. If the noun doesn’t have a bread loaf glyph, it is likely masculine.
A noun that is plural may be represented by either the quail chick glyph or the rope curl glyph. For example, the glyph containing water and a man means ‘brother' (singular). The same glyph with a quail chick included means ‘brothers.'
A noun that is dual may be represented by two backwards slashes. For example, the glyph containing water, a rope curl, two backwards slashes, and two men means ‘the two brothers.'
Sometimes dual and plural nouns do not contain these extra glyphs, instead vertical lines or multiple glyphs of the same type will indicate how many of those items are being referred to.
 A pronoun is a substitute for a noun and is normally used after the noun (also known as the antecedent) is first used. For example, in the sentence “Bob tripped as he climbed the stairs,” ‘Bob’ is the noun and ‘he’ is the pronoun. In ancient Egyptian pronouns also exist, but may not always follow an antecedent.Suffix pronouns must be attached to nouns, verbs, or prepositions, they are not individual words. They are the most common pronouns in ancient Egyptian.
My, me, and I is represented by either a person glyph or a reed leaf glyph.
You and your is represented by basket with handle glyph when it is referring to a masculine singular noun. And is represented by a bread loaf glyph or tethering rope glyph when it is referring to a singular feminine noun.
He, his, it, and its is represented by a horned viper glyph when it is referring to a masculine singular noun. And is is represented by a folded cloth glyph when it is referring to a singular feminine noun.
Our, us, and we are represented by the water glyph on top of three vertical lines.
Your and you (the plural versions) are represented by either the bread loaf glyph or the tethering rope glyph on top of the water glyph and three vertical lines.
Their, them, and they are represented by a folded cloth glyph or a door bolt glyph plus the water glyph and three vertical lines.
 Prepositions are words like under, beside, on top, near, between, until, etc. that make other words in a sentence make sense in terms of time and space. For example, in the sentence “the cat was under the table,” the word ‘under’ is the preposition.The owl glyph is one of the most versatile prepositions in ancient Egyptian. Most of the time it translates to ‘in’ but can also mean ‘for, during, from, with, and through.'
The mouth glyph is another versatile preposition that can mean ‘against, concerning, and in order to,’ depending on the context of the sentence where its contained.
Prepositions can also be combined with nouns to make a compound preposition.
 Adjectives are words that describe nouns. For example, in the sentence “the pink umbrella,” the word ‘pink’ is the adjective as it is describing the noun ‘umbrella.’ In ancient Egyptian, adjectives can be used as both modifiers of nouns and as nouns themselves.Adjectives that are used as modifiers will always follow the noun, pronoun, or noun phrase they modify. These types of adjectives will also have the same gender and plurality as the noun.
Adjectives that are used as nouns have the same rules as nouns in terms of feminine versus masculine and singular versus plural versus dual.

