 Brushing your teeth is by far the most effective way of removing plaque, and brushing properly and regularly will help to ensure that less plaque builds up over time. This is important as built-up plaque can calcify into tartar, which is a lot harder to remove. You should brush your teeth once a day at the very least, but dentists recommend brushing twice; once in the morning and once before bed.It is important to brush before bed because during night, bacterial flora becomes more active eliminating acids that are hard to neutralize because of the reduced flow of saliva.
 Flossing is an essential component of effective oral hygiene, though unfortunately it is often neglected. Flossing removes bacteria and food particles from between the teeth, helping to prevent the formation of plaque. It should be done once a day, at bedtime, before brushing your teeth. Floss between teeth using a gentle sawing motion, and lifting the floss along the sides of the teeth. Avoid "snapping" the floss into place, as this can irritate the delicate gum tissue.


Make sure to use a clean section of floss for between each tooth, otherwise you are just moving bacteria from one part of your mouth to another.
If you find dental floss awkward to use, try using a dental pick instead. This is a small wooden or plastic stick which can be inserted between the teeth, achieving the same results as flossing., Though plaque-busting mouthwashes are not effective enough to remove plaque all by themselves, when used as part of a teeth cleaning routine involving brushing and flossing, they can help to loosen plaque, while giving you minty-fresh breath in the process.


Chlorhexidine digluconate is the most effective mouthwash against any type of oral bacteria, but it should not be used for more than two weeks in a row.
 The bacteria found in plaque thrive on sugary and starchy foods. In fact, every time you eat these kinds of foods, the bacteria release an acid which leads to tooth decay and cavities. To avoid this, try to minimize your consumption of these types of processed foods and pay special attention to your brushing and flossing routine if you decide to indulge., Even if you implement the most rigorous oral hygiene routine at home, you can still benefit from a visit to the dentist every six months or so. Only a dentist can give you the thorough, professional cleaning which will remove the most hard-to-reach plaque and stubborn tartar.

