 Your body needs protein to heal and regenerate damaged or old tissues.Two to three servings of protein rich foods per day should be plenty for the average adult.


1 ounce of meat counts as equivalent to one ounce of protein, but so does a single egg, 1/4 cup of cooked beans, and 1 tablespoon of peanut butter.From age 19 to 30, women should eat 5 1/2 ounce-equivalents of protein per day, while women over age 30 should eat 5 ounce- equivalents of protein per day. Men age 19 to 30 should consume 6 1/2 ounce-equivalents of protein per day; from 31 to 50, men should eat 6 ounce-equivalents, and over 50, you should eat 5 1/2 ounce-equivalents of protein per day., Carbohydrates provide energy for you to get out and move. You should be getting about half of your calories from carbohydrates.Try to choose unprocessed, whole grains over processed carbohydrates. For instance, eat whole-grain pasta, whole-wheat bread, oatmeal, fruits, and vegetables over foods such as white bread, soda, fruit juice, or desserts. Whole grains have more fiber and keep you fuller for longer, as it takes your body longer to process., A healthy diet with fruits and vegetables will provide you with the nutrients you need for an active, on-the-go lifestyle.Try to eat the rainbow, meaning you should vary the color of your fruits and vegetables, as they all have different nutrients. For instance, greens are high in vitamin K, which can help reduce bruising, while red vegetables, such as tomatoes, are high in lycopene, which can help protect your skin from the sun.On a 2,000 calorie diet, you should eat 2 cups of fruit and 2 1/2 cups of vegetables a day.Fruits and vegetables are low in calories and fat, but high in fiber and vitamins. This healthy eating pattern will reduce your risk for getting cancer, heart problems, high blood pressure, strokes, and diabetes.
 As you get older, your metabolism slows down and you want to be careful not to gain too much weight. You should keep your daily intake of fat under 65 grams.Try to pick healthy fats over unhealthy fats. Unhealthy fats include saturated fats (mainly in fatty beef, chicken with the skin still on, and full-fat dairy)and trans fats (mainly in hydrogenated oils and processed foods).Healthier fats include monounsaturated fats (in olive oil, sesame oil, peanut oil, peanut butter, and avocado, to name a few),polyunsaturated fats (in many plant-based oils), and omega-3 fatty acids (mainly in fish).Eating too much fat increases your chances of high cholesterol, heart problems, and strokes. You can reduce your fat consumption by eating lean meats, poultry, fish, and choosing low-fat dairy products., Reducing salt will help you avoid high blood pressure and reduce your chances of heart, liver and kidney conditions. While you need some salt to stay healthy, too much is not good.Adults should consume no more than about a teaspoon of salt per day, which is about 2,300 milligrams of salt per day. If you have a health condition, such as high blood pressure, you need to keep your intake under 1,500 milligrams per day.Read labels, as many products have more salt than you would think. Often, processed foods, such as canned vegetables, lunch meats, frozen foods, and pickles, are high in salt.

