 As you reduce total body fat with cardio, you need to build strength in the muscles that lie underneath the fat.


Keep in mind that the more muscle you build, the faster you will decrease your total body fat. Muscles burn fat more efficiently, and the process of lifting weights or doing strengthening exercises boosts your metabolism.
 Pilates mat and barre classes focus on strengthening the deep ab muscles, such as the obliques and the transverse abdominus. Learning to recognize and focus on these muscles will increase the effectiveness of your workout.
 Get into a push up position with your body forming a straight line from ankles to shoulders. Hold this position, while on your hands or elbows for 30 seconds to 3 minutes.
 Put your body weight onto your right arm while you are in plank position. Turn your body until your weight rests on your right arm or elbow and right foot.


Make sure you form a straight line from foot to the top of your head. Don't allow your body to sink into your shoulder joint. Hold the position for 30 seconds to 2 minutes. Switch sides and repeat.
 Get in your side plank position and drop your right hip down slightly and lift it up. Do 10 sets of dips, then switch sides.
 Sit on the ground with your knees bent in front of you. Lift your hips up and tuck your bottom slightly under, creating the feeling that your abs have to work hard for you to stay sitting.


Grab a small ball or water bottle. Lean back. Twist from the waist until the ball nearly touches the ground next to your right hip. Return to the center and twist to your left. Move slowly and deliberately, doing 2 sets of 20 repetitions.
 Lay on your back with your feet held up in a table top position, forming a 90 degree angle. Place your arms behind your head and lift your chest off the ground using only your abdominals.


Keeping your elbows out wide from your head, lift and twist as if you are trying to get your right elbow to touch your left knee. This will be impossible when first starting the exercise, so simply twist and lift as far as you can. Repeat 20 times on each side.
 Get on the floor in a plank position. Lift your right knee forward as far as you can, as if you want your knee to touch your elbow.


Return it and repeat on the opposite side. Do a set of 10 knee lifts on each side.
Do another set with your right knee twisting at a diagonal toward your left arm. Do 10 side knee lifts on each side.
 Get on your stomach with your arms and legs sticking directly above and below your trunk. Lift your left leg and right arm for 3 seconds, then lower them and lift the right leg and left arm.


Swim 10 times slow on each side. Then, pick up the speed and flutter your arms and legs for 30 seconds.

