 To continue to have a healthy sex life, you need to work on maintaining a healthy relationship at all times. Work hard to show your loved one how much you he or she means to you, and your sex life will continue to flourish. Here's how to do it:


Communicate. Keep open lines of communication so you can discuss any problems in your relationship--whether they're in the bedroom or not.
Tell your honey how much you care. Make a point of praising or complimenting your loved one as often as you can.
Develop common interests. It's important to make sure that you and your honey have something in common besides your new love for getting it on.
 Even if your sex life has improved, don't take it for granted. There is always room to make things even better---and a chance that things can get worse if you're not careful. Here are some ways to keep things fresh to keep passion in your love making:


Hook up as often as you can. Though you shouldn't have a tally of how often you have sex, the more you hook up, the more you'll want to do it.
Never make lovemaking your last priority. You may have a busy week, but always make time for getting it on. It'll make your relationship stronger and will put you in a better mood.
Try something new as often as you can. Keep the option open for a new position, a new location, or a new scenario.
Even when you're not en media res, don't forget to tell your honey how sexy he is, or how much you love his body.
 If you really want to make things work with your honey in the bedroom but just can't make it happen, it may be time to get help elsewhere. This may sound scary, but having an awkward conversation with someone new is better than having awkward sex. Here are some places to look:


Read sexy blogs or magazines to see if you can pick up any great advice.
Talk to your closest friends who are having passionate sex for some pointers. Make sure your honey is okay with you asking if it's a mutual friend.
See a sex therapist. A sex therapist is a true expert who can really help you turn things around. Don't be afraid to ask for help if you want to save your sex life--and your relationship.

