 When people begin filling their plates, they should only be holding their plates. This will keep them from dropping items or spilling things. Once their plates are filled, they can then grab things like forks, knives, and napkins. Start the buffet with a stack of plates and end it with napkins and utensils for the ease of your guests., Think about how your food will be eaten by setting up your buffet table. As guests move through the buffet, they should be able to arrange their food logically. If something is a topping, for example, it should come after the food it tops.For example, say you're doing a Thanksgiving buffet table. It makes sense to have things like gravy and cranberry sauce come after the turkey, stuffing, and mashed potatoes.
 Guests tend to linger by the drinks, especially if alcohol is being served. People may, for example, congregate around a bottle of wine and talk. This can cause issues with crowding if there's also food near the drinks. Try to keep the two separate.Ideally, you should have separate table for drinks and a separate table for food. This way, people can spend a few minutes filling their plates with food and then congregate around the drink table to socialize.
If you don't have a separate buffet table, keep things separate on the table you have. Have drinks on one end, near the napkins and utensils, while keeping food near the other end.
 Nothing can make a buffet more stressful than serving utensils that are difficult to maneuver. Make sure you provide serving utensils with ease of use in mind to keep things running smoothly as guests serve themselves.Choose sturdy serving utensils. A large metal spoon for serving potatoes works better than a flimsy plastic one, for example.
Tongs work great for items like meats and salads.
If you have an item that needs to be poured, like gravy, use a bowl with a tip that allows for pouring.
 Think about which items require the most time to serve. There should be slightly more space between these items and other items on the table. Items that are easy to grab quickly can be clustered without a lot of space in between.For example, guests may take awhile selecting meats from a large turkey. They also may need to slice turkey. Provide some space between a turkey and other items.
Smaller items that you just grab require less time to serve. Desserts, for example, can usually be easily picked up off the table. Different types of cookies can be close together, as guests are unlikely to take long setting a cookie on their plate.

