 For this look, choose three bright green shadows: a light, medium, and dark shade. The lighter shade can even be a lime green, and the dark and medium shades can be similar kelly greens.


Make sure you’re using highly pigmented eyeshadows for maximum color payoff.
For even more drama, choose eyeshadows with a glitter or shimmer finish.;
, Primers also helps you avoid creased or splotchy shadow at the end of a day.









Use an eyeshadow brush to sweep eyeshadow primer all over your eyelid to your brow bone.
If you don’t have a designated eyeshadow primer, you can use your concealer or a nude cream eyeshadow in the same manner.
 You only want to cover the top third of your eye area. Get the color as evenly matched as you can on both eyes.









When you start to apply shadow, lightly tap your brush in the eyeshadow pan. You want to slightest amount of pigment on your brush.
It is easier to build your eyeshadow in layers than to take shadow away if you apply too much.
 A dark color in your crease defines the shape of your eyes, and makes their color more pronounced. After you do this, take a clean brush and blend the dark color up into your lighter brow bone color.









To blend eyeshadow, go back and forth across this area with your eyeshadow brush in small circles until it looks airbrushed.Remember that blending takes patience. Keep your strokes light. The longer you blend, the better your finished eyes will look.
 A thick, dark liner will draw attention to your bright green eyeshadow.









For winged liner, a liquid liner works best. Either use black or a dark green to accentuate your eyeshadow.
Create a clean sharp line on top of the eyelid and extend towards the edge of the eye. The end of your line should angle toward the end of your eyebrow.
 This will set your eyeliner, and bring the look together. Take another clean brush and sweep it over your eye area to blend the shades together.









Take a look at your eyeshadows together. If the lightest shade looks too light compared to your lid, you can add a bit more pigment for balance.
As you apply eyeshadow, keep your brushes separate or wipe them off between the different shades.
 This will emphasize your eyes, and create depth to your liner. With a fresh coat of eyeliner, the line will look crisp and not powdery.









For an even more defined eyeliner look, line your waterline in addition to your winged liner.Your waterline is beneath your eyelashes near your eyeball.
You can line your waterline with a nude-colored pencil for brightening, or with a black or brown pencil for a darker dramatic effect.
 Mascara will make your eyes appear open and bright. Use a mascara designed to volumize your eyelashes.









Wiggle the wand of your mascara back and forth, starting at the base of your lashes, to prevent clumping.
Use dark black mascara, or mascara with glitter for extra sparkle.
For even more volume, consider using false eyelashes in addition to your mascara.

