 A designated stretching area and appropriate clothing will help you get the most out of the exercises.

Have a designated area for stretching that is free of all clutter. If this isn’t possible, clear away any obstructive material (e.g. breakable china ornaments, expensive objects) from the area you will be using.Wear comfortable clothes (such as a tracksuit or bike shorts over a leotard or tight-fitting crossover).Pull long hair back into a ponytail or a bun so it isn't distracting.
If you have hard floors you may want to use a mat for floor stretches.;
, Sit on the floor with your legs extended in front of you. Touch your toes. If this hurts, then bend your legs slightly. Hold this position for 20 seconds. Repeat 2 times.









Stretch your hamstrings in a standing position by crossing your ankles and bending forward as far as possible. Keep your feet together during the stretch. Hold for 20 seconds and then repeat, crossing your legs in the other direction.Stretch your hamstrings by bending forward and placing your hands on the floor with your knees bent. Slowly straighten your knees without taking your hands off the floor.
 In a sitting position, place the foot you want to stretch over your thigh. With the hand closest to your heel, push into your heel. With your hand closest to your toes, place it over your toes and pull back so that your foot arches.








Allowing another person to stretch your feet may result in over-stretching and injury.
Jamming your feet under a door or standing on top of your bent toes may cause injury.
Use caution if using a foot stretcher., Start in first position, with your left hand on the barre. Lift your right leg onto the barre with your ankle resting on it and your foot pointed. Lift your right hand to high fifth position and lean forward onto the right leg. Hold for 30 seconds then repeat on the other side.








Keep your back flat.
Keep both legs turned out.
 Straighten one leg out in front of you (still sitting on the other foot) and point your toes. Touch your toes with both hands. Hold for 20 seconds. Repeat with the other leg.








