 Remove all dirt from the surface. You don’t want dirt to mix in with the cherries after they are pitted.


Most people use sour cherries for cherry jam, because they are easy to sweeten, while remaining slightly tart.
If you use sweet cherries, reduce the amount of sugar you use.;
, It saves valuable time in the kitchen.
 Grab a large bowl for the cherries.
 Then, insert the cherry into the small bowl of the cherry pitter. Hold the cherry pitter over the small bowl and squeeze the pitter to expel the pit.


Use a chef’s knife to pit cherries on a cutting board. Place a cherry on the board. Smash it with the side of the knife, like you would a clove of garlic. Remove the pit from the broken cherry.
Use a paring knife to cut the pit out of the cherry. This will take longer than the smashing method and it is recommended when you want to keep the cherries looking presentable in a salad or dessert.
Insert a partially unfolded paper clip into the top of the cherry and dig the pit out.,, The more you chop them, the easier the jam will be to spread.
 Put it on a burner and turn it to high heat.
 These standard packages are available at kitchen/canning shops or online. Stir well to combine.
 Lemon juice contains extra pectin and adds flavor. Also, add one-fourth cup (59ml) of rum or alcohol of your choice if you want a little extra flavor., Bring it to a full boil. Turn it to medium heat., Traditional cherry jam is sweet, so five cups of granulated sugar is added for four cups of cherries. However, you can add as little as three cups of sugar for a tarter, healthier jam.
 Let it boil for one minute. Remove it from heat., Fill it half full. Bring it to a boil while you pit your cherries.
 Reduce your heat to a simmer and leave them in the water. You want to pour hot cherry jam into hot jars to avoid cracking.


You will need at least six half-pint jars or 12 four oz. jars.
 Wash your jar lids and rims with soap and water. Pour boiling water over them to sterilize them.
 Set them upside down to remove water from the inside until you use them.
 Ladle the hot cherry jam into the hot jars. Leave one-fourth inch (0.6cm) headspace.


Wipe the rims of the jars with a sterile cloth or damp paper towel.
 Screw on the rims tightly.
 Boil them according to your elevation. At an altitude of 1,000 feet (305m) or less, they require five minutes.


At an altitude of 1,001 to 6,000 feet (306 to 1829m), they need 10 minutes.
At an altitude of over 6,000 feet (1830m), they need 15 minutes., Set them on the counter to cool. Press the center of the lid to see if they are sealed.


If the lid pops as you press it, it is not sealed. Store in the refrigerator and use immediately.
Store sealed jars in the pantry once they have cooled.

