 You’ll need to submit an original document (no copies) that proves your citizenship. If you were born in Canada, you are most likely a Canadian citizen. You can either use your Certificate of Canadian Citizenship or the birth certificate issued by the province or territory where you were born.If you need a copy of your birth certificate, contact the vital statistics office of the province or territory where you were born.;
, If your parents are Canadian citizens, and you were born outside of Canada, you are likely a Canadian citizen. You can use your certificate of Canadian citizenship, certificate of naturalization, registration or birth abroad, or retention of Canadian citizenship.You can contact Passport Canada, which is the government agency that processes applications, if you believe you're a citizen but need to apply for a citizenship certificate., If you have specific questions about your citizenship status, Passport Canada offers a variety of easy tools to assist you. If you're not sure whether or not you're a citizen, consult their help guide to determine your status.If you were born in Canada to foreign diplomats or officials, your citizenship was revoked, or you renounced your citizenship, you are most likely not a Canadian citizen and would need to reapply if you are eligible.
In general, if you've married a Canadian citizen, were adopted by Canadian parents, or lived in Canada as a permanent resident, you are not automatically a Canadian citizen. You must apply to become a citizen using this application: http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/citizenship/become-how.asp

If you need to apply for citizenship, check out the Passport Canada eligibility guide to see if you qualify: http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/citizenship/become-eligibility.asp


, To apply for a passport, you will need to consult the website of Passport Canada. You can find eligibility restrictions, all required forms, and descriptions of everything you’ll need to provide with your application. The site also offers checklists and explanations of what’s required for various types of passports, such as instructions on children’s passport applications and how to apply if you live in a country other than Canada. http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/passport/


Consider if any prohibitions that might restrict you from getting a passport. If you have a past criminal conviction, are incarcerated, or have any pending cases on your record, you might have difficulty obtaining a passport, depending on the severity and nature of your circumstances.A criminal record or even being named in a police report can also complicate your passage into another country. If you have travel plans and have any concerns, contact the border patrol or customs agency of your prospective destination., You’ll find all forms you’ll need on Passport Canada’s website. If you are 16 years or older and live in Canada, you’ll need form PPTC 153.If you are under the age of 16, you need form PPTC 155, which your parent or legal guardian will need to submit for you.Use form PPTC 040 if you’re a Canadian citizen but reside in another country.Find your local Canadian embassy or consulate for assistance in obtaining a passport or any required documents.Fill out all applicable forms in their entirety, and take care to follow their instructions.
Have your required documents on hand when filling out your application. You’ll be writing your citizenship certificate and identification numbers on the form.
 A guarantor must fill out and sign a section of your application, certify that your passport photographs are actually pictures of you, and sign and date any identification document copies you submit. You’ll also include the names of two references who have known you for at least two years and agree to the possibility of being contacted to confirm your identity.A guarantor must be 18 years or older, a Canadian citizen, and hold a valid passport or one that expired less than a year prior to the application date. Your guarantor can be a family member.
Your references must be 18 years or older, cannot be your guarantor, and cannot be a family member or spouse's family member. Your references need not be Canadian citizens.If you cannot find a guarantor, visit your local passport service location to fill out PPTC form 077, which must be obtained in person., Your identification document must be currently valid and government-issued. It must include your name, sex, date of birth, photograph, and signature. If you don’t have one document that meets these requirements, you can submit multiple items that include all necessary information in combination.Examples include your driver's license, non-driver's identification card, military identification, or government employee identification card.
You can submit original documents or photocopies of your identification confirmation. If you send originals, they will be returned to you after your application is processed.
If you send photocopies, be sure to copy both sides of the document. You’ll need to have your guarantor sign and date each side’s copy.
 Visit a photography studio or hire a commercial photographer to take your passport pictures. On their reverse sides, the photographs must include the name and address of the studio or photographer, as well as the date it was taken. In addition, the photographs must:Clearly show your face with a neutral expression (no smiling), with uniform lighting.
Conform to specific sizing and placement standards.
Be printed on photographic paper that is 2 inches (5.1 cm) wide by 2-3/4 inches high.
 Double check to be certain you don’t need to include any additional information, such as verification of a name change or declaration form if you’re replacing a lost or stolen passport. If you are replacing a valid Canadian passport or have other valid travel documents on hand, enclose them with your application.You do not need to submit expired travel documents with a new passport application.
If your legal name is no longer the same as that listed on your citizenship or birth certificate, find the appropriate form on Passport Canada’s website.Be sure that all of your forms are completed as instructed. An incomplete form, non-compliant photo, or improperly submitted identification documents will result in rejection, and you’ll lose your non-refundable application fee.
 The fee is subject to change, and depends on whether you’re applying for an adult or child passport, your country of residence, and the length of time your passport will be valid. Use Passport Canada’s fee guide to check the current fee for your specific needs.You can pay with Visa, Mastercard, or American Express credit card, a debit card, or certified check or money order.
There is a section on your application form where you can input credit or debit card information.
Make checks or money orders out to “Receiver General for Canada.”

, If you opt to send your application through the mail, Passport Canada recommends using service that enables you to trace it, since you are sending valuable personal information and original documents. .


To send your application by mail, address it to:: Government of Canada, Passport program, Gatineau, Quebec K1A 0G3.
If you are sending your application by courier, send it to Government of Canada, Passport program, 22 de Varennes Street, Gatineau, Quebec J8T 8R1.
 Alternatively, you can visit a Passport Canada regional office, a participating Service Canada Center, or a participating Canada Post Office. You must submit your application in person for urgent or express service. To locate the nearest passport service location, you can use Passport Canada’s online search tool.In general, new passports and other travel documents are mailed to you. You can also pay an extra fee to pick your passport up in person at your local participating passport service location as soon as it’s available.

