 Talk to this person in a quiet place rather than making them feel exposed. It is best to ride out the meeting in which the muttering is taking place rather than exposing this person because they will probably react defensively and either storm out or start an argument that creates bad relations within the meeting and fouls up the proceedings. Instead, follow up the muttering behavior with a chat, or even a warning, after the occasion, to try to lessen the embarrassment or exposure factor. Take the muttering participant to one side after a meeting and inform this person:


How the muttering comes across to everyone present
Let them know that it gives the impression of undermining the meeting and colleagues
If it is the case that the mutterings can be clearly heard, then let the mutterer know this and inform them that if they intend for the comments to be heard, that they should speak clearly and directly to the points as this will carry greater weight and will earn them respect.;
, Nobody likes to feel that they are earning disrespect for their actions and if you can make this clear, it will help deter the participant from future unhelpful comments.
 If the muttering and snide commentary is really disruptive during the meeting, it may be necessary to deal with the mutterer in the course of the meeting itself:


Wait for a natural pause (round-up time of a particular topic is good) and very nicely but firmly inform the muttering participant that you have noticed their wish to provide input to the meeting but that you didn't quite catch what it was they said.
Ask this person to kindly repeat the comments more loudly so that you can clarify their contribution. This is a direct and confrontational method for the person who is muttering - you will need to judge the person and the context to see if this is a good and fair approach. It will put an end to the muttering most likely; most people in this position would feel too embarrassed to repeat the action for the remainder of the meeting. And likely they will cease whenever you are chairing it too.
 This is a really confrontational measure that is usually applied in the classroom. But it can be effective if you have already spoken with the muttering participant or warned this person before and they did not cease muttering. Simply pause the meeting. As the chairperson or meeting leader, halt someone speaking for a moment with a hand movement or stop talking yourself. Be silent for 5 - 10 seconds and then turn to the muttering participant and ask them to kindly stop the running commentary as it is disrupting the meeting. As already stated, this is a confrontational approach meant to embarrass and should only be held in reserve for the worst offenders who will not be persuaded by other means.

