 Depending on your mental health concern, there may be free or low-cost support groups in your city or county that can help you find some relief. Many support groups are run by mental health professionals or people who have experienced the same concerns as you.If you are struggling with a substance use disorder such as alcohol dependence or addiction, consider reaching out to Alcoholics Anonymous or another addiction support group: http://www.aa.org/pages/en_US

If you have been struggling with a mental health condition for many years, you may find encouragement and guidance by joining a support group through the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Look for weekly support groups in your area: http://www.nami.org/Local-NAMI/Programs?classkey=39d47f5e-5fb3-403e-b28e-ad0868acd481

Contact a local counseling center about to see if they have low or no-cost support groups that fit your needs. For example, many counseling centers offer grief and loss or divorce support groups for those coping with life transitions.
 Many larger churches and synagogues have a variety of services to support the spiritual and mental health needs of their congregation. Depending on your place of worship and the size of your religious community, there may be free counseling available on-site. Talk with your pastor, rabbi, or other religious leader about your mental health concerns. They may be able to provide regular meetings with you about any issues you have.
Identify if your place of worship offers counseling for individuals, families, and couples. There may be marriage counseling available, or support groups related to grief and loss.
 Self-help information can provide insight into your situation. Learn about your condition from a variety of sources and perspectives.Find books written by mental health professionals on the topic that interests you. Many used bookstores offer self-help books at a reduced rate. Consider also borrowing books through your local public library.
Remember that self-help books can provide insight, but cannot treat your condition for you. Be wary of solely relying on self-help books as guidance for how to treat your mental health concern.
 Coping with your mental health condition involves reducing stressors. By taking care of your mind and body on a daily basis, you can feel more relaxed and rested. Consider these ways to boost your well-being:Spend more time with the people you love, rather than the people or things that stress you out. Having support from a few good friends can make a big difference.
Make sure to get plenty of sleep. Avoid sleeping too much or too little. Make sure you feel refreshed when you get up in the morning.
Find ways to feel centered and more spiritually connected. Meditate or do yoga.
Exercise. Take time to walk, run, bike, and swim. Get outdoors and get moving.
Focus on eating a balanced diet.

