 Anime characters are always learning something new, whether it is a skill that they use to face a problem or a life lesson that changes them. Start being more open to knowledge when it is available. Read more often or search the Internet to learn about a topic you don’t know well.Learning a new skill or hobby is a great way to expand your abilities and have fun doing something you have never done.
Subscribe to a service that emails you a fun fact or interesting article each day so you don’t have to go out of your way to find new things.
Ask your friends, family, or strangers to tell you something interesting that they think you won’t know. Being curious is the best way to learn new things.;
, Anime characters often speak Japanese, so learning the language is one of the most direct ways to live like an anime character. Use a language-learning service, watch teaching videos, or simply get an English-Japanese dictionary and begin memorizing words.If you have the option in school or college, enroll in a Japanese class. Learning from a live teacher is often easier than learning alone.
If you watch Japanese language anime with subtitles, pay closer attention to pick up on words and phrases they use often. Write them down and double check their meanings by looking up translations online.
 Anime characters are always faced with difficult situations. They use their imagination to solve the problems creatively. Spend time daydreaming. Think of new ways to do the things you have always done one way. Write stories or try to make up new inventions.Using your imagination opens up unlimited creative potential, so you may start thinking or doing things you’ve never done before.
Imagination can be a fun way to pass the time, but it can also be a great way to solve practical problems. Use your imagination for both purposes. For example, daydream about what you would do on your perfect day. With chores, like washing the dishes, think of a new way to accomplish the task.
 Anime characters spend a lot of time thinking about and discussing common themes like love, death, and purpose. Be more like an anime character by spending more time exploring these enduring ideas. Read about them and talk with your friends to gather as many perspectives as you can.


If any of your favorite anime characters mention books, people, or other things that have inspired them, check to see if those are real things. If they are real, look into them and see why the characters like them so much.
 Anime characters are confident and unafraid to speak their mind. Learn how to speak up for yourself rather than keeping quiet when you are criticized. Carry on a conversation like you have something important to say. When people ask what you think, give your honest opinion rather than saying what they want to hear.

