 Hanging out can mean different things to different people. Some people like to just sit around casually, watch TV, play games, or just talk. For others, hanging out can mean doing interesting activities outside the home. Figure out what your friends or prospective friends consider hanging out to be and then tailor your interests to that crowd.
 At least, be aware of all areas of popular culture.Once you have a solid base, you’ll be able to keep up with and contribute to a variety of conversations.


Be weary of criticizing popular culture too much. Read the room. You don’t want to be the only one that consistently bashes popular culture topics. Have an opinion, but just make sure that your don’t offend or turn anyone off.
 If you have appealing interests or skills, then others will flock to you if they have similar interests. Figure out what interests you naturally, then accentuate those aspects of your personality. Try not to limit your options. What one person considers cool, another person will consider weird.Don’t be afraid to learn to do something physical. Learn to juggle, do gymnastics, play a sport, or dance. You can invite people to do these things with you after you’ve developed the skill. They’ll admire you for it. And you’ll have something to talk about.
Learn something new that excites you. You’ve found wikiHow so this should be easy to do. Learn a language, how to make Italian food from scratch, what it takes to do improv comedy, how to write fiction, or how to identify birds based on their songs. It doesn’t matter as long as it excites you. People like learning new things and if you know a lot about something, you can share your excitement for the subject with them.
 Just like with skills or knowledge, some people like to get out and try new things. Search for new opportunities in new part of your town you haven’t seen before and invite your friends to join you, seeing it all as a new adventure. There are a number of great online sources that can educate you on your area.Know about your area. Know about new restaurants or public events. Everybody has to eat, so if you know of a great restaurant, you can suggest it. Everybody likes listening to music. Find outdoor concerts in your area and suggest them too.
Don’t be afraid to think outside the box. Look for different events like slam poetry, roller derby, museum or gallery showings, cooking classes, or yoga in the park. Participate in eclectic events. It will show just how open-minded and spontaneous you are.

