 Why do you think people look so peaceful while they’re sleeping? When you’re asleep, your breathing slows down slightly. You can practice a breathing exercise to relax and slow down your breath. Try breathing in through the nose for a count of four, and then out through the nose for a count of four.When you are sleeping, your heart rate also slows. Although you can’t intentionally slow your heart rate like you can your breathing, relaxing will help to naturally slow your heart rate.;
, When we’re awake, our breathing patterns are irregular because of a variety of factors, including speech, exercise, and emotions. When sleeping, our breathing patterns become more regular. , Though your breathing naturally slows down when you are in non-REM sleep, your breathing pattern varies and increases again when you are in the middle of your REM cycle. Only do this if you are pretending to sleep for a couple of hours. At which point, you might actually have fallen asleep and will not have to worry about this.
 Most people move around during the night to find a more comfortable position. Try moving from your back to your side.


If you know you have a position that you usually favor when you’re sleeping, stick with that. You want your pretend sleeping to emulate your real sleeping.
 Don’t do a big, growly snore, or you’ll give yourself away, but some soft snoring can’t hurt.


If you know you never snore, don’t start now. A person observing you will be able to pick up on the fact that something is different.
 If you’ve been known to occasionally talk in your sleep, why not really hit the ball out of the park and mumble a couple of words?


People who sleep talk are not aware that they’re talking, and often will say things that don’t make sense.You can have fun being creative with your sleep talking! Say something absurd, like, “I forgot to take the potatoes down to the river!”

, It is a dead giveaway if you refuse to "wake up" no matter how many times someone calls your name or shakes you. People who are really sleeping wake up from disturbances.
 If you start smiling when someone is trying to wake you up, you will give yourself away. Instead, groggily moan and act irritated that you were woken up.
 It takes a little while for people to regain their clarity when they are woken up suddenly.


Have you ever woken someone up by calling them? Think of how you could tell they were sleeping. They probably seemed disoriented and their voice may have been muffled. , If someone else is in the room with you and there is a loud noise, like thunder or an ambulance, move a little bit so the other person can tell your sleep was disturbed.


You don’t have to jump out of bed wide awake. We sleep through loud noises all the time, and we may never remember them, but often our sleep is slightly disturbed.

