 You might find it difficult to contact a helpline or to call the police, especially if you are afraid of your abuser. If contacting the police seems like too big a step, start by asking family and friends for help. Reach out to a family member you trust or a friend that you are comfortable talking to. Explain to them that you are dealing with physical abuse and need help.Don't assume that the person will be too busy or uninterested in helping you, or that you will be burdening them somehow. Your abuser's words or actions may have left you feeling worthless and unloved, but you and your safety are important, and your friends and family will be there for you.
For example, you might say to a friend, “I am not sure how to deal with physical abuse at home. I need help.” Or you might say to a family member, “I am experiencing physical abuse at home. I want to get out of the situation. Can you help me?”

, You may be more comfortable with speaking to a mentor in your community or to a teacher at school about the physical abuse. Reach out to a mentor or teacher and tell them that you need help with the physical abuse you are experiencing. Ask to talk to them privately so you can tell them in confidence.For example, you may say to a mentor, “I’m experiencing physical abuse at home. I need help.”

, Speak to your primary care doctor about the physical abuse, especially if they are starting to notice your injuries during your appointments with them. Tell them that you need help and want to get away from your abuser. They should be able to provide resources to help you do this.


For example, you may say to your doctor, “I am struggling with physical abuse at school. Can you help me address this issue?”

, Regardless of whether you ask family, friends, a mentor, or doctor for help, you and this person should work together to create a detailed and specific escape plan. This involves identifying a safe place for you to stay, a good time to leave, gathering important documents and papers, putting aside some money, and so on. You can find more useful tips for making an escape plan at the National Domestic Violence Hotline website (http://www.thehotline.org/help/path-to-safety/#leaving), or by contacting a hotline, doctor, therapist, or shelter.