 When you cool your skin, it constricts the blood vessels. This reduces the blood flow to the area and can relieve swelling, irritation, and muscle spasms. This is particularly good for soothing bruises and minor injuries.If you don’t have an ice pack already prepared in the freezer, you can use a bag of ice cubes or frozen vegetables.
Always wrap the ice pack in a towel instead of putting it directly on your skin. This will help prevent frostbite.
After 20 minutes, remove the ice pack from your skin and let your skin warm up. After 10 minutes you can put it on again if you need to.;
, These creams are often available over-the-counter and can soothe sunburns, minor burns, insect bites, stings, and minor abrasions. Always consult your doctor if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, treating a child or a senior citizen, or are taking other medications, herbal remedies, or supplements that could interact. Read and follow the instructions on the packaging.You can usually buy these products at your local pharmacy as sprays, ointments, creams, patches, and pre-prepared bandages.
The medications may contain: benzocaine, benzocaine and methol, butamben, dibucaine, lidocaine, pramoxine, pramoxine and methol, tetracaine, or tetracaine and methol. If you are unsure about the dosages or how often to apply it, consult your doctor. Your doctor will be able to make recommendations based on your particular condition and medical history.
Check the expiration dates. Do not use expired medications.
Stop using these medications and consult your doctor if you see no improvement after a week, the area gets infected, develops a rash, or starts burning or stinging. Symptoms of an overdose include blurred vision, confusion, seizures, dizziness, feeling too hot, too cold, or numb, headache, sweating, ringing in your ears, irregular or slow heartbeat, difficulty breathing, sleepiness. If you show these symptoms, go to the doctor immediately or call an ambulance., Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can relieve pain from arthritis, muscle pain, tooth pain, fever, gout, back pain, headaches, and menstrual cramps. These medications can generally be purchased over-the-counter at local pharmacies. Many can provide relief within a few hours. Do not use them for more than a few days without consulting your doctor. Always consult your doctor before using these medications if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, treating a child, or on other medications, herbal remedies, or supplements.Common medications include: Aspirin (Anacin, Bayer, Excedrin), ketoprofen (Orudis KT), ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil, Nuprin), naproxen sodium (Aleve). Aspirin should never be given to children or teenagers because it is associated with Reye’s syndrome.
Do not take these medications without first consulting a doctor if you have high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney disease, liver disease, allergies to these medications, ulcers, bleeding problems, high alcohol intake, heart problems, asthma, or are on other medications that may interact such as warfarin, lithium, heart medications, arthritis medications, vitamins, and others.
Common side effects include gas, bloating, heartburn, stomach discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation. If you have these or any other side effects, contact your doctor immediately.

