 Writing every day can help you improve your verbal communication skills. It can also help you learn how to write better creatively. If you want to keep learning over the summer, make yourself a writing schedule and stick to it. You can also try keeping a journal.Try to write in an area where you want to improve. If you want to be a better poet, write poetry. If you want to write fiction, work on a book of fiction.
Try to set goals for yourself. You could strive to, say, write for two hours a day or write a set number of words each day.
If you're not interested in creative writing, journaling can help. You can journal ideas for projects or carry a notebook with you. Jot down anything that strikes your curiosity. For example, you may see something interesting on television about science. Write this down so you can learn more about it later.;
, During the school year, you're inside learning about academics. During the summer, why not learn some more hands-on skills? These could come in handy down the road for a job or other opportunity.You can try to learn something like cooking, how to fix things, electrical work, or automotive repair.
Try to get a summer job that will teach you a hands-on skill. You could, for example, work at a car repair store and learn about fixing cars.
 You can learn new skills from a summer camp without having to go to summer school. If there's a topic you want to know more about, see if you can find an affordable summer camp to attend that focuses on that area.For example, maybe you're interested in math and science. Try to do something like space camp.
If you're interested in writing, see if there's a writing or art camp you can attend over the summer to hone those skills.
 You will have a lot of free time over the summer. Why not use that time to learn a musical instrument? If there's, say, an old piano that's been lying around your home, why not use it to teach yourself piano?You can find books or online tutorials with step-by-step instructions on learning a musical instrument.
See if you can find classes in your area. If money is an issue, do you have any friends or relatives who know an instrument? They may be willing to teach you.
 You don't have to learn strictly academic skills over the summer. You can look into teaching yourself a craft. Take up something like knitting, crocheting, or sewing to expand your horizons over the summer.You can see if you can find classes on certain crafts in your area.
Even if you don't find classes, you can join, say, a knitting or sewing club. This can help you learn as well. You can look for classes in a local community center or go online on sites like MeetUp.
 If you want to learn over the summer, honestly assess yourself. Think about your strengths and weaknesses so you know where you could improve. This will help you create a plan for learning over the summer.During the school year, where do you think there's room for improvement? Maybe you are excellent at math and science, but sometimes struggle with history. Maybe you're great at science courses like biology, but tend to struggle with chemistry.
Identify a few key areas where you could use to improve. Focus your energies on those courses over the summer.
 Read about current events online to keep up with modern concerns like climate change. You can take the summer as an opportunity to become more aware of world events. Start reading newspapers or magazines.


There are many news websites, like the Huffington Post and CNN's website, that publish news online. You can also start watching the news.
If your parents subscribe to any magazines, like Newsweek, read these.
 You can do your own research to learn. Think about topics you're unfamiliar with and would like to know more about. Use the internet and a library to expand your knowledge.Buy a book or read an article online about something that interests you. Maybe you want to know more about a certain president or the history of a foreign country. Research this over the summer, as if you were researching a school project.
 Reading is one of the best ways to learn over the summer. At the beginning of the summer, draft a reading list. Make a list of books that you have been meaning to read for a while and add them to your list.You can focus on literary books. Try adding some of the classics as well as contemporary novels that are getting very good reviews.
You can also focus on more academic texts. Maybe you want to learn more about World War II. Try reading a few books on the subject over the summer.
 The summer can be a great time to expand your vocabulary. Work on learning a new vocabulary term each day. You can sign up for a phone app that sends you new words every day.There is an app you can use, created by Dictionary.com, that send you a new word each day to learn.You can also jot down any words you don't know that you encounter when reading. You can look these up later, expanding your vocabulary.
 You can find many courses provided online for free. The structure is not as rigid as summer school, as you can learn the material on your own time, so such courses may be great if you want to educate yourself without school.Coursera is a popular website that includes many open courses from universities and colleges.
Prestigious colleges, like Yale, have open courses online that anyone can browse. You can find these by googling "open courses."There are also websites that offer general open learning material. The website OpenLearn, for example, has a wide range of courses you can take for free.
 Podcasts can actually teach you a lot. There are many podcasts that strive to be educational and cover topics like science, history, and medicine. Browse podcasts online to find a podcast that discusses an area of personal interest to you.Some podcasts are affiliated with college and universities, such as UCLA, Berkeley, Stanford, and Purdue.
You can download a podcast app on your phone to browse podcasts.
If you have a friend who listens to podcasts, ask them for recommendations.
 If you don't have a library card, or you don't have a library in your area, you can read books online. Some people actually simply prefer the convenience of accessing materials online, as they don't need to leave their home.Project Gutenberg, WikiBooks, Free Audio Books, and Free Academic Texts all provide books to be read or listened to online.
 There are many websites, often affiliated with a larger institution or university, where you can learn a lot about a variety of topics. You can spend your summer reading these websites to educate yourself.A Biography of America provides a lot of information on US history.
Guide to Grammar and Writing is a website that provides a lot of information on improving your writing skills.
BBC Learning is dedicated to helping people learn information on their own time, and has many resources you can choose from.
 There are many phone apps you can use that will help you learn a second language. If you're already enrolled in a language course during the school year, some of these apps could help you improve your skills over the summer.Busuu is a website that provide features like flashcards to use a second language. They have a phone app you can download.
Livin Language costs some money, but it has a lot of valuable interactive features to help you learn a second language. The full course material can be used through a phone app.

