 There are a vast number of specialist products available to buy in your local supermarket or drug store than can help you to purify your skin. Everybody's skin is different, so there is no fixed guarantee of what treatments will work for which people. One of the most common ways to purify your skin is by applying a clay mask.


You will find a number of possible options, two ingredients to look out for a Bentonite and Kaolin.It can be a matter of trial and error to find which one works best for you.
You will need to apply the mask to a clean face and leave it to dry before rinsing off.;
, An alternative to a clay mask, is a mud mask. Just like the clay mask, there are a huge number of products out there to try. But look out for one that is rich in minerals and designed for your skin type. If you have oily or dry skin, read the label on the containers and find the one closest to your skin.


You will need to apply as per the instructions or the bottle.
Typically you will leave the mask on for between ten minutes and half an hour.
 Undoubtedly the quickest way to purify your skin is by simply using a specialist purifying face wipe. You can find different brands in your local drug store or pharmacy. These wipes can be particularly good after removing make-up.


Some varieties to look out for include coconut water wipes, and Manuka honey wipes.
Avoid fragranced wipes which might be harsher on your skin.
If you have sensitive skin, look for wipes designed for your skin type.
 You can buy cleansing creams from you local store that will work to purify you skin, and wash away the the bacteria that has built up on your skin. As with other face wash products there is a large selection of brands to choose from. Take the time to look for one that matches your skin type, oily, dry, sensitive or combination.


If you have sensitive skin avoid creams that are alcohol or petroleum based.Don't be afraid to try a few different creams until you find the one that work best for you.
 Another alternative product you can try is an astringent. Again there are many brands that produce astringents. These are particularly good at sealing up your pores, and are best used by those with oily skin. If you have dry skin they will dry it out further and can cause irritation.If you use astringent, it can be a good idea to follow it with a moisturiser.
 You can use an exfoliating cleanser to help clear your skin of bacteria, dead skin cells and toxins. As well as using a store-bought exfoliating cream, you can try very gently scrubbing your skin with a dry brush. This is reported to promote better circulation, and help to get rid of dead skin cells and toxins, which could lead to purified skin.