 Arrange it so that the bottom corner of the napkin is pointing toward your chest, and the top corner is pointing away from you.









For best results, press the napkin first so it doesn't have any creases. If you want it to stand up straight, use starch.If you're using a patterned napkin, the patterned side should be facing down, and the less colorful side should be facing up.;
, Bring the bottom corner up to meet the top corner. The napkin should now look like a triangle, with the bottom edge facing you and the top pointing away from you. Press the folded edge with a hot iron.
 With the bottom edge of the triangle facing you, take the right corner and fold it up to the tip of the triangle. Take the left corner and fold it up to the tip of the triangle. The napkin should now look like a small square, with a seam running down the middle. Press the folded sides of the square with a hot iron.
 Arrange the square so that the the bottom corner is facing you, and the seam is running right down the middle from top to bottom. Fold up the bottom corner so that the tip rests about one inch from the top corner. Press the folded edge with a hot iron.
 Take the tip of the corner you folded up, and fold it down so that it touches the bottom edge of the triangle. The napkin should now look like a little sailboat, with a trapezoidal base and two triangle masts. Press the folds with a hot iron.
 Be careful to make sure all of the folds stay in place.
 Fold the left side of the triangle in toward the middle, then fold the right side on top. Tuck the right side into the small triangular pocket on the left side. Press the folds. Do you see the bishop's hat shape appearing?








, Make sure all of the folds stay in place, and the right side remains tucked into the left side.
 The tip of the bishop's hat is separated into two sections. Pull one section down and to the right, and the other down and to the left. Press the folds with a hot iron.
 You can either rest it upright on a plate or lay it flat. Insert a menu or place card into the center fold, or leave it plain. The elegant bishop's hat fold looks fancy either way.








