 Demonstrate your great personality to the girl before you even ask her out. By being positive, kind, funny, thoughtful, and well-mannered, you can show her that you are a great guy who would make an excellent boyfriend.If you feel like your personality is lacking in some way, focus on improving yourself. For example, if you tend to be pessimistic, make it your goal to identify three positive things about your life every day. Over time, you will begin to find it easier to see the positives in your everyday life and you will also benefit from higher self-esteem, better sleep, and improved empathy.Remember to talk to her. Research has shown that a great personality can make people find you more attractive. But if you never talk to her, she may never get to see how great of a guy you are.;
, Looking and feeling good will help you to be confident around the girl you like and that may be enough to win her over. Take plenty of time every day to eat healthy, exercise, sleep, and groom yourself. Feeling good about yourself will help you project happiness and confidence, which are always attractive.Eat healthy and exercise regularly.
Rest and relax every day.
Make sure your hair looks good.
Wear clothes that express your personality.
Wear cologne and deodorant.
 Some girls may find certain things attractive in a guy, while others will not. But the only way that you can find out if the girl you like finds your unique talents attractive is to look for opportunities to showcase them.For example, if you are an excellent guitar player, invite the girl you like to come to one of your band’s practices or shows. Or if there is a sport that you excel at, ask her to come to one of your games.
 Some girls are impressed by guys who are passionate about their hobbies and make time for themselves. If you have things that you love to do, make sure that you make plenty of time to do those things. For example, if you are an avid reader, make sure that you keep doing that even while you are pursuing this girl. It will give you more things to talk to her about when you see her and she may even be impressed to find you reading in a coffee shop some random afternoon.