 As you begin to develop a plan to manage your stress, it can feel like an overwhelming task. Before doing anything else, try a free-association or stream of consciousness exercise. This exercise involves not censoring your thoughts but rather writing them down as they happen.


For a very short amount of time (approximately two to three minutes), write out everything that is causing you stress.
Don't stop writing until your time is up. Doing it quickly prevents you from focusing on each specific stressor, so that you can get as many of your thoughts as possible onto paper.
Write any thoughts or feelings that surface about your stress or stress management as well.;
, To manage your stress, try to identify what you are stressed about and where it's coming from.Review your free-association, and make a list of your the things that cause you stress. Try to not get overwhelmed with what is on the list, but rather use this as an exercise to organize your stressors. Additionally, making lists can help to reduce anxiety and promote creativity.Feel free to write your stressors out with paper and pen, or consider typing your list on a spreadsheet to make it easier to move things around later, if needed.
Don't worry too much about the order at this time.
 As you look at your list, try to narrow any broad categories of stressors down to specifics. For example, work may be stressful for you, but what specifically is causing your stress at work? Breaking down the source of your stress into specifics will help you choose a more precise and effective solution.Ask yourself if there is a specific factor about your work that is the actual stress source or if it is more of a general stress about working. For example, if you work at a call center and enjoy the job itself, maybe you are stressed by long work hours, by your boss, or by the cold calling portion of your job.Ask yourself if your stressors might be related to particular people, places, tasks, responsibilities, thoughts or feelings.
If you remove what you have identified as a specific stressor and your feelings towards that broader topic improve, you are on the right track.
 Evaluating your stressors and having them all written in front of you is a big step! If you are feeling your stress increase by just looking at this list, then take a break. Make sure throughout the planning process you are managing any additional stress that may surface. Take a break and try one of the following activities:


Go for a short walk.
Have a glass of cold water and focus on the act of drinking water for a few moments.
Do a short relaxation exercise such as deep breathing.
 Going back to your list, consider each stressor one at a time. Try to determine what ones are a big stressors for you and what ones are small stressors.It can be easy when you are stressed and overwhelmed for everything to feel like a disaster, when that might not be the case. You may be able to remove some items from your list if you determine they are just a result of being overwhelmed. Also, beginning to determine if stressors are large or small in your mind will help when it comes to prioritizing and creating your action plan later on.


Use your thoughts as well as you own body reactions and responses to help you determine the importance or severity of each stressor.Notice your urges to avoid anything during this process.The stronger the urge to avoid it the more heavily weighted that stressor probably should be.
 Evaluate what resources you have available and how you can take advantage of them. Put the list of stressors aside and create a new list of resources for yourself. The purpose of this activity is two-fold. It will hopefully aid in a reduction of stress by acknowledging all of the ways you have to help yourself through this stressful time. It will also provide you with a list to match resources to specific stressors. Resources can be anything that you feel helps you cope with stress including:


People, such as friends, family, or therapists.
Activities, such as spiritual practices, hobbies, or relaxation exercises.Online tools and resources.
 Experiencing stress is unpleasant. This causes many people to try to ignore their problems or their stress with the false hope that maybe it will “just go away.” Unfortunately this usually only causes more stress in the long run.Take some time to organize your stressors, make plans, and address them one by one.
 Begin to divide the list into categories or rank them by importance. Prioritizing helps you put your stressors into perspective and helps determine a clearer action plan based on what is most important. You can determine whether a specific stressor is really a concern that you need to deal with right now or not. You may decide that the least important stressor on your list is no longer relevant in comparison to the other stressors. Try prioritizing by:


Listing them in order of the most stressful to least stressful. Rewriting your list or working within a digital document may be helpful at this time.
Label them in a ranking system or 1, 2, or 3; where 1 is most important or most stressful, and 3 is the least important or least stressful. Place a 1, 2, or a 3 by each item on your list.
Split them up by categories such as work, finances, schools, friends, family, etc. and then prioritize each category.
 To avoid getting overwhelmed, take one stressor at a time and try to remove the other stressors on the list from your sight. Look at your resources list and choose one (or several) resources to help you deal with this stressor. Whatever the stressor is, choose a resource that can aid you in resolving the issue.


For example, if your bills are late and you are getting notices, make a plan to call your providers to set up reliable payment plans. You may also want to visit a financial adviser to help with managing your finances, or talk to a family member about finance management.
Ask yourself the following questions to help you develop a specific plan. What actions will occur? Who will carry them out? What resources are needed? Who should know what?If a task is too large or feels overwhelming, break it down into smaller, more manageable pieces.Reorganize your list so that you can focus on one small piece at a time.
Be specific and realistic in making your plans and solutions to set yourself up for success.
 Create realistic goals when putting together your solutions. Don't set unrealistic timelines and action plans. Realistic goals are those that are specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. These are also known as SMART goals.For example, if you are stressed about finding a job, then a SMART goal might be something like, “Complete three job applications today.” This goal is something that is specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. It will help you to move in the direction you want to go, but it will not overwhelm you as much as setting a goal like, “Complete 20 job applications,” or “Get a job by Friday.”

, Add dates and times to work on each item, and then add dates for review or follow up to see if your plan for managing stress is working.If you find that a solution is not working, then replace it with another. You may also find that some action plans are working and those original stressors are gone. In such cases, remove the stress from the list.
 Stress can build up a great deal of anxious energy in your body. Stress can also negatively affect your physical health. Exercise not only gives you an outlet for anxious energy, improves your physical health, and reduces other mental health difficulties like depression, but it can also help clear your mind so you can concentrate and think better.This makes exercise a great resource for you that can be adapted to specific schedules and stressors.Plan a time to exercise. Commit to a certain time, length of exercise, and how many times a week. For example, “I will commit to exercising in the evenings, for 20 minutes, six days a week” and “If I have trouble concentrating or feel overwhelmed, I will walk around the block twice.”

, Have trusted friends or family members around that you can confide in about your stress as well as about your plan to manage it. Use your social coping resources to help reduce your stress and prevent stress in the future.If your friends and family members offer to help or want to comfort you, let them.


Additionally, take some time out of the hard work you are doing, to relax and have fun with your friends. Being social is a stress release in itself.
 Sometimes an overabundance of stress comes from having the nature of a people-pleaser and a reluctance to say no.Wanting the people around you to be happy is a noble goal, but not being able to say no to others does come with some potential risks, including stress. Try not to build your stress up on yourself by over committing to too many projects or responsibilities.


Know you have the option to say no.
If you must say yes, set a time limit. “I can help you, but I only have an hour before I have to leave.”
Don't offer excuses and don't apologize for having to say no.
Realize that you are not responsible for other people's happiness.
 A great way to reduce your stress and prevent stress in the future is to begin practicing mindfulness.Mindfulness is additionally helpful in how flexible your practice can be. There are quick techniques you can use in the moment and then there are longer practices you can use, such as meditation, to reach deeper relaxation.


The 5-4-3-2-1 Sense Activity is a quick in-the-moment mindfulness activity you can do anywhere. Practice this by being mindful of your present environment and name five things you can see, four things you can hear, three things you can touch, two things you can smell, and one thing you can taste.Meditation is a longer, deeper mindfulness practice that can help you learn to quiet your mind and relax your body., Another way to reduce and prevent stress is to engage in active relaxation techniques. While it typically feels like stress is an overwhelming and insurmountable fact of life, there are, in fact, ways we can calm ourselves down with some effort and practice. Active relaxation involving make a conscious effort to relax your mind and your body. Try the following techniques.



Deep breathing exercises such as 4-8 breathing. Breathing from the diaphragm, breathe in through your nose for a count of 4 and slowly out through your mouth for a count of 8.Long, warm baths or showers. Providing yourself with some pampering is an active and sensory-filled way to relax yourself.
Visualization and guided imagery is a technique where you use mental images or scenes which calm you as a source of relaxation., Make sure, as you are managing your stress and working towards a more stress free future, that you are taking care of yourself as well. Feeling tired because of a lack of sleep, or sluggish from having too much sugar or fatty foods, will only increase your stress. Begin with the basics of getting good quality sleep and eating healthy. Be aware of foods that can increase your nervous system responses and your anxiety or stress, such as caffeine.


Try and get an average of eight hours of sleep a night. Go to bed at around the same time every night so your body can adjust to a more regulated schedule. Leave your bed for sleeping and not for homework, watching TV, or using your phone.Make sure you are eating enough meals having enough fruits and vegetables, and drinking plenty of water. Work on reducing your intake of caffeine, sodas, and sugary foods and drinks.