 Don’t force your arm to move a certain way or pick something up if it hurts. Pain lets you know you need time to recover. If your arm is sore, then let it rest and repair any damaged tissues. Don’t push yourself to do things that may make the injury worse., Sometimes dehydration can cause muscle cramps that can be felt in your arms. Always drink extra water when you’re exercising or out in the heat. Electrolyte replacement drinks or sports drinks can be diluted with water to about ½ and ½ and used to replace salt, sugar as well as other minerals. Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
 You need to eat a balanced diet to ensure that you get all your daily required vitamins and minerals. A lack of some minerals like calcium and magnesium can cause muscle cramps. If you feel like you aren’t getting what you need from what you eat, consider a whole-food-based multivitamin or talk to your doctor about taking more calcium or magnesium.


Dairy and dark green, leafy vegetables are foods you should incorporate into your diet regularly for vitamins and minerals.
 Stress lowers your immune system and makes it harder for your body to repair itself. When you are injured, it’s important that your body can focus on repairing the damaged tissue instead of trying to regulate a stressed system. Practice meditation and deep breathing exercises to encourage healing.
 When you do certain activities, you need to use the proper positions and movements to avoid straining muscles, joints or tendons. If you make the same arm movements often throughout the day, then you should consider finding other ways to move your arms to avoid RSI. It is sometimes necessary to have a professional evaluate your arm movements at work or while performing other actions to ensure they aren't problematic.


Always make sure that the equipment you are using to exercise or do sports with are correct for your ability level and size.
Call your human resources department at work to discuss modifications, other ways of performing job tasks or about getting another position within the company if what you are doing is causing sore muscles, tendons or joints.
 Smoking can slow healing. It can decrease blood supply and prevent enough oxygen from getting to your damaged tissues to repair them in a timely manner. Smoking can also increase your chance of getting bone issues like osteoporosis that can lead to more severe injuries.
 Do slow, gentle stretches of the area that is hurting. Do not use jerky movements, and don’t stretch beyond what is comfortable. Hold each stretch for 20-30 seconds and repeat if you want to.


A tricep stretch can be performed by raising your hands above your head and bending one elbow down. Grab the wrist of the bent arm with the other hand and pull it down toward your back. Repeat with the opposite arm.
Stretch your biceps by clasping your hands together behind your back and straightening your elbows. Bend forward, moving your clasped hands toward the ceiling.
You can stretch your shoulders by putting one arm across the chest and using the opposite arm to grab your forearm. Gently pull the arm toward your back shoulder. Repeat with the other side.
To stretch your wrists, cross your hands together to form a cross. Push down with the top hand, so your wrist flexes. Repeat with the other hand. 