 If your SATA hard drive cable connector has metal latches, follow these steps:


Unplug both ends of the SATA hard drive cable.
Blow out both of the cable ends and where they plug into the back of hard drive and mainboard/motherboard with canned air or air pump.
Clean the ends of the cables and where they plug into with a toothbrush and rubbing alcohol or surgical spirits.;
, When it is totally dry, reconnect the SATA hard drive cable to the back of the hard drive and to the mainboard/motherboard. It can only go on one way; you can't accidentally reverse it like ATA cables in old days; it has an "L" shape to prevent this.
 Be sure there is no stress anywhere in any part of the SATA cable, for example from the side of computer case or another component pressing on it. Any stress may cause the connector ends to work partly loose, which will cause more data corruption and data loss (more CRC errors). If there are any bends in the cable around corners which may accidentally get pressed on, try using sticky tape to secure the bend in the best location with the least stress on the connector end. If you have a very tight bend or if it is impossible to reduce stress on the cable enough, you should buy a right angle or left angle SATA cable; they are designed for these tight corners, and have 90 degree angles relative to the cable to insert without too much stress in tight spaces.
 Your SATA cable connectors may have poor contact design, or the metal may have oxidized/rusted over time. If metal electrical contacts are rusted/oxidized, and you have no money, use a small thin metal nail file to bring shine back to contacts and restore good electrical connection of cable ends. If you have money, and you want to try new SATA cables instead, you can purchase a new one, but there is no guarantee the contact design will be even as good as the cable you are replacing, since many aftermarket replacement SATA cables have poor contact design. Two things you have to watch when bringing shine back to contacts are:


Do not press too hard down on contact or it will not make contact when you are done. #* Be careful not to wear away too much, and try to target sanding action to right location. You will have tiny bits of plastic and metal that flake off as you work, so use a dry toothbrush and dust out connector end afterwards to make sure these particles are gone before you use the cable again.

