 Friendships grow stronger when you create memories. The more time you spend together, the more you get to know the other person. Go to a friend’s house after school or have lunch together.


If your friend asks you to hang out several times, make an effort to agree to see each other. People will stop asking if you never accept invitations.
If you want to see a friend, try saying, “Hey, are you free this week? Do you want to hang out after school?”

, Remember to do something that you both enjoy. Maybe you both want to see the same movie, or maybe your friend wants to try out your new video game. Whatever it is, relax and have a good time! The more experiences you have, the stronger your bond.


Go to a concert, cook a meal, or watch a television show that you both enjoy. Fill your time with laughter.
 Take a class on the weekend or try out a new restaurant together. Trying new things will help you bond with your friends. Whether you have a good time or not, you are creating memories to talk about in the future. Even if something is a disaster, it will likey be something you laugh about together later on.


Don’t be afraid to step out of your comfort zone. You and your friend can support each other when you try something new together.
For example, you and a friend might feel nervous about joining a new club. Try saying, “I’m afraid I won’t be any good at soccer, too. But let’s try it out. At least we’ll be together if things go badly.”

, Remember that your time spent together should be fun for both you and your friends. Make sure that everyone has a chance to choose an activity.


For example, your friend might get to choose where you go for lunch and you get to choose the movie. Find a compromise that works for both of you. You might say, “Since I chose the movie, why don’t you decide on lunch? I’m open to anything.”
Be aware of your friends' schedules. Don't expect them to always work around your availability — remember that they have lives, too. Be willing to make some sacrifices or rearrange some things to accommodate your friends' schedules, too.

