 Advertising leads you to believe that you need a myriad of products to stay beautiful. However, like many things in life, less is always more. So keep your beauty routine simple by sticking to the basics. All you need are a good cleanser, toner, moisturizer, and sunscreen. Keeping your beauty routine simple will cut back on waste.For example, the ingredients in eye creams only vary slightly from the ingredients in your basic face moisturizer. Unless you have specific eye needs that you'd like to meet or you have very sensitive skin, you can use a moisturizer.
You also do not need ten different face creams that do the same thing. Stick to a product you like. If you try a product and do not like it, pass it on to a friend or family member instead of throwing it away.;
, Multi-use products mean less waste, as well as cost. Look for all-in-one make-up sticks that can be used on your lips, eyes, and cheeks. Additionally, opt for moisturizers that double as sunscreen.Dr. Bonner’s 18-in-1 pure-castile liquid soap can double as a shampoo and a skin cleanser.
Eyebrow pencils can double as day-time eyeliner.
Turn the remaining amounts of your eyeshadow into an eyeliner by applying it with a thin brush dipped in Visine.
 When using a product, try not to slather it on. A small amount of product will go a long way. Additionally, when you use a product, use the product in its entirety. Squeeze out and use every ounce of your product.Purchase a tube wringer so you can get the most out of your products.
 Monitor how frequently you wash your hair. If you wash your hair five times a week or every day, then you are washing too much. Washing your hair too frequently strips your hair of its natural oils and leaves a residue. It is recommended that you wash your hair only twice or three times a week.Use a dry shampoo in between washes to minimize oil in your hair.
Minimizing your shampooing will also save water and electricity.
 While brushing your teeth, washing your face, and doing other activities at the sink, turn off your faucet. Also, be conscious about the amount of time you spend in the shower. Shaving off two to four minutes can save four to eight gallons of water.Try installing a water-saving showerhead to reduce your water output.
Use biodegradable, rinse-free facial wipes instead of the traditional water and cleanser routine to wash your face. Try this a few times during the week., Use make-up brushes and hairbrushes made from recycled or sustainable materials, like bamboo. Use brushes that have synthetic bristles as opposed to real animal hair. Additionally, opt for energy-saving blow dryers to reduce the amount of electricity you use while styling your hair.Unplug hairstyling tools when you are not using them.
EcoTools has a great line of sustainable products.
 Origins will recycle used make-up products from any brand if you drop them off. Additionally, Aveda stores will create new caps out of recycled caps (like the hard ridged ones on toothpaste bottles) if you drop them off at their stores.MAC will give you a free lipstick for every six lipsticks you bring back to recycle.These deals are U.S.-specific; they may not apply in other countries.
 Also, buy brands that use glass to package their products. Glass is easy to recycle, and you can re-use glass jars for other purposes.To cut back on waste, opt for bar soap instead of body wash, which comes in plastic bottles.
The packaging of products that you can buy from Lush, Olivine Atelier, The Honest Company, Blue Avocado, and S.W. Basics is minimal, recyclable, and sustainable. For instance, Blue Avocado's products are made from 50 percent post-consumer recycled bottle fabric., Try to avoid products whose containers have the #3 recycling code, as well as a “V,” which refers to polyvinyl chloride or PVC. PVC poses great environmental hazards, as well as health hazards.Instead, opt for plastic containers with the #1 recycling code, for example, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and high-density polyethylene (HDPE). These plastics are most frequently accepted by municipal curbside recycling programs. They are also considered safe in terms of health.
Visit Earth911.org to find a polypropylene recycler in your neighborhood.
 The “natural” and “all-natural” labels that grace the bottles of many products may still contain toxic chemicals and additives. This is because the federal government does not regulate these labels. Choose organic products instead. These products contain the USDA organic seal.Stay away from products that contain petroleum byproducts. Identify products that contain petroleum byproducts by looking for mineral oil, petrolatum, or paraffin in the label.
Check your products in the Environmental Working Group’s database at EWG.org/skindeep to see how they score on the toxicity scale.
Check to see if the brand you buy your products from has signed the “Compact for Safe Cosmetics” at safecosmetics.org. Companies who have signed this pact pledge to replace harmful chemicals in ingredient lists with alternatives. Alternatives that are safer for the environment, as well as your health.
 This is the best way to know exactly what goes into your skincare products. Using homemade products will also minimize your environmental waste. Make homemade face masks, toners, and shampoos.Make a face mask by combining ½ cup of yogurt, ¼ cup of honey, and ½ cup of blended cucumber. Apply to your face, let it sit for 15 minutes, then rinse off.Make a body scrub by combining 1 cup of coffee grounds, ¼ cup of raw sugar or sea salt, and 1/3 cup of essential oil. Mix and apply to wet skin in a circular motion, then rinse., When in doubt, make an appointment with your dermatologist. Tell your dermatologist that you are adjusting your beauty routine and that you would like to use products that are safe for both the environment and your health. Your dermatologist should be able to recommend some great products, as well as alternative ways to care for your skin, like exercise and diet.


You might also ask your dermatologist, "what other exercise and dietary advice can you give to help me keep my skin and hair healthy?"

