 In instances of severe kidney damage, a low-protein diet may be necessary to prevent too much waste from building up in your blood. Protein creates waste that makes your kidneys have work harder to get rid of the waste.Ask your doctor if you should go on a low-protein diet. If you need to go on a low-protein diet, your doctor will most likely have you meet with a dietician so that you will know what to eat.
 If your phosphate levels are high, then your doctor may require you to follow a low-phosphate diet. Dairy is rich in phosphate, so you will have to limit your dairy intake and reduce your intake of other foods as well, such as eggs, red meat, and fish.If reducing your dietary intake of phosphate does not work, then your doctor may prescribe phosphate binders. These medications have to be taken along with meals to absorb some of the phosphates in your food., Poor kidney functioning can lead to a variety of other health problems, so you may need to start taking medications to treat these complications. Some possible complications of kidney disease include:High blood pressure
Cholesterol
Anemia
Swelling
Brittle bones

, If your kidneys are not working well enough to clear the excess waste and fluid from your body, then you may need to consider dialysis. You can either have hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.Hemodialysis is performed with a machine that filters the waste and excess fluids from your blood. You will need to go to a clinic a few days per week to have this type of dialysis.

Peritoneal dialysis is also done with a machine that fills your abdomen with dialysis solution that attaches to waste and unnecessary fluids and then drains them from your body. This form of dialysis can be done at home with a special machine, but you will have to do it every day.
 If your kidneys have stopped working and you do not wish to do dialysis treatments for the rest of your life, then a kidney transplant is the only other option. To receive a new kidney, you will either have to find a donor or wait for a kidney to become available.


Keep in mind that for the rest of your life after you have a kidney transplant, you will have to take medications to prevent the donor kidney from being rejected.