 One of the reasons you may not be as productive or as creative as you may want to be in life is because you have too much clutter. Things you can do to get more organized include removing books you’ll never read from your bookshelf and deleting the apps that you’ll never use from your Smartphone. Not only will you have done some housecleaning, but also they will give you the motivation to move on to the next larger de-cluttering task.Also consider writing down the activities that take place in each room. Walk through your home with a notebook and pen, and jot down the different activities. Note your desired use for each room, and remove anything that doesn’t relate to the activities for that space.Pick an organization to donate to. Getting rid of things is easier if you can visualize someone benefitting from them. The rule of thumb is that unless it’s something that you only use once or twice a year, if you’ve haven’t used it in more than 6 months, then you probably don’t need it.The next time you’re putting away laundry, grab some of the clothes that you haven’t worn in a while, and try them on in front of a mirror. Put the ones back into circulation that you still like and that fit you well back into circulation, and donate the rest., If you don’t have a list of goals, begin one. If you already have one, review them. Write down a list of action steps you can take over the few weeks to bring some of these goals to fruition. The more you focus on them, the more likely they are to come true.Also be sure to do your goals as early in the day as possible. If you study highly productive people, you will find that a large number of them accomplish many of their goals early in the morning.
 If you’re on top of your game, you do it immediately. Or, if it’s not your thing or you’ve been really busy, you may have a bunch of files and documents lying around. Just doing this one task, especially if it has built up, will make you feel that you are controlling life versus it controlling you.Be colorful. Files with different colors for your tabs and labels can not only turn your organizing system into a work of art, but they’re also a lot easier to find.Put important papers in a place where you know they’ll be safe. Keep your documents in a safe place, but also make sure that you can easily get to them when you need them.
 Are you worried about something in particular? Is it getting in the way of how productive you are? Deal with the issues that are keeping you from spending your time as well as you probably would otherwise. By removing as many stressors as possible, your headspace will be a lot clearer to focus on other more positive aspects of living.