 Lara Croft often has to climb walls, and she can do it because her arms are strong enough to. Push-ups, pull-ups and weightlifting may do the trick to build some muscle in your biceps. You aren't supposed to push yourself too hard though, just try to get small muscles.;
, Lara Croft has to run, jump, climb... her strong legs are the key for that. Practice as many kinds of squats as possible: Olympic squats, power squats, wide stance-turned out squats, front squats, split squats... Stairs may be useful too. Try not to use elevators and prefer the stairs. Rope jumping is also a very good way to get powerful legs.
 Abs muscles are good for climbing too. You aren't asked to get a six-pack, but just work on your abs to gain some muscle. You can do sit-ups. Another easy exercise: lie down on the ground and ask someone to stand, keeping your head between his legs. Then, hold his legs and start lifting yours up. The other person is going to push your legs towards the ground. You are supposed not to let them touch the ground. Here, your abs' efforts are doubled.
 Yoga is a powerful sport. All the muscles in your body are working. It's the best way to be fit and get strong arms, legs and abs.
 Free running is the best way to learn to run faster and longer. It's all about running, climbing, jumping and moving for a long time.
 For breakfast, take a cup of milk, a slice of cheese and a banana or an apple; the most important thing is to insert calcium and fruit in the first meal of your day. For lunch, make sure to include meat and vegetables in your plate, the best way to regain the lost energy during the day. For dinner, eat soup, or anything like that including vegetables, but don't put meat in your dinner, it'll disturb the stomach at night. This is just an optional eating schedule. But make sure to follow all the important things for a healthy diet.
 Now we're done with the tips of getting a body like Lara Croft, it's time to turn on the type of clothes you have to wear to get the right style. First, wear a simple light blue top. Next, wear a brown pant. You can cut some parts of it to make it look like you've been surviving a hostile island, this is just optional. Wear a dark belt. Then, put on dark brown boots. You can put a bandage on your right arm and on your left knee. Finally, wear a bracelet on your right wrist.
 First of all, you must have Lara Croft's signature weapon: the bow. Then, get a shotgun, a rifle, a handgun and a climbing axe, which is also used in combat. Make sure to include in the equipment a radio channel to communicate.
 Do a simple ponytail. Then, add a small quantity of eyeshadow around your eyes. Lara Croft's lips glow, so you can add some gloss on yours to make them shine a bit. You can also makeup your face to add scars and blood.
 Lara Croft is ready to sacrifice herself to help the others. She won't accept leaving her friends dying. She isn't afraid of death, she will do whatever it takes to make sure that everyone is in safety. Lara Croft fights for her life and for her friends' lives. Learn to be like her, and consider the others.
 Lara Croft wants answers for her questions. She seeks and seeks until she gets what she desires. "I need answers. I need to understand." - Lara Croft.
 Lara Croft always knows how to fix her problems. Think and seek hard and you'll finally find a good solution to solve an issue.
 Lara Croft wants to understand mysteries, to touch her goals... she knows and she believes she can do it. Feel certain of yourself. Nothing is impossible. "I know I can do this." - Lara Croft.
 Show everybody that you are capable of achieving huge accomplishments. Don't be afraid of fighting. Remember that Lara Croft fights to survive. She wants to save her life. Don't be shy. If you have something to say or to do, don't be scared of accomplishing it! Because, after all, that's what you want, right? Don't forget to run after victory and glory, too.
 Learn other languages. Find out more about myths. Be inspired by ancient ruins. Surf the web to discover more secrets about the world. Try to uncover the pasts hidden footprints. Not only the Internet contains information, but also a nose to the books can help.

