 When a girl likes you, she will face in your direction. If a girl has her torso turned towards you in an open manner, this means that she is confident talking with you. If she has a closed body position, namely crossed arms or legs, she may be shy or nervous to talk to you or she may simply be creating a barrier to signal that she is uninterested.When she is sitting with her legs crossed, watch her feet. If they are pointed towards you, it might mean that she likes you and wants to get closer to you.;
, If a girl likes you, she will tend to either hold her gaze on you for a few seconds or glance down the moment your eyes make contact with hers. Either of these responses could mean that she likes you. If she pulls away quickly, it often means she is nervous or not ready to reveal her true intentions yet, but she may still like you.


When a girl likes you, her pupils might dilate, though this will be hard to tell.If you happen to glance at the girl and you see her staring back at you, this could mean that she likes you.
 The way you interpret a girl's body language will vary depending on the context. For example, if you're talking one-on-one with a girl, her touching your arm for a few seconds could be considered flirting. However, if she quickly taps your shoulder to get your attention and tell you that your friend is looking for you, she may really just be trying to help, not flirt.


If you are having an intense conversation, a girl may look at you without breaking eye contact. This does not necessarily mean she likes you. It could just be a conversational practice of hers. However, if she makes eye contact with you for an extended period of time without talking, or if she looks at you and breaks away the minute you look back at her, she may be intrigued by you.
 When a girl likes you, she will often try to touch you, as this is a noticeable yet still subtle way to flirt. It allows a girl to size up how responsive you are. She may touch your arm when you say something funny, “accidentally” brush your shoulder or hands with hers, or gently place her hand on your knee.


Not all girls will feel comfortable reaching out using touch. In this case, don't assume that she doesn't like you just because she doesn't try to touch you. She may be too nervous to do so. If you like her, don't be shy––break the touch barrier yourself and see how she responds.
She may also find other reasons to touch you, such as softly punching your arm. These "one-of-the-mates" moves can be a thinly disguised way of getting closer to you without it being too evident to your friends and hers.
 This is especially significant if her random hugs are reserved mostly for you. Hugs are a friendly, affectionate way of getting closer to you and touching you without it necessarily compromising her stealthy flirting skills. Return the hug if you like her back, or gently refuse her hug if you don’t want her to get the wrong impression.
 If a girl imitates you - for example, if you run your fingers through your hair and you notice her do the same a few seconds later - she may be subconsciously mirroring your movements. This can be a tell that she likes you., Gently twirling strands of her hair or partaking in other grooming behaviors like running her hands through her hair could be signs of flirting.
 When a girl likes you, she will touch her lips, collarbone, or neck to draw your attention to these areas. She may even apply lipstick in front of you., This may be her way of signaling to you that she’s comfortable and happy in your presence. When a girl likes you, she may also laugh at your jokes (regardless of how funny they actually are).

