 You'll need the Calibre Companion  app as well as an ebook reader app installed in order to sync and read your ebook library.
 There's a free version called CCDemo and the paid Calibre Companion app. The free version allows you to sync up to twenty books at a time, while the paid version has no restrictions.

Calibre Companion is not an official app, but it is developed by one of the calibre developers and is recommended by the calibre development team.
Calibre Companion and CCDemo are the only calibre apps that work with this method.
 Before shelling out for the paid version, use CCDemo to test your network.

The rest of the guide will refer to the app as Calibre Companion, but the process is the same for both the free and paid versions.
 The Calibre Companion app only syncs your ebooks from your computer to your Android. You'll still need an ebook reader to open and read the books. Popular readers include:

Moon+ Reader
FBReader
AlReader
Universal Book Reader

, You'll need to perform a very quick setup process in the Calibre Companion app., This gives Calibre Companion access to your device's storage so that it can save synced books., You'll need to configure calibre to connect wirelessly with your devices., If you haven't already, you'll need to add books in calibre on your computer before you can sync them to your Android device.

Click the ▼ button next to the "Add books" button and select whether to add books individually or by directory.
Navigate to the book files or folders that you want to add.
 You may need to click the ">>" button on the far right of the toolbar to see it.,
,,, If you don't allow access, you won't be able to connect your wireless device., Your Android device will need to be on the same wireless network as the computer you're syncing books from., It may still be open from the previous section .,,

If the app cannot connect to calibre on your computer, see the next section.
 You can select a single book, or hold ⌘ Command / Ctrl and click each book you want to select., Each book that is successfully sent will have a checkmark in the "On Device" column., This will open the book's details., This button is in the upper-right corner., If you have more than one ebook reader, you'll be prompted to select the one you want to use. Otherwise the book will open immediately in your reader app., The most common problem when trying to connect calibre to your Android device is Windows firewall settings., This will search for Windows Firewall.,
, You'll find this in the left menu., You'll be prompted for the admin password if you aren't already the administrator., This will allow calibre to connect to your wireless device.,, Repeat the previous section to connect to calibre on your computer.