 This website is operated by Central Source LLC, a joint company created by Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. It is the only Federally authorized source for free credit reports. You should routinely examine your credit reports to ensure there are no mistakes in them that could be impacting your score. Report any errors to the credit bureau on whose report you found them.


You can also call them toll-free at 1-877-322-8228.
You can get a copy of your free credit reports by writing to P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.
In the United States, each bureau is required to provide you one free copy of your credit report each year under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), enforced by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). AnnualCreditReport.com’s services are not available outside the US.The law requires the credit bureaus to provide you one free copy of your credit report each year. However, it does not require them to provide you with your credit score for free., In addition to reporting any errors or discrepancies to the credit bureaus, you should also contact the lender or information provider and notify them of the error. Both the credit bureau and the information provider are legally required to investigate and correct “inaccurate or incomplete” information in your credit report.For example, if a medical bill has been sent to collections, you should contact the hospital or doctor as well as the credit bureau. If you know the collection agency to which the bill was sent, contact them too.
The FTC has a sample dispute letter that you can use to notify the credit bureau and/or lender of errors.
They have 30 days to respond to your dispute. If they cannot verify the negative information, they have to remove it.
 Identity theft can quickly affect your FICO scores. Thieves can open a host of new accounts using your personal information. It can be very difficult to undo the damage done by identity theft.Shred sensitive documents, such as bills, credit card statements, and other documents with personal information.
Report lost or stolen credit and debit cards immediately.
Report fraudulent activity to each credit bureau and the lender in question.
 Some people think that carrying any balance on credit cards will damage your FICO score, but the opposite is usually true. Making regular payments on very small account balances shows that you are a responsible credit holder. You can keep a good FICO score by managing how much of your available credit you use and making your payments on time.Keep low balances on credit cards and other "revolving" credit accounts. Too many cards close to the "max" limits can raise a red flag.
Don't have balances on too many credit accounts at once, especially credit cards. This can indicate that you're overextending yourself, and suggests to lenders that you won't be able to pay them.
Don’t close old accounts to raise your FICO score. In most cases, this might actually lower your FICO score because it will reduce your available credit percentage. Any late payments or other negative items from those accounts will still affect your FICO score.Open new accounts only as needed. You should aim for a healthy mix of credit accounts. However, opening new lines of credit to improve that mix will probably not improve your FICO score., You can often negotiate late payments with your original creditors if you are not more than 150 days late on your payments.You can ask your creditor to accept a lower amount, or to waive late fees. They may not cooperate with you, but it is in your best interest to ask. Ask if they will agree to mark your account “paid as agreed” (best) or at least “settled” (second-best).


Sometimes, you may be able to “erase” an account that went to collection by offering to pay the remaining balance. If the company agrees, they can report the account as “paid as agreed” or remove the debt entirely from the bureau’s records., Credit repair services often advertise themselves as a fast and easy “get out of debt” solution. However, their services can be very expensive, and in most cases they cannot do anything for you that you can’t do yourself., There is no “quick fix” for improving your credit score, no matter what some disreputable companies say.


For example, public records stay on your record for years. Liens and delinquencies stay on your credit report for seven years. Bankruptcies can stay on your report for up to ten years.

