 The size and type of container will vary, depending on where you intend to store it, and how portable you'll need it to be. A sturdy backpack is a popular choice for smaller, highly portable kits. Military surplus packs are popular, since they are designed for rugged use and are often available for less money than purpose-made survival packs. A cooler or other lidded plastic container could also be used. Although they are less portable than a pack or bag, they have the advantage of being waterproof.


If you choose compact enough items, most of the essentials for short-term wilderness survival can fit in a small, waterproof container like an empty coffee can.
If you choose a pack or other non-waterproof container, make sure that any moisture-sensitive items in your kit (matches, electronics, etc.) are stored in their own waterproof containers, such as a zip-lock bag.;
, Clean water for drinking and cooking is perhaps the most important resource to consider in any wilderness survival scenario. Water purification tablets are an effective, and widely available, option. There are different kinds of tablets available, but all work by chemically destroying the microorganisms present in natural water sources, some of which can cause sickness when consumed. Make sure to familiarize yourself with the tablets' instructions beforehand, so you'll know how to use them should you need to. Regardless of the purification method you choose, you will need access to a container to gather and purify water. A simple steel cup, or a lightweight cooking pot will suffice.
Portable water filters are also available. While requiring more work, and taking up more space, than tablets, filters do not add any unpleasant chemical taste to water.
If you are preparing for a wilderness location where water is not easy to find (such as a desert), you should be sure to pack some purified water. Water is heavy, and will make your kit less portable, but it is an essential resource. One gallon of water per person, per day is ideal.
 Few pieces of equipment are more versatile and useful than a simple length of sturdy cord. Most backpackers and survival experts prefer parachute cord, which is relatively lightweight and extremely durable. There are a huge variety of survival applications for cord or rope. Here are just a few:Bundling firewood for easier carrying.
Hanging a blanket or tarp for use as shelter.
Suspending your pack from a tree, out of the reach of bears or other animals.
 A good flashlight is essential for finding your way around at night, and can even be used as a signal in an emergency. It is worth investing in a good-quality model. Cheap, plastic flashlights may break very easily when used in rugged conditions. LED lights are usually preferred. They tend to be more expensive than traditional lights, but they provide a superior level of brightness, durability, and battery life.
Be sure to include extra batteries for your flashlight.
Hand-crank models which do not require batteries are available. Some find them to be a hassle to use, since they must be repeatedly re-cranked during extended use.
 Few things are more useful in a survival scenario than a knife. Knives can be used to shave wood to make tinder, cut chord or rope, prepare fish or game, and even open cans in a pinch. Multi-tools are folding, pocket sized devices which contain a knife, as well as pliers, screwdrivers, and other tools, depending on the model. These are a popular choice, since they provide the benefit of many tools in a small package. Some survival experts prefer a simple fixed-blade (non-folding) knife with a blade around 3" to a multi-tool, or other folding knife. Fixed-blade knives are more durable than folding tools, but are perhaps less versatile than a folding multi-tool.
 Many fully assembled kits are available for purchase, although it is often more economical to create your own. A basic first aid kit suitable for wilderness survival scenarios should include:Adhesive bandages for superficial cuts.
Antibacterial ointment for treating superficial wounds.
Roller gauze, for dressing deeper cuts and other wounds.
Medical tape for securing the gauze.
A small pair of scissors for cutting gauze and medical tape.
Tweezers for removing splinters or debris from wounds.
A wound disinfectant, such as medical iodine solution, for cleaning wounds.
Sterile cotton applicators or swabs for applying ointment or disinfectant to wounds.
Painkiller tablets, such as acetaminophen.
Allergy medication, and emergency supplies of any prescription medications you may need.
 Even if you know how to light a fire without one, having a lighter makes lighting a fire in an emergency much easier. Make sure to get some practice starting a fire before you venture out into the wilderness.Various kinds of fire strikers are available, which you can use to create sparks to help you start a fire. Be warned, however, that using a fire striker to start a fire can be challenging. If you plan to bring one, make sure you get some practice
You should also consider packing a container of tinder, or fire starting material. Drier lint is a popular choice, since it burns very readily. Old newspaper is another good choice.
While not as convenient as a lighter, wood or cardboard matches require no fuel to light. Look for waterproof camping matches, or store your matches in a waterproof container.

