 To make the most of your practice you need to be working on your skill every day. Study after study has shown that consistently practicing a skill is far more useful than trying to practice for 4-5 hours once or twice a week.Even 15-20 minutes of practice 7 days a week cab be more effective than 3 hours once a week.



Sports: If you can't practice one day, try to get some exercise (run, bike, swim, etc.) in if you can.

Music: At the very least, run through your scales and 2-3 practice songs to keep practicing your speed and technique.

Intellectual: Make flashcards and review them daily when you do not have time to study.
 You want to make practicing a habit as natural as brushing your teeth. Choose a time to practice and stick to it every day. After 2-3 weeks, you brain will adapt to this schedule and prepare itself for "practice-time." Think of practicing like working-out: it is much easier to stay in shape if you have a set time to go to the gym .



Sports: Schedule practices 3-5 days a week, using extra days for exercise. Set aside one day a week for rest and recovery.

Music: Practice your instrument daily, aiming to work at least 1 hour each day.

Intellectual: It is much easier to learn something when you study each day as opposed to all at once the night before a test. Make a habit of practicing writing or studying daily, even if it is only for a short while., If you're learning an instrument, for example, you might set aside 20 minutes to practice scales, 20 minutes to practice chords and 20 minutes to learn a new song. Having a plan for your practice makes you more likely to stick to your routine and to visualize how you will improve.Sports: Warm up for 15 minutes, work on skill drills (passing, shooting, etc.) for 20-30 minutes, play scrimmages or game-like situations for 20-30 minutes, then cool down with stretching for 10-15 minutes.

Music: Warm up for 10 minutes with scales, then practice your songs, chords, or new techniques. End with a review of old songs you need to know or have fun practicing.

Intellectual: Start with the most difficult subject first, then easier subjects later on., Working for 4-5 hours straight can lead to boredom or burn-out, and if you start losing concentration you will practice ineffectively. Sports psychologists suggest taking a break every hour for 10-15 minutes to relax and catch your breath, but the same principle holds true for any type of practicing (music, academics, etc.).Sports: Exercise for an hour, then take 5-10 minutes off to rehydrate, stretch, and relax before returning to exercise. Limit your workouts to no more than 5 hours a day.

Music: For younger kids, try practicing for 20-30 minutes at a time, allowing them to relax in between to avoid burning out.

Intellectual: Study for at least an hour, then take a break. Go for a short walk, stretch, or listen to music for a few minutes to refresh your brain and body.
 You don't always have to be practicing to "practice." The more you think about your activity the better you will be when you sit down to actually practice.Sports: Watch game tape or professional athletes, stretch, and think or read about strategy.

Music: Work on reading music, especially any new songs you need to learn. Listen to other musicians playing your songs if possible.

Intellectual: Always have a notepad and pen available to jot down any ideas as they come, and read from a variety of fields for inspiration.

