 Amazon Mechanical Turk offers three different interfaces. The best choice for you depends on how many HITs you want to create and how complex they will be. You also want to consider how tech savvy you are.If you only have a few simple HITs, you may want to use the command line interface (CLI). You'll be able to access most of the Mechanical Turk functionality fairly easily.
If you have a larger number of HITs to generate, or will be getting a large number of results, you might prefer the Mechanical Turk API. The API gives you greater access to Mechanical Turk functionality than the CLI.
The third interface, the Requester user interface, is the least hands-on of the three interfaces and is best suitable if you have a very large number of HITs, or will be getting a very large number of results.
 Take a look at the information or data you need to generate, or the tasks you need completed. Figure out how to split this work into bite-size chunks that workers can do in only a few minutes.If your HIT requires your workers to have special skills, such as the ability to translate Spanish into English, you'll want to require a qualification test before workers can accept your HITs.
Specify a reward that each worker will receive for completing each HIT. Keep in mind that if you set the reward too low, you may have difficulty getting your project completed.
Consider whether an individual worker should be able to complete more than one HIT. For example, if you simply need objects classified into categories, one worker could complete several HITs. But if you're doing a survey, you wouldn't want one individual's responses more than once.
 Depending on the reason you're using Mechanical Turk, there may be other considerations that guide how you develop and frame your tasks. This is particularly true if you are using Mechanical Turk for research.For example, you may be doing market research for a company and need to obscure the identity of the company so you can get unbiased answers.
If you have to qualify your workers, use open-ended questions so you can avoid people who will lie just to get the reward for completing the HIT. For example, instead of asking "Are you a female between the ages of 18 and 25?" you can simply ask their gender and age.
 Once you've posted your HIT in your Requester sandbox, you can go to your Worker sandbox to try it out. Make sure the instructions are clear and the HIT itself is programmed correctly.Run through a few sample HITs to make sure the tasks you've created will get you the results you need.
If you run into any problems or want to change anything, do this in the Requester sandbox and then try the new version.
 Once you've created your HITs, you have to prepay for them before you can make them available to workers. The total you'll have to pay depends on how many HITs you want completed and your reward for each., After testing is complete and you've prepaid for the number of HITs you need, you're ready to make your HITs available to workers. You can do this from your Requester account dashboard at https://requester.mturk.com/.Click the "publish batch" button when you're ready to get results for a particular group of HITs. Depending on the complexity of your project, you may have several different HITs that need to be published at different times.
Upload any files that are necessary, and then review the preview page to make sure your HIT will display correctly to workers. Click through to confirm and publish your HIT.
 After your HITs are published, workers will start completing HITs and submitting results. You can review work submitted from the "manage" tab on your Requester account dashboard.You have the option to accept or reject each completed HIT. You can review the results all at once, or look at each returned task and accept it or reject it individually.
If you decide you want to delete a batch of HITs, you also can do this from the same tab.

