 If you need or want to have a hair sample tested at a professional laboratory, make an appointment at a time that is convenient for you. This can help ensure that you get a sample that most effectively will provide results about longer-term patterns of drug use.It is much easier to skew blood and urine test results. If you need a definitive sample, a lab hair test may be the best option for you.Most professional labs offer hair testing that is safe, private, and secure and can give you relatively quick results, especially if you aren’t using drugs.Some labs will allow you submit your own sample through the mail.Groups such as Quest Diagnostics or other laboratory groups have offices all around the United States that you can contact about scheduling your drug test.;
, The day of your lab appointment, wash and dry your hair before you arrive. This may help the lab more easily collect and test your hair sample.


You can use any gentle shampoo and conditioner you like to cleanse your hair.
Make sure to rinse any shampoo and conditioner out of your hair so that the lab can most effectively test your sample. You may also want to avoid using any products such as gel, mousse, or hairspray.
 Try and get to your appointment at least 15 minutes in advance of your scheduled appointment. This can give you time to ask questions or fill out any necessary paperwork.


Make sure to take any diagnostic prescriptions your doctor or employer has ordered. You may require testing only for certain drugs including amphetamines, opiates, cocaine, marijuana, or PCP., In order to test your hair, the lab will collect a small sample from the crown of your head. The sample is collected under the supervision of someone to help ensure its integrity for whatever purpose you need it.The lab tech will cut about 100-200 strands of hair from the crown of your head.She will cut your hair as close to the scalp as possible, but will not pull out or test your hair follicles.The sample collection should be a painless procedure.
 The lab at which you choose to be tested will run tests on the sample you provided. Most labs use a two-tiered process to test hair samples.This includes:


Screening a portion of the hair sample using an Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), which is a reliable method to analyze for longer-term drug use.
Samples that are suspected positive will undergo further testing using either gas chromatography or mass spectrometry to confirm use of specific substances., Depending on the nature of your test results, you can receive the necessary information in as little as 24 hours.Once you’ve received your results, provide them to the necessary employer or authority, or use the information for yourself.


Samples that are negative for drug use are often released within as little as 24 hours, which can help give you some relief if you’re nervous.If your sample tests positive or is on the border, it will likely undergo a second set of testing to confirm results and establish which substances are present in your system. Usually you can receive these results within 72 hours.If you have any concerns about your sample, you may want to have a second set of tests done.

