 Asking for help can be awkward. However, it is one of the ways you can increase accountability. If you let someone know that you are trying to make specific changes in your life, it will increase the likelihood of your success.It is important for you to let others know what you are trying to achieve.


The process of checking in with someone focuses your mind on making progress. There is an opportunity to live up to an expectation, which can result in you feeling positive about yourself and your efforts. Consider asking the person to hold you to a check-in schedule. For example, one time per week you will report your progress to the person. It's up to you to tell them what you need from them in terms of feedback.;
, There is a lot of time to fill in a day. You may be struggling with this notion. If you are feeling depressed, consider finding a new hobby or project to complete. Hobbies have been shown to create improved physical and mental health.For example, everyone has a list of things they would like to accomplish, but don't have the time. Well, now you do have the time. Sit down and make a new list.
Try a new hobby, such as photography, painting, or cooking.
Discover a new love of literature. Read all the books you’ve been meaning to read, but haven’t.
 One way of coping with emotional pain is to volunteer your time, resources or expertise to a worthy cause or individual. Volunteering will help you develop new skills, begin or strengthen your connection with your community, offer you new experiences and the opportunity to meet a diverse range of people.It can also provide a boost to your self-esteem, personal development, and align your actions with your values. You will feel a "giver's high."


Reach out to organizations in your local area to become a part of a worthwhile project. This might include visiting the elderly, helping at an animal shelter, or running fundraisers for a local theatre production company. The opportunities are out there.
Visit the United Nations-sponsored website www.worldvolunteer.org for more information, as this site serves as a global clearinghouse for resources linked to being a volunteer.
 Find a new form of exercise. Biking, hiking, and yoga can all fill your time while making you feel great. Focus on your health. Up to one-third of people directly affected by a painful loss will physically and emotionally suffer.While you may feel anxious, depressed and too exhausted to take action, you cannot ignore your needs.


Consider participating in 15 minutes of meditation or yoga each day.This can make you feel more in touch with your mind and body and more calm for the rest of the day.
 Sitting around missing someone will only make you feel worse. Sometimes you need to occupy yourself with new, more interesting things to do. Have you ever thought about learning to play a musical instrument, or becoming a master gardener? Now might be your time.


The loss of someone may leave large gaps of time that used to be filled with fun activities. Focus on filling your schedule with as many activities as possible.
 When people are in pain they seek comfort in healthy and unhealthy ways. Move away from unhealthy methods of comforting yourself such as alcohol, drugs, and overeating.


For example, if helping others, or animals brings you comfort, reach out to others to help instead of staying in your state of discomfort.
Looking to others for support and rehearsing healthy responses to difficult situations are two forms of effective coping responses you can use., Following a problem solving model will give you structure for creating change. You must determine clear objectives, implement them, make adjustments as needed and monitor your progress.Determine clear objectives. One objective may be identified by first keeping a log of how much time you spend ruminating about your issue. This will give you a baseline measure, after which you can state your objective to decrease your time. Self-monitoring leads to real change.Pick a start date for your plan and start. Don’t delay the inevitable. Start as soon as possible.
Recognize your growth and reward yourself. If you successfully meet your daily, weekly or monthly objectives, celebrate your accomplishments. Perhaps you could go to a movie, attend a sporting event or plant a tree in honor of someone you admire. Positive reinforcement will motivate you to continue with your plan.
If a strategy just isn’t working for you, then stop using it. Find an alternative and plug it into your plan. Don’t look at it as a failure; instead look at it as a correction in the course toward your goal.
Your new behaviors will build over time and become second nature to you. You can fade or lessen your strict adherence to the steps of your plan and maintain positive outcomes., If a situation gets you down, you will have the relaxation skills you learn to help you manage. There are various relaxation methods that include:


Use guided imagery to help you visually imagine a calm place or circumstance. You can seek the help of a therapist for this or develop the skill on your own.
Use Biofeedback to lessen your fear and pain by lowering your heart rate and blood pressure.
Use breathing exercises to quiet your fight-or-flight reactions which are ignited by feelings of pain and fear.