 The processes set out in this article are not designed to change the size; they are designed to change the appearance.



Wash the clothes thoroughly before proceeding. This will assure that bleeding and shrinkage has taken place before antiquing the clothing.;
, Since you'll be cutting, slashing, and attacking your clothes, use an area where damage won't be an issue and where the surface is strong. Good choices include an old gardening bench, a concrete garage floor, or outside somewhere.
 At this stage, decide how much damage you're willing to inflict on the clothing to change its appearance. If you're reticent, put the item away, as the changes will be permanent.


This is a good opportunity to plan the appearance changes that you'd like to make. Sketch or write down your hoped-for outcome and match the methods to the desired look.
 An aged t-shirt is a great starter project because t-shirts don't cost a lot and yet can be made to look fantastic when antiqued. Some suggestions for aging them include:


A broken-in and worn away look: Cut away the sleeves or neckline. Once you start the cut, stop using the scissors and simply tear away the rest of the fabric. This will you give your t-shirt that "curled" look.
Really aged look: A more aged look can be achieved by using sandpaper.Find sandpaper of about 100 grit or heavier. Rub it over the t-shirt in the places where you'd like it to appear more aged; the sandpaper will fray the fibers and make the shirt softer and more worn in appearance. An electric sander also works well and makes for faster results. Be sure to sand the edges of the shirt along the cuts, or along the neck, arm and waistline.
 This is probably the best known fabric subjected to aging techniques in a wide variety of fashion styles.


Starting at the edges of the jeans, make small cuts along the top edges in line with the edge of the jeans. You don't need to go over every edge, just nick the fabric enough to allow it to fray during washing. A razor, X-acto knife or utility knife works best. Use caution to avoid cutting yourself.







Rip jeans for the ultimate distressed look. Make a small cut and then tear with your hands. Ask for help from someone stronger if this proves difficult for you!






For torn knees or other torn areas such as the thighs: Try on the jeans, and with a pencil or sewing marker, make a horizontal mark across the front of your knee while you're sitting. Remove the jeans and make a small hole along the line big enough to fit in a finger or two. Rip the jeans the remainder of the desired width. Knees and thighs tend to show highest wear on normally wearing jeans.
When grating, sanding or filing the jeans, place a block of wood inside the leg. That way, if you grate, sand, or file too hard, you won't press through to the other side of the leg.Learn how to "Ladder" Jeans.
 As explained for aging t-shirts, worn areas can be made by using sandpaper (100 grit or heavier) along the butt, other knee, sides or near the pockets of many fabrics. This process is much faster if you have an electric sander. Just be sure to use a fabric that can withstand this pressure; clearly a fabric such as silk or satin will respond poorly.
 In many instances, the previous steps will prepare the fabric but won't necessarily fray or change the color of the item. For that, you'll need to wash them. Once you have snipped, sliced or torn, put all of your items in the washing machine and wash on medium heat with half laundry detergent and half borax or OxiClean.


The detergents will soften the water and assist the fraying process.
Dry the items completely in the dryer.
Examine the distressed areas. Fraying should begin in the the areas you've torn or sliced. If not, redo the above process and make the cuts deeper. If some fraying has begun and you want more, you can begin to tear and pull some of the strings to encourage more circumferential fraying.
A wire brush, grater or nail file can also assist in causing fraying. Alternatively, use a rasp over stones, such as stones inside a pocket.
 For a faded look, do not use bleach unless you know what you're doing. For best results: wash your clothes with detergent, find a secure place outside in a sunny area, hang your clothes right side out, and leave outside for up to two weeks. Make sure to move your clothes pins daily and rotate how the clothes hang, in order to avoid clothes pin (peg) lines or causing the item to become darker on one side. Your clothes will be stiff. Take your clothes inside and wash in warm water with detergent and borax or OxiClean. Dry in a dryer. Fabric softener can also be used.


If you want to use bleach, wear gloves and be very careful because every drip will cause fading; also, be prepared to work fast as bleach damages the fabric and the sooner you can wash it off, the better. Lay the jeans on an old towel or cloth that you don't use anymore (it will get stained too). If you don't want the back of the leg to look like the front, stuff the legs with plastic grocery bags to prevent the design leaking through to the other leg. Apply the bleach using a sponge rather than randomly dipping and squeezing. Use strokes with the sponge to create effects and avoid unwanted drips from the sponge. Work most on the areas you want to be faded the most. Turn the jeans over once you've done one side and do the other side. Then, wash in cold water using a normal cycle but exclude any other clothes. Dry as normal.Other alternatives include using a washcloth or a spray bottle in place of a sponge, for different effects; if spraying, wear goggles.
 There are a number of "extreme" methods that can be used for aging clothes. While these will take a little more strategy and should only be performed by a responsible adult, they can produce spectacular results providing that you accept that there is no guarantee of the end look nor even that your clothes will survive the punishing treatment! Some of the methods you might like to consider include:


Take your unworn jeans, jackets and shirts to the range for target practice. Fire a few rounds and you'll see awesome distressed looks on the garments. Just be sure to avoid the zippers. Wash them and wear.
Use a high power washer. Lay clothes on the pavement or against a wall and use the washer on them.
Use an axe. Hit clothes with the axe at varying angles.
Bury clothes in the yard for a few days.Cotton and wool seem to respond best, and for really distressed clothing (such as for Halloween or a spooky role play), add rotten pond water and leave for a few months.
Use the clothes in a tug of war with your dog.
Lay clothes across the driveway for a few days.
Roll around in a parking lot or other gritty or graveled surface with soft items such as leather.
 If you break major or supporting threads in the fabric when aging the clothing, tacking this portion back together using a rough or homely repair can add to the distressed look of the item.
