 If you are reading this, then you are old enough to receive an allowance. Good news! Experts report that it is useful to start teaching children about financial responsibility as early as kindergarten. Studies show that kids who earn an allowance better understand the value of hard work.An allowance also teaches independence. When a child has their own money, they feel more in control of choices, such as what to spend that money on. For example, explain to your parents that you will be able to purchase your own video games, with their permission, of course.
Gather some information, such as average allowance amounts, and how often most parents give their kids a set allowance. Most kids receive an allowance each week. Try asking your parents for a dollar for each year you have been alive. For example, if you are 10 years old, you would get $10 a week.Ask your friends and classmates if they receive an allowance, and if so, how much. You can use this information when you make your case to your parents.;
, Your parents will be more likely to listen if you can clearly explain why you need an allowance. Make a list of the things that you are likely to spend money on. Find out how much those items cost. This will give you a good idea of a specific amount of money to request from your parents.If you are new to making a budget, there are tools that you can use to help you. Look for free apps that you can put on your phone, or online programs that you can use. After you successfully receive your allowance, these tools can also help you keep track of your spending.When you are listing budget items, make sure that you set aside some money for savings. Whether you intend to use your savings for a new bike or for college, your parents will appreciate that you are thinking ahead., Giving kids an allowance is a great way to teach kids financial responsibility. This is one of the key points that you should make when you are asking your parents for an allowance. There are also many other positive points that you can add to your request. Make a list of them as you prepare so that you don't forget any.Point out that financial responsibility leads to overall responsibility. When you learn to be in charge of one area of your life (such as buying your own video games), it is only natural that you will start to take on additional responsibilities.
Allowances can be used to teach social responsibility. Consider telling your parents that you would like to set aside a small portion of your allowance to give to charity. For example, if you love dogs, you could make small donations to your local animal shelter.If you have an allowance, you won't have to ask your parents every time you want something. This could be seen as a major benefit for both you and your folks!

