 Any method of paying for someone else’s mortgage would qualify as a gift. In the United States, if you give someone a certain amount of money without receiving a service in return, you become liable for the gift tax. The gift tax is the U.S. government’s way of preventing people from avoiding income taxes by giving away all of their money. The gift tax kicks in once your annual monetary gifts exceed a certain value. The gift tax rate mirrors your individual income tax rate, so it can be as high as 40 percent.As of 2014, an individual can give up to $14,000 in gifts each year to any number of individuals without being liable for a gift tax. That means if you have three children and you want to give them money, you can give them each $14,000 per year without having to pay any gift tax.
A couple can give up to $28,000 per year to any number of individuals without paying federal gift taxes. That means a couple can give $28,000 per year to each of their children without having to pay any gift tax. For example, a father and mother could give a child and their spouse $56,000 every year ($28,000 to two individuals).
As of 2014, the lifetime cap on gift tax exemptions is set at $5.34 million. If, for example, you give $14,000 annually in gifts to multiple individuals, you will not be liable for an annual gift tax, but you will eventually surpass this lifetime limit for gift exemptions and become liable for any additional gifted income over $5.34 million. Taxed gifts do not count toward this lifetime cap.
As of 2014, Connecticut is the only state to levy a state gift tax.Other states have enacted gift taxes, but most have been repealed in recent years.These gift tax exemptions are subject to yearly change. Consult your tax preparer to see how to report your gifts on your tax returns.;
, Making a direct contribution to someone else’s mortgage is the easiest way to pay the mortgage of a third party. However, if you need to pay the mortgage off over a long period of time and don’t want it to be in the original owner’s name anymore, assuming the mortgage is the only way to do it.


Creditors do not particularly care who pays the bill. The process of making a direct payment as a third party is no different than that of paying your own mortgage. However, some additional steps will be necessary if you want to remain anonymous.Whoever pays the mortgage receives the tax deduction for mortgage interest. The homeowner will no longer be able to claim deductions for payments that you made, but you will.
 If you want remain anonymous, you will not be able to assume the mortgage, which is a complicated process that requires the consent of the person whose mortgage you are taking over. The only way to remain anonymous is to make a direct payment.