 Measure 3/4 cup (90 g) of flour directly onto your work surface and add 1/4 teaspoon of salt to it. Use your hand to make a well in the center of the flour.You can use all-purpose or pasta flour for the dough.
 Pour 1 tablespoon of olive oil into the well and crack one medium egg into it. You should also add one egg yolk to the wet ingredients. Use your fingers to stir the flour mixture into the wet ingredients in the center, so a shaggy dough forms.You can discard the extra egg white or save it for another recipe.
 Keep stretching and folding the dough until it becomes soft and elastic. You should knead it for about 10 minutes. Once the dough is soft, wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest while you make the filling.Try to let the dough rest for about 20 minutes at room temperature before you stretch or roll it.
 Pick over 3.5 ounces (100 g) of crab meat for shells or cartilage. Place the crab in a small mixing bowl and stir in the seasonings until they're incorporated. You'll need to add:1 pinch cayenne
1 pinch paprika
1 pinch nutmeg
1 tablespoon melted butter
1 tablespoon finely chopped flat-leaf parsley
Salt and pepper, to taste

, Sprinkle the work surface with flour and place the unwrapped dough on it. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out to a rectangle. Cut the dough in half and set one half aside. Roll one of the halves out as thinly as you can.


If you have a pasta machine or pasta attachment, follow the manufacturer's instructions for rolling out ravioli., Take a 4-inch (10 cm) round cutter and stamp rounds out of the thinly rolled pasta dough. Sprinkle some flour on a baking sheet, so you can place the cutouts aside while stamping out the rest of the dough. Continue to re-roll and cut the dough until you've used all of it.You'll also want to roll and cut the remaining dough half that you set aside.
 Measure out one level teaspoon of the crab filling. Hold one of the cutouts and place the teaspoon of filling near the middle. Use your finger or a pastry brush to spread a little water along the edge of the cutout and fold it over, so the ravioli looks like a half-moon. Dust the filled ravioli with a little flour.Ensure that you've pressed the edges well, so a seal is created.
 Bring a large sauce pot full salted water to a boil. Carefully add the ravioli and stir them gently. Let the ravioli boil for about four minutes or until they float to the top of the water. Use a slotted spoon to gently scoop them out of the water and into a colander.You can pour the cooked ravioli with the water through a colander, but some of the ravioli may break in the process.
 Toss your drained crab ravioli with your favorite sauce and serve them right away. Fresh pasta crab ravioli tastes great with light, fresh flavors. Try serving the ravioli with lightly sauteed grape tomatoes, olive oil and garlic, or a light white wine sauce.If you want to make the crab ravioli in advance, you can assemble them, dust them with flour, and refrigerate them for up to 24 hours. When you're ready to serve them, just remove them from the refrigerator and boil them.

