 To get more of a sense of privacy, head for the stall at the very end of the line. You may feel more comfortable going to the washroom if you are farther away from other people using the washroom.If you are using a washroom with a urinal, you may choose the urinal that is furthest from the door or a urinal where there is no one on either side of you. This small sense of privacy could do a lot to steady your nerves and get you to feel more calm.;
, Breathing exercises can help you to feel calm and relaxed, which will then help to loosen up your bladder muscles and allow you to go to the bathroom. You may do simple breathing exercises where you breath in and out, inhaling for three counts and exhaling for three counts.You may also try belly breathing, where you inhale through your nose and fill your belly with breathe. You can then hold for three counts at the top of your inhale and then exhale through your nose again, letting your belly pull into your spine. This will allow you to experience deeper breathing and feel more relaxed.
 You can try to activate the muscles that control your ability to go to the bathroom by practicing tightening your pelvic muscles and then releasing them. You can also sync this to your breathing, where you inhale as you tighten your pelvic muscles and then exhale as you release your pelvic muscles.As you tighten your pelvic muscles, you may experience a sensation similar to holding your urine when you have to go to the bathroom very badly. As you release your pelvic muscles, you may experience a sensation similar to releasing your urine, such as when you go to the bathroom.
 Get in a relaxing head space by putting in headphones and listening to music on your smartphone or a music player. Choose music that helps you to feel relaxed, from classical music to smooth jazz to trance music. This way, you can focus on the music rather than the environment of the washroom or any embarrassment you may be feeling when you are in the washroom., Meditation can be great for getting into a relaxed headspace and removing yourself from any discomfort you may be experiencing. You can do deep breathing meditation, where you close your eyes and focus on your breathing as you inhale and exhale. Or, you can try mantra meditation, where you repeat a mantra in your mind as you inhale and exhale. This could be a mantra that you find soothing and relaxing.

