 Hair removal cream is similar to shaving, since the effects last a short amount of time, but does not use a razor or shaving cream. The Nair cream is applied to the hair for specific amount of time, which dissolves the hair, and then is scraped off.These creams chemically remove hair without pain; results can last up to two weeks. This is bought at most drugstores such as Walmart, RiteAid, or Target.


This is done in the comfort of your own home as well, but is slightly more time consuming than shaving. This method is easier if you're prone to accidental cutting from razors, or have trouble shaving.
There are some limitations to this method. You can't put them anywhere near your face, breasts (women) or genitals. Some people have an allergic reaction to the chemicals which may result in a rash, extreme tingling sensation or general discomfort to the area. If any of these occur, you should seek medical advice.
Hair removal creams are one of the safest options providing you don't have an allergy to them. To check if you do have an allergy you can start by applying a small amount to the back of your hand, waiting five minutes and noting if any symptoms occur (Itchiness, Rash, Redness, Irritation, inflammation etc.). If you do get symptoms, maybe hair removal cream isn't your best option.
 It's best to do this before you shower. Wet your skin down, apply the cream and lather it up, wait for up to 10 minutes (5 normally does it), then scrape the cream off. Most creams come with a soft plastic scraper, don't let it intimidate you, just press it to the skin and glide. Afterwards you can rinse the rest of it off with water as it may leave the area feeling sticky/slimy.


Don't leave the cream on your skin for longer than the specified time.
Wash yourself thoroughly with warm water and mild soap, and rinse twice according to the directions.
 If you experience irritation, you'll need to try another method. If you do it too much, it can damage the layers of your skin. It does not hurt, but the hair and the cells inside your skin remain damaged and the hair grows thicker.

