 Each tier of this shelf will be comprised of one frame. The front and back of the frame are formed by 96 in (2.4 m) 2x4 boards. There are four supports for each frame, and each support consists of one 21 in (53 cm) 2x4. Measure and mark where your supports will go with a tape measure and pencil.


The supports will fasten the front and back piece of the frame together. Each support is separated by 29 in (74 cm).
The front and back boards should extend 1½ in (3.8 cm) beyond the left and rightmost supports on either side of the frame. All wood should be balanced on its narrow, long edge.
Three 2½ screws in per support should be sufficient to attach them sturdily to the back of the frame.;
, Each support needs to meet the front and back boards and form an L-shape. Use a carpenter’s square to check the angle formed between the supports and the back board.


Adjust the supports by hand until each forms a right angle with the back board. Slide the next 96 in (2.4 m) 2x4 into place at the front of the frame and square it up with the supports in the same fashion as the back board., The supports should be held loosely in place by the screws connecting them to the back board. Double check the angle formed by the front/back boards and supports. Line up and screw in the supports to the front of the frame. Use three 2½ in screws per support.


If the angles formed by your back/front boards and supports don’t form an L-shape, this could compromise the stability or appearance of your shelves., A joint is where two pieces of wood meet. Though gluing the joints of your frame is not necessary, doing so will give your shelf greater sturdiness. Follow the glue’s instructions for best results., Continuing in the same fashion you made the first frame, make three more. Each frame will be exactly the same. Remember to check the angles formed by supports and front/back boards. Each should form an L.


Keep in mind that the front and back boards of each frame should extend 1½ in (3.8 cm) beyond the left and rightmost supports., Arrange each frame so it stands upright and there is 19¼ in (49 cm) between each one. Align the outer edges of the frames. Lay one 72 in (1.8 m) 2x4 on the left and right protruding ends of the frames.


The long 72 in boards should be positioned on their long, narrow side and balance on the part of the frame extending beyond the left and rightmost supports.
This part of the project can be awkward by yourself. The frames will fall over easily, but once you get the 72 in boards in place, their weight should hold the frames somewhat in position.
Ask a friend or family member to help you during this part of the project or use other tools, like clamps, to hold the wood in place.
 Before you do, check the squareness of your angles (you want them to form L-shapes) and other measurements.Adjust the wood as necessary. Use your drill to fasten the 72 in (1.8 m) board to each frame with four 1¼ in screws. Do this for each frame for both 72 in boards., Your shelf is halfway done and should be relatively stable at this point. Still, roughly handling materials at this point can cause damage to the wood. Carefully flip the shelf upside down, so the attached 72 in (1.8 m) legs are off the ground and opposite the floor.
 In the same fashion you fastened the first two 72 in (1.8 m) legs to the frames, fasten two more 72 in boards. Rest the long, narrow edge of each board on the part of the frame extending beyond the left and rightmost frame supports. Fasten these to the frames with 1¼ in screws.


Before fastening these legs, check all your measurements and angles again. While repositioning your shelf, you may have slightly altered something, like the distance between frames. This can cause the finished product to look poorly constructed., Orient your frame so the attached 72 in (1.8 m) boards are standing straight up. Position the final two 72 in boards in line with your middle frame supports. Fasten the vertical supports with two 2½ in screws per frame., Three of the four plywood pieces will need to be cut to make shelves. The fourth piece will fit as the top shelf without being cut. Use a saw to cut three plywood pieces down to 24x93 in (.61x2.36m).A table saw or a suitable handheld saw, like a circular saw, will work best for cutting your plywood. However, a handsaw will also work in a pinch.
 Slide a single piece of plywood onto each frame to form the baseboard for each. Use your drill to fasten each piece of plywood to the frame with 1¼ in screws. The plywood should be fastened with a screw every 6 in (15 cm)., Sand down your newly built shelf to take the rough edges off. Use wood staining to finish the wood, or coat it in primer and paint it. When the staining or paint has dried, add your plants to it and enjoy your garden shelf.