 Before you begin using heating tools, you'll want your hair to already have some wave in it. You can create this natural wave by applying product to your hair, scrunching it and drying it with a diffuser. Or, to make it simpler, simply wash, and condition your hair and let it air dry naturally.


You don't have to apply styling product and scrunch it into your hair for this method -- it just may help you attain better waves. However, before your hair dries, try applying some curl or wave enhancing serum or spray. You don't have to scrunch this through your hair, but simply spritz it in your hair and comb it through with a brush or your fingers. This will give your hair a little extra wave, making it easier to curl.
 After you hair is dry, take a heat protectant spray or serum and spritz throughout your hair. Heating tools can damage your hair by drying it out, but applying a protectant will reduce that damage. After you have applied it to your hair use a comb or brush to evenly distribute it through your hair.
 Section your hair in about three or four sections (depending on the thickness and length of your hair). You can section it by the bottom third, middle third, and top third of your hair, or you can section it off by splitting it down your part and pulling it in front of your shoulders. Use a clip to loosely pin up the hair you aren't working with.


If you are able to leave your hair down, do so. Pinning it up may cause some of the curl to fall out, or it can create creases in your hair. If you are going to clip it up, do so loosely, so that the hair is in a very loose bun or loop.
 Use a one inch curling iron, or a wand, and begin to curl sections of your hair. Instead of clamping your hair in the curling iron, wrap your hair around the curling iron. Point your curling iron or wand down, and start at the root of your hair, wrapping a one inch section of your hair around the curling iron until you reach the ends of your hair. Then, hold for five or so seconds.The reason you want to wrap your hair around the curling iron instead of clamping it in the iron is because this will give you a more wavy hair look. Curling your hair like usual can create bouncy curls that look less natural. Wrapping your hair around the curling iron also creates a looser look at the top of your hair and a tighter wave at the bottom, which gives you a more natural wave look.
To create waves that curl backwards, meaning they curl away from your face, place the curling iron or wand behind the strand of hair that you are curling. For example, grab a piece of hair about one inch (you can do less or more if you want tighter or looser waves) and hold it out. Then, take your curling iron, pointing downwards, and stick it behind that section of hair. Begin to wrap your hair around the curling iron or wand, starting at the top and wrapping it until your ends reach the tip of the curling iron.
 Once you have curled all of your hair, take hairspray and hold it about six to 10 inches away from your hair. Spray evenly throughout your hair. Don't spray too much, though. You don't want your hair to have that crunchy feel. Try to spray closer to the ends of your hair rather than your roots.
 Now that you've curled all of your hair, you may want to comb your waves or curls out a little bit. Look at your waves and decide if you want them looser. Then, take your fingers and run them through your hair. Comb them through each wave gently until you have your desired wave. Then, use your fingers to fix any fly aways.If you brushed some of your pieces out a little too much you can always re-curl them. You can do this with your wand or curling iron, or you can simply take your fingers and twist your hair back into the curl. If you used hairspray it will hopefully twist back pretty easily.
Try not to use a brush or regular comb on your hair while it is wavy. These can brush out your waves making your hair look bushy, and then you'll likely have to restyle your hair. If you wake up with a lot of tangles in your hair, simply run your fingers through your hair and consider re-curling some of the pieces that have fallen. You can also use an anti-frizz serum to help prevent any fly aways.

