 Make a list of small objectives to complete, such as eliminating sugary foods from your diet or losing five pounds. You should respect your limits and take note of them when writing down your goals. Work to accomplish those missions, no matter what it takes. Set up small, non-food related rewards for you to receive once you have finished one of those objectives.
 Although you should receive thirty minutes of exercise on a daily basis, add some more to your regular program through everyday activities. For example, have your parents park the car at the far end of the parking lot. Use that extra distance to walk and burn off calories. You could also take the stairs instead of the elevator.
 Keeping track of every calorie that slips into your body will help you know what you have to eliminate or keep. It can help you figure out what weight-loss methods are working and which ones need to be replaced. If you find that you are losing or gaining too much weight, you can look back on your food diary to see what went wrong.
 Drink eight glasses of water per day. Be sure that you continue drinking before, during, and after your exercise sessions. It is important to make sure that your body remains hydrated; otherwise, you may suffer from dehydration and collapse.
 Use your savings to give yourself a small gift every time you lose a certain amount of weight. You could also ask your parents to support you with this system. Being rewarded for hard work will leave you in a good mood, encouraging you to continue with your progress.
 Make sure that they feel comfortable with your weight loss program. As your parents, they may feel concerned that you will become unhealthily obsessed with losing weight. They might also fear that you will lose too much and hurt yourself in the progress. However, by reassuring them that you are following a safe diet and healthily exercising, you might be able to qualm their fears. Keep them updated about your progress so that they know what is going on.

