 The most effective step you can take to prevent carpet damage is to place all pots onto a dish or saucer. Plant pots are designed to let excess moisture slowly drip out of the drainage hole at the bottom of the pot, which poses a risk to carpet and other surfaces. Allowing this water to collect on a glazed plate or dish and then evaporate into the air will protect your carpet from water damage.;
, Filling your pots to the brim with potting mix creates a risk that the excess soil will be spilled over the top when the pot is repositioned or even nudged. Instead, leave about an inch (25 mm) of space between the soil and the rim of large pots.
 If you do spill potting mix onto your carpet, you'll want to vacuum it up as soon as possible. The real risk of carpet damage occurs when the soil is ground into the carpet underfoot and allowed to penetrate for a long period. This can lead to staining and water damage.
 Any large plants that will be placed directly onto the floor should be grown in stable pots. Wide, shallow pots are less prone to tipping than taller, narrower pots, and so should be preferred when attempting to minimize carpet damage.
 If pets and children overturning your houseplants is a concern, then avoid placing pots on tall, slender plant stands. If you support your plants on a stand, use a large, multi-pot stand that is less prone to tipping and spilling soil on your carpet.
 If you cannot seem to keep potting soil from getting into your carpet, you can opt for houseplants that can be grown without soil. Air plants can be grown in nothing at all, while plants like lucky bamboo can be grown in water alone. Some cacti and succulents can be grown in gravel alone, which is much easier to remove from carpet than soil.
 If a clay pot is overturned, it is very likely to break and spill all of its soil onto your carpet (along with the broken shards of the pot). Using pots made from plastic, bamboo, or other unbreakable materials will help keep carpet damage to a minimum if pots are tipped over.

