 Return once after the last line of the letter, and then insert the letter closing flush right. Capitalize the first letter of the first word of the letter closing, then place a comma following the closing of your choice.


In a personal letter, it's technically optional if you'd like to capitalize any other words that follow.
 You have more freedom to get casual and even a little silly if you are writing a personal letter to someone you know very well. Use your best judgment and work within the bounds of your relationship and the reason for your letter to choose the best closing. Any of the following should work fine:


Love,
With love,
Yours,
Your friend,
Take care,
Best wishes,
Peace and love,
Thinking of you,

, If you're writing to a close friend or family member, consider a more personal closing, like:


XO,
Yours,
Hugs,
Kisses,
Til soon,
Write soon.
 If you're writing to a lover, ending words can be even more intimate. A genuine, personable closing helps the letter sound like it came from you, not a store-bought greeting card. The right phrase might even improve your relationship. Follow the sign-off with your initials or signature. Consider these:


Love always,
Yours forever,
Affectionately yours,
Longing to see you,
Patiently yours,
Your darling,

, Unlike a business letter, in a personal letter you do not need to type your name to make it legible and formal, assuming the person is familiar with you. Simply sign your name by hand directly under the letter closing.


Use your first and last name when signing. If you know the person well, it's okay to sign with your first name only.
Sign with your first and last name if you’re writing to someone you’ve never met face to face.
Use your first name or nickname on letters to friends or business associates who know you.
 Sometimes postscripts are included as a way to lighten a letter's tone with a joke, or to playfully flirt with the recipient. Since postscripts are usually just a sentence or two, they can be used as a way of including information without the pressure of writing an explanation. Take these, for example:


"P.S. I already finished off the box of chocolates. Please send more supplies."
"P.S. Oh, I forgot to mention one thing: I'm madly in love with you."

