 If you feel like you need to rush to the restroom and have a sudden urge to urinate, you're experiencing "urgency incontinence." It may feel like you can't control your bladder. This is a classic symptom of overactive bladder.Urgency incontinence is different from stress incontinence. In stress incontinence, the urine can leak after a cough, sneeze or sudden pressure on the bladder.;
, Your bladder may be overactive if you urinate frequently, more than 8 times in a 24 hour period.This is especially true if you wake up more than once or twice a night with the need to urinate.Nocturia is a symptom of overactive bladder in which your bladder has a hard time holding urine through the night., The risk for overactive bladder increases as you age, but it isn't considered a normal part of the aging process.Other disorders like diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) and stroke are also risk factors for overactive bladder. In general, overactive bladder can be caused by:Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)
Nerve damage
Overactive bladder muscles
Other conditions like stroke or multiple sclerosis that affect the nerves controlling the bladder
Side effects of a prescription medication

, If you suspect you might have overactive bladder, keep track of your symptoms. You should log how often you leak urine throughout the day, how often you go to the restroom, and how often you need to urinate throughout the night.


Looking at your log over a several day period can help you determine if you're bladder is overactive. If you think you are, take your log to your doctor.Consider printing off a bladder diary worksheet. This will help you fill in information about what you were doing when you needed to rush to the restroom, whether you accidentally leaked, and how much you drank throughout the day., If you are experiencing any symptoms of overactive bladder, make an appointment with your physician as soon as you can. Since many conditions may cause overactive bladder, your doctor may need to treat an underlying condition.


Your doctor will take a complete medical history, perform a physical exam and will possibly order some lab tests. Your doctor may also ask you to fill out a symptom questionnaire or will want to see the log of your bladder symptoms.
 Your doctor may want to test how your bladder is functioning. You may need a urinalysis, a urine culture (to determine if you have a UTI), an ultrasound (US) scan of your bladder, a cystoscopy (where a narrow tube with a camera attached is inserted into the bladder) and possibly some blood testing.


These tests can determine if you have a bacterial infection causing the overactive bladder. Initial testing will tell your doctor how to proceed with treatment., If your doctor suspects that nerve damage is causing your overactive bladder, you may need to see a neurologist. The neurologist will be able to perform other specialized tests so you have a full diagnosis. Specialized tests can help rule out other causes of incontinence.These tests can determine whether your bladder is completely emptying when you urinate, how fast your urine flows, and whether muscle contractions or stiff muscles cause the incontinence., Overactive bladder is usually treated by training your bladder and reducing your chances of incontinence accidents. Your doctor will recommend that you regulate your fluid intake. For example, you might need to schedule bathroom breaks and plan when to drink beverages.


Avoid caffeine, alcohol, carbonated beverages and spicy foods. These can make your symptoms worse., Practice double voiding. To do this, wait a few minutes after you urinate and then try to urinate again. This can fully empty your bladder and reduce your risk of bladder infection. If you're having trouble completely emptying your bladder, ask your doctor about using a catheter every once in a while.If you're still leaking often, consider wearing bladder control underwear or absorbent pads.
 Train your muscles to hold urine more effectively. You can progressively train your muscles by delaying urination for longer and longer amounts of time. You should also do kegel exercises to strengthen muscles that control urine flow. Spend at least 6 to 8 weeks exercising these muscles in order to see results.To practice kegels, contract the muscles that control the flow of urine. Once you've identified them, you can tighten and release these muscles regardless of where you're at or what you're doing. Hold the muscles for 5 seconds and release for 5 seconds. Repeat this at least 4 or 5 times., If changing lifestyle habits and exercise isn't relieving your incontinence, talk with your doctor about prescribing medication to relax your bladder. Be aware that there are common side effects with these (like dry eyes, dry mouth, and constipation. Common medications for overactive bladder include:Tolterodine
Oxybutynin as a skin patch
Oxybutynin gel
Trospium
Solifenacin
Darifenacin
Mirabegron
Fesoterodine

, If you're still struggling with incontinence, your doctor may recommend injecting onabotulinumtoxinA (botox) into your bladder tissue. This might stop the nerves from contracting (which may be causing your incontinence.Surgery is also an option for people with severe symptoms who aren't getting relief from other treatments. Surgery is done to remove the bladder or expand its capacity.