 Do you want to lose weight to fit into a favorite outfit, feel healthy, or look great (or maybe all of the above)? Are you looking to earn extra income for a dream vacation, a night out on the town, a new car? Or maybe you're itching to organize an overflowing closet?;
, When you are fit, will you enjoy increased stamina and strength or feel satisfaction from onlookers' admiration? Will you find excitement in traveling to a new place? When you find things easily in your closet, will you feel satisfaction in finding what you want easily and being able to close the door without pushing it shut?Motivation has to be at first empowered in once own mind.
 How do you imagine yourself feeling? Confident? Excited? Accomplished? Close your eyes and really see and feel what it is like to be at your destination. Feel it throughout your body. Repeat this exercise as often as necessary, at least twice a day.
 Writing down goals tends to lead to more successful results than simply thinking them. When you commit your goals to paper and you are able to look at them daily, you'll remain focused on the desired outcome, particularly if it's a goal that will take time to achieve. No matter what you're striving for, there will be challenges along the way. Writing down your goal and keeping it in sight will keep you moving toward accomplishment.
 Make your entire project realistic by being systematic. Brainstorm and jot down all of the little things you can think of that will propel you forward.


If losing 20 pounds is your ultimate goal, you will experience smaller successes along the way. Note these as well as the activities you enjoy in your new fitness and diet program.
If you want to earn an extra $10,000 for a dream vacation, think about how much you can realistically earn per week toward that end. Can you begin by putting money away each week from what you already make? Do you need to look at job sites for extra work? What kind of work would be feasible? Jot down all of your ideas.
Organizing an overflowing closet can take more than one session. Take a look at your closet and start with one section. Can you tackle the floor first? A top shelf? Prioritize the areas and get to work.
 Look at the goals and activities you have written down. Next, figure out what must be accomplished each day to work toward your goal.


What type of work out will you do?

Strength training?
Cardiovascular workout?


Where will that extra money come from?

Overtime?
Second job?
Out of your current paycheck when you receive it?


How much time will you give to that closet?

15 minutes per day?
30 minutes per day?
Longer?


Where will you begin?

Floor?
Shelves?
Hanging items?



,, Every challenging journey has its setbacks. Surround yourself with supportive people and environments. Stay positive and intent on your goal. As Sir Edmund Hillary put it, "Almost anything has its moments where you have to overcome considerable challenges, and if you're able to overcome those challenges, you feel a great sense of satisfaction." Recognize setbacks for what they are and stay focused. Your journey is as important as reaching your goal.
 Take the time to stop and recognize the small steps you have accomplished. When you have a baby step behind you, do something kind for yourself.



Get a massage.
Enjoy a special meal with friends or on your own.
Take a bubble bath.
Buy a set of weight gloves.
Treat yourself to a yoga session or something you find relaxing.
Enjoy a good book.
 Recognize and accept that you are the only one who can get you where you want to be. Remember: You can do it, and as you take your goals seriously, so will those around you.



Schedule appointments with yourself.

Learn to say "no" when someone asks for your time and it conflicts with working toward your goal.
Join support groups in your community or online. Find peers. Some websites offering support groups are listed in "Tips" below.
Ask for family support.
Express your desire for help if you need it. Start seeing asking for help as a sign of strength.

