 Draw a circle for the head with a crossed line inside and use an oblong shape for the body.


Since the finished kitten will be lying on its back, the top of the head should be positioned slightly lower than the top of the body.
Instead of drawing the cross-line at the vertical and horizontal center, angle it so that it looks like an "X" meeting at the center of the circle.
The oval body should be about twice as long as the head (but roughly the same height).
 This will be the ball the kitten is playing with.


Note that this circle should be slightly smaller than the kitten's head.
 The complexity of the limbs can vary as desired.


For best results, most limbs should be drawn in two parts. The "higher" limbs should be a little longer, with lengthwise ovals overlapping on the ball, and rounded ovals connecting the paws to the body of the kitten. The "lower" limbs should be similar, yet smaller, since they would be less visible.
 The ears should be two triangles coming off the head of the kitten, sticking out horizontally to the side. The tail should be one long, rounded quadrilateral curving around the bottom of the kitten's body.
 Using the crossed line from your outline as guide, draw the kitten’s eyes, nose and mouth. You can also add the whiskers using long strokes.


The eyes should lie on the horizontal center line.
The nose should lie on the vertical center line, with the "W" shaped mouth connecting to it at the bottom.
 Sketch around the kitten’s face using small soft strokes to make it look furry.
 Sketch the same short soft strokes in drawing the kitten’s body and tail.
 When viewed from the top, you'll only see straight lines where the toes are. For the back paws (viewed from the bottom), you'll see the actual paw pad.


Darken the ball, as well.
 Clean the drawing by erasing unnecessary lines from the outline.
 You can add color as desired. The paw pads, nose, and eyes should vary from the color of the fur. You should also choose a different color for the ball.

