 To do this, combine apple cider vinegar with other household items. Facial toners utilizing apple cider vinegar can help tighten skin, minimize pores, and remove any lingering traces of makeup.The natural alpha-hydroxy acids present in apple cider vinegar help exfoliate the skin. A popular recipe for toner is one part apple cider vinegar with four parts water. Other household items, such as green or chamomile tea, witch hazel, and aloe vera gel, can be added to the toner depending on your skin’s needs.
To use, shake the toner mixture to evenly distribute ingredients and apply to your skin using a saturated cotton ball.
Be sure to avoid the eye area.
If the toner irritates your skin more than a slight tingle, rinse it off immediately.;
, Vinegar can be used to treat occasional breakouts because of its antibacterial properties and its ability to unclog blocked pores.To treat a pimple, saturate a cotton ball with one part vinegar and two parts water. Apply the cotton ball to the affected skin for 10 minutes. Repeat this process a few times a day until the pimple disappears. , Along with other kitchen staples, apple cider vinegar can be used to make a mask for brightening or soothing stressed skin. Since the pH value of apple cider vinegar is similar to that of our skin, these masks can be soothing and rebalancing.For a soothing mask, combine 1 tablespoon of apple cider vinegar with 2 tablespoons of honey and apply to a clean face. Leave this mask on for up to 20 minutes and rinse. Another recipe features ½ teaspoon of turmeric powder, ½ teaspoon of apple cider vinegar, 1 tablespoon of honey, and ½ teaspoon of milk. Combine all ingredients and apply to your face for approximately 20 minutes to achieve healthy, glowing skin. , The alpha-hydroxy acids in apple cider vinegar are gently exfoliating and can help with cell turnover on dark spots. To use, dilute one part apple cider vinegar with one part water. Saturate a cotton ball with this mixture and apply to the age spot(s). Leave on for 30 minutes before rinsing.
By doing this twice a day for about six weeks, you can see a gradual fading of the spots.

