 While symptoms do accompany some stages of prostate cancer, there are almost no symptoms in the early stages. Consult your doctor concerning your risk factors to determine the best screening regimen for you. If you do experience any of the following symptoms, it is very important to schedule an appointment with your doctor as soon as possible.
 Several prostate cancer symptoms are tied to urination. You may notice that no matter what you do, you urinate more slowly and with decreased force. You may also experience burning while urinating dor similar reasons.


The urethra (a tube that carries urine from your bladder through your penis) passes through the center of the prostate gland. Tumor growth enlarges your prostate enlarges, which then presses on the urethra. This results in a weak urine stream and inability to start and stop urinating quickly.Obstructive symptoms usually indicate significant progression of the disease. Symptoms of urinary obstruction can also increase the likelihood that the cancer has metastasized to the bones or lymph nodes., You may find yourself getting up several times during the night to urinate. Tumor growth can constrict your urethra, which makes it more difficult to empty your bladder completely. The urethral compression also causes the bladder to fill more easily, additionally causing the urge for frequent urination., Semen passes along a series of tubes and structures on the way to the urethra for ejaculation. The pressure from a growing tumor can cause blood vessels along this path to break and leak blood into your semen. You will notice a pink color or bright red blood in your semen (which is normally a milky white color)., This is usually a “bony pain” that feels deep and throbs, often for no apparent reason. You may find it starts randomly and is difficult to relieve.


This type of pain may indicate metastatic prostate cancer meaning that the cancer has spread into your bones. The pain is a result of the cancer spreading into the spine and pressing on your spinal nerves.The tumor may be big enough to compress the nerves of the spinal cord, which can cause numbness.

