 This is done by pulling your reins sharply to either the left or right, and make your horse touch its nose to your leg. A horse cannot buck when it is in this position; it can only move in an incredibly tight circle. It also reinforces you as being the herd leader and loosens the horse's muscles up so that it is easier for the horse to move.


Do not release the horse until it completely stops moving, and then hold for three seconds. Repeat on the other side, just to reinforce your point to the horse. Every time the horse is about to buck, or starts bucking, repeat. If a horse is prone to bucking, do this every time you get on the horse – both standing beside the horse and once you mount.;
, Using one hand, gather your reins, and slide your other hand down the reins, creating a tight "scrunch" on the horse's neck. This triggers a certain vertebrate in their necking, causing them to be unable to buck. Also remember to use your legs, and the horse should back up. Once the horse has started to calm down, release the pressure of both your legs and reins.


A horse cannot buck without putting its head down. Keep a tight rein so you can pull back when you feel the horse trying to lower its head, thus preventing the horse from being able to buck.
 Keep your heels down and your shoulders back, and give strong pulls on the reins to discourage the horse from putting his head down. Remember – a horse with their head up cannot buck.


Also, make sure to keep your leg on. Many times a rider will try to correct bucking by stopping the horse. It is much more correct to reinforce forward motion. Do not let the horse stop. Many times, horses will learn that bucking can get them out of work.
 The first thing to do is to lean back; this will highly lessen the chances of you falling forward onto your head. However, if you are not a strong rider, you may find it easier to simply get off your horse. This may sound like a bad idea, but think about it: if you really think you are unable to stay on your horse, would you rather get off it yourself or be bucked off?


The safest direction to dismount is the side. Quickly loosen your feet from the stirrups and slide off in whichever direction seems most safe. It would be a good idea to pick the side where there is not another horse nearby
If there are people near you, they will probably already be trying to help the situation. If riding alone, call for help. There will most likely be at least one other human being at the stable that can help control the situation.
Once you are off your horse, do not run away. This may cause your horse to think there is a danger and run with you or even at you. Walk away from your horse while still keeping an eye on it. Once it has settled down, if you are unharmed, feel free to get back on the horse. It's not always their fault and it is cruel to judge a horse on something they did once. Let him/her prove to you they are a good horse and are trustworthy after all.
 The first step to stopping a horse from bucking is to remove the perceived threat. The second step is to signal to the horse your scent (identity) by blowing toward the horse's nostrils. They have large olfactory glands that can distinguish many smells and use this to identify different people/animals/other horses/etc. Once the horse has this, if you are familiar to them, they will usually calm down.


If they still have not calmed down, you'll just have to wait it out. Once they calm down a little, the third step is to place your hand on the upper nose of your equine friend and speak to your horse, drawing your horse's attention to you. Continue to do this pulling your horse close to you and petting your horse on the neck. After this, it's good to take your horse for a walk around so they rebuild their confidence in their surroundings and see there's nothing to worry about.

