 Sure, most guys aren't known for their love of PDA or hand-holding, but you should still make an effort to give your boyfriend reassuring, loving touches from time to time so he knows that you care about him. Squeeze his hand at the movies; run your hand through his hair when you're waking up; give him a playful shove when you're teasing each other. You shouldn't be all over him all the time or he may get weary; just pick the right moments to touch him, at least a few times a day.


Making that physical connection whenever it feels right is very romantic.
 Don't just say, "You're so hot" or "I really like you." Let him know what it is that makes him feel so special to you. Tell him he has a great smile, that you love his sense of humor, that you admire his work ethic, or that you think he's so good at knowing exactly how you're feeling. Make a point of finding something new you like about him every so often and let him know how you really feel.


Compliments are best delivered in person, but you can also always tell him how you feel in a love note, email, or phone call.
 If you're spending some time apart, whether it's a week or an entire summer, you should let him know you still care. This doesn't mean that you should call him twenty times a day to see what he's doing or to make sure he's not talking to other girls; it does mean that you should check in to let him know that you care and that you're thinking about him, at least once a day.


You don't have to talk on the phone every single day, if you're both busy and feel like you're just doing it to check an item off your list. But you should check in at least once a day when you're apart, whether it's by calling, texting, or emailing him.
Text him to let him know you're thinking of him.
If you both have video phones or Skype, make a video date or two each week, so you can still see each other and remember how much you love being together.
 Even if you're both tired, busy, or just not feeling affectionate, you should kiss each other at least once a day. Make the effort to give him just one six-second long kiss each day, and you'll be upping the romance factor in your relationship, and strengthening your bond as a couple. Don't just give him a routine peck on the lips or cheek before you have to leave, but pick an unexpected time to kiss him.


Kissing is the most basic way to let your boyfriend know how much you care.
 Don't forget to let him know exactly how much he means to you. Often, words are the best way to show affection. You can tell him in a monthly letter, or tell him casually over dinner. Make a list of at least five things that make him an amazing boyfriend, and let him know exactly what these things are, so he really sees how much he means to you.


You can be even more spontaneous than that. If he does something that strikes you as amazing, just tell him what it is.
 Giving your boyfriend a massage will not only kick up the sexiness factor in your relationship, but it will also be a great way of showing him affection and letting him see that you really care. If he comes back home after a long day or work or school, make him sit down and give him a good shoulder massage. You can move to his neck, his biceps, and his lower back. Help him relax and get all of those pesky knots out of his back, and he'll be feeling your lovin' for a long time.


For a longer and more intimate massage, have him lie on his stomach for you.

