 Learn how to blend in by consulting with travel agents or tourist bureaus at your destination. These experts can share information about local cultural norms and types of apparel to pack.


Select comfortable clothing preferred by locals. For example, khakis, modest cotton skirts and sandals are often seen in temperate summer climates around Europe. When overseas, avoid apparel such as white athletic shoes and clothing emblazoned with Western flag insignia, which may indicate to thieves that you're not a local and possess money to travel abroad.;
, In addition to keeping a wallet in your pocket, discreetly place money in a traveler's money belt or envelope worn around your waist, ankles or bra. If you get mugged and the mugger only takes one stash, at least you'll have additional funds immediately available.
 Whether you're male or female, you can help to avoid criminal activity abroad and domestically by traveling with a group.
 Watch for places you can go in case of an emergency.


If you suspect you're being followed, look for the nearest cafe, gas station or other gathering place with other people inside. If you can't quickly find one, briskly walk in the middle of the street until you do.



Be aware of your surroundings and other people in the vicinity. An entertainer may be working with a criminal partner who's attempting to lift your wallet. Don't allow street entertainers or passers-by to get close to you.
 Criminals may be less likely to harm you if they know you're aware of their movement.


When visiting a Western country, look the suspicious person in the eye. Eye contact is considered acceptable in Western societies.
While staying in an Eastern country, wear dark sunglasses. Criminals won't be able to tell if you're watching their activity. Avoid direct eye contact since most Eastern societies consider this practice aggressive and rude.
Don't underestimate the elderly lady or well-dressed business person sitting next to you, she or he may be working with a partner in a criminal ring targeting tourists.

