 This task will require: Ethernet cable, an Ethernet socket head and an Ethernet socket head crimper. Before you start cutting and crimping the wire, make sure that it’s the correct length! You don't want to successfully wire your Ethernet cable and discover it’s not long enough for its desired purpose! It's best to make sure that there is a little bit of extra length as well, just to be safe.;
, Make sure that you don't damage any of the smaller wires found inside it, as this can cause problems in regards to the life of the wire, and whether or not the wire will even work at all!

, This is will make your life a lot easier when you have to put them in order.
 This part can be particularly frustrating as the wires have a tendency to move around from the positions you put them in. Be patient and eventually they'll remain in position. When you've straightened the wires out put them in this order:


Orange/White
Orange
Green/White
Blue
Blue/White
Green
Brown/White
Brown

, When you insert the wires into the Ethernet socket head, you want to make sure that the wires aren't crushed by the plastic clip. Make sure the wires are roughly half an inch in length and slowly push them into the socket head. Make sure that when you do this the "clip" is facing away from you. If you do it the opposite way around, the wires will be backwards!

, If you haven't already checked the order of the wires check it now, and if you have checked, check again! There’s no way to go back once it’s crimped other than to cut it off and start again. When your satisfied the wires are in the correct order, make sure they are push as far as they can go, and are seated nicely next to the gold pins at the end. Also make sure there is plenty of sleeving to make sure you don't cut into the wires during crimping.
 Push down extremely hard and the cable will be correctly crimped (Note that you won't feel or hear any "clicks" or "pop" letting you know when it's been correctly crimped).
 If you followed the steps correctly you should have a perfectly working Ethernet cable.

