 The network itself and most of its personalities and shows have their own social media sites. You can leave a comment on one of these Facebook pages or tweet at one of the CNN Twitter handles.


More than 20 million people follow CNN’s main Facebook page.You can also check out Facebook pages for individual people who have their own shows on CNN, such as Nancy Grace or Robin Meade. CNN’s Chief National Correspondent John King has his own Facebook page.The Anderson Cooper 360 program also has its own page.Search Facebook for the show or personality that you want to contact and then post your feedback, question, or idea on the related Facebook page.
The main Twitter page for CNN is @cnn. However, you might have better luck going to the Twitter or Facebook pages of the specific program or personality you are trying to contact. Tweet to @TeamCNN to increase your chances of getting a response.To contact HLN (Headline News), tweet @TeamHLN. To contact CNN International, tweet @TeamCNNI and to contact CNN en Español, tweet @TeamCNNEE. The Twitter site for Viewer Services is https://twitter.com/teamcnn.;
, You can contact CNN by providing feedback through a written form on the CNN website. Completing this form on CNN’s website is an easy way to contact the channel directly.


The form, which can be found at http://www.cnn.com/feedback, requires that you submit your name and what are called your “initial thoughts” in a blank comment box. Many different programs and bureaus of CNN will send you back to the same online feedback form, including CNN International.
There is also a box where you can type “additional comments.” Then, click the box that says “send feedback” to submit the comments. You should also use this form to report factual errors you see on CNN.
 Many CNN programs also have their own separate online feedback forms that you can access from their webpages. For example, CNNMoney has an online form that encourages viewers to submit feedback.Many HLN shows – such as Nancy Grace and Dr. Drew, as well as the personalities, have their own feedback pages that allow viewers to comment on the shows/personalities or ask a question about the shows/personalities.In some cases, the links will take you back to the main CNN feedback form, but in other cases, the programs have their own specialized forms. You will be asked to check whether your comment is positive or negative.
 CNN seems to prefer that people use their online feedback form, since the website directs you to the feedback form and not a list of emails when you select “Click here to email us your news tip!” However, you can still email your feedback or idea to CNN if you prefer. The email addresses for CNN are:cnn.feedback@cnn.com
community@cnn.com

