 Some elements or isotopes of elements undergo radioactive decay. Not all isotopes are created equal when it comes to being readily split, however. The most common isotope of uranium has an atomic weight of 238, consisting of 92 protons and 146 neutrons, but these nuclei tend to absorb neutrons without being split into smaller nuclei of other elements. An isotope of uranium with three fewer neutrons, 235U, can much more readily be split apart than can 238U; such an isotope is called fissile.When uranium splits (undergoes fission) it releases three neutrons that collide with other uranium atoms, thus creating a chain reaction.
Some isotopes can be split too readily, so fast that a continuous fission reaction can’t be maintained. This is called spontaneous fission; the plutonium isotope 240Pu is such an isotope, unlike the isotope 239Pu with its slower fission rate.;
, This requires having a certain minimum amount of the fissile isotope to make the fission reaction sustainable; this is called critical mass. Achieving critical mass requires enough of source material for the isotope to increase the chances of fission occurring., Because loose subatomic particles are difficult to come by, it’s often necessary to force them out of the atoms they’re part of. One method of doing this is firing atoms of a given isotope against other atoms of that same isotope.This method was used to create the 235U atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. A gun-like weapon with a uranium core fired 235U atoms at another piece of 235U bearing material fast enough to have the neutrons they released naturally slam into the nuclei of other 235U atoms and break them apart. The neutrons released when the atoms split would, in turn, strike and split other 235U atoms.
 A single subatomic particle can strike an atom of 235U, splitting it into two separate atoms of other elements and releasing three neutrons. These particles can come from a moderated source (e.g. a neutron gun) or can be generated when nuclei collide. Three types of subatomic particles are commonly used.Protons. These subatomic particles have mass and a positive charge. The number of protons in an atom determines what element the atom is.
Neutrons. These subatomic particles have the mass as protons but no charge.
Alpha particles. These particles are the nuclei of helium atoms, shorn of their orbiting electrons. They consist of two protons and two neutrons.

