 You will want to wash your shoes, laces, and insoles separately as this will cut down on the drying time later.


You can, however, wash your laces with your shoes in the washing machine, but doing so with your insoles will leave them water-logged for days.;
, If your laces are real scuzzy, you may want to buy new ones, but you can always try cleaning them by scrubbing them with a soapy brush or putting them in the washing machine with your shoes. Then allow them to air dry completely before putting them on your shoes again.Another way to clean your laces is to simply put or pin them inside a pillowcase, or tie their ends together, and throw them in the washer. This will keep them from getting stuck in the washer's drainage holes.If the laces are white and the shoes are colored, to get the laces as bright as possible you could wash them separately in a normal wash along with other white laundry.
 Using a slightly soapy mixture of liquid detergent and warm water, gently scrub your insoles with a soft brush or rag. Afterward, soak up any excess soapy water with a sponge and allow them to air dry completely before placing them back in your shoes.








If your insoles still smell, enclose them in a bag with baking soda, shake it around evenly, and leave them overnight.If your insoles still smell, soak them for a few hours in a 2:1 mixture of vinegar and water. Then soak them a while in a mixture of warm water, baking soda, and an essential oil, such as tea tree or pine oil., Using a dry toothbrush or a soft brush (e.g. a shoe brush), brush away any surface mud or dirt from the shoes.









Clean off other marks (e.g. from plastic areas) using a brush with warm water, and/or cream cleaner on a cloth or paper towel.
If a brush doesn't clean all the nooks and crannies, you may need to use a toothpick or cotton swab (Q-tip)., Then pin the opening of the pillowcase half-shut with about 3 safety pins, so water can still flow in and out.









To wash your laces in the washing machine at the same time, tie the ends together and put them inside the pillowcase with your shoes.
You can also substitute a mesh bag in place of a pillowcase.
 They will prevent the shoes from banging around inside during the cycle, which could damage the machine or your shoes.








Make sure the towels are old because new towels have lint and dye that might stain your sneakers!Most sneakers are durable enough to be put in the washing machine, but be sure to check the manufacturer's instructions, as companies such as Nike recommend hand-washing only., Powdered detergent can get stuck in your shoes, so use liquid detergent. You can also add some vinegar to remove odors and some pine oil to disinfect them.If you add pine oil, the product should be at least 80% pine oil., Set your washing machine to the delicate setting, cold temperature, slow or no spin, and no tumble drying. Warm temperatures can warp your sneakers, and the fast spin or tumble dry setting can damage your shoes or washing machine., Once the washing machine has stopped, remove your shoes from the pillowcase and set them aside to air dry. Putting them in the dryer is not advisable, as the dryer can warp the soles of your shoes.Stuffing your shoes with paper towels or newspapers will help them dry faster as well as maintain their shape.Place your shoes (and laces and insoles) in a moderately lit place to dry. Do not put them somewhere hot (e.g. near a radiator) or in direct sunlight, as this may damage the shoes.
It may take several hours or even a couple days for your shoes to dry completely, so plan ahead!If you're in a rush and need to use the dryer, wrap your shoes in a towel and set the dryer to "delicate," checking periodically to make sure your shoes are not getting too warm., Once they are completely dry, replace the insoles, re-lace your shoes, and slip 'em on! They should look and smell much better now!








