 In addition to more festive beverages, be sure to include an assortment of easy, basic beverages. Have a pitcher of unsweetened tea handy, along with flat and sparkling water pitchers with sliced fruit or citrus twists on the side.Hot coffee, tea, and hot cocoa are also great non-alcoholic holiday beverage options.
Try to keep it easy for guests to serve themselves beverages so you and your spouse don’t get stuck in the kitchen mixing drinks.
 If you choose to serve alcohol, encourage the use of jiggers to prevent guests from overindulging, and to keep calorie counts low. You can also premix a delicious, fresh signature drink, like a cucumber vodka spritzer.


Slice a cucumber and add to a pitcher filled with a bottle of vodka for at least a day to infuse. Pour into a punch bowl, and 4 cups diet tonic or soda water, 2 cups of cucumber juice, 1 cup of lime juice, and, if you want to splurge a bit,1 cup of simple syrup (equal parts sugar and water, boiled together then cooled). Omit the simple syrup to keep it healthier.
Mix ingredients well then serve in rocks glasses over ice. Garnish with a sprig of mint.
 White wine is generally preferred over red to serve for an afternoon get together. As a bonus, avoiding red wine will help keep rugs, carpeting, and upholstered furniture free from difficult stains. You can also prepare a batch of white wine sangria:For everyone bottle of wine you use in the sangria, add 1/2 cup of brandy, 1/4 cup of orange liqueur, 4 tablespoons simple syrup, 1/2 cup of orange juice, 1 sliced orange, and 1 sliced lemon. Omit the simple syrup and brandy to keep it healthier, and add extra sliced citrus fruit as substitutions.
Mix ingredients well in a punch bowl and serve over ice.
 Bring 2 quarts apple cider, 2 cinnamon sticks, 2 whole allspice berries, 2 whole cloves, and 1 sliced orange to a simmer on the stovetop. Alternatively, combine these ingredients in a slow cooker set to low.Look for diet or low sugar apple cider options at the store to lower the calorie count.
Ladle into mugs and serve with a cinnamon stick.
Increase the recipe’s ratios to make enough for however many guests you invite.

