 Dill pairs excellently with the smooth, subdued flavors of a typical cucumber sandwich. After all, it's a crucial ingredient in dill pickles (which are made from cucumbers). A pinch or two of dried dill sprinkled into the sandwich will add some of this unique pickle-y flavor to the dish.


For an eye-catching presentation, try serving the sandwiches open-faced (without the top piece of bread) and laying a single sprig of fresh dill across the cucumber slices.It'll look gorgeous (and taste great, too).
 With their crisp, cool taste and texture, cucumber sandwiches are the perfect summertime snack. Adding a little lemon pepper to the spread or sprinkling it over the cucumber slices gives your sandwiches just a hint of sourness, making them even more refreshing.


Lemon pepper can be bought for fairly cheap at most mid- to high-end grocery stores. You can also make it yourself from lemon zest, salt, and pepper., If the standard cucumber sandwich doesn't have quite enough flavor for you, try adding a splash of your favorite Italian salad dressing as you're mixing the spread. This will give it a slightly more savory, substantial flavor without ruining the overall smoothness that makes a cucumber sandwich so great.
 Cucumber sandwiches are great with any good-quality white or wheat bread, but for an old-fashioned taste, use pumpernickel rye. Its heavy, sweet flavor contrasts well with the light, crisp bitterness of the cucumbers and the smoothness of the spread.


Rye breads aren't always sold at neighborhood grocery stores, but you should be able to find it at many higher-end locations.
 Cucumbers are cool and crisp on their own, but with the added flavor and aroma of fresh mint, they're practically ice cold. Chop a few sprigs of mint and sprinkle them over the cucumbers or add them on top of each sandwich as a garnish.


If you can, chop the mint into small, fine pieces. It's a little difficult to chew through whole mint leaves when they're in the middle of a sandwich.
 Marmite is an infamous, strong-flavored spread made from yeast extract that is popular in the U.K. and some Commonwealth countries.Some people love it and some people hate it — it doesn't leave many tasters without a strong opinion. People who enjoy Marmite have been known to add it to cucumber sandwiches.If you want to try it but you've never had Marmite before, using a small amount is recommended.


Marmite is often described as having a very salty taste with fishy qualities. It also has a strong odor that, to some, is unappealing.