 Choosing a hotel with a fitness center can make it much easier to get your exercise in. When you are booking your hotel, check to see if the hotel has a fitness center and/or pool.Try to work out first thing in the morning and then you won’t have to worry about it for the rest of the day. Go run on the treadmill, use the elliptical machine, or swim in the pool.
If your hotel does not have a fitness center, then you can always do a workout in your hotel room. There are lots of gym-free exercises that you can do to stay in shape on your vacation, such as jumping jacks, push-ups, sit-ups, crunches, burpees, and leg lifts.
You can also put on your walking/running shoes and go outside and walk or jog in one direction for 15 minutes, and then turn around and walk or jog back.
 Doing a 5k or a bike race while you are on vacation can also help to keep you in a fit state of mind and ensure that you get some good exercise on at least one day.If you are not into running or biking, then look for a 5K that permits walkers as well.


You can find races all over the world to participate in. Check for a race in your vacation location and register ahead of time.
Many races also give you a t-shirt along with your registration fee, so you will have a cool souvenir to bring home.
 You might want to see the sights while you are on vacation, but taking a bus tour will not burn any calories. Instead, consider going on a biking or walking tour. This will help to ensure that you get plenty of exercise and enjoy what your vacation site has to offer.


You can often find niche tours in big cities, such a haunted history tours, architecture tours, and shopping tours. Look for a tour that will be interesting to you and you will have more motivation to keep walking or biking along.
 Many people like to spend time in a swimsuit while on vacation. If this is something you enjoy, then checking out a water sport might be a great way to burn some extra calories and have fun too. Some water sports you might enjoy include:


Swimming
Surfing
Water skiing
Paddle-boarding
Kayaking
White water rafting

