 There may be mercury lurking in many of your skin care products. However, some are more likely to contain it. Check any of the following to see if they contain mercury:Skin creams, especially anti-aging and skin lightening
Beauty and antiseptic soaps
Lotions;
, Since mercury doesn't have a distinctive smell or color, the only way to tell if it is in a product is to read the labeling. In the US, all cosmetic products are required to list their ingredients. Skin care containing mercury is often marketed as anti-aging and/or lightening or whitening.Look for the word “mercury” or any of the following synonyms for it on your product’s label:Calomel
Mercurous chloride
Mercuric
Mercurio

, Most countries require that products within their borders contain a label. This can ensure that the product is regulated and won’t pose any harm to the consumer. If your products have no label or one in a language you don’t understand, avoid purchasing or using it. This can minimize your and other people’s risk of exposure to mercury.Make sure any labeling is clearly written in a language that you understand. Don’t rely on other people or online translators to decode a product label that may have mercury in it.
Stay away from products that do not list a country of origin.
Recognize that products without a label may be illegally marketed.
 In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration has identified specific skin care product brands that contain excessive mercury. Try and avoid products from the following brands:Diana
Fasco
Stillman’s
Crema Piel De Seda (Silky Skin Cream), When buying your skin care, use caution if you’re considering an imported product. You should also watch for mercury if you’re traveling and want to try foreign skin care. Local regulations may not require testing for mercury.


Use caution with products, even if a person tells you they’re “safe.” Anything without a label or written in a language you don’t understand may contain mercury.
Skin lightening products from Africa or the Caribbean are more likely to contain mercury., Certain retailers are more likely to sell skin care products containing mercury. Knowing what types of places may sell these product can help you avoid purchasing potentially harmful skin care. These locations include:Grocery stores
Ethnic markets, particularly one with Asian, African, Middle Eastern, or Latino customers
Social media sites
Mobile apps

, If you are using or suspect that you may have skin care containing mercury, stop using it immediately. You need to get rid of the product with a local waste company or trash collection because mercury is considered “hazardous waste.” Collect any products containing mercury in a sealed container and take it to your local hazardous waste facility.Get rid of any products about which you may be unsure. It’s better to be safe than sorry.
 Your family can breathe in mercury vapors if you have a product on your skin with it. But textiles such as washcloths and towel may also present a risk of exposure to mercury. Put any textiles you have used in a sealed container and take to the local hazardous waste collector along with the products themselves.Recognize that it may be expensive to replace textiles exposed to your skin care products. However, it is cheaper than dealing with medical bills from mercury poisoning or toxicity.

