 Exercise doesn’t just trim your waistline and tone your muscles, it also promotes healthier skin. Physical activity increases your blood flow. Blood cells bring vital nutrients and oxygen to working cells and remove waste. Skin cells benefit from the exchange. Blood cells bring oxygen and nutrients necessary for collagen production to skin cells and carry away free radicals.Working out firms and cleanses your skin from the inside., When you feel stressed or anxious, it ages your skin. Experiencing persistent stress and anxiety leads to the production of cortisol, an inflammatory hormone that breaks down collagen. Cortisol also causes redness, irritation, and breakouts.


To combat stress, set aside time to relax. Yoga, progressive relaxation, and deep breathing exercises are excellent ways to quell your nerves and lower your stress levels.
To combat the negative side effects of stress on your skin, increase your consumption of antioxidants. Eat blueberries, oranges, and leafy greens., In order for your body to function at its optimal level, you must get enough sleep. When you deprive yourself of sleep, your body prioritizes the functions it performs in an effort to conserve energy. Maintaining healthy, vibrant skin is not an essential function. An adequate night’s sleep consists of between 6 to 10 hours of slumber.


If you struggle to fall asleep, put away your phone, increase your exercise, and or add relaxing elements, such as a hot bath, to your nightly routine., The food you eat impacts the health of your skin. Sweet, salty, fatty, and processed foods break down collagen and elastin, which causes skin to sag, wrinkle, and dry.Increase your consumption of vitamins, minerals, and healthy fats to reduce swelling, decrease your risk of breakouts, and increase your skin’s vibrance and elasticity.


Eat whole grains instead of processed grains.Instead of candy, eat sweet in-season berries that are rich in antioxidants.Replace fatty cuts of meat with salmon, which is an excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids.Opt for handful of almonds, which are rich in vitamin E and monounsaturated fats, instead of a bag of chips., When you fail to consume an adequate amount of water throughout the day, your organs can not function properly. Skin is the body’s largest organ, but it is often the last organ to receive water. If your skin does not remain hydrated, it will become dry, flaky, irritated, and tight.Medical professionals that the amount of water people need to consume is not universal. Instead of 8 glasses of water per day, doctors now recommend drinking between ½ to 1 ounce of water per pound each day., Smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol ages the skin. #*As a result of smoking, the collagen in your skin breaks down and overtime the amount of collagen you produce significantly decreases. When collagen breaks down and is not replaced, wrinkles form. Smoking also restricts circulation, which prevents your skin cells from receiving adequate oxygen and nutrients.


Alcohol dehydrates the skin. When you drink an alcoholic beverage, drink plenty of water along with it.