 Skinks and similar lizards are notorious escape artists and excellent hiders, so prevention is definitely the best cure when it comes to catching one.


Make sure you have the proper type of enclosure for your lizard, with no cracks, seams, or holes which it can squeeze through.
Most importantly, make sure the enclosure has a tight fitting top that latches and that remains latched all times. Using a book or some other makeshift lid will not cut it, as a skink can and will slide or lift a lid just enough to slip out, or injure itself in the attempt.;
, Think about the manhunts you see on TV. The first goal is to isolate the fugitive within a known area by blocking off every way out you can.


If you know the escape was recent and are confident the lizard is still in the room, close all windows and doors, and place a rolled-up towel along the bottom of the door.If it may already be out of the room, try to close off that section of the house, or the whole house if necessary. If it escapes outside, the difficulty in finding and recapturing it will increase substantially.
Don’t forget about heating or air conditioning vents as well, and turn off any fans while you’re at it, for the escapee's safety.
 Skinks and their lizard compatriots hide in plain sight for a living (or, more accurately, in order to live), so be certain yours is not playing “hide-and-seek” in its enclosure.If you discover you left the lid open on the enclosure and don’t immediately see the lizard inside, seal up the enclosure, close off the perimeter, then come back and more rigorously search the enclosure.
Look under rocks, leaves, food dishes, and anything else that your lizard could fit behind or beneath. Repeat the process at least once more a bit later. Don’t underestimate how well skinks can hide, even in a small area.
 Skinks and lizards, especially when in hiding, like to find cozy, concealed spots. Try to look at your room or home like a lizard would, pointing out the spots you might choose in its situation.Lizards have been known to hide underneath refrigerators, because they are warm (due to the vent fan) and well-concealed. Tubs and showers, especially if enclosed by a curtain, are often warm and damp and thus also appealing hiding spots.
In a bedroom, consider spots like: under (or inside) pillows, sheets, and mattresses; in slippers or shoes; behind (or on) curtains; and under (or inside) chests of drawers, to name a few.
 A cursory examination of a room is not likely to turn up anything. Expect to have to conduct a detailed search, and perhaps repeat the process.Conduct a room-to-room search as necessary. Once you have “cleared” a room with a thorough examination, seal it off whenever possible by closing doors and putting towels along the bottom to block the gap.
Within each room of your search, don’t just look — take things down or take them apart. Remove items from shelves; pull off your sheets and lift up the mattress; empty the cupboards. Use a flashlight, along with a handheld mirror for dark, hard-to-reach areas.
If your skink or lizard has managed to escape outside, your best bet is to set up a grid search within the likely escape zone. Break your yard, for instance, into squares and observe / examine each carefully one at a time. Lizards blend in naturally, so your best bet is often to watch carefully for movement., Before long, the lizard will likely come out to take a look around, and will hopefully walk over a bag as it moves. By listening carefully, you should be able to identify the source of the crinkling sound and zero in on that section of the room.
If, again, the lizard is isolated within a room, but you need to delay your search or wait for morning, you can track its movements with flour. Dust the floor with a thin layer of flour, wait for the lizard to make tracks, then follow them to its hiding spot. And yes, this does make a big mess.
 Your pet lizard may enjoy his newfound freedom for a bit, but it won’t be long until it’s time to eat again. The lure of a tasty snack may be enough to bring it out into the open or even back into the enclosure.Crickets are the classic example of lizard bait, but other options can include silkworms, mealworms, earthworms, or snails. Basically, use your skink or lizard’s favorite treat.If your escapee is likely within range of the enclosure, leave it open and place the bait inside. Otherwise, place the bait in an open area near where you suspect the lizard to be hiding.
 If you have the lizard isolated within a defined area, time can be your friend. Eventually, with or without a bait lure, it will likely feel comfortable enough to venture out from its hiding spot. If you can manage to wait patiently, you should have a chance to spot and catch it.Loud noises and sudden movements are not your allies when conducting a search for a skink or similar lizard. Be deliberate in your movements and keep potentially distracting or frightening sounds to a minimum. Remain calm, even if concerned about finding your little friend. Odds are good that it will turn up eventually.
 When you do eventually spot your runaway, don’t lunge at it or try to throw a towel or net over it. Be quiet, calm, and deliberate in your approach and recapture maneuver in order to avoid frightening it back into hiding, or worse, injuring it.


If you need to cover it with a bucket, box, or other container in order to capture it, do so carefully so as to not injure the lizard. A transparent container is best so you can observe the escapee on the inside. Place the container upside-down on the floor and over the lizard, slide a thin piece of cardboard between the container and floor, and transfer the whole thing over to the home enclosure.
If you pick up the lizard by hand, do so gently, as you would any other time you hold it. Be sure to wash your hands any time you hold a lizard or skink, however, to reduce your risk of acquiring salmonella, which can reside on their bodies.Never pick up a lizard by the head or tail, which will cause discomfort and may cause damage. Instead, do the following:For small lizards (under about 8 inches), you should place your hand over the body and gently secure the neck between your thumb and forefinger.
For medium lizards, including many skinks (up to about 20 inches), straddle one hand across its back at the front legs (securing the neck as above), and use your other hand to grasp the rear hips.
Large lizards will require both hands, and perhaps your elbow and side to restrain it, and often requires a second set of hands as well. You may need to wear gloves and heavy clothing to protect against bites and scratches.
 Your pet has been through an ordeal, and may need some tender loving care. At the same time, though, it is probably already planning its next escape.


Feed and hydrate your lizard immediately after recapture, especially if it was missing for more than a short period of time. Show it how glad you are to have it back.If you know or can guess how your lizard escaped, be sure to block off that avenue. Skinks and other lizards are smart enough to use the same escape route over and over again. Make your pet work harder if it wants to run away again.