 Antlions are known most for eating ants, but they can also eat smaller insects. Make sure to feed them at least one ant twice a day.


Give your antlion ants. Ants are the most common food for antlions.
Make sure not to give them any ants that are too big. Gather relatively small ants near where you found your antlion.Supply your antlion with fruit flies or mealworms. Give them small amounts so they are able to eat and digest the smaller insects.
Feed the antlion aphids, mosquito larva, or pinhead crickets. These are also good insects that are small enough for your antlion.
 Antlions get most of the water they need from their food.


If you are worried about your antlion getting enough water, you can mist their sand every two weeks.Make sure not to flood the antlion habitat if you mist their sand. Antlions can drown, especially in their pit.
Check on your antlion to make sure it’s getting enough food. If not, it may also not be getting enough water.
 You can pick up your antlion and hold it in the palm of your hand. Just be careful to avoid being bitten or harming your antlion.


Stretch your palm and create a flat surface. Make sure you don’t have any folds of skin for antlions to grasp onto.Transfer your antlion to your other palm if they wander towards the edge of your palm. Keep your other palm flat and stretched as well.
Keep some sand on your palm so the antlion thinks it’s on the ground. Antlions feel most comfortable in sand.
 While antlions rarely bite, they occasionally bite when they feel threatened. Keep the antlion in a comfortable environment when you pick it up.


Keep them in the palm of your hand. Don’t let the antlion move to the back of your hand, since it may realize it’s not on the ground.
If the antlion does bite you, stay very calm. Put the antlion back in its habitat. Do not move your hand rapidly since you can harm the antlion.
Antlion venom causes a sharp, burning sensation. It will last for several minutes, but does not have long-term effects.
 Antlions have bodies that are very vulnerable. Try to not be too rough when handling them.


Do not pick up antlions with your fingers. You can crush the antlions by doing so.
If you want to pick up the antlion, place your hand in their habitat with some sand on it. Let the antlion come to your flat palm.
Antlions in classrooms are especially at risk. Tell children to observe proper antlion handling or do not let them touch the antlion directly.

