 Converting to Christianity is based on your belief that Jesus is God's only begotten Son, and that He does all manner of miracles including Salvation. Christianity starts with being saved, trusting Christ to save you, and then entails living a good and godly life that is pleasing to God. Both are important.;
, This means that you believe that Jesus died for your sins and rose again. Since he paid for your sins you can be forgiven, and because he rose again He has power to give you eternal life. Believing this message you respond, "Lord Jesus, I believe you died for my sins and rose again, so now please save me, a sinner." That saves you and begins your Christian life. Continue to believe.

A key passage describing salvation is Romans 10:9-10, "That if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and shall believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. For with the heart (core being) man believes unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation." Such belief is called faith and leads to God freely giving you the gift of salvation by grace through faith not by work or great deeds.Romans 10:9-10"







,,, Saudi Arabia, Libya,...). Be sure that your relationship with Jesus is not based on formalities, such as baptizing but is based on your personal belief in Him, following Him (and His teachings). Yes, be baptized by another believer, if you can, but the most important baptism for a Christian is his spiritual baptism into Christ Jesus (Galatians 3:27).



Christianity is about God's love, so start showing His love that you received freely, to others such as being willing to forgive everyone and anyone who has wronged you. Jesus said, "You have heard, 'Love your neighbor', but I say to you,
'Love your enemy, and do good to those who hate you and spitefully use you.' ". We may try to fail miserably -- but God's supply of grace is sufficient, in His boundless mercy, as the grace of God is the power of God unto salvation, not by work, lest any boast. How can anyone afford to reject such great salvation, so rich, and yet so free.
Do good deeds because you believe in God and are a Christian. "This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that you affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. " Titus 3:8; "That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works." 2 Timothy 3:17. Jesus Christ has said, "And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be." Revelation 22:12.
Fulfill Jesus' commission (Matthew 10:7-8) by going out and preaching the Gospel and healing the sick.
 Always pray, remaining in a spirit of prayer in every circumstance, even if to say only, "Thank you Lord." Also, in all things, glorify God by how you live your life.