 Brush off each boot with a brush or a towel to remove any dirt particles. Don't forget the bottom of the Timberlands. The soles are especially likely to pick up loose dirt and gravel that can be brushed off easily before cleaning. If you don’t brush the dirt off, you’re going to have a muddy mess on your hands (and most likely in your house.)








Timberland sells specific brushes that you can buy to clean your boots with, but buying the brand name brush isn’t totally necessary. If you have a soft-bristle brush lying around your house that you don’t mind getting a bit dirty, feel free to use it. Brushes work better than towels simply because they can get into the nooks and crannies of the boots, however, be careful when using a brush on leather boots, as brushes with very hard bristles may scratch the leather.;
, Take the shoelaces from each boot and wash those by hand. Wash them in warm soapy water until all of the dirt has been removed. For a thoroughly clean, scrub them together with the soap and then soak them in warm water. Hang them out to dry.









You could also include them in a load of laundry in a washing machine. Keep in mind that if they are really dirty, you will probably want to wash them separately from your other clothes.
 Rinse the rubber soles of the Timberland boots with water. Scrub them with a mild dish soap, using a toothbrush. Using a toothbrush helps to get all of the dirt that is wedged into the tread in the sole, as the bristles can reach deeper into the tread than a washcloth could. Gently scrape out any build up that is in the soles. Rinse the soles with warm water. Allow them to air dry.









You could also use cotton swabs to get the dirt out of the tread. Dip the cotton swabs in warm, soapy water and run them along the grooves until all of the dirt has been removed.
 Use baby wipes to rub down the outside of the boots that run along the fabric line. Baby wipes condition the boots along the fabric lines. Make sure the wipes are moist, and use as many as necessary to completely cover the fabric of the boots.









If you do not have baby wipes, you can use a washcloth and warm water to scrub the outside of the boots.
 Timberland boots come in suede and leather styles, including Nubuck and Wheat. Suede and nubuck can be cleaned in the same way (follow the directions listed in the substep.) When cleaning leather, including wheat leather, make sure to buy leather cleaning supplies that match the color of your leather.








Use a foam cleaner on suede and nubuck boots or you can use a cotton swab and put dish detergent on it on the area that is dirty. Timberland sells suede and nubuck cleaner that is designed to clean and protect Timberland boots called Renewbuck. You can also use other brands of suede cleaners that you do not purchase from Timberland. These can be purchased online or at drugstores like CVS. Make sure to follow the directions on the cleaner to apply it and scrub out stains.
For leather Timberlands, use a leather cleanser. These cleansers generally come in cream form. Most leather cleaners come with a sponge or an applicator which can be used to apply it to the boot. Timberland sells its own form of leather cleanser that is designed for their boots called “Boot Sauce” gel. Make sure to purchase the cream made for your color of boot Follow the directions on the tube and rub it into the leather.
 If there are noticeable stains that have not been removed by cleaning the boots, buff them out. If your boots are made of smooth leather and you have noticed black stains, dip a washcloth in water and then baking soda. Rub the spot with the stain gently. When the stain is gone, wipe the spot with a damp, clean cloth, and then let the boots dry.








If you have suede boots that are looking a little matted, or the nap (the fuzzy part of suede) is lying flat against your boot, scrub the nap with a clean, dry toothbrush. Doing this should make the nap stand up again. If it is really matted, so much so that brushing it doesn’t do much, hold the boot close to the steam from a kettle and then scrub it with a toothbrush. The steam untangled the matted nap, allowing your to scrub it straight and make it stand up again.
 Once the cleaning agent has been applied and any stains treated, let the boots air dry in warm air. Do not place the boots near high heat (such as a fire) as high heat could potentially melt any glue holding the boot together, or destroy the leather parts of your boots.
 Use a simple pencil eraser to remove scuff marks on the toe of the boots. Rub the eraser lightly over the marks until they disappear. Brush off any bits of eraser left over after scrubbing the boots.
