 When designing your own jewelry, you will first want to get ideas. This will help you to think about which design aspects are most important to you and what will best fit your needs.


Look at your collection. Look at your own jewelry, purchased or made by others. You can recreate or take ideas from aspects of pieces you already own and like. Maybe you like a particular type of bead or clasp or color combination. You will also want to look at your own collection to assess if there is a type of jewelry that you might need. Look for holes in your collection, such as a lack of casual pieces for everyday use, and think about what you can make to fill that need.
Look at stores. Go to stores that specialize in jewelry, like Claire’s, or larger stores with jewelry departments, like Macy’s, to get ideas about what you might want to make. The wide selection in stores like these will allow you to get more ideas, as well as helping you stay at the front of fashion trends.
Look at others. You can look at the jewelry your friends have, what you see in magazines and the internet, and what your favorite celebrities are wearing. Think about what you like about their jewelry and what pieces you really wish you had for yourself.
Look at vintage pieces. In looking at vintage pieces and the history of jewelry, you can see a large number of styles very easily. Examine what aspects of the vintage pieces you like to get ideas for design elements you would like to emulate.;
, Once you have decided upon the design aspects you enjoy most and what your needs and desires are, you will want to decide which materials are best for you. Some material choices will be based on taste, some on availability, and some on necessity.


Metals. Metals will usually be used, in the form of wires, chains and rings, to bind together the other elements of the jewelry piece. The type of metal used will depend on what it is being used for, as well as personal taste. For example, soft metals are better for bending and should be used when you need to create loops. Whether or not that metal is gold or copper, however, is up to personal preference.
Stones. You may want to use stones or gemstones in the creation of your jewelry, especially if you are making pendants or rings. Choose your stone largely based on personal taste but be aware that some stones are more expensive than others. You may also wish to use false stones in order to save money. When choosing colors, try to choose those that mimic your natural eye color or fit well with your wardrobe. This will make your jewelry stand out and show off your wonderful design.
Other materials can also be used, depending on the look you are trying to achieve. If metal and gemstone is too traditional for you, try alternative materials like wood, resin, plastic, twine and other less common sources.
 Before you make your jewelry, you will want to sketch out your ideas and then draw your final design. This will let you plan how large or long each element should be and ensure that you have a plan to follow. This will keep you from wasting supplies.


Sketching on graph paper can help you better align design elements and gauge relative sizes. You can also use tools like rulers, stencils, and tracing paper to further hone your drawn designs.

