 Start by just walking, then jogging, then running, but limit the activity to thirty minutes a day at first. If you transition too quickly, you may develop plantar fasciitis.Walk for a few minutes to allow your feet to get familiar with the surface. Tarmac and concrete roads work well. Grass - unless finely manicured - does not work well as the surface can be uneven with clumps and roots.
Bounce on your feet like a boxer. Repeat 3 times. This will relax your metatarsals and calves.
Exercising your ankles and feet will help with the transition as well. See How to Strengthen Your Ankles
;
, They are basically reinforced socks and you'll lose many of the sensations of barefoot running. You can also purchase minimalist running shoes that look much like gloves for your feet. They're not the same as ultralight running shoes, which have arch support and a padded heel., One of the most common doubts people have about barefoot running is "What about stepping on sharp stuff?" and the most common answer is "Use your eyes. That's what they're for."


Scan the ground ahead of you for any sharp objects that you should avoid, but don't look down at the ground right in front of your feet. Not only is that bad form, but it doesn't give you enough time to smoothly avoid stepping on something.
Even if you're wearing minimalist running shoes, you should still be aware of where your feet are going. Don't zone out like you do when wearing shoes. Practice mindfulness.



Keep the head, neck and back straight. No slouching. Lift the chest and allow the shoulders to relax.
Keep your head high and keep looking forward. Relax your eye gaze to the horizon line. If you can't relax your eye gaze, then pick something in the distance to focus on and keep looking at it.
Bend your knees a bit. You should feel your weight come off of your heels. Bend the knees about 4-5 degrees, and lean forward 4-5 degrees. Keep the knees bent as much as you can. This will minimize the possibility of landing heel first.
Push your hips forward gently. You should lead with your hips, not your head or shoulders.
Counterbalance. Keep your hips rotating with your legs, and your shoulders in the opposite direction.
Keep your feet under your center of balance. No wobbling side to side.
 When people wear shoes with thick heels, they tend to lengthen their strides and land on their heels. When you're barefoot, however, you'll probably find yourself naturally taking smaller strides, and landing on the outside middle or ball of your foot. This allows your foot to absorb shock better., You should be lifting your back foot before the front foot completely lands.
 To stop, straighten the lean and straighten the knees and you will naturally come to a stop.

