 The most common kind of nickname is just a truncated version of that person's first name. This is pretty basic, and can be a good option if you're changing schools, going off to college, or starting a new job, and you want a fresh start. It will be easier for you to adjust to a nickname that sounds similar to what you're used to being called, and because you will be meeting new people you won't have to ask them to start calling you something different than what they're used to. There are three major ways you can do this:


Simply chop off at least one syllable from the end of your name. Examples of this are "Jon" from "Jonathan," "Bea" from "Beatriz," "Sam" from "Samantha" or "Samuel," "Jess" from "Jessica," and "Santi" from "Santiago."
Add an "-ie," "i," or a "y" to a shortened version of your given name. If your given name is already only one syllable, you can also add these sounds to it instead. This is more common for names used in childhood, but many adults also go by these. Common examples are "Charlie" from "Charles," "Susi" from Susana," and "Jenny" from "Jennifer." Sometimes you must add an extra consonant to spell your new nickname properly, as in "Winnie" from "Winifred," "Patti" from "Patricia," and "Danny" from "Daniel."
Add a silent "e." This can be a variation of truncating your name, as in "Mike" from "Michael," or it may change the sound of the name completely, as in "Kate" from "Kathleen.";
, Use the same rules as above, only pick either a middle or final syllable. Traditional examples of starting at a middle syllable are "Tony" from "Anthony" and "Tina" from "Christina." Traditional examples where only the last syllable is used are "Beth" from "Elizabeth" and "Rick" or "Ricky" from "Frederick."


You can always use this as a guide to come up with your own non-traditional nickname. For example, if your given name is "Patrick," you can go by "Trick" instead of "Pat."

, There are a number of unique nicknames based on given names that you can draw from depending on your culture.


There are many English nicknames that originally drew from rhymes. Examples of these are "Peggy" from "Margaret," "Dick" from "Richard," and "Bill" from "William." Others were established by historical fads or letter swapping, such as "Hank" from "Henry" and "Ted" from "Edward."Spanish nicknames have their own conventions. Many diminutives, especially for children, end in "-ita" (for girls) or "-ito" for boys. Examples are "Lupita" from "Guadalupe" and "Carlito" from "Carlos." Other examples of traditional nicknames are "Lola" from "Dolores," "Chuy" from "Jesús,""Pepe" from "José," and "Paco" from "Francisco."