 The softball itself is a lot bigger than the baseball. If you do not hold the ball tightly, it will fall out of your glove.



If you have a long throw, your best options are first base and third base, along with catcher.
If your throw is short, shortstop is your calling.
If you can catch and have a good arm, catcher is your position.
If you can run fast and catch, along with a good arm, the outfield should be on your mind.
 Pitching is something that should be coached, along with trying it on your own. If you show interest, bring it up to a coach and work with a pitcher and try to get lessons.
 Swing your arm in a quick circle but only after you learn how to control the pitch. If you are just starting out, don't try any fancy stuff. Just pitch and keep in mind at all times that your release point is at the base of your hip.


When you are throwing the ball snap it off the end of your fingers. It will give the ball speed and you can throw farther.
When pitching, don't focus on speed; focus on accuracy.
 There are many ways that work for individual batters, not just a big universal one, although they all are alike.
 Make sure your stance is shoulder-length apart to get a steady base along with your knees bent. Keep your arms behind your shoulder.


You should be driving your hands and elbow to the ball and coming along with a full follow through.
Keep your head down at the ball. Bringing your head up can cause a complete change in your batting.
If you need a confidence boost, jump up and down like the pros do in baseball.
 When you bat, grip the bat firmly. Wear batting gloves, so that if you hit it at the end of the bat or too close to your fingers, it won't sting.


When you are batting, keep your eye on the pitcher's hip. This is her release point. When she lets go of the ball, this is where it's coming out, so you will automatically have your eye on the ball to hit it.
 The softball needs to be hit hard. Have an attitude when you step up to the plate. It's softball, for crying out loud, not a beauty pageant. Get spittle mad, but not too mad that it's unsportsmanlike.


Always follow through with your swing. If you stop the bat at the point of collision, you've actually had to slow the bat significantly before ever reaching the ball, which takes a lot of power out of your swing.

