 Write down all the things that make you happy, including people, places, nature, pets, accomplishments, work, and physical activities. Write freely without censoring yourself. Once you are finished, take a look at your list, and ask yourself if you are embracing these parts of your life. Perhaps there is something you enjoy that you could do more often. Perhaps there is a relationship that is important to you that you have been neglecting., Take another look at your happy list. Ask yourself if there is anything on the list that makes you happy but is not contributing to your well-being. Is it potentially harmful to other people or the environment? Is there anything on your list that you might want to change so that you are contributing to sustainable happiness?


For example, think about your morning coffee. If it is fair trade coffee, then you know that workers were paid fairly and the coffee was grown with care for the environment. If it is not, it may have been produced by exploitative work practices. Is the habit really good for you? Is it good for the world?, Draw a table with five columns. In the first column, write down an activity you enjoy. For each activity, fill the other four columns with how it makes you feel, how it affects you, how it affects other people, and how it affects the natural environment. The chart helps you to identify opportunities in your daily life where you can make a shift towards sustainability.You may discover that you could reduce waste and improve your health by eating less junk food. This is better for yourself and the environment.
By walking instead of driving for short trips, you could become more physically active and reduce pollution from car travel.
 Sustainable happiness seeks to remove sources of debilitating trauma, such as war, violence, and abuse.If you have experienced trauma in your life — whether you are a war veteran, were in an accident, witnessed a natural disaster, or suffered physical, sexual, or emotional abuse — it is important to work on healing from these experiences.Dealing with trauma is not something that a person should attempt on his own — it is necessary to seek professional help to treat trauma. Look for a therapist who has experience in treating trauma. It's okay to try several different therapists until you find one you like.In addition, if you may be suffering from depression, anxiety, or other mental health condition, consider speaking with a counselor who can help you develop the skills you need to manage your emotions and stress.
 Sit cross-legged on the ground or on a cushion. Keep your back straight with your hips above your knees. Either close your eyes or fix your gaze on a nearby point. Think about nothing but your breathing. If your attention is wandering, bring your thoughts back to your breathing.In sustainable happiness, mindfulness is what gives you the ability to appreciate your experiences in the present moment. Mindfulness meditation can help increase your mindfulness throughout the day.


Start with ten minutes a day. As you get better, you can start working your way up to thirty or forty minutes.
 Reflecting on your gratitude and appreciation can increase your optimism and overall happiness.You can start by waking up each day and reflecting for a few moments about what you appreciate. Choose one thing every day to appreciate. Write these down in a journal. Some things you can appreciate:


Do you have a good home?
Do you have a family whom you love? Friends? Pets?
Do you enjoy your job?
What successes have you had recently in life?

, Commit to at least one thing that you could shift in your life that will enhance your well-being, the well-being of other people, or the well-being of the natural environment. Practice this new commitment every day until it becomes a habit.


You may give up bottled water and soda to reduce plastic waste.
You might want to start cooking your own meals so that you know where your food has come from.
You could start a garden to grow your own food, herbs, or flowers.
Once this new commitment has become part of your life, you may want to make another commitment.
 While sustainable happiness is all about creating long-lasting wellness and happiness for your community and yourself,it is important to remember that there will still be highs and lows in life and you will need to know how to support yourself during those low moments. Turning to your community for support is one way to do this. Seeking help from a therapist is another way to support yourself and your long-term happiness and health.


Try to have realistic expectations about happiness — it's perfectly understandable if you are not happy some of the time; however, you may experience a lot less angst over feeling the range of human emotion if you keep in mind that even darker feelings will pass.
Learn to address negative thoughts and work on positive thinking. Dealing with feelings of anger, resentment, and stress in healthy ways can help support your well-being and, in turn, help you support those around you.

