 In order to know how much your instrument is worth, you can visit an appraiser. Some music stores offer cost-free verbal appraisals. The price for an insurance appraisal can vary. For example, it can cost from $75 to $250.Alternatively, you can estimate your instrument’s value on your own.


To find an appraiser in your area (U.S.), visit http://www.appraisersassociation.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=page.viewpage&pageid=750.
For very valuable instruments, get your instrument authenticated., Each instrument has its own unique value based on several characteristics (age, quality of craftsmanship, condition). Nevertheless, you still can get a gist of the local market. Visit online sites like eBay or Craig’s List to see what prices other people are using.
 Are there any cosmetic issues like scuffs or marks? Is there a problem that makes your instrument function less well, such as missing or damaged keys on a piano or a damaged bow for a violin? Does the instrument still play normally and completely? Any factor that diminishes the condition of the instrument will lower its price. Full functionality is particularly important.
 The best way to do this is by visiting an appraiser. Still, you can do a bit of research to determine this factor yourself. Do you have the original case? Are there etchings on the instrument that note a manufacturer or year?


Once you locate a manufacturer’s mark, perform an online search to see what information you can find.
For example, if your piano is a Steinway, locate the serial number by lifting up the cover. Once you locate the number, you can contact Steinway for all the available details (place of sale, age, model, etc.). This service costs $50.For tips on determining the date of your guitar, see Find Out the Age and Value of a Guitar.
Use industry periodicals to find out about common pricing for collectibles.
 Based on all the information you have gathered, formulate a price range in your mind. You will want to set your price towards the higher end of your scale because people likely will negotiate your price downwards. Don't just accept any price that someone offers.


When selling on an auction site like eBay, you might consider having a lower starting price to accrue more bids., The quality of your instrument might determine what portal is best for you to use. For beginner to intermediate level instruments, online sites like Craigslist or eBay can be great. For intermediate to expert level instruments, ask at your local music store whether they buy instruments. Auction houses often will sell higher quality instruments as well. Use your local newspaper’s print and online classified sections to advertise. If you belong to any musical professional associations, their magazines also might have classified sections.


For tips on selling your piano online, see Sell a Piano Online.
Auction houses are particularly interested in very valuable instruments like Stradivarius violins.
Ask instrument repair people if they buy instruments. Some repair technicians will buy used instruments for their parts.Use a consignment shop. The shop displays your instrument in the store and receives a commission for the sale.
Consider selling at flea markets. If you have older instruments for which you don't want to fetch too high of a price, consider selling at your local flea market.
 In your print or online listing, provide photographs of your instrument from every angle. Make sure your photo background is professional and the room is well lit.In today’s digital age, you also might be able to upload a sound file of your instrument being played. Give relevant information about the quality of the instrument, its manufacturer, age, condition, functionality, and quality. Mention your instrument's dimensions and weight in the listing. Offer interested parties the chance to play the instrument before purchase.


Make sure your listing is easy to read, clearly spaced, and printed in an easy font. Use bullet points for organization.Provide relevant details about the instrument that can enhance its value.If you are willing to deliver, specify that as well.
Use listing title keywords wisely. When advertising online, use the listing's title's keywords to attract the right customers. For example, if you have a beginner's trumpet for sale, rather than writing "brass trumpet for sale" as a headline, try, "beginner's brass trumpet for sale--good condition, perfect for a middle schooler starting band class." If listing a piano, mention the brand name, condition, and the size in your listing. For instance, you could write, "Baby grand, black Steinway piano: gently used condition.", Find places where others look to buy instruments and advertise yours for sale. For example, you might advertise at a local school, church, or community center on a bulletin board. Ask friends for recommendations of people who might be looking for an instrument. Follow up with any interested buyers and offer a brochure on your instrument with all relevant information (make, age, condition, etc.).
 After you have sold your instrument, be sure to pack it with bubble wrap and other products like foam that can protect the instrument. Tightly pack the instrument so that it cannot shift in the box. Ensure that the instrument will not be damaged by water.