 Picky eaters by choice know there is something better out there than dog food, especially dry food, and will hold out for that better alternative, whether that means wet dog food or pieces of bacon from their owner's plate.The type of picky eater is usually created by owners that spoil the dog with tasty table tidbits or reward the dog's picky eating by hand-feeding or offering an even more tasty alternative. These dogs are typically smaller breed dogs who have been pampered with human food by their owners. Their weight is may remain within normal weight range for their size or they may become obese due to overindulgence in delicacies and high-fat foods.
 This would be a dog that was previously eating dog food without a problem who now suddenly nibbles at the food or leaves it in its dish. You may notice your dog losing weight or exhibiting signs of illness, such as lethargy or slowness.If your previously normal eater doesn't return to his normal eating pattern within two days, bring this issue to your vet's attention as it could be related to a more serious underlying medical condition. Dental disease, gastrointestinal upset, tumors, or liver, kidney, and heart disease are all medical conditions which may cause a formerly good eater to become a picky eater.
 Your dog will eventually become nutritionally deficient if he is not eating a well-balanced diet. Dog food is formulated to meet all the nutritional needs of dogs. They are not humans and thus cannot thrive on a human diet. Dogs have different requirements than humans for fat, protein, minerals and vitamins. Here are some of the potential implications of a poor diet:Poor teeth: The dog's teeth will suffer, especially small breed dogs, if he doesn't eat properly. Dry dog food (kibble) helps to “grind” off some of the plaque that eventually collects on the teeth. In addition, a nutritionally imbalanced diet will eventually make the dog deficient in minerals like calcium which helps build strong teeth and bones.

Obesity: Generally, picky eaters will only eat the tastiest human foods which typically contain a lot of fat. Fat is what gives the most flavor to food. Too much fat in the diet equals an expanding waistline, even in dogs. At present, obesity is the biggest nutritional problem facing our pet dogs.

Future health concerns and lower quality of life: Many of the common illnesses facing aging dogs are treated with special foods which help prolong life and increase quality of life. Unfortunately, some of these foods aren’t as flavorful as regular dog food and may be rejected by a picky eater. Failure to eat these foods could limit the treatments available for aging illnesses and hasten a dog's physical decline.

