 Just like all facial products, different products work best on different skin types. If you have very dry skin, you may want to avoid products with alcohol in them, which can dry out your skin even more. Instead, find alcohol-free setting sprays that have moisturizing and hydrating properties. If you have naturally oily skin, look for an oil-free setting spray.If you have combination skin, you can play around with different setting sprays until you find one you like. Many sprays are marketed for all skin types, so those would be a good place to start.;
, During hot, humid days, makeup has a tendency to “melt” off your face. Find a setting spray that is cooling and sweat-resistant. If you are in a cold climate or in the dead of winter, try a hydrating setting spray to protect your skin against the harsh, dry air., This is a matter of personal preference. Some people like their finished, make-up face to be matte and completely shine-free. Others prefer a dewy, glowing look. Make sure you take this into consideration when you are picking a setting spray. Some will mattify your face, and others will give you a bit of a dewy sheen., No matter how great our makeup looks, there is no better beauty hack than protecting it from the sun. If you are venturing out into the sunshine, find a setting spray that has SPF in it. Apply it to your face before heading out, and reapply it throughout the day.Not only will it help your makeup last flawlessly, but it will protect you from sunburns and other negative effects of sun exposure.
 Many people use a Beauty Blender, or a generic version of this well-known makeup sponge, to apply their liquid foundation. To use this sponge properly, you’re supposed to dampen it before applying makeup. Instead of using water, you can use setting spray to dampen the sponge.The moisture on the sponge will help blend and smooth the foundation easily and evenly.
The setting spray will also help prevent the foundation from coming off over the course of a long day.
 Many powder eye shadows go on very lightly, and it seems like you have to pack on multiple coats to get the bold, pigmented color you want. Setting spray can help with this. Take your shadow brush and dip it into the powder eye shadow you will be applying. Then, before you apply it to your lid, spray the brush with your setting spray. This will make the shadow more opaque and bold than the dry powder alone.The eye shadow will be damp going onto your lid, but it will dry quickly.
The setting spray will help your eye shadow stay in place and last all day, without smudging or creasing.
 To cover dark circles and make your eyes appear brighter, apply concealer under your eyes. Use your finger to dab a few dots of the product. Then, spray your concealer brush with setting spray before using it to blend in your concealer.By getting your concealer brush damp with the setting spray, you will make it easier to blend the concealer.
The setting spray will hydrate the delicate skin under your eyes, and it will also keep the concealer looking smooth and flawless, rather than splotchy or crease.
 Different sprays contain different ingredients, and many include ingredients that can settle to the bottom of the bottle. To make sure you are getting the proper mixture, give your bottle a few gentle shakes. You don’t need to shake it vigorously – just enough to mix it all up.
 Hold the bottle six to eight inches away from your face. You want to give your entire face an even misting, so don’t spray it closely. Spray the product a few times, making sure you get full, even coverage.


One way to ensure full coverage is to spray the setting spray in an “X” shape over your face, and then again in a “T” shape over your face., Once you’ve sprayed your setting spray, let your face air-dry. It won’t take too long for your skin to absorb the spray. Don’t rub or blend the spray anywhere on your face, or you will risk messing up your makeup., Throw the setting spray into your purse so that you can have it whenever you want it. Depending on the specific setting spray you’ve chosen, it can cool you off, mattify your makeup, and rehydrate your skin throughout the day.