 The major portals are going to be (Stormwind/Orgrimmar, Ironforge/Thunderbluff, Shattrath and Dalaran) The other portals aren't going to be needed much by others, but they'll still benefit you.;
, An example of this would be: "WTS ports to any of the major cities. SW,IF,Darn,Exodar,Shatt,Dal. I only charge if I have to come to you. PST if interested."

, Use it in trade chat. Chances are, over the course of your errands, you'll get at least 1 message asking for a port.
 Invite him to your party right away in case he finds someone else. When you invite him, it sort of seals the deal so to speak because they'd have to leave your party in order to join someone else.

Even if you have to travel to the person, you have an epic mount (hopefully) and the reagents for 1 teleport rune and 1 portal (a rune to teleport to his city if he's not in your own, and a portal) are only going to cost you 30 silver, depending on your reputation with the faction you purchase from. So, this being said you should charge him no more than 2 gold because you're still going to make a 1 G 70 S profit off of the port.
 If the person is over level 70 there is a good chance that they'll fork over a whopping 5 g. That might not seem like a lot, but considering the fact that you're doing very little and getting handed money, makes it worth it.
 Use it again every 10 minutes or so, so that you're not annoying the other people that are playing. (5 minutes is too often) This will keep reminding people who are questing, that they have ports available as long as you're there.


This is not to offend anyone, but most people who play WoW are either lazy or they are wanting to save time. Ports are an easy way for them to do that. People won't know that you're offering unless you put your name out there. USE YOUR MACRO!
There will unfortunately come a time where you will be tempted ruin someone's day because they're either being rude to you; referring to you as "Mage", demanding food and/or water, or not tipping, or worse...tipping you 1 copper. (which I have had happen) You'll be tempted to either, teleport to their city of choice, leaving them stranded there, OR send them to an entirely different city altogether. (Exodar instead of Stormwind) DON'T do this. This is funny overall, and would seem like justice served. But it could come back to bite you. It would be very easy for that person to sully your name over trade chat, which could in turn neuter your business. Reputation is everything.

