 When you decertify a union, it no longer represents you. Workers are free to join another union, and the current union no longer bargains on their behalf. When you “de-authorize” a union, the union still exists. However, belonging to the union can no longer be a condition of employment.After the union is de-authorized, employees are free to join but are not required. In effect, you have created a right-to-work jobsite.
 Only around half of all states allow workers to de-authorize a union.You should check if your state allows you to do this.


Look on the Internet. There’s a wealth of information on the Internet. Alternately, you could consult with an attorney.
Unlike decertification, you can seek de-authorization at any time. You don’t have to wait for a window or for the collective bargaining agreement to expire.
 Your union rules might allow the union to punish you for trying to de-authorize the union. As a consequence, you could be fined or possibly fired.You need to understand the risks before going ahead.


Meet with a labor lawyer who can advise you about your options. A labor lawyer should have experience in decertification or de-authorization.
Ask what consequences you likely face because of your de-authorization drive.
 You will need to collect signatures from at least 30% of the bargaining unit’s employees. You can find sample petitions online. Don’t circulate the petition during work hours or at the workplace.


A petition might read, “We, the undersigned employees, making up 30% or more of the bargaining unit, wish to withdraw the authority of to enter into and enforce the union security clause in our contract. The undersigned petition the National Labor Relations Board to schedule and hold an election to determine whether a majority of employees wish to de-authorize the union and withdraw the authority of the union to enforce the contract’s union shop clause.”Then include lines for each person to print their name, sign, and list their department and the date.
If you use more than one page, then include the purpose of the petition at the top of each page.
 You need to ask the NLRB to hold a de-authorization election. You should complete required forms and then submit the petition to the NLRB.


You should complete Form NLRB 502-UD, which is available here: https://www.nlrb.gov/sites/default/files/attachments/basic-page/node-3040/Form%20NLRB-502%20%28UD%29%20-%20UD%20Petition.pdf.
Send your materials to the nearest NLRB Regional office, which you can find here: https://www.nlrb.gov/who-we-are/regional-offices.
 You can’t de-authorize the union unless a majority plus one of all workers in the bargaining unit vote to de-authorize. If you have 200 workers in the bargaining unit, then you will need 101 people to vote to de-authorize.