 If you want to attract an older woman, then confidence is absolutely key. If you're a teen, then you're probably still figuring out who you are, who your friends are, what you want to do with your life, and how you fit in. That's all fine, but when you see or hang out with the older woman, this stuff shouldn't come to the forefront. Instead, you should show her the positive thoughts you have about yourself. Hey, you may still be figuring it out, but you love who you are, you love hanging out with other people, and you love having a good time.


If she sees you noticing her, stand tall and proud.
Show the woman that you're comfortable with yourself instead of trying to fit in all the time.
You should speak clearly, make eye contact, and act like you know what you're talking about -- even if you don't.
It's natural to have insecurities, and as you get to know the woman or older girl, you can bring those out, but you should come out strong out of the gate.
Remember your competition -- older guys who are in college or who are maybe even starting their careers. If the woman sees that you're still struggling to find yourself, she'll move on.;
, Being assertive means that you're comfortable enough with yourself to know what you want, and to be okay with telling people what you want. Instead of being wishy- washy or unsure, you should be clear about your needs -- whether it's that you want to get to know her, you want to take her out, or that you have a great idea for a date. Though you should respect her age and wisdom, don't defer to her all the time just because she's older, or she'll start to think that you don't have much to contribute.


Once you see the woman you like, let her see you notice her. Don't be shy about it. You can even smile at her, or approach her, if the timing is right.
Don't cower in the corner. Just come up to her, even if it's only to say hi.
If you want to be assertive, you have to say what you mean and mean what you say. Be clear, even if you're only introducing yourself.
It's okay to get nervous, but try to minimize fidgeting, stumbling over your words, or looking at the floor because she's too beautiful.
 It may be hard to get experience when you're only sixteen years old, but every little thing you do counts. This doesn't mean that you should try to hook up with as many girls as possible or to backpack across Europe to understand what life "is really all about." It does mean that you should do what you can to broaden your horizons, so the older woman will see that you have depth and that you have some things to teach her, too. If she constantly feels like she knows everything and has to "train" you to be an adult, then things will get old fast. Here are some ways to get some experience:


Travel. Spend your summer or even your spring break traveling to a new place, whether it's to Costa Rica on a service trip or just to visit a relative a few states away. The more places you see and people you meet, the more you'll see that the world is bigger than your own backyard or hometown.
Date. You shouldn't date girls just to get experience, but dating even a girl or two can help you understand how to deal with women, and can also help you get some experience when it comes to hooking up. An older woman will be less likely to date you if it's obvious that you've never even had another girlfriend, because that's a big burden for her to take on.
Immerse yourself in a variety of activities. You may love baseball, but if baseball is the only thing you know and love, you may run out of things to talk about with the older woman pretty quickly. Spend your Sundays volunteering, join the French culture club or school paper, or just do a few things that can help you develop a passion about a variety of subjects.
 Again, though it may be difficult to feel or act mature when you're a teenager, you'll have to do your best to impress the woman. Women already mature a bit faster than men, and the difference in your maturity levels may be more noticeable if you're a few years -- or more -- younger than the woman. You should work on controlling your moods, having reasonable reactions to disappointing or upsetting situations, and minimizing your vulgar language, fart jokes, and other loud noises that may go over well with your buddies on the football team.


Part of being mature is being in control of your feelings. Let the woman see that you don't get easily angry or upset, or she'll think you're throwing a temper tantrum.
Another part of being mature is to not complain about every little thing. If you complain about the minor things that irk you, the woman will think that you don't have the good sense to appreciate all of the wonderful things in your life.
Avoid gossiping about your friends or other people the woman may know. She may love to gossip too, but try not to do it too much, especially at first, or she'll think that you're not mature enough to respect people who aren't in the room.
Be polite to everyone you see. If you take her out, be polite to servers and anyone else you encounter. This is a big sign of maturity.

