 Take a metal can with a reclosable lid, such as a large coffee can, and punch small holes in this lid.Put raw meat inside the can, close the lid, and tie a string around the can. Place this in shallow parts of water where you suspect leeches live, and they will be attracted to and enter the can. You can then pull the can out of the water and dispose of the leeches.


Leeches are most active during warm months. Lay your trap, check it daily during warm periods, and dispose of any caught leeches. Repeat this until few or no leeches appear in the trap.The exact size of the holes you should punch in the can lid will depend on the species of leech. If no leeches are being caught in your trap, try a larger or smaller hole size until it works.
 If you attract ducks using duck feed, however, this can increase levels of phosphorus in water and contribute to algae growth. Species of duck known to consume leeches include:


Ring-necked duck (Aythya collars)Wood duck (Aix sponsa)Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata)

, These fish are natural predators of leeches and will help to control their population.This method will only work for enclosed, private waters like ponds.
 An overabundance of vegetation and organic debris in ponds and lakes is thought to contribute to the growth of leech populations. If possible, keep vegetation to about ten percent of a pond’s surface area.Remove or control any excess vegetation to help combat leech infestation. Methods include:Minimizing the feeding of fish and ducks. Their waste provides nutrients that increase the growth of aquatic vegetation.
Manually removing vegetation from the water. It is best to remove the whole plant, roots and all. Make sure to discard the plants out of the water so that the debris does not nourish future plant growth.
Dredging or deepening the body of water. The greater depth will make it harder for plants to root.
Lowering the water level. Shallower water during cold and freezing times will make it more difficult for plants to establish.
Lining the bottom of the body of water. Plastic sheeting or mineral layers at the bottom of the water can discourage aquatic vegetation.
Introducing herbivores. A wide variety of ducks, geese, turtles, insects, snails, crayfish, and fish will eat aquatic vegetation and therefore reduce its growth. The Chinese grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) is thought to be a particularly good choice for this method.
Using aquatic herbicides. Common choices include: Chelated Copper Compounds, Fluridone (Sonar), 2,4-D, Glyphosate (Rodeo, Pondmaster), Diquat, and Endothall (Aquathol, Hydrothol). These may have a range of side effects, including fish kills. They may also need to be applied over and over again, because the vegetation that is killed decomposes in the water and contributes to future vegetation growth.
Carefully follow all directions provided with herbicides, and contact your local county extension agent before introducing any species that may be considered invasive.
 Copper sulfate pentahydrate is used to control leech populations. The recommended dose is 5 ppm.This approach, however, will kill everything in the water, including fish and other creatures. Thus, this method should be used only in enclosed, fish-less waters.


Copper sulfate pentahydrate is toxic and must be handled properly. Follow all safety and usage guidelines provided with the product.