 When you feel your stress level rising, one way to calm yourself is to take some time to focus on breathing. By simply closing your eyes and letting your breathing fill up your mind, you will slowly start to calm down. Try to breathe slowly and deeply, letting each breath push out other thoughts., How much sleep you get can seriously affect your stress level and your attitude. If you aren't getting enough, your stress level can rise more easily, and you are more likely to develop a negative attitude. Sticking to a schedule every night will help you get enough sleep so that you waked up refreshed and happier.One way to make sure you stick to a schedule is to set an alarm for bedtime just like you set an alarm for waking up. Set it 30 minutes to an hour before you want to go to bed to remind you it's time to wind down.
 If you find yourself really tense at work, take a moment to stretch to help relieve it. A simple stretch can help take your mind off work, plus it can loosen muscles tightened by stress.One simple stretch you can employ is moving from cow pose to cat pose. In a chair, lean forward with your hands on your knees. Arch your back outward. Move to cat pose by arching your back inwards.Move on to stretching your arms straight above your head, leaning to each side as you stretch.You can also employ a twisting move. While sitting, keep your arms bent and twist around one way and then the other., Taking the time to write every day in a journal can be a to release emotions. If you let your emotions build up over time, that can lead to a more stressful life.What's important is to let your emotion flow out on paper. Don't try to make it grammatically correct or perfect or worry about what you should be writing about., Hugs tell your body to release oxytocin. This hormone can relax you, as well as push you to be more social, which can also be good for your stress level.Try to get at least eight hugs a day. Don't just limit yourself to your friends and family--pets count, too.