 Experts believe that people who are great speakers are more likely to use hand gestures during conversations or presentations, and they say hand gestures give listeners greater confidence in the speaker.


More complex gestures involving two hands above the waist are associated with complex thinking. Politicians like Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, Colin Powell, and Tony Blair are considered charismatic, effective speakers, and that's partly because they frequently use hand gestures.
 Don’t only move your hands. Great speakers move around. They point at slides, and they don’t keep their distance from people. They are animated.


Keeping your hands in your pockets when speaking or having a conversation will make you seem insecure and closed off.
In contrast, if you take your hands out of your pockets and keep your palms upward, you will demonstrate that you are likable and believable. , These are gestures that are the equivalents of words. Emblems can be either passive or they can be accepting. Remember that some emblems will have different meanings to different cultures.


Clenched fists or other tension in the body can be signs of aggression, as if the person is prepared for a fight. Facing the other person, squared off and towards them, and sitting near them can also be signs of aggression. Sudden movements might be made.
In contrast, accepting gestures are those when the arms are rounded and palms sideways, as if the person is offering up a mock hug. Gestures are slow and gentle. Nodding when a person speaks shows you agree with them, and makes you seem like a great listener. , If you go to, say a job interview, and you have bad posture, you will probably register more poorly to the interviewer.


People will associate bad posture with weak confidence or boredom or lack of engagement. They might even think you’re lazy and unmotivated if you don’t sit up straight.
To have good posture, your head should be up and your back should be straight. Lean forward if you’re seated. Sit down the front of your chair, and lean forward slightly to show you’re interested and engaged.
 Mirroring is when one partner mirrors the posture of the other partner. By copying the actions of the other person, you will make them feel connected to you.


You can mirror a person’s tone, body language or position of the body. You shouldn’t do this blatantly or repeatedly though, only subtly.
Mirroring is one of the most effective ways to use body language to build a rapport with someone. , Have more than one gesture. This will help you better get your message across. If you want to make sure you're not misunderstood, repeat both gestures when you speak the idea aloud.


If the listener doesn't pick up on one gesture, he or she will likely be familiar with the other. You don't have to use a body language gesture (or two) for every word, but it's a good idea to have a toolbox of gestures you can use to reinforce very important, yet easily misinterpreted concepts.
Direct the most positive gestures toward the listener. This lets you more clearly indicate that you are offering a favorable outcome to the listener. Direct the most negative gestures away from yourself and the listener. This way you clearly indicate that you wish that no obstacle stands in the way of your intended message.
 Watch for wandering eyes, hands picking at fluff on your clothing and constant sniffling.


Touching one's face signals anxiety. Improve your posture. If you're constantly hunched over or touching your face, you'll never look confident, approachable or at ease. Improving your posture and working to eliminate nervous tics can be difficult and will take time, but you'll quickly improve your overall non-verbal communication.
These small gestures add up and are all guaranteed to dampen the effectiveness of your message. Don't worry about if you accidentally perform a few of these in any given setting.

