 Chamomile is a mild herbal remedy that can works as an anti-inflammatory. If your stomach lining is upset by the imbalance of bacteria as a result of your medication, chamomile tea can help soothe your stomach.Bring water to a boil, then pour over a chamomile tea bag.
Cover your tea cup or your pot, and allow your tea to steep for 15–20 minutes. The longer your tea steeps, the stronger it will be.
Add a teaspoon of honey or other sweetener if you like, but the tea itself is quite sweet without additional sweetener.
 Placing a hot water bottle or electric heating pad may help your stomach relax, and feel better. If your pain is due to cramps caused by antibiotics, the feeling of warmth against your skin may help you relax and feel better.If you don't have a hot pack, try filling a clean cloth container (a sock will work) with dried pinto beans or rice. Make sure the container is closed (you can tie it closed, or use a clothespin) and put it in the microwave for 30 seconds (or until the ingredients are warm to the touch).
Don't let let the hot pack get too hot. You want it to feel warm against your skin.
Find a comfortable place to lie down, where you can balance the hot pack against your stomach. Leave it in place for at least 15 minutes. You may repeat as often as you'd like to.
 Rice water is water that is left over after cooking rice. Drinking rice water helps soothe the stomach by making a sort of soothing barrier over the lining of your stomach.Make your own rice water by cooking 1/2 cup of rice (plain white rice is fine) with twice the amount of water required - in this case, 1/2 cup of rice should be cooked with 2 cups of water. Bring the rice-water mix to a boil, then turn it down and allow it to simmer for 20 minutes, or until the rice is tender.
Pour rice and water through a sieve, reserving the rice for a bland meal. Catch the rice water in a bowl or kitchen pot.
Fill a drinking glass with the rice water, and enjoy the rice water warm. You can add a spoonful of honey if you'd like.
 Ginger relaxes the muscles that line your intestinal track, and is a well-known remedy for stomach cramps. Ginger root is also great for relieving nausea. Sipping on a warm infusion of ginger tea may help relieve the stomach pain caused by antibiotics.Wash, peel, and roughly chop 1–2 inches of ginger root. Bring 1–2 cups of water to a boil, then add your ginger. The more water you use, the more diluted your tea will be; however, if you steep the ginger in the water, your tea will be stronger.
Boil for three to five minutes, then allow to steep for three to five minutes more.
Remove the ginger tea from the heat, strain out the chunks of ginger, and pour your fresh ginger tea into a mug or teapot.
You may add a spoonful of honey or other sweetener if you wish. Some people enjoy a slice of lemon with their hot ginger tea, which may also help with stomach pain.

