 Prius cars are too expensive to make a minor mistake. Learn what makes this car much different from other cars on the road of the present day. Perhaps is the statement from Toyota that said that this car is the most efficient car on the road that makes your face smile to pieces, or maybe it's something else that this car has that no other car on the road has that makes you smile from ear to ear.;
, Explore your options. Although some people can afford a Toyota Prius, there are some that can't and need other options, even after test-driving the vehicle.
 See if it has the right fit for you. Most salespeople from the Toyota brand will want to strap into the car when you decide to take the test drive of the Prius. The Prius is an easy car for the dealer to lose, and they don't want you leaving the dealership lot without them inside the car (should you want to gallivant for a short drive away).


Test out the placement of the pedals and see if the distance between the pedals fits your driving style.
Have the dealer salesperson explain how the Prius manages its gas with its gas-electric engine from the Energy Consumption screen when stopped at a traffic light. They either may do it without even asking, or you may need to prompt them to remind them that it's one of those things all dealers should discuss during the test drive.
 If you are currently driving a certified used pre-owned Prius, get to know the specs of miles per gallon differences in city/town driving.
 If you feel the car can easily adapt to become your new car, discuss the terms of payment with the dealer salesperson. Recognize that buying a Prius is a long-term commitment you must make, and a transition that can be tough to adapt to (unless you are "rolling in money").
 Plan on leasing the car, if you don't have the complete full amount due upon signing. Look for alternative payment options, along with selling your current car on a trade-in book value (every little bit helps).
 Leasing the car may make the bank own the car, but you'll be able to keep it in your driveway (as long as you can make the payments) during the time. Don't forget about the taxes on each payment of the lease.
 Give the Toyota salesman your name and address, and all payment details. Specify which color car you want, along with the customization packages you want to include in the car's purchase (as this may increase the value of price, but add to the usable amount of stuff your Prius can do for you in the end).
 If they say that you can take the Prius when you walk out, good. Most times (especially for those new Priuses), they'll have to locate the customizations you've ordered on the order form, along with the color car you chose from the sales brochure, which could take a few days to a week or two, but it's waiting time well spent to get the right fit for your car.
 Depending on conditions of pre-owned or new, this can increase the time waiting for the car to be shipped to your dealer.

