 Over-the-knee boots can be difficult to wear during cold weather because they can’t be worn with bulky pants. Instead of opting for only thin clothing, wear bulky clothing over skinny pants, leggings, or tights. Wear a thick, oversized sweater or sweater dress. Pair a large scarf with the sweater and your basic outfit is complete.You may not be able to wear thick socks with over-the-knee boots if they are tight-fitting. Instead, find thinner knee-high socks to wear with your boots.;
, Over-the-knee boots, a long, sweater, and boots is a classic fall look. Keep the look very casual by minimizing the accessories and wearing flat boots. To dress it up a little, wear high heel boots and and accessories, like a scarf and frilly socks, with your outfit.If you’re wearing leggings, wear a sweater that comes down to your thighs.
 A poncho and over-the-knee books is a quick and easy look to put together. Wear the poncho with a long-sleeved shirt and skinny jeans or leggings. Pair the boots with thicker socks that don’t make your boots too tight.You can wear a thick, jacket-like poncho with faux-fur during colder weather.
 For a more alternative look, wear an oversized hoodie with your boots. A thinner, loose, and long hoodie is ideal. Under the hoodie, you can choose to wear shorts, leggings, or a mini skirt. Velvet or black leather boots looks best with this look., Pairing a slip dress with over-the-knee boots is a fun and sexy look. A silk slip dress and beige suede boots is one choice for an outfit. You can also wear lattice boots if you want to show even more skin. If you feel uncomfortable wearing only a slip dress, put on a white t-shirt under the dress.Wear a choker necklace or simply jewelry with the slip dress and boots.
 Denim shorts and t-shirt is a common look for the summer. Dress up the look with high heel over-the-knee boots. Choose flat leather boots for an alternative look. Wear knee-high stockings to avoid discomfort during a long, hot day of wearing your boots.Personalize the look with a band t-shirt or favorite accessory, like a statement necklace.
 A t-shirt dress with a pair of over-the-knee boots is a classic and simple look. Make sure the dress is long enough that you feel comfortable walking and sitting down in it if you choose not to wear any leggings. Suede or lattice boots looks best with a t-shirt dress. To keep the look simple, keep the accessories to a minimum. 