 Sit on your couch, bed, or floor and place a pillow behind your back for support. Put a nursing pillow designed for twins firmly around your waist and set a pillow underneath it for extra support. You can also set single nursing pillows on both of your sides so you can set the babies there once you've finished breastfeeding them.You may want to have someone help you get used to setting up the pillow supports and handing you the babies (especially if they're newborns).
Some double nursing pillows actually strap around your waist.;
, You can place the babies in the double football or clutch hold so that one baby is on each of your sides. You should be able to tuck the babies under your arms (like a football). The babies' tummies should be touching your tummy and they shouldn't be on their backs. Their feet should be pointed towards your back and you can support the shoulders, neck, and head with your arm.This hold works well for pre-term or smaller babies. It's also a good choice if you had a C-section since it keeps pressure off of your stomach.
 Start by latching whichever baby has an easier time of latching on. Once that baby is securely on your breast, help the other baby latch on to the other breast. This will give you a chance to help the baby that might be struggling more to latch on.If you have pre-term or very young babies, you may want to place a small rolled up cloth right behind their heads. This will give them a little extra support.
 If you have a pillow underneath your nursing pillow, your babies should be raised up a little towards your breasts. For simultaneous breastfeeding, their legs should be wrapped around your sides and almost tucked around your back. The babies should be on their sides rather than their backs while they're breastfeeding.Your main goal is that they remain latched on and don't roll back or off of the nursing pillow.
 You don't need to stop and switch breasts as long as both babies are nursing well. You may need to help a baby latch on if it slips off, but give it a chance to keep nursing the same breast. This will ensure that your baby gets the rich hindmilk.You may want to alternate babies and breasts on the next feeding or the following day.

