 Although most blanket sleepers are made of a one-piece set, there are some sleepers that are two-piece. If it is a two piece set, you'll see that one half is a shirt-like piece,and the other is a pant-like piece.;
, These garments may use either zippers, Velcro, buttons or some other closure system.


If this garment uses zippers, take a good look at how far down the zipper reaches. While all children's blanket sleepers terminate near the child's ankle area, there are only a few blanket sleepers for adults that come relatively close to terminating there. Instead, in most adults' blanket sleepers, you're likely to find them terminating at about a chest-high height. There is only a slim chance that the sleeper will terminate at the ankle in adult blanket sleepers.
 While most popular blanket sleepers come with feet, there are a few out there that don't. It's a pick-and-choose world, and you'll be lucky if you picked up a sleeper with some attached feet on them.
 Some have non-skid fabric attached to them, and others don't. It may not be too common for companies to call this white non-skid surface by it's common name, but some companies still use them in their adult products. The white surface is called JiffyGrip. Almost all child's blanket sleepers will come with JiffyGrip on them, as most parents find it the most-suitable fabric to keep the child from slipping on the floor for safety.


Some blanket sleepers come with a vinyl backing instead of JiffyGrip, and some even decide to go without any gripping mechanism at all. It's preferable to most people, that all people should have some non-skid surface on their blanket sleepers. Look for this feature in a product.
 Some blanket sleepers are warmer than others. The warmer the sleeper is, the more comfortable the user will become and more apt the user may be to wear them again on the next consecutive night. If the wearer looks for heavier material, the heavier material may make it uncomfortable when the wearer is trying to consider this type of garment as "normal".
 While almost all child's sleepers come with appliques on them, only a few adult blanket sleepers sold offline will tend to come with appliques on them. At online stores you can ask for an applique as an optional feature, and therefore for a few extra spare dollars added to the selling price.
 While most infant and child blanket sleepers come with an attached hood, many adult blanket sleepers make you deprived of wearing one. Only those companies who do business online can sew a hood onto the garment for a few more dollars.
 Some adult blanket sleepers now come with a drop seat area that can better help the user establish a quicker retrieval at the toilet, without fully having to undo their sleeper so they can use the toilet and still be able to keep warm everywhere else on the body. No children's blanket sleepers sold offline come with these features. Most children are either potty-training or are still in diapers, and what good would it be to have something that would never be used on a child?

