 Admitting mistakes is hard but the good news is, it isn't necessary to linger on them. Once you've acknowledged your mistakes, quickly shift to ways you can correct your behavior or improve outcomes in the future. Mistakes can be seen as the stepping stones to success.


Set realistic goals. You aren't likely to change anything overnight, so set a series of manageable goals that progress you toward your goal. Achieving these smaller goals will provide ongoing boosts to your self-esteem and prevent feeling hopeless when change doesn't happen immediately., You can't change others, so focusing on their faults will not be a productive use of your time. Focusing your energy on trying to change others is likely to result in feelings of frustration and resentment. You can choose to focus on the things you like about others.


If you struggle to find value in another, as is, you may want to reconsider your relationship with that person. Your energy may be better spent establishing new relationships.
If you struggle to find value in any of your relationships, you should evaluate your expectations.
 By helping others you will create opportunities for others to express gratitude for you. This will help you find meaning and purpose. Serving others will also shift your focus from your struggles to the struggles of others, helping you to acknowledge your strengths and distract you from your own problems. Getting involved with organizations dedicated to a cause you care about or volunteering in your community are excellent ways to serve others.
Serving others is also another opportunity to engage socially with others.
 Life rarely happens exactly as we plan, so plan for challenges. Create a plan of action for implementing the strategies you've found the most effective, when you begin to feel frustrated by unexpected turns of events. This will allow you to still feel in control, even when things go wrong.Try writing down your plan for dealing with setbacks, and display it some place you'll see it often, like on the fridge or above your desk. This will help you to be more aware when you start to feel frustrated and quickly implement the plan.

