 Great battle failures, diplomatic blunders, poorly planned construction, ill-thought out species introductions, errors in calculations, etc. are all lessons from which we can learn what not to do. In knowing where people in the past went wrong, we can strive to avoid those mistakes and come up with solutions that will help humanity move forward.;
, Many beliefs are based in the historical events of the times. Sometimes the beliefs don't move on even though the times do. It can be helpful to understand that the beliefs are based in the context of what affected people during their lives, such as famine, drought, civil disobedience, poverty, war, etc., so that you can make a judgment call on the value of continuing the interpretation of the beliefs at that time into your time. Often you will be very surprised at the banality of the reasoning that later becomes cloaked in mysticism and finality.
 We're not new in thinking about our purpose on earth. Human beings have always striven to understand our role in the world, the value of being human, the need for us to fulfill a good purpose. If we don't respect what people thought in the past, we lose a great deal of opportunities for informing our own thinking and we fail to see the importance of the many minds doing this hard work before us.
 Although a hackneyed cliché, this is such an apt term that it just makes sense. Many people have no reference point for their ideas because they don't know their history; hence, they tend to assume that their idea is original, novel, new, never-before-thought-of. For the most part, a knowledge of history will inform you that it has been thought of before. Whether or not it has been acted upon and thought through in the way that you are doing now is another story but it is important to know that your idea is neither original nor unusual so that you don't reinvent it. Rather, knowledge of history enables you to leap-frog the mistakes, the wrong alleys, the poor outcomes, and improve upon the idea with your fresh take on things.
 In reading it, we are soon transported away to another world and time that doesn't reflect what we know and see around us now. That is exciting, mind-opening, and enjoyable. We can imagine ourselves in the position of people in the past and wonder how we would have coped; that instills a sense of awe and wonder in us, as well as possibly prompting a think-through of our own resourcefulness.
 Great writers often dip into history for ideas to write about, museums thrive on history, tour groups lap up historical facts as if they were being enlightened for the first time, and sports fans generally tend to know an incredible amount of history about their team, something that sports merchandisers rely on heavily. There are so many ways that history can serve you in your career plans - you just need to open your mind to the possibilities.

