 While not always necessary, it is highly recommended. If you already know how to read music and have at least a basic understanding of a more common instrument, you'll have a lot more luck with learning the new one. A little understanding of transposition and/or composition wouldn't hurt either, especially if you pick an instrument with little or no music written for it.;
, When making your decision, keep in mind questions such as the following: How "weird" do you want to be? (Do you want an unusual but still recognized concert instrument, or something so weird that only one man alive knows how to put it together?) How much can you afford to spend? (As more unusual instruments tend to be more expensive and in short supply) Will you actually be able to play this in public? (Or is it found in any band or orchestra?, if you wish to play in such a group.) Then, take a look at your options:


.]] "Scholarship instruments" - Some instruments are called "scholarship instruments" by band directors as they are a part of a typical concert, jazz, and/or marching band, but they're not as common as, for instance, the trumpet or clarinet. These include the bassoon, contrabassoon, oboe, Bass Saxophone, Soprano Saxophone (though this one isn't as common or necessary as some others), Flugelhorn, Alto Clarinet, Alto Trombone, Alto Flute, Marimba. If you are already playing percussion instruments, you may wish to pick one unusual instrument to specialize in, such as the Vibraphone or Orchestral Bells. Most of these instruments have method books and a decent amount of music written for them.
.]] Family members - This is a good route to take if you already have experience on a "basic" instrument, such as the flute, clarinet, guitar, or alto or tenor saxophone. These families include specialized instruments that have much higher or much lower ranges. Take a look at the families of the clarinet, flute, saxophone, and guitar. You can also take the bassoon and oboe a step forward, as they have unusual family members too.
player.]] Historical/cultural instruments - Look into your family's history. You may find that there is an interesting instrument that is native to your family's home country. For instance, an Australian may wish to look into the didgeridoo. Similarly, you can look into instruments from other cultures and combine your musical experience with a learning one. You can also learn to play an older variant or ancestor of a current instrument, such as the shawm (oboe), curtal (bassoon), or rebec (violin, viola), or an instrument with a significant place in history, like maybe the musette de cour, (an indoor type of bagpipe connected with the French court used even for operas of the 18th century) that interests you. However, be warned that this can get expensive, especially if the instrument isn't mainstream or even manufactured anymore.
 Depending on the instrument, this could be as simple as a drive to the nearest music store, or you may find yourself paying thousands of dollars to ship one from the other side of the world. Be sure that you can either buy or make things such as reeds, if applicable. Keep in mind that you may be able to use reeds or mouthpieces from an existing instrument on yours, if they're similar enough. If available, a method book will be a huge help in learning to play.
 Be patient, this can be difficult and will probably take a while. If you're having trouble, ask a band director, conductor, music professor, or fellow performer to help. You may also be able to contact an expert in your instrument via the internet. In time, you will develop a skill that few other people will share.
 Look around for opportunities: Check out school or professional bands and orchestras, instrument ensembles, jazz groups, or church groups, if you think they may need your instrument. Otherwise, look into opportunities for solo performances.
 Be proud: you can play an instrument that few other people have mastered... or may not even have heard of. You may wish to branch out into other similar instruments, or get to the top with this one. It's your choice, but remember to be proud of your accomplishment.

