 When coming up with a name, put yourself into the shoes of someone who’s choosing a name for their baby. Imagine a first and last name that sound great together. Unique, but not too out there!


Names cannot include numbers, symbols, strange capitalization, repeating characters, or strange punctuation as per Facebook’s Guidelines.Be careful with using names from popular movies or television, as they might sound too obvious (e.g. “Brad Pitt” or “Jennifer Lopez”). Instead, choose a first name from one star and a last name from another, like Brad Lopez or Jennifer Pitt!;
, If you leave the profile photo blank, nobody will believe the account is real. The trouble is, stealing other peoples’ photos is illegal—if the person in the photo (or the photographer) finds out that you’re using their photo without permission, you could face legal trouble.Try these ideas instead:


Take a selfie, but use enough filters to make yourself look unrecognizable.
Use a cool nature photo, like a sunset or underwater scene.
Animals! Everyone loves cute animal photos.

Take a screenshot from a movie, music video, or cartoon.
 People may look at your profile to try to figure out who you are. When choosing a hometown, current location, employer, and education, the details should be realistic.


Choose a hometown and/or current city that you know well and can talk about. This is especially important if you intent to join a Facebook group for a particular region.
Make sure your age works with your job and education! If your profile says you’re 18, don’t say you have a law degree from Yale and work for the FBI.
If you’re just signing up to play games or follow news, don’t worry about filling out your profile, liking pages, or adding friends. As long as your name and photo look real, you’re good to go!

, If you’ll be interacting with other people, expect them to check your timeline for hints on kind of things you post, how long you’ve been posting them, and whether anyone else interacts with you.


If your profile is brand new but you want people to know you’re not new to Facebook, post something like “I’m back on Facebook” or “Time to start fresh.”

Share YouTube videos, popular memes, and news articles. Add a comment to anything you share, even if it’s goofy. For example, “This video cracked me up,” or “I can’t believe this really happened!”

, You’ll find this button at the top of pages for products, media personalities, celebrities, restaurants, and virtually anything else. People who view your profile will see a list of all of your “likes” and use that information to get a sense of who you are.If you prefer, you can just hide the whole “Likes” section of your profile.
 Without a few friends to start with, potential new friends and groups may think you look suspicious.


Find new friends by visiting Facebook pages for movies, celebrities, or political ideas. When you find someone you want to add, click their name, and then click Add Friend.
People may not accept your request without an introduction. Send them a message first, saying something like “I really relate to what you said on the wikiHow page, can we be Facebook friends?”
If you feel comfortable, ask a few of your real-life friends to add your fake profile.
 Now that you’ve created a realistic Facebook profile and added friends, you’re ready to start using Facebook as your new persona! When you click Like on posts from celebrities or news sources, your friends will see the activity in their feeds and know that you’re a real person. They’ll also see when you post on those pages, so be sure to jump into some interesting conversations on your favorite show or new source’s page.

