 If you decide to conceal your feelings, you might be tempted to turn to common but unhealthy coping mechanisms, but doing so just makes the problem worse.


Avoid drugs or alcohol. Many people who are sad or experiencing unrequited love turn to alcohol or drugs to cope with the pain, but doing so tends to make the sadness even worse when soberness returns, and can lead to problems with addiction and health consequences.
Watch out for the sugar trap. Many people cope with sadness or feelings of rejection by eating, particularly carb- and sugar-heavy foods like ice cream and chocolate. But the body responds to sugar and carbs by creating a fake emotional "high" that quickly plummets into a sugar crash that is even worse than the way you felt before you ate the sugar. Don’t fall into that trap!Don't turn to empty relationships and sex. Especially if your feelings are related to unexpressed love or feelings of rejection from a romantic partner, you might be tempted to turn to casual sex and empty relationships to fill that void. But these relationships will not fill your craving for affection and intimacy. Give yourself time to grieve your lost love and then give it time. You will find someone to fill the emotional needs you have as well as the physical ones.
 Instead of unhealthy coping mechanisms, look for healthy ways to express your feelings.


Try exercise. Focusing your anger or disappointment on physical fitness can be a great way to distract yourself. Consider high intensity exercise like boxing, weightlifting, or circuit training. Just be sure you don't take it too far and exercise without resting or without taking proper precautions to protect your body from injuries.
Learn a new art form. Expressing yourself through creativity can help to get some of your emotions out in safe, healthy ways. Try painting, writing music, writing short stories or poetry, or a craft like sewing or woodworking. Even if the art is unrelated to your particular feelings that you're hiding, it can be a way to take your mind off of things and focus your energy on something productive.
 You may have been fearful to express your emotions for fear that the confrontation would get out of control. It's important to develop and practice healthy ways of expressing yourself so that you can be in control of your interactions with others.


Feelings of anger should not automatically result in shouting fests. In fact, yelling when you're angry often makes it hard to communicate what it is that has you upset, and also makes it more likely that the person you're yelling at will tune you out and not listen. Instead, let anger lead you to be more assertive and brave in your confrontations without letting it get the better of you. Use your anger to guide you toward rational conversations that can help solve the problem rather than creating new ones.Express your sadness without fearing that you shouldn't. Some people have been raised to think that it's childish or inappropriate to cry or mourn a loss, especially for men, but actually letting yourself feel sadness when sad things happen is an important sign of maturity. It's ok to feel sad and let yourself experience that feeling by crying.Expressing your feelings can help you avoid negative health consequences of holding them in, such as hypertension, depression, and weight gain.Check out this helpful wikiHow article for more advice about healthy ways to express your emotions.

