 If you love how your diamond sparkles, try to keep your fingers off it. As you touch it, you pass oil from your fingers to the diamond, which can make it look dull., Chemicals may make your bathtub sparkling clean, but they aren't doing your diamond ring any favors. When you're cleaning, take your ring off, or put rubber gloves on to protect your hands and ring., When you're doing things like making home repairs, your jewelry can be scratched. You could also knock the diamond out of the setting. You should remove it when you're gardening, moving furniture, or performing heavy lifting.You should also take it off before playing contact sports.
 The chlorine isn't particularly good for diamonds. In addition, it's easy to lose a diamond in a pool, as your skin shrinks. Your ring may slip off, or an earring could pop out of your ear. It's best to take the jewelry out before you take the plunge., When getting ready in the morning, put your jewelry on last. Using makeup, fragrances, hairspray, and lotions around your jewelry can damage it. Plus, you should wait to put it on until after you shower, as the soap can make a dull layer on your diamonds., Diamond jewelry needs to be checked by a professional jeweler regularly. They will look at the prongs and mountings to make sure they're in good shape. If something is damaged, the jeweler can repair it before something breaks and you lose a diamond., Jewelry is likely one of the most expensive things you own, so it makes sense to get insurance. It can be included in your homeowner's or renter's insurance (as a rider). However, you can get your jewelry its own policy if you prefer.Have your jewelry reappraised every 5 years or so, as the value will likely increase, and you want your insurance to cover that increase., Diamonds can be scratched by rough containers, as well as by other diamonds. Keep each piece separated in its own padded box to help protect it over time., Though you can use a pre-made jewelry solution, you can make one from items in your home. Try mixing a few drops of dishwashing liquid in a cup of warm water, which will help remove grease., To help break up the dirt and grime of daily life, it helps to let the jewelry sit in the cleaning solution. Leave it for about 5 minutes before moving on to the next step. You may need to leave it in longer if the jewelry is particularly dirty., Buy a new toothbrush just for this purpose. Pull the jewelry out of the cleaning solution, and gently scrub all around the diamond. Don't forget to get the sides and the back of the diamond.Don't scrub too hard, particularly if the jewelry is delicate or antique.
 Wash the jewelry off in clean, running water to remove any remaining dirt and soap. Use a soft cloth (lint-free) to dry off the diamond and the rest of the jewelry.If you're worried about dropping the jewelry in the sink, place it in a strainer to rinse it.
 Another option for jewelry cleaning is mixing cold water with ammonia (equal parts). Simply soak your jewelry in the solution for half an hour and then rinse. You shouldn't need to scrub it at all.