 If you are very shy, hang out with your friends from primary/middle school, and become friends with the friends they make. If you don't know anyone, talk to the people in your classes. A great way to make friends is to join some activities. That is a great way to meet new people that have similar interests and backgrounds as you.;
, Stand/sit up straight in lessons, and walk with purpose. Hallways can get crowded, but keep your head up and you'll be fine. Don't just walk with your head down listening to music.
 Keep your grades up, and don't be afraid to ask/answer questions in class. This is the most important part of the whole article. You are in school for your education, not primarily to socialize. By no means does this mean you can't make friends and have a good time, but you'll regret skipping classes to hang out with friends if you fail. Also, don't worry that people will see you as "uncool" if you do well in class- most people will respect it, and those who don't aren't worth impressing. You will fit in some group in you are a normally sociable person.
 If you want, get a new haircut. Use anti-bacterial face wash every morning to keep spots at bay. Brush your teeth, maybe use mouthwash too. If you have a uniform, make sure you always looks smart in it. Sloppiness makes you look like you're not bothered with anything, and may even get you a detention. If you feel more comfortable with make up (and your school allows it), wear it, but remember, less really is more. No one looks pretty with layers upon layers of caked on make up. It's about highlighting your good features, not covering them all up!

, Buy yourself a cool bag or backpack, and customize it (with buttons, badges,etc) if you want. If your school allows accessories, go for it, but remember to keep it tasteful and minimal.
 This step is for a little later on, but when school photo day comes, get a good night's sleep the night before, make sure you look good in the morning. If you don't have uniform, don't dress in the latest fashion, as it will date, and you will cringe years later! Go for the things that never go out of fashion. Don't do your hair and make up elaborately, keep it nice, clean, and simple. Come to school as you normally will be and relax when it is getting taken. If you prefer to smile, try to think of something amusing or funny to get that nice natural smile, especially if you have an overbite.
 This, like education, is very important. Eat healthily and drink lots of water. It's tempting to eat cafeteria fries all the time, but go for a salad or sandwich every once in a while. Or better yet, pack your own healthy lunch.
 Depending on your circle of friends, your family, your environment, and your personal beliefs, you may choose to drink or try drugs. If you do choose to do these things, keep it to a minimum, and never before, or during school. Both drinking and drugs are addictive, and partying excessively can become out of control very quickly. Be smart if you decide to drink or do drugs, and never drive under the influence. Also, it's important to note that most private schools will expel you if you are caught drinking or on drugs (or in possession of anything illegal), even if it's outside of school. Don't let one wild night ruin your high school career.

