 If you have recently been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you need to work with your doctors to create a personalized treatment plan that can optimize your ability to manage your symptoms. If you have had bipolar disorder for a while, it’s important that you stick to your current treatment plan—even if your symptoms seem to fade—and see your doctor or therapist regularly.


Bipolar disorder in teens and young adults is treated in the same ways as the adult population. Most young people with this disorder follow a combined approach of taking medications and participating in individual or group therapy.If you find that your medications do not seem to be working, or you don’t find therapy productive, always talk to your doctor before discontinuing treatment. Many people find that they have to try a variety of treatment approaches in order to control their bipolar symptoms.;
, Being a student is stressful enough, but when you have to cope with feeling extreme highs and lows, it can seem unbearable. Stress can cause someone with bipolar disorder to experience panic attacks and even suicidal thoughts, as well as trigger a manic episode. Having coping mechanisms are crucial to keeping a bipolar student healthy.


When you’re feeling stressed, practice deep breathing or visualize a calm scene, like a beach or other landscape you enjoy. You should also strive to include activities you enjoy into your routine. Although the life of a student is quite busy, you must make sure to continue your hobbies outside of school to keep your stress levels at bay., Many students look at high school and college as a time to experiment with alcohol and drugs. Unfortunately, alcohol and bipolar medication is a dangerous combination that can result in serious consequences, and even death. Additionally, alcohol and drugs can have dramatic effects on the depression and mania you can feel, so avoid indulging in any type of illegal drugs and all forms of alcohol.


The disinhibition that alcohol creates can also be a recipe for danger for a bipolar student. A manic mood is likely to become elevated, which could result in risky behavior., If you are having problems balancing your mental health with school, inquire about taking a semester off. Although it may cause you to take longer to get through school, particularly if you are seeking a degree, it will be worth it. You don’t want to take the risk of suffering a breakdown or putting yourself back in your disease by becoming too overwhelmed with your schoolwork.


If the president or principal of your school won’t allow this accommodation for you, look into your rights involving the Americans With Disabilities Act, Section 504. You may be able to get the time off you need, even if you are receiving resistance from the higher ups., Ensure you eat right and get enough sleep. The stress of school combined with a lack of sleep and unhealthy diet can create negative impacts on your health and well-being. Keeping yourself healthy, both physically and mentally, are crucial in order to get through school. Additionally, make sure to see your therapist regularly and take your medication as prescribed.