 After you have determined that adoption is the right path for you, make a decision on what type of adoption you want to pursue. You will have to make many decisions – age, race, special needs, domestic, international, or foster – before you move forward. Take time to make the right decision.If you already have a child or children, think about how an adopted child would adapt to your established family structure.
Consider the community you live in. If you choose a child with disabilities or of a different ethnic background, will they thrive in this environment?
Think about your own abilities. Can you manage to raise an infant by yourself? Do you have the financial means to adopt a child and get them through college? Are there enough available resources around you to care for a special needs adoption?
Stay open-minded and don’t narrow the possibilities. There are many children who need good homes and families.
Consider adopting more than one child. The more the merrier.
 Once you have completed the home study and selected an adoption agency, it is time to search for a child. Predetermine what type of child best suits your personality and lifestyle; get advice from friends and family; and network with others who have adopted in the past so that you can register for a match.It is important to remain patient since this step could take a long time until a match is found.
Once your home study is being reviewed for a match, information will be sent to you about the child up for adoption. This is a time when you can ask further questions. Then you must either confirm or withdraw your interest.
Remember that case workers receive several requests and you are not the only person who may have the opportunity to adopt. The final decision will always rest on the child’s needs.
 Once the case worker decides you are the right match, more confidential information is shared so that you can confirm this child is suitable for you.Once the match is approved, the child’s parental rights will be terminated so that you can adopt the child.
If you are not chosen as an adoptive parent, you might want to consider other possible children you could adopt through your agency. Or, you could select to be a backup adoptive parent in case the chosen family declines to follow through with the adoption.
 After the initial meeting, you will make several more visits over the next few weeks or months as the paperwork is being completed. If your child resides in a different state, the child’s agency will typically arrange for a minimum of two visits. , The placement is a date when the child will arrive at your home. The adoption agency will conduct several visits during this time in a supervisory role to make sure the transition is a smooth one.It is during this time that you file a legal intent to adopt petition.
 At this point, your adopted child is officially part of your legal family once a judge finalizes everything. An amended birth certificate will arrive with your name as the parent along with a certificate of adoption.
Counseling and supervision will continue by the adoption agency. Take this time to talk to your child about the adoption if they are old enough to understand.
Be a good parent by seeking out support services, connecting with other adopted families and children, and when ready, consider adopting a sibling.

