 In this case impulse purchases can be expensive. Remember that spending wisely on really good shoes rather than several less expensive, though trendy, pairs is usually a better investment of time and money.;
, Research shows that our feet swell a bit as the day goes on, and buying shoes later in the day will avoid getting shoes that are a half-size too small.
 Relax beforehand, maybe have a snack or a meal, while you plan your shopping adventure. If you can target an area that has several good shoe stores, so much the better!

, If dress shoes, thin trouser socks or stockings; if athletic shoes or boots, thicker, more absorbent socks. Sounds like common sense, but you'd be surprised how many people forget about this, and end up with shoes that don't fit!

, Someone will be more likely to help you get the shoes (if they are in the back) than if you don't.
 Remember that some European manufacturers use a different sizing system, and ask for help if you need it.
 How do they feel? Do they pinch anywhere? Try the next size up. Do they feel as if your feet are swimming in them? Try the next size, or half-size, down. Once you get a pair of shoes where there is no gap at the back of the heel, ask your feet if there is any pinching at the toes, either on top or on the sides. If so, put the shoes back and try another style. NEVER buy a pair of shoes that don't feel good firsthand, thinking that you will 'break them in' later on. Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, that never happens. Once you find a style you really like, try to find duplicate pairs online. After all, shoes eventually wear out, and having extras of that perfect pair of shoes just makes sense. And so you can shop online for the exact same shoe, keep the original box or write down the style name, number, size and color so you have it for next time.
!

, You really want high-quality shoes that are comfortable and will last you a few years, not just the latest style!

, Shoes should be comfortable first, so that you smile more, and fashionable second!

