 While you may want to run and hide when you see your ex unexpectedly, it's important to be cool and calm. Avoid thinking about all the negative and emotionally-difficult times that you had together. Focus on being positive.Avoid trying to hide or pretend that your ex doesn't see you. If you both made eye contact, then your ex has seen you. If your ex hasn't spotted you yet, it's okay to duck into a fitting room or turn around to avoid them.
Consider taking a minute if you can to calm yourself. Take a deep breath, and picture in your mind a place that is relaxing, soothing, and calm.
Consider acknowledging the possible awkwardness of the situation when meeting your ex. It may help to lighten the mood. It's okay to say, "Well, this is awkward," or "Fancy meeting you here.";
, If you see your ex from across the room or a few aisles over at a store, you may just want to avoid conversation. Many people feel the same way. Decide if just a smile and nod might be best.


If you're feeling very anxious and flustered, and your ex hasn't made their way over to you, you may feel more comfortable with staying at a distance.
Consider a smile and a nod, or a brief wave to say hello. This may be all you want to do. Then you can just simply move on with your day.
If conversation seems unavoidable, then consider the next steps to stay calm and confident.
 Don't force physical affection, such as hugging or kissing on the cheek. Also a formal handshake may be too business-like. If your ex wants to hug briefly, then do so if you feel comfortable. If they don't, then give a polite nod or wave to say hello instead. Keep your body language relaxed.


Don't send mixed signals by being overly friendly. This is not a time to flirt with your ex if the meeting is out of nowhere and unexpected.
Smile and be polite. Act like you are open to conversation. But if the conversation drags on and becomes too awkward, then consider ways to end the conversation.
Consider saying, "It was good to run into you. Nice to chat with you. I'm sorry but I need to get going. I hope you have a good rest of the day."

, Whether things are going well in your life or not, running into your ex unexpectedly isn't the time to talk about how wonderful or how bad things are. Be mindful that, if you haven't seen your ex in a while, they may have moved on and changed things about their life. Show your confident and polite self in this moment.If you've started a new relationship, avoid talking about it with your ex, except for saying, "I'm seeing someone now." Avoid trying to tell all the details of your relationship.
Remember that if you're running into your ex unexpectedly, then you likely had limited contact with them recently. After a break-up, try to view your ex as a friend from your past that you've grown apart from. Avoid focusing only on the negative at the moment you see your ex.
If you still have feelings for your ex, try imagining that they are someone else. Turn your thoughts to someone neutral.
 Whether you're doing well or not, a run-in with your ex shouldn't be about who's better than who. It is simply an encounter with someone you know. Avoid getting flustered and talking about yourself too much.


If you've succeeded in something at work or school, avoid being full of yourself. It's okay to talk about what you're up to, but avoid trying to see this as an opportunity to make your ex feel guilty or worthless.
Don't make the conversation about stirring up resentment, jealousy, or drama.
 If you run into your ex and their new partner, it can be particularly awkward. Avoid being overly fake in your conversation. Remain calm and natural.Take the high road and be polite. This moment will likely be briefer and less painful if you stay strong.
Be willing to say hello and shake the hand of your ex's new partner. Consider saying, "It's nice to meet you." But you don't need to say much more.
If you act over-the-top and too sweet, or take the other extreme and avoid eye contact and act like the person isn't there, this may come off as disingenuous and rude. Act like you would when meeting anyone new.
There is a chance your ex's new partner might say something unexpected or rude. This is unlikely, but just make sure you're prepared to remain composed and have a quick reply to end the conversation quickly. Even just "I'm running really late to meet someone, so I have to go. Nice meeting you!"

, Making the conversation brief will help to reduce tension. Don't try to recap every detail that happened since your break-up. Focus on small talk or other easy-going conversation topics.Focus on asking how their day has been, or how they are doing generally. If your ex asks the same, then focus on topics that are light and friendly.
Consider topics such as any current hobbies or travels, a funny anecdote about something that happened recently, your studies, your work, or things you've been watching such as sports or TV shows.
Avoid letting the conversation linger. When it starts to feel uncomfortable, excuse yourself or say that you need to go. Consider saying, "It was nice seeing you, but I need to head to my class," or "I'm on my way to another event. Please excuse me and have a good evening!"

, When you meet someone who has hurt you, you may want to talk with them about that pain. An unexpected encounter with your ex is not the time to rehash your relationship and its past problems. Be aware that brief meetings with your ex shouldn't turn into venting sessions or a time to start arguments.Avoid being angry or trying to stir drama.
Be understanding that your ex may also have awkward feelings about an unexpected meeting.
Ignoring and pretending that your ex doesn't exist may feel easier, but it can be immature or irresponsible.
At a minimum, smile and nod to your ex. If you feel that you can't talk with them, then this is basic courtesy.
 If you're running into your ex, and you're with your new partner or date, avoid trying to show how much you've "moved on" from the relationship by kissing or showing large displays of affection. Act as you would normally when in public.


For example, let's say you're at a friend's party, and your ex shows up unexpectedly. Avoid trying to act differently just because your ex is there. Try to talk with your ex and show that you accept them there. But if your ex is making you very uncomfortable, consider finding a different space at the party or leaving the party.
Avoid kissing or touching someone as a way to get your ex's attention and to make them jealous.
Don't focus on making yourself more attractive for your ex after you run into them. Be your normal and honest self in that moment.
 Your ex may ask you about something you are not willing to discuss — it's okay to say this. You don't have to talk about anything that makes you uncomfortable. For instance, if your ex asks whether you're seeing someone new or how things are going with your partner, you can say, "Oh — nice of you to ask, but I'm not comfortable talking about my current relationship." If your ex can't respect your boundaries and keeps asking, then end the conversation and walk away., If you live in the same city, go to the same school, or have the same social circles, it is much more likely that you may run into your ex unexpectedly from time to time. Be prepared for the possibility of an encounter.


Think about what you might say. Remember to keep it brief and respectful.
Consider how you might respond to certain questions, such as, "Are you seeing anyone new?" or "What have you been doing since we last saw each other?"
Think about what you need to do to remain calm. If you know this encounter may be anxiety-provoking, have a friend or person to talk with after you meet you ex unexpectedly.
 If you were dating your ex for a while, you may have some mutual friends. Avoid talking badly about your ex with friends of your ex. Don't force them to choose sides.If you need to vent about your ex, do so with people who don't know your ex. Consider talking with people who already were good friends with you well before your ex was in the picture.
If you're at a friend's party, and there are many friends of your ex there, keep the conversation light.
Avoid trying to start drama, or making people feel uncomfortable. Most people don't want to feel "caught in the middle" of a break-up.
 Unexpected encounters with your ex will feel less stressful when you have moved on and found closure in your relationship. Jumping into a new relationship may indicate that you've moved on, but finding closure is a separate and important thing.Process what happened in your relationship. Avoid self-blame or blaming your ex. Understand that sometimes good people aren't right for each other. And sometimes, the people you trust will hurt you.
Take care of yourself, and focus on self-love. Do things that make you feel better about life after your ex, and help you to focus on the future.
Consider talking with a counselor for an outsider's perspective. If you become very anxious and overwhelmed in these unexpected moments, a counselor can help to teach you about healthy coping skills.
Talk with your friends and family. Strengthen your support system when you're feeling vulnerable, such as these unexpected moments with your ex. Keep the people who care about you close.

