 For the sake of this experiment with Mountain Dew, a similar colored neon green or yellow highlighter will work best. You can use either a traditional highlighter or one of the liquid kinds.


Note that you can also use this same technique with water, and using water instead of Mountain Dew gives you more options in terms of color. For instance, with water, you can use pink or orange highlighters as well as green and yellow ones. Other colors, like blue and purple, tend not to create a very strong glow, however.
 Pry open the bottom seal of the highlighter using your hands, a utility knife, or a pair of skinny pliers. Once you take off the bottom and can see the ink-soaked sponge inside, carefully pick the sponge up out of the highlighter pen using a pair of tweezers.


If you use your fingers to pick out the highlighter ink sponge, your hands will get fluorescent ink all over them. That is why the use of tweezers or small needle-nose pliers is preferable.
If you opt to use a liquid highlighter, you will still need to remove the bottom, but you should not do anything with the liquid ink yet.
 Take a sip of the Mountain Dew or pour out about 1" (2-3cm) from the top before you insert the ink-soaked sponge or liquid ink from the highlighter.


You only need to empty out a little of the liquid to provide enough space for the highlighter sponge or ink.
The additional highlighter component will displace some of the fluid and if you do not pour any out beforehand, you could face an overflow from the top of the bottle.
 Use your pliers to carefully lower the ink-soaked sponge into the bottle of Mountain Dew, submerging it completely under the soda.


If using a highlighter with a liquid compartment, simply pour the highlighter ink straight into the soda. Use a funnel only if necessary.
 At this point, the highlighter ink itself will glow, but in order to make the Mountain Dew glow, you need to disperse the ink throughout the soda. Shaking it thoroughly should accomplish this.


You can remove the label of the bottle in order to see the liquid more clearly.
If using liquid ink, you will probably only need to shake the bottle for 30 seconds or so. If using an ink-soaked sponge, you may need to shake it for a minute or more.
 You should be able to see a bright glow. This glow can also last for days to weeks, depending on how fluorescent the highlighter ink is.


In order to see the glow, the bottle will need to remain underneath a UV light.
It is not recommended that you hold onto this for long-term storage or display purposes, even if the glow appears to last past a week. Since the bottle and liquid are not sterilized, and since you are providing a porous surface (the ink-coated sponge), organic growth including bacteria and fungus can start to grow inside the bottle if left too long.
If you do want to use this method for a long-term decoration, you would be better off using distilled water instead of Mountain Dew. The distillation process removes most bacteria. , Soak them in the glowing Mountain Dew for 2 to 3 hours. The beads will absorb the glowing liquid and will glow themselves under a black light.These water beads are safe for children to play with if the highlighter was non-toxic.

