 A good way to reinforce your willingness to help your child manage stress offering unconditional love and support from you and other family members. Let your child know that you are available to talk and will help however you can.Reinforce your love and willingness to help your child with stress support by repeating these reassuring statements often. Your consistency is important to can help your child more effectively handle a stressful situation. For example, saying, “I know how much this situation with Chandler stresses you out, Emma. We love you very much and will help in any way you like that we are able. Even if you just want to vent, your mom and I are always here for you.”
Avoid telling your child to “stop stressing.” No child wants stress and yours would likely stop if he or she could.
Praise your child for doing things well or even just trying. This can really help your child feel less stressed. For example, “I realize how much stress gym class can cause you, Max. I’m really proud of you for going and participating. You said you scored a couple of points—that’s awesome!”;
, Children are very sensitive to their environments. This includes how their parents are feeling or if a family member is under stress. Children can easily pick up on the anxieties or stress from family members and friends, which may cause them to worry. Setting a good example by not discussing stressful situations in front of your child or keeping your stress in check may prevent your child from stressing.Reduce any worry you may have caused your child as soon as you notice it. For example, “I’m sorry you heard me say grandma is sick and I’m worried, Ava. Grandma is going to get better in no time and can come and visit again soon. Do you have any questions?”

, Mornings are the time when you and your child set the tone for the day. If you’re in a rush, it may stress out your child throughout the day. Maintaining a morning routine each day can help manage any existing stress in your child and prevent it from increasing through a rushed pace.Plan as much as you can the night before. This includes outfits and getting breakfast and lunch ready for the next day.
Greet your child positively. A, “Good morning, Liv!” is much better than a “Time to get up, Liv, we’re running late.”
Have your child only do what’s important and keep tasks manageable. For example, making a bed may be more important than cleaning the cat litter box.
 Every individual needs rest to maintain both physical and mental health. Children need enough rest to ensure that they have the energy to combat stress.Your child should get 9 to 11 hours of sleep every night. This can help your child relax and may relieve stress.Allow your child to nap for 20 to 30 minutes if necessary. This may also manage any stress., A stressed child may feel like the world is working against him or her. Any little sign of impatience from another person may increase your child’s stress. Reminding yourself that your child needs help managing stress can help you remain patient and understanding.Inhale deeply if you feel like you’re going to scold or give negative feedback to your child. This can help relax you and your child.
 It may be difficult for some children to notice when they are getting stressed. Talk to your child about the physical symptoms of stress. This may help your child recognize when they are stressed and put in place measures to reduce it. The physical symptoms of stress in a child include:Decreased appetite or changes in eating habits.
Headache.
Sleep disturbances.
Bedwetting.
Nightmares.
Stuttering.
Upset stomach or stomach pain.
 It is important for your child to know that stress can also cause a variety of emotional symptoms. Teach your child to look for these as well so that they will know when they are feeling stressed. These symptoms may include:Crying, whining, or having a hard time controlling your emotions.
Feeling anxious, worried, fearful, or nervous.
Clinginess, such as not wanting to be away from their parents or siblings.
Anger and stubbornness.
Withdrawing and not wanting to participate in activities with friends and family.
Going back to behaviors from a previous developmental stage, such as thumbsucking.
 Adults often use stress relieving techniques to help themselves feel calm, and these techniques can be helpful for children as well. Try teaching your child a stress relieving technique that they can use on a daily basis, such as before bed every night and also whenever they are feeling stressed. Some stress relieving techniques you can teach your child include:



Meditation.

Yoga.

Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.
 Anticipate when your child may face a situation that may cause stress. This could be encountering a bully, taking a test, or seeing a doctor. Figuring this out can help you prepare your child for the situation and give them techniques to effectively handle it.Help your child rehearse how he or she will deal with the situation when it arises. For example, if your child is having a conflict with a friend at school, say, “Avery, you may see Taylor at school today, how are you feeling about that?” “You’re scared? I understand. Maybe we can practice some phrases you can say to Taylor to make things easier on you. If not, you can always call me.”
Help your child figure out a couple of different ways to handle what is causing stress., It’s hard to watch a child deal with stress. Most parents’ instinct is to protect their child from anything that may cause stress. However, stress is an inevitable part of anyone’s life. Overprotecting your child won’t help your child manage stress. Instead, let your child occasionally experience minimal stress so that he or she learns how to effectively cope with it.For example, if your child is stressed as a result of losing a competition, remind him or her that it’s ok to lose. Then let your child figure out how to overcome any stress caused by the situation. This can help your child deal with future disappointments without stress.
 Social situations, schoolwork, or disabilities can contribute significantly to your child’s stress. Reducing your child’s exposure to contributing stressors may help your child manage stress. It may also minimize the risk for anxiety or depression.Talk to your child’s school about reducing homework to help your child relax and not feel overwhelmed by an inability to finish or understand assignments. If you child is experiencing bullying that causes him or her stress, ask if switching classes is a possibility.
Take similar steps at home as well. Reduce or simplify chores or help your child break them up into smaller, more manageable pieces.
 Regular exercise is a great way to manage stress for any one. It helps relieve tension in the body; provides physical fitness, which makes it easier to combat stress; and clears the mind, which can help your child relax.Encourage your child to some form of exercise every day. You may also want to exercise with your child, which can help your child get physical activity on a regular basis.


Let your child choose any exercises or physical activities that he or she enjoys. This might be running, hiking, biking, swimming, or even jumping on a small trampoline. Creative activities including dancing can also help reduce stress.
Tell your child you want to try tai chi, yoga, or qigong together. These types of low-impact relaxing exercises may be particularly effective against stress. They may also minimize the risk that stress turns into anxiety or depression., Educational professionals, including teachers and counselors, are interested in the best for child’s welfare. Keeping them informed about your child’s stress can ensure that they show your child understanding, extra love, and support. Keep in mind that educational professionals are required to keep the information about your child’s stress confidential, so you and your child shouldn’t worry about other students or parents finding out.Inform teachers, administrators, school nurses and counselors about any problems at school that contribute to your child’s stress. For example, you could say, “Mr. Salzburger, I wanted to let you know that Clementine has had considerable stress lately. Her dad and I are separating. We’re doing our best to keep it civil and let her know that we love her and this won’t change that. However, it’s a big change to our family dynamic and I would appreciate if you could be a bit more understanding with her. Her father and I are also very happy to address any issues you may see.”

, Your child may become easily overwhelmed and stressed in school situations such as intramural activities. Encouraging your child to take regular breaks can help relieve stress.Ask the teacher if your child may put his or her head on a desk in the back of the room or go to the nurse if he or she feels stressed or overwhelmed. Prepare your child for assemblies, fire drills, or other activities that may make cause stress.
 Some children who are easily stress may also have underlying conditions such as anxiety or depression. If your child is easily stressed, consider asking for your child to have an IEP. These are specifically tailored to help alleviate your child’s stress. An IEP may include:

Letting your child sit in a comfortable place.
Calling on your child when he or she is relaxed and confident.
Letting your child take tests at an alternative location.
Providing alternative homework and testing assignments.
Providing extra support when your child misses school., Telling your child that educational professionals will help him or her can provide comfort and minimize stress. Let your child know that teachers, nurses, and counselors will talk or give a little extra consideration when it comes to work and other activities or tasks.

Make sure your child knows that there is no pressure to talk or ask for help. Let your child know that the educational professionals’ doors are always open to listen to problems and give help. For example, “Oliver, I let Mrs. Lundrigan know about how much stress you’re feeling. She cares a lot about you and wants you to know that you can always talk to her and ask for help.”