 When you suspect an ear infection, immediately seek medical treatment for your cat. The vet will need to do an examination of the ears to determine the type of infection and the cause of it.Make sure to give the vet a full medical history of the cat in case there are any underlying issues related to the infection.Trying to treat the infection at home may not work since you don’t know what kind of infection it is or what caused it.
 If the vet suspects an ear infection, they will use an otoscope to check the inside of the ear. The instrument helps magnify and provide light on the inside of the ear so they can get a good look at the middle and inner ear.They will also be able to tell if the eardrum is still intact.
During the examination of the ear, the vet will also be to see if there is something lodged in the ear. They will also check for tumors.
 Your cat may need to have other tests to determine the extent of the infection. Your vet may suggest an x-ray of the head.The vet may also draw fluid from the middle ear with a needle.Other tests may include blood tests, urine tests, CT scans, or MRIs.
 Your vet will probably swab the inside of the cat’s ear for a sample. This is especially important if the ear has discharge of any sort. The vet will them look at the sample under a microscope.This helps the vet figure out what type of infection your cat has. The type of infection determines the treatment. For example, there are bacterial, fungal, and viral infections.
 If your cat has an ear infection that is severe, the vet may have to sedate the cat or put them under anesthesia. This only occurs if the cat is in too much pain for the vet to touch the ears, or if discharge or swelling blocks the view inside the ear.The risks of sedating your cat include allergic reactions, swelling at the site of the injection, and in rare cases, death. However, most cats go under sedation without any problems. Talk to your vet about your cat's health and age to determine if sedation is right for them.If your cat has a severe infection or has something lodged in their ear, removing it or draining the infection without sedation can be too painful, so sedation helps reduce this pain risk for your cat.

