 You don't necessarily need to create a ZIP file when you're making a torrent, since the entire folder will be downloaded with the torrent file. Just make sure all of the files you want to share are in a folder (there can be subfolders).


Note that this method will technically make your shared files public. Other users will need to know that the file is available, so the chances of other users joining in is slim, but it is possible.
 You'll need a torrent client to create the torrent file and "seed" it so that others can download it. One of the most popular free torrent clients is qBittorent (qbittorrent.org).
 All torrent clients come with the ability to create torrents. You can usually open the torrent creator from the Tools or File menu, or you can press Ctrl+N (Windows) or ⌘ Cmd+N (Mac).
 If you created a ZIP file, select it instead.
 These are lists of users that allow the torrent client to connect to people sharing the file. You'll need at least one tracker listed for others to connect to you. Below are some of the most popular free, open trackers. Add a few or all of them to the field:


udp://tracker.pomf.se
udp://tracker.blackunicorn.xyz:6969
udp://tracker.coppersurfer.tk:6969
udp://open.demonii.com:1337
udp://exodus.desync.com:6969
udp://tracker.leechers-paradise.org:6969

, This will add the torrent to your client so that users with the torrent file can connect to you and begin downloading.
 After you're finished adding trackers, you can create and save the torrent file to your computer. Make sure you save it to a location that you can easily find.


Since you've checked the "Start seeding" box, you should see the torrent appear in your transfer list. The progress will say "100% (Seeding)", since you have all of the files.
 Now that the torrent has been created and you're seeding it, you'll need to distribute the torrent file to your friends. The file is quite small, and is required in order to connect to you and download the files.


Since the file is small, you can attach it to an email without any worries about the size limits.
Your friends will need torrent clients in order to connect to you.
 Make sure that you don't move any of the files while you're seeding, or the torrent clients won't be able to download. Ask your friends to keep seeding after they finish downloading so that you don't have to seed for everyone. As more of your friends connect, all of their downloads will become faster.For more information on creating and sharing torrents, click here.

