 Write the alphabet out with your right hand. Underneath it, attempt to match each letter using your left hand now that it is strong enough to do so. Remember to practice uppercase and lowercase.


Write in the mirror. Place a mirror facing your paper and write with your right hand. This mirror image will help your brain imagine the same action for your left hand.
Buy a writing book. Trace the dotted lines to form letters and get the form correct on your letters.
Repeat as necessary. Some letters will be more difficult than others for you. Repeat the difficult ones as many times as necessary to get it right.
 Remember to start small; just write a few lines each day and you’ll see improvement over time.


Continue using guide sentences as necessary. Just as you did with the alphabet, write these sentences with your right hand and copy them beneath with your left hand.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. This sentence has every letter in the alphabet; therefore, it is a great sentence to practice.
 If you feel that your hand is cramping, or you’re having difficulty holding the pen/pencil, buy a left handed grip for your writing utensil. They have them with the finger form built in, so that you know how to hold your hand on the pen/pencil.
 Now that you’ve mastered short sentences, you will begin to trust your left hand more. You no longer need to have writing examples around you to compare your letters and words to while writing with your left hand.


Write out your planner (if you have one) with your left hand. These short sentences through the day will help you advance the skills of your left hand.
Take your time. Without having examples to compare your writing to, you’ll be engaging your brain more than before. Be patient and get each letter right.
 Freewriting will help you write more naturally and quickly with your left hand.


Come up with a topic to write about. It can be as random, realistic, or significant as you wish.
Give yourself an allotted amount of time and begin a timer.
Start. Using your left hand, let your mind take control. Write as much as you can about your topic in the allotted amount of time.
Do this consistently and you’ll be completely relaxed and comfortable writing with your left hand in no time. The content in freewriting is not meant to be criticized—only analyze your handwriting. 