 It may seem like taking care of a dog is pretty simple: you take it for walks, brush it occasionally, and make sure to provide plenty of food and water. Taking the time to write everything down will show you that there’s more to it than that, as well as help you organize and outline your calendar.For example, list all the daily basics such as walking and feeding, as well as specifics of how often, when, and for how long. Also take note of what food and supplies need to be bought and by whom, how much it costs, and how often.
Also remember less obvious chores, such as sweeping and vacuuming out the dog bed, cleaning the grooming brushes, clipping nails, and scheduling teeth cleanings. And don’t forget to schedule plenty of play time into your to-do list!;
, Once you’ve got an exhaustive list of dog-related chores, figure out how they’ll fit into your calendar. Next to each listed chore, make a note of how often the chore needs to be accomplished—that is, if it needs to be done twice a day, once a day, weekly, monthly, or yearly.For example, feeding, watering, and walking all require twice-daily scheduling. Depending on the breed of your dog, grooming can be a weekly or monthly task, whereas bathing, vet visits, and scooping poop from the yard can be monthly or semi-annual events.
Don’t forget that some chores take longer than others. Even if you only need to get your dog’s rabies vaccine updated every year, this trip might take several hours, depending on how close to the vet you live. Take note of this factor so that you’re prepared for the time crunch when it comes around.
 Looking over your list of chores, make a note of any expenses associated with said duties. For example, walking the dog is generally a free activity if you or someone in the household is available to do it. But, if you need to hire a dog walker, you’ll need to budget a weekly or monthly figure into your plans.If you’re trying to cut dog-related costs, try searching for your dog’s customary food and other supplies from online or bulk retailers, as these sellers often offer discounted rates on identical products.
 No matter how thoroughly you’ve listed all the things your dog needs, you’ll find these chores won’t get ticked off by themselves. Make sure every family member and accountable housemate knows that they’re expected to pitch in with dog-related chores, and ask for their schedules in order to parcel out these chores fairly.


Children and teenagers in particular need to be instructed as to what is expected of them and when. Even little children can get in the habit of pitching in with pet care by starting them off with little tasks such as brushing the dog, checking the water dish, or just giving daily pets and ear rubs., Once you’ve parceled out all necessary chores and figured out how often and when they need to be performed, you need to organize and present this information in a conspicuous fashion. Purchase a ready-made wall calendar from an office supply store or make your own. You can also make a digital calendar on Outlook or Google, but don’t rely solely on this intangible system. Having a visual representation of your dog’s needs in a common, high-traffic household space will keep everyone up-to-date and help avoid computer glitches or oversights.Detail is key! Don’t just write, “Amanda—walk the dog” on a particular day. Instead, write, “Amanda—walk the dog—9:00 am and 6:00 pm” or “9:30 am vet appointment—Amanda—VCA Hospital at 1383 Smith Blvd—bring fecal and urine sample.”
Some retailers such as Amazon and Etsy offer large-scale, colorful family calendars designed to catch attention and present information in a cohesive and legible fashion., Requiring all contributing household members and friends to tick off their accomplished chores will help ensure that your dog is receiving proper care, as well as indicate whether or not your chore calendar is working. Studies have also shown that the simple act of ticking off completed tasks from a to-do list can make people feel more productive about their accomplishments and make them more efficient in the future.You can also leave a note-taking space in the margins of the calendar so that family members can jot down any pertinent information for others. For example, if Amanda was responsible for walking the dog on Monday, she can write in the field next to her chore that the dog was limping slightly, or if she’s been feeding the dog, she can leave a note that only a few cups of kibble remain in the food bin.
 While you should include any upcoming veterinary or grooming appointments in the exhaustive daily calendar, you should also keep a separate, long-term calendar and budget that keep track of medical and hygienic needs and expenses. This will let you keep yearly checkups and vaccinations in mind, as well as let you know what you should be saving up for.


If you’re struggling with providing your dog the proper veterinary care, try seeking assistance from a non-profit group—for example, the Killuminati Foundation or the PAWS Adoption Center—in your area., Most veterinary offices send out yearly check-up reminders on post cards or fliers, and these can be useful if you tack them onto your calendar and follow through with booking appointments. In this digital age, though, it can be even more helpful to ask for digital notifications to your phone or email. Your vet can text when you’re due for a vaccination, as well as send text reminders the morning of a scheduled appointment.


Registering for digital notifications can also be particularly useful for time-sensitive information. For example, you can receive instant notification if a case of rabies has been detected in your neighborhood or the canine flu is particularly severe this year.
Also be sure to update your local vet whenever you move, switch telephone numbers, or adopt a new pet.
 You might not have to take your dog to the groomer very often—especially if you perform an elaborate and consistent routine at home—so these appointments can be particularly easy to miss or forget scheduling entirely. You can avoid these long-term omissions by scheduling all your grooming appointments at the beginning of the year and adding them to your separate appointment calendar immediately.Don’t forget to take your dog’s breed and specific needs into consideration. For example, poodles and cocker spaniels require frequent grooming and ear cleanings in order to avoid chronic irritation and potential infection., No matter how organized you are, everyone misses an appointment or two every now and then. You can minimize the damage from these lapses by calling your vet’s office or groomer as soon as you realize your mistake and rescheduling your appointment. Make sure that any family member responsible for dropping off the dog at the vet knows this policy, and that you make a note of the missed and new appointments on both calendars.


This is particularly important to enforce with teenagers. Assigning them chores helps them develop and take on responsibilities, and making them deal with the logistical hassles and consequences of shirking or altering these commitments makes this lesson even more effective.

