 Phobias usually come with three different types of negativity: fortune telling, overgeneralization, and catastrophizing.And example of (bad) fortune telling is telling yourself that the bridge will collapse when you cross it, the elevator will fall when you get on it, or that you will stutter and freak out when making your speech.
Over-generalizing is when you associate everything with one bad experience. For example, you might find yourself worrying that every dog will try to bite you because a certain poodle did that once to you when you were a kid.
Catastrophizing is a little bit like bad fortune telling. You take simple events, such as someone coughing, and imagine the worst possible—such as the person having the swine flu, and you contracting it.
 For example, if you are afraid of dogs, try to remember a time when you encountered a dog, and things did not go badly. Think of all your friends who have dogs, and the nice experiences they've had. You might also try to tell yourself:


That dog has a leash, and the owner is holding tightly onto the leash.
The dog is very small. I can easily outrun it if it does try to chase me.
The dog is playing with people and other dogs. He is unlikely to be aggressive.
 For example, if you are afraid of elevators, you might be afraid of the dangers associated with them, such as the doors not opening, or the elevator getting stuck mid-level. Fortunately, there are ways out in these sorts of situations, such as pressing the alarm button, or pressing the call button and asking for help.


Having a sort of escape plan might help you when facing your phobia.
 Ask yourself, is the elevator really going to break down? Does it appear to shake and rattle? Does the dog really appear aggressive? Is it growling, or wagging its tail? Ask yourself if you are fortunetelling, over-generalizing, or catastrophizing.


This does not mean that you should abandon a rational fear. If that bridge really does not look safe (it is rotting and molding, there are planks missing, and the ropes or fraying), then yes, it would probably be wise to avoid that bridge.
 If you are afraid of flying, try talking to yourself as you would to a friend who afraid of flying. What would you say to reassure your friend? You might say any of the following things:


The ratio between successful plane flights and plane accidents is very high.
That plane has a very high safety record. There have been no accidents recorded on that type of plane.
The pilot and co-pilot are very experienced.
Everyone was checked thoroughly before boarding the plane. There is no way someone could have brought on a weapon or a dangerous substance.
I've heard of many survivor stories from plane crashes.

