 It is said that coconut contains hair-straightening properties that work wonders on naturally bringing out your straight strands. If nothing else, coconut acts as a natural conditioner and will soften your hair and make it easier to de-frizz. Take a fresh coconut, and add the water/milk and the fresh fruit from the inside to a blender. Blend until well mixed, and then coat your damp hair with the mixture. Let it set for an hour, and then wash it out with warm water.


You can repeat this treatment several times a week, if desired.
 Cow's milk has shown to help get your hair straight, while honey is a good moisturizer and works to condition your hair. Make a mixture of a cup of milk (any fat percentage will work) with 1-2 tablespoons of honey and mix them well. Then, coat your entire head of hair with the mixture; you can carefully pour it on, or spray it on using a spray bottle. Let it soak in your hair for 1-2 hours, and then wash it out with warm water.
 Create a hair treatment made out of olive oil and a fresh egg; these both help to soften your hair and remove frizz, making your hair appear straighter. Mix ½ cup of olive oil with 2 fresh eggs (remove the yolk, if desired). Whip these together until well combined, and then spread the mixture over your wet hair. Let it set in your hair for about an hour, and then wash it out with warm water., Fullers earth, a clay-like powder, is used in many skin and hair products for its health benefits. Mix 1 cup of fullers earth with 1 egg white, and 2 tablespoons of rice flour, forming a paste. Coat all of your hair with this paste, and let it set for one hour. Then, wash it out with warm water.
 It may not be your favorite vegetable for eating, but celery is said to help straighten your hair when applied directly to your locks. Blend 2-3 sticks of celery, leaves and all, until completely pureed. Then strain this through a sheet of muslin/cheesecloth to get just the juice. Pour or spray the juice onto your hair, brushing through with a comb to help spread it out. Let this soak in your hair for an hour or so, and then wash it out with warm water.