 Use a place connected to your memory of your loved one, if possible. A corner of your deck or patio could serve as a small memory garden if you don't have a lot of space. Consider how much privacy you would like to have and select a location that fulfills these needs.


The commemorative garden can be large or small, depending upon the size of your yard or designated space and the amount of work you want to put into it.;
, Place the garden where it can be seen from a window or covered porch, if such space is available. That way, you can enjoy the view of it even during bad weather.If you are fortunate to have a decent view of mountains, a beach, or a river, think about locating your memory garden there.
 Set boundary markers for the garden, such as a ring of small stones or a fence. You can even use personal items of the loved one, such as hiking poles, to denote boundaries. This will make the garden feel more secluded and special.
 Add a soothing water feature and wind chimes to your memorial garden for an even more relaxing atmosphere. Set up outdoor speakers if you would like to listen to music while you are in your garden., If you want a quiet place where you can meditate or find peace, use soft colors, such as light blues, yellows, and pinks. You might instead want your memory garden to be a place of inspiration and hope, incorporating brighter colors, such as red and orange, and adding playful statuary.
 Provide bird or squirrel feeders or bird baths to enhance the flora and fauna. If you hope to attract butterflies, set up sugar water and fruit while you’re in the garden.
 Whether you want to invite others into your garden, or simply want to spend time there alone, use chairs or benches to increase comfort and allow for moments of reflection. Seating will invite people to stay awhile.
 Dedicate your garden to your loved one by considering their personality traits, special interests and accomplishments, using these to inspire decorations. Add statuary and features that represent your loved one's interests.


Use a statue of a dog, for instance, to honor a dog lover. Use stepping stones with paw prints and perhaps include a water source that dogs would be able to drink from.
A small putting green could be used as a memorial garden for an avid golfer. Use dwarf mondo grass to represent a green and make a pea gravel sand trap.
 To make the space symbolic, you can inscribe your loved one's favorite quote on a stone or plaque. Either a photograph sealed in a weather-proofed frame or an original piece of art could also be meaningful additions to your memory garden.
 If you do not know their favorite plant, use flowers that bloom in the person's favorite colors. You can also choose to plant flowers that have symbolic meanings, such a forget-me-nots for 'memory' and lilies for 'purity.'Use delicate flowers in a small memory garden for a baby or child. Daisies represent innocence, so plant those if you want your garden to be symbolic.
Honor a veteran by planting flowers in patriotic colors around a commemorative plaque or stone.
 If your loved one enjoyed a certain season of the year more than the others, plant flowers or trees that bloom during that time of year. Plant tulip bulbs and a spring-flowering shrub if the person loved springtime, for instance., Be sure that the location you choose will support the types of plants you want to grow. Sun-loving plants need 6-8 hours of sun per day, while shade-lovers need protection from the sun. Research to learn which types of plants grow best in your climate.

