 Let them know that you are doing this because it will make doing the laundry easier.Many bedwetters are self-conscious about their bedwetting and the fact that they have to wear diapers and plastic pants to bed. Having an older sibling help out with laundering the diapers and plastic pants might be embarrassing,that's why it's important to put their mind at ease about the whole situation.;
, Studies show that girls tend to mature faster than boys and might be more mature about handling this type of situation. Also, the girl's maternal instinct tends to come into play, so they might be more sympathetic than a boy when it comes to helping out the parents with this chore. If the bedwetter is a boy, they might feel more comfortable with a girl dealing with this issue. On the other hand it could go the other way.My hunch is that a girl would be able to handle this in a more mature manner and be more empathetic about their brother or sister wearing diapers and plastic pants to manage their bedwetting. That being the case,this is just a rule of thumb and the parents have to gauge this based on their knowledge of the particular situation at hand.
 If you feel they would be able to do this chore in a responsible, adult manner, then by all means, get them to help out in some way. I would say something along these lines: “I wanted to talk to you guys (if there's more than one daughter helping out) about something. I know you've noticed me laundering plastic pants (or "rubber pants" as they're sometimes called - you may know them by that term) and cloth diapers, you've seen plastic pants hanging on the clothesline, as well as me folding diapers and plastic pants up and putting them in a laundry basket. Your brother has problems with bedwetting and he has to wear protection to bed. He uses pin-on cloth diapers covered with plastic pants to keep the bed dry. The reason I'm telling you this is because I would like you to help me with washing the diapers and plastic pants on the weekend. It would really help me out a lot if you'd pitch in with this. One of you can be responsible for laundering the diapers and plastic pants and one of you can hang the plastic pants on the clothesline to dry then fold the diapers and plastic pants up and put them in the laundry basket. Or we can have one person be responsible for both laundering the diapers and plastic pants as well as folding them up and putting them in the laundry basket. In this case all of you can take turns with this chore – one of you will be responsible for doing this one weekend, the next weekend someone else will take care of the wet garments, etc. I'll leave it up to you to decide amongst yourselves how you want to handle this. I'll show you how to launder them. This is a very delicate matter guys - he feels embarrassed about wearing diapers and plastic pants at his age so I want you all to be sensitive about his feelings. I want you to treat it like it's no big deal.” This is just an example of how you can approach the siblings. Obviously the dialog might need to be modified depending on how many people are involved in the chore, whether or not the bedwetter is a boy or girl, and if there's more than one bedwetter.
 The older the bedwetter is the more embarrassed they might feel about this. A 12 year old that wets the bed and needs to wear pin-on cloth diapers covered by plastic pants might be more reluctant to have their older siblings take care of the diapers and plastic pants as opposed to a five year old.This is not say that parents should not involve older siblings with helping out in laundering an older bedwetter's diapers and plastic pants, just that they need to be sensitive to the older child's feelings.If the bedwetter is embarrassed about their older sibling or siblings being involved in this situation the parent or parents can say something along these lines: "You shouldn't be ashamed about your older sibling(s) taking care of your wet clothing. They just want to help mom(or dad) out. I've talked to them about the whole situation and I think that they'll be able to handle this in a mature and thoughtful manner. Also,I've let them know that I will not tolerate any teasing about you wearing the diapers and plastic pants."

, This might make the bedwetter(s) feel more at ease as well because he or she knows what to expect., On the day the diapers and plastic pants are to be laundered, have the bedwetter bring the diaper pail to the sibling or siblings who are going to be responsible for taking care of them. Another option is to tell the bedwetter and the siblings that there will be a designated place set up in the laundry room for the bedwetter to put the diaper pail.

