 Smiling is one of the body language signals that shows you're open to another person. Also, a smile makes you seem like a happier person, while at the same time increasing your happiness. In turn, that shows the woman you are glad to see her.Smile a big, genuine smile to show that your attracted to a woman. Showing your teeth or making sure it reaches your eyes can make it seem more genuine.
A smile also acts as a reward, meaning when you smile at someone, they're brain registers it as a reward, making them happier. Therefore, they come to associate happiness with you.
You can even flash a smile from across the room to show you're interested in someone.;
, You may not even notice that you're crossing your arms and legs. For many people, it's natural to cross one or the other. However, for open body language, you should uncross your arms and legs, as that signals to the woman that you're open to her.Crossing your arms and legs comes off as a defensive pose even if you're not feeling defensive at the moment.
It says, "Hey! I don't want to talk to you. Go away!"
It can also help to turn your body towards her instead of away from her.
 Looking down at your shoes or lap doesn't draw people to you. Plus, it indicates a lack of confidence. Make sure you are looking up at the person, so that you show you are interested in her. Gazing into her eyes is a good way to start.Combining a smile with gazing in someone's eyes, even from the other side of the room, can be an effective way to say you like a woman.
However, you should stare at her. Keep your glance across the room to a couple of seconds. If you're talking to a person, though, looking into her eyes throughout the conversation can let her know you are interested.
 Often, when you're trying to show attraction to a woman, part of your nonverbal body language is a bit of preening. For example, you may want to stand up straighter or pull your stomach in. You may also touch your hair or your clothing.Mostly, you'll do these actions without even thinking about them. However, they can show your attraction without you realizing it.
You also want to exude confidence. Stand up straight, look the person in the eye, and talk in a confident tone of voice when speaking., When talking to a woman you like, one way you can show attraction is to lean towards her. It subtly indicates that you like the woman you're talking to, so as you lean, she'll feel your attraction. However, if she pulls back or tries to walk away, let her. You don't want to invade her personal space without her permission.Don't try to corner a woman in a private setting, such as an elevator, especially if you don't know her at all. That can seem threatening. Stick to using this technique when you're in a crowded area.
 Of course, you don't want to grab someone and kiss them without their permission. However, casual touching in a conversation can help create intimacy. For example, touching her arm or shoulder when you are talking to her can let her know that you like her.You could touch her shoulder as you compliment her sweater, as another example, such as "This sweater looks nice on you."
If she pulls back from your touch, don't try to do it again.
 When you tilt your head, you show you're engaged in the conversation and that you care about what's going on. It tells the other person that you're listening intently because you're inclining an ear towards them, which in turn shows your attraction.The opposite of engagement is looking around the room. If you're looking around, you're saying you don't care about the person you're talking to.
Instead of looking around, gaze into the person eyes, as that indicates you like her.

