 This will bring you to Yahoo’s home page.;
, Look at the top left of the screen for a “Mail” button. This is located inside a purple bar. Click on the “Mail” button to access the log-in screen of your account.
 Click on the e-mail address box and enter your e-mail address; click on the password box below it and enter your password. After entering both information, click on the “Sign In” button located below your information.
 On your main mail screen, click on the gear box at the right side to make a drop-down menu appear. The second option reads “Settings”; click on it to load your Yahoo settings.
 When your settings load up, the default menu is for viewing your e-mail. You do not have to navigate to another tab to edit these settings; the first two settings are check boxes.


The first one says “Enable conversations.” This means that when you are viewing your message lists, you can also carry on conversations.
The second box says “Show snippets,” which means that you will see a small snippet of the e-mail before you click on it.
You can adjust either one of these settings by checking or unchecking the box just by clicking on it.
 The next option lets you pick how you multitask. There is a bubble next to the word “Tabs” and next to the word “Recent.” You can click on the bubble that you would like to use.


The first one, “Tabs,” means you can cycle between all e-mails that you have opened at one time.
“Recent” means you can open up a drop-down menu and select one of the e-mails you viewed recently.
 The third option set is the “Preview pane.” This is a drop-down menu that lets you pick where the e-mail preview comes up before you click it.


The default is set to “None.” If you click on it, you will have 3 options: "None," "Preview pane on the bottom," and "Preview pane on the right."
You can choose a new one by clicking on the one you want from the drop-down menu.
 The next option available to you is “Message list density.” This determines how close together, or spread apart, your e-mails appear on the list.


There are 3 options to choose from: “Slim,” “Regular,” and “Relaxed.”
You can choose which one you want to use by clicking on the drop-down list and picking the one you would like to use.
 This determines how quickly new messages are marked as read.


There are 4 options to choose from: “Immediately,” “In 2 seconds,” “In 5 seconds,” or “Never.”
Choosing is just like the other drop-down menus; you click on it and when the list appears, click the one you want.



This is also a drop-down menu and has two options: “Show next e-mail” and “Go back to original folder.”

, You can choose between “Full featured” and “Basic.”


Full featured gives you full access to all of the different features of Yahoo! Mail.
Basic will limit the things you can do regardless of if you just want to make it easier, or have a slow connection.
There is a bubble next to each choice. Click on it to choose the one you want to use.
 Review everything you entered for accuracy. Once you are sure everything is perfect, click on the green “Save” button at the bottom left of the screen to confirm your changes.

