 Full service brokers offer a variety of services and investment products. But they can be expensive. Discount and online brokers charge small commissions, but they do not offer investment advice.Full service brokers, such as Merrill Lynch, Salomon Smith Barney, Morgan Stanley and Dean Witter, offer personal advice, retirement planning, tax tips and a wide selection of investment products; however, they charge usually charge hefty fees for personal advice. Also, brokers earn commissions based on how much you trade, not the performance of your stock. This can encourage them to advise you to purchase when it’s not necessarily beneficial to you.
Discount online brokers, such as TD Ameritrade and E-Trade, are a good option for self-directed investors who want to do their own research and not rely on the advice of a broker. The commissions are low and investors generally have control over their accounts.
 The quality of support varies from company to company. Some charge fees for talking to a live person. Study the company’s website to learn information about the support they provide. Call them with questions to evaluate how well they treat people. Select a company that offers a level of support with which you feel comfortable.Important questions to ask include whether they are offering any special promotions, how much the minimum balance is for brokerage accounts, what fees they charge and what types of education and research tools they offer.Recognize that online brokers may not offer much in the way of research and education about where to invest because they are geared for investors who feel comfortable doing that research on their own. However, choose a site that offers a level of technical support with which you feel comfortable.
 Go to the company’s website. Find the “Open an Account” link. Follow the instructions for opening an account. You will need to provide key information, such as your name, address, e-mail address and social security information. The websites make it easy to open an account because it’s in their best interest to do so., Risk tolerance is the degree to which you are able to withstand large swings in the market. Understanding yours will help you choose the right investment tools for you. Assess your degree of risk tolerance with a risk tolerance questionnaire, which are available online (such as the one found here or through your online brokerage. Other considerations in risk tolerance are the amount of time you have to invest, psychological comfort with the potential of loss, your future earning capacity, and the value of your other assets.If you have many years to let your investments grow, then you may be able to withstand a few bad years of losing money on investments. Also, if your other assets are highly valuable, then you may feel more comfortable with high-risk investments.
 Choose either a cash or margin account. Each has different degrees of risk, so choose the one that suits your risk tolerance.With cash accounts, you must pay the amount due on any transaction in full by the settlement date. You fully own all money and securities in a cash account.
With a margin account, you can borrow money from the broker to fund more investments. You must sign a hypothecate  agreement, which pledges securities as collateral for the loan, and pay interest on the money borrowed.
 You will initially have anywhere from 10 to 14 days to fund your account. Choose from a variety of different ways to transfer money into the account.You can write a check and mail it in.
Or, you can make a deposit from your checking or savings account through an electronic transfer.
You may also be able to make a transfer from an external brokerage.
Another option is to contact your bank to make a wire transfer.
Finally, you can make a deposit of a physical stock certificate into your account.
 Find the trading platform. This is the webpage where you can select the details of your trade. You can typically find this under the “Trade” or “Trading” tab of the website.Choose the order type. This means select “buy” or “sell.”
Select the desired amount of shares you wish to buy or sell.
Plug your company’s stock symbol (if you don't know it, you can search here). You will then be given information about your company’s current trading conditions, such as the current price of the stock and how it has performed that day. Choose the price type for executing your trade: market, market on close, or limit.
Select “market” to execute the trade at the current market price.
Select “market on close” to execute the trade as close to the end of the trading day as possible.
Note that a market order or market on close are guaranteed execution, but price is variable.
Select “limit” to enter a specific price for the trade. If the stock never reaches this price, your trade will not be executed.
Note that limit order guarantees price equal to limit or better, but not execution
Enter the term of your trade. This specifies the length of time your trading order remains in effect. Your choices usually include “good for the day,” “good for 60 days,” or “good until canceled.”
Click on the “help” or “?” icons if you have questions.
Click the “preview order” button to review all of the options you just selected. This is your last opportunity to to make any changes.
If it looks acceptable, click the “execute trade” button.

