 Usually, it's more economical to bring your lunch from home. This can also help you make the most of lunch as it cuts down on waiting times. You will be able to eat as soon as lunch break hits instead of waiting at a restaurant or fast food place.
 What you eat at lunch matters. If you're loading up on unhealthy foods, you won't go back to the office or school recharged and refreshed. Instead of eating sugar or processed carbs, load up on healthy fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins to energize yourself midday.For protein, try healthy options like fish, nuts, and seeds.
Try healthy fruits and vegetables like carrots, greens, avocados, blueberries, and carrots.
If you eat something like a sandwich for lunch, opt for whole wheat bread.
 Social media, e-mail, and other things you can access via your phone can be stressful. Also, if you stare at a screen at work, your eyes usually need a break. Power down your phone, or at least avoid looking at it, during your lunch break.However, if there's something you want to do on break that requires your phone, use it if necessary. Just get up and walk while you're using your phone so your brain perceives this action as a break.
 After eating your lunch, take a brief walk around the block. Getting a little exercise in, even just a 10 minute walk, can help you unwind and recharge before entering the office.If you can walk in a more rural setting, do so. Exposing yourself to nature can help reduce stress levels.
If you can't go outside, walk around the hallways of your office or school.
 Mindfulness is a means to fully engage with the present moment. Find a quiet spot and focus on your physical sensations. Stay in the present moment by being hyperaware of yourself and your surroundings and paying attention to mundane things, like the pattern of your breath.Mindfulness can be challenging. As the mind is a busy place, it can be difficult to focus entirely on the present at first. However, if you practice mindfulness for a few minutes during your lunch hour each day, it will eventually get easier.
 A brief 20 minute nap can help you recharge and go into work feeling refreshed. After eating, try sleeping with your head on your desk. Set a timer to make sure you don't sleep for more than a 20 minute period. A short nap can sharpen your awareness for the rest of the day.For comfort, use something like a jacket or a soft purse as you pillow.
Make sure not to sleep more than 20 minutes. Naps should either be 20 minutes long or 60 to 90 minutes long. Anything between these time frames will only make you feel groggy.
Make sure napping is okay. In some offices, it may be frowned upon, even if you're napping during your lunch hour.

