 Pale skin has less melanin, the component that prevents skin from being burnt by the sun's rays, and is therefore highly susceptible to sun damage and skin cancer. If your moisturizer does not have any SPF protection, or has less than SPF 30, get a lightweight sunscreen to apply every morning, even during winter and on cloudy days. Make sure the product states that it protects against both UVA and UVB rays.Clouds don't provide protection from the sun. About 80% of the sun's rays can penetrate cloud cover.Always wear sun protection, no matter what your plans for the day may be. Pale skin can burn in as little as an hour., If you will be outside for extended periods on sunny days or between 11 and 4, when the sun’s rays are strongest, you need SPF 50.Apply at least 20 minutes before going outside and reapply every two hours.Make sure to check the expiration date. Sunscreens have a shelf life of two to three years.Sunscreens claiming to contain SPF 100+ are both unnecessary and provide no more protection than SPF 50., In addition to your sunscreen, wearing a hat with a wide brim can keep your face and neck from absorbing too many UV rays. Wrap style sunglasses protect your eyes from damage and the skin around them from wrinkling due to squinting. If you are at the beach, fishing, watching an outside sports game in the sun, etc., you should always wear a hat and sunglasses.Baseball caps do not protect your neck.
Fair skinned people especially need to wear sunscreen in addition to (not instead of) a hat and glasses.
 Your body needs some sun exposure to make vitamin D. Spend about 20 minutes in the sun two to three times a week in summer. Wear short sleeves and let your face get some exposure.


Sunscreen blocks UVB rays, which are necessary to synthesize vitamin D; however, most people do not use enough sunscreen to completely block UVB rays. You should still wear sunscreen when you are outside, even when you're stepping out to make some vitamin D.Fair-skinned people might be unable to get enough sun exposure for the body to create sufficient vitamin D without burning. Taking supplements and eating more foods like fish and eggs can bridge the gap.
 Tans are literally evidence of skin damage and are not healthy for anyone.Tanning beds are just as dangerous as sun exposure, if not more so. Instead, use self-tanners or bronzers to achieve a tanned look.


Just one trip to a tanning bed before age 35 may increase your risk of melanoma by 59%, and the risk increases with each use.Bronzers are like makeup since they can be washed off. Self-tanners give skin the appearance of a tan without the UV damage.
Fair skin is extremely susceptible to sun damage since it doesn’t contain enough melanin to turn cells dark easily. Therefore, you are more likely to burn than tan anyway.Tanning also causes premature aging through wrinkles and sunspots.

