 Layering is one of the best means to transition a wardrobe item from summer to fall. If you don't want to put away your favorite band t-shirt or summer dress, some layering allows you to wear the item into the fall months.Throw on a nice button down jacket or cardigan over a shorter sleeved t-shirt. This will make the item warm enough for fall. You can also add a jacket or blazer to a shorter sleeved dress in order to wear it through the fall.In addition to saving a dress with a jacket, a long-sleeved or 3/4 sleeved t-shirt can be worn under a short sleeve or sleeveless dress.;
, If you want to save a summer skirt, dress, or a pair of shorts, you can wear tights with them. A cute pair of tights under a skirt, dress, or shorts can be a great addition to a fall wardrobe. You'll be able to keep your shorter items of clothing out of storage into the fall.In addition to keeping you warm, you can use tights to add in fall colors. If you have, say, a white skirt, you can wear with a pair of shorts in a warmer color, like orange or amber. This will give your outfit a look more appropriate with fall.
 Hoodies can be fashionable in more casual settings. If you're, say, going out with friends, throw a zip up hoodie on over a t-shirt. This will allow you to wear something with shorter sleeves well into the fall months.In addition to zip-up hoodies, you can wear a hoodie with no zip over a shorter dress for a cute, casual look.
As with tights, hoodies can be used to add fall colors. If you have a hoodie in a warmer shade, throw it on over a short sleeve item that's brighter.
 There's no need to throw out the sandals right away. As long as it's warm enough, it's appropriate to keep wearing sandals with heavier fall items. You can also wear an in-between shoe item, like work boots, desert boots, or dress shoes.You can also start wearing socks with a more summery shoe to transition into the fall.
Flats can be an excellent choice as they're appropriate for both the summer and winter months., You don't need to make the transition all at once. It will look smoother and more natural if you gradually incorporate warmer colors into your wardrobe. As the season goes on, you can gradually transition brighter colors out completely.Fall colors are colors that have an earthy tone, like oranges, browns, golds, darker blues, and burgundies. You can add a dash of warmer colors here and there, like a burgundy blazer over a lighter shirt, and gradually add more and more warm colors as the season goes on.
A good way to make the transition easier is to look for lighter, more summery clothing in fall shades. This will help bridge the gap between the warmer and colder months.
 As with color, you don't want to suddenly switch to fall fabrics. You can start adding more fall appropriate fabric choices here and there. Mix and match fall and summer fabrics for a smooth transition into the fall.Cashmere, wool, tweed, and flannel are typically associated with the fall months. It can be awkward, however, to jump into a wardrobe defined by these fabrics. There will probably be days in the fall that are slightly warmer, and you may be uncomfortable in something that's, say, completely flannel.
You can add fall fabrics by incorporating items that won't keep you too warm on the early days of fall. Add wool socks, for example, or a tweed tie.
You can also have something you can easily remove in a fall fabric. For example, wear a flannel button-down underneath a lighter t-shirt.
 Leather is always stylish and it can keep you warm in the fall months. You can add bits of leather to your wardrobe to stay warm as you're transitioning your summer pieces into fall.You can wear a leather skirt or pair of leather leggings with a more summery top.
A leather jacket can be worn over a lighter t-shirt.
 As fall comes around, bolder and clunkier jewelry is appropriate. More delicate jewelry may be difficult to see under heavier items. As you start to add things like turtlenecks and scarves, opt for larger pieces of jewelry to compensate,Go for things like statement necklaces and necklaces with large pendants or beads.
Bigger earrings may also make your jewelry more noticeable in fall. You can try dangly earrings, hoop earrings, or other bigger items.
 Hats are always in style, and can keep you warm as fall approaches. As it warms up, you can add a hat to most outfits for a nice accessory.A knitted hat can be particularly nice for fall, as it's a typical fall fashion that will keep you warm.
You can also try incorporating fall colors with your hats. You can, for example, add a brown knit cap to an outfit that has more summer colors.
 You can use accessories to help on days that get cooler. You can wear a scarf out, a leather belt, or a cardigan to both keep warm and accessorize.Have a variety of scarves of different shapes, sizes, and textures. This way, if the weather varies in your area, you will always have a scarf that's appropriate. You can wear a lighter scarf on warmer days, and a longer, thicker one as it cools down.
 If you wear ties, a tie is a good way to smoothly add some fall color. If you're still wearing button-down shirts with a summery color, add a tie in a warmer shade. This will help you make the transition from summer to fall colors more gradual., As fall rolls around, you'll want warmer colors for your makeup. You can start with small tweaks, like a warmer lipstick, and eventually start using warmer shades of eye shadow and slightly heavier eyeliner. A cat eye can be a good look for fall.You can switch from bright pastel eye shadows to darker, warmer colors.
You may also want to change to more weather resistant types of makeup, such as waterproof makeup, as fall may come with harsh winds, rain, and snow.

