 Cleaning your skin properly will remove dirt and oil as well as any previous makeup. Make sure to choose a product designed for your skin type:








Use cleansing water to reduce redness, as this suds-free cleanser is infused with anti-inflammatory agents that will calm your skin.
Cleansing balms, packed with emollients, are great for adding moisture to dry skin.
Pick a cleansing mud for oily skin, as the charcoal and clay will remove excess oil and degunk pores.
For combination skin use a cleansing gel that removes oil and still delivers light moisturization.
Choose a cleansing milk for sensitive skin, as these have less water and more nourishing ingredients.;
, Everyone should apply a moisturizer with an SPF to their skin before putting on makeup. This will help protect your skin from the sun’s damaging rays as well as create a glowing look. If you have dry skin, choose a creamy moisturizer. If you have oily skin, pick a gel-based moisturizer.
 Primer can smooth out the surface of your skin and minimize the look of pores. It also combats shine and helps your makeup stick to your skin so it doesn’t fade throughout the day. You can choose a cream, gel, or powder primer. Apply it with your fingers to work the product into your skin.
 Concealer can be applied either before or after your foundation. Cover up pimples or other blemishes with a bit of concealer. Squeeze a small amount onto the back of your hand and dot it onto the blemish with clean fingers. Be sure to blend it by lightly tapping the concealed area with a sponge or brush.
 Color-corrector should actually be applied before your foundation. Use color-corrector to cover up dark circles under your eyes or uneven patches of skin. Different color-correctors are suited to different issues:Pink corrects blue-toned spots on fair skin.
Peach targets blue or purple shadows on medium skin.
Orangey-pink conceals dark spots on dark skin.
Yellow neutralizes purple or dark shadows on olive and tan skin.
Green cancels out redness.
Lavender camouflages yellow tones.
 You don’t want a heavy, caked-on look, so it’s best to start with a little bit of foundation and add more if you need to. Dab the foundation on the center of your forehead, under your eyes, and on your nose and chin.
 Start at the center of your face and spread the foundation toward your hairline and neck. You can use your fingers, a brush, or a sponge to blend your makeup. No matter what you choose, you want to use a stippling technique, which means gently tapping it into your skin, rather than rubbing or wiping.








Use your fingers if you want only a little coverage. Be sure to wash your hands first.Use a brush for light and even coverage. A synthetic brush is best, and you should spread the foundation by buffing in small circles.Use a sponge for more coverage. Clean your sponge regularly to avoid bacteria buildup., Use your tool of choice to blend your foundation around your face. There shouldn't be any noticeable lines where your foundation starts or ends; it should blend smoothly into your ears, neck and hairline.
 If you have particularly uneven skin in certain areas, acne, dark spots, or under-eye circles, use your foundation to touch up these areas. Use a concealer brush to apply foundation more heavily on these spots. Make sure to blend it in well to prevent light or dark dots on your face.
 Finish up your entire face by applying a setting powder over your foundation. This is a translucent, matte powder that helps prevent your foundation from sliding around while also preventing oil buildup from showing through.
 It is important to know whether you have dry, oily, normal or combination skin before applying foundation. This will determine what foundation is right for you. Many foundations are specially designed for different skin types.A light foundation, such as mousse is great for oily skin. You can also choose an oil-free liquid or powder foundation.A liquid foundation with a built in moisturizing element is perfect for dry skin. You can also choose a hydrating powder or stick foundation.Apply a powder foundation if you have combination skin. This allows you to distribute more of the oil-absorbing makeup where you need it and less where you don't., As the name implies, your foundation is the basis for the rest of your makeup. To make sure that it acts as a blank canvas, choose a foundation that matches your skin tone identically. Try multiple shades of foundation on your face (rather than your hand or your neck), and stick with the color that matches your skin tone without blending., Most people can simply grab any medium coverage foundation, but if you have specific coverage needs, keep those in mind. Visit the makeup counter at a local department store and try on versions on each to determine which feels the most comfortable and looks the most realistic on your skin.Loose powder provides the lightest coverage.
Pressed powder provides light coverage.
Aerosol foundation provides medium coverage.
Liquid foundation provides full coverage.
Cream foundation provides the most coverage.

