 You may feel compelled to say all sorts of things when someone compliments you, but sometimes the best way to acknowledge a compliment is to simply say thank you to the person who gave you the compliment.Saying something like, "Thanks! That makes me feel great to know that you feel that way," or “Thank you, I appreciate the compliment,” is a perfectly acceptable way to respond.
Remember to smile and make eye contact with the person who complimented you as you thank them.;
, Sometimes people feel the need to deflect or reject compliments by downplaying their efforts or abilities. In those situations, you might feel compelled to say, “Thanks, but it was really nothing.” While it may seem like you are being modest when you deflect or reject a compliment, it can make you seem insecure or like you are looking for additional compliments.Instead of deflecting or rejecting compliments, allow yourself to feel proud of what you have accomplished and simply say "Thank you."

, If you are complimented on something that involved the contributions of others, make sure that you acknowledge those people as well. Don’t take all of the credit for the accomplishment.Saying something like, “We all worked really hard on this project, thanks for acknowledging it,” will help disperse the praise to the other people who contributed to your accomplishment.
 You may sometimes feel the urge to downplay your own abilities by redirecting a compliment you just received towards the person who paid it to you, but you should resist this urge.Saying something like, “Thanks, but I am not nearly as talented as you,” will give the impression that you are insecure and perhaps even trying to outdo the person who paid you the compliment. This type of response can also give the impression that you are sucking up to the person.
Instead of redirecting the compliment you received, pay the person a non-competing compliment in return. For example, you could say something like, “Thanks! I appreciate that. I think that you gave a really great presentation today as well!”

, Don’t ask for an explanation or repetition of the compliment. By asking the speaker to repeat what they have just said to you or to explain the compliment in more detail, you will risk seeming vain or narcissistic. Accept the compliment for what it is and do not ask for reinforcement or explanations.