 If you frequently get styes, your eyes may be particularly sensitive to bacterial infection. Use a clean towel and some gentle shampoo, such as baby shampoo, or special eyelid scrub to gently clean your eyelids. Rinse well with warm water.If styes a frequent problem for you, your eyelids should be cleaned daily., One of the most common ways to get styes is by transferring bacteria from your hands to your eyes.Avoid rubbing or touching your eyes.


Wash your towels regularly, and never share a washcloth or towel with someone who has a stye.
 Wearing contacts requires touching your eyes often, so make sure your hands are clean each time you put them in and take them out. The contacts themselves can also transmit bacteria, so be sure to use a cleansing solution to wash them daily.Do not wear contacts when you are suffering from a stye. Placing a contact lens on the eye that has a stye on it increases your risk of transmitting the infection from the stye to the underlying cornea.
Don't wear your contacts longer than you're supposed to. If you have dailies (i.e. disposable contacts that are intended only for a single use), throw them away every day. If you have monthlies (reusable lenses that intended to be replaced once a month), be sure to change to fresh ones after four weeks have passed.Don't wear your contacts overnight. Even contacts that are made for safe overnight wear might cause you problems if you are prone to getting styes.Always follow your eye doctor’s recommendation about appropriate contact lens use. Do not wear contact lenses in situations that are specifically approved, such as while swimming (unless you wear them under tight-fitting swim goggles).
 Eye liner and eye shadow applied under the rim of your eyelid can cause styes, especially if you tend to wear a lot of makeup and reapply it throughout the day. Apply makeup above your lash line, and limit the amount that you apply.


Don't go to sleep wearing makeup. Use eye makeup remover to clean it off, then splash warm water on your face to rinse off the remover before going to bed.
Change your eye makeup and applicators frequently. Brushes, wands and pencils used to apply eye makeup get dirty over time, and you may be transmitting bacteria every time you use them.Similar to contact lenses, makeup pencils, brushes, and the like make frequent contact with your eyes. If they harbor harmful bacteria, it is very easy for these harmful agents to cause styes.Do not share eye makeup with other people.

