 The second square should be on top, and the back sides of both squares should be facing each other.


Note that if you have a layout or pattern in mind, you should arrange it before you crochet your rows together.
Stack the first row together. The last square in that row should go on the bottom and the first should go on top. Smaller stacks are easier to work with.
This method will create a flexible, decorative seam between the squares.
 Make a slipknot on one end of the yarn and squeeze your crochet hook into the loop created by the knot.



Make a slip knot by creating two loops side by side. Push one loop through the other and gently pull them in opposite directions, forming a single loop with an easy-to-adjust knot.
 Make a slipknot over the open corner of your top granny square. Chain stitch three times off this corner.
 Connect the bottom square to the top square by making three double stitches (double crochets) in the open corner of the bottom square.


You might need to change the way you hold the two squares together as you stitch them together. If you have trouble stitching them together with one on top of the other, turn the two squares on the side so that the shared edges are facing up toward you. The "top" square will now be on your right and the "bottom" will be on the left.
 Make three double crochet stitches in the next open space of the top/right square. After those are complete, make another three double crochet stitches in the next open space of the bottom/left square.


Continue across the shared sides of the two squares using this technique. Alternate back and forth, making sets of three double-stitches in each open space along the edges of both squares.
 When you reach the end of the joined row, make one double stitch crochet in the final open corner.


Bind or knot it off to finish the joint.
 Follow the same same procedure to stitch together all the squares in each row.


Also repeat the procedure for each stack (or row) of granny squares.
 Work with two rows at a time. Place the rows together with the backs facing each other.


The principle for joining the rows together is essentially the same principle used for joining individual squares.
 Follow the same pattern you used when joining the individual squares. Make three chain stitches in the corner of the front row, followed by three double stitches in the corner of the back row.


Make sets of three double-stitches, alternating back and forth between the open spaces of the two rows until you reach the end.
The join between two squares should be treated as any other open space, and you should make three double stitches there, too.
 Once all the squares and rows have been joined together, make sets of three double-stitches all around the perimeter of the piece to finish it and even out the edges.

