 Exercise is a great way to treat anxiety in all its forms. While exercise won't cure you of your anxiety, it will improve the way you feel about yourself and your life by releasing endorphins and helping you develop a more fit, muscular body.Healthy adults should be getting a minimum of 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of high-intensity aerobic activity each week.In addition to aerobic exercise, healthy adults should also engage in strength-training exercises that target each major muscle groups at least twice weekly.
You can use exercise to relieve stress and anxiety when you feel tempted to log onto social media or when you've read a comment that angered you.
Talk to your doctor before beginning any diet or exercise regimen to ensure that you are healthy enough for such a routine.;
, Relaxation techniques are a proven way to treat anxiety disorders. Much like exercise, relaxation techniques will not alleviate your anxiety permanently. They will, however, help you let go of stress and disengage from stressful situations, including social media use.Practice deep breathing. Sit comfortably and take a long, slow inhalation through your nostrils and deep into your diaphragm (below your ribs), hold the breath for a moment, then slowly exhale.
Progressive muscle relaxation involves tensing, holding, and releasing each major muscle group in succession. Start at your toes and work your way up to your head.
Other techniques, including meditation, yoga, and tai chi are all proven methods of managing stress and relaxing your body and mind.
Use a relaxation technique just before logging into social media so that you are calmer and more relaxed. Alternatively, you can use a relaxation technique to quiet an anxious mind when you can't have access to social media.
 Living an overall healthy lifestyle can improve the way you feel as well as the way you perceive yourself. This can improve your ability to cope with anxiety and it may have a positive impact on your social media addiction.Eating healthy, getting enough sleep, and practicing self-care routines can all help alleviate anxiety.
Self-care can be any healthy activity that promotes wellbeing. Meditation counts as self-care, but so do simpler activities like treating yourself to your favorite takeout meal after a hard day.
 If you're not happy with your life, you can change it. These changes won't take place overnight, but if you set your mind to transforming your life, you will see noticeable changes over time.If you feel trapped at your job or like you can't afford to take the kinds of vacations your friends take (and post photos of), look for a new job that pays better.
If you feel like you don't do enough with your free time, get out of the house and do something. Go to a museum, walk through the park, plan a trip, or simply get together with friends for coffee or drinks (if you're old enough to drink).
If you feel helpless in your addiction to social media, seek help. It's never too late to break free from your addiction and transform your life for the better.
 Setting a timer may help you to reduce the amount of time that you spend on social media. Try setting a timer for 15 minutes every time you log onto one of your social media accounts. When the timer goes off, log out of your social media account.

Make sure that you log out of your account completely when you finish a session. This will make it harder for you to sneak a peak at your social media accounts.
If you have your login information stored in your browser, you may also want to delete this information from your browser, or turn off this option in your browser's settings. This will make it slightly harder to log back in because you'll have to type in your information manually.
You may also consider turning off your notifications. This will prevent you from being tempted to log onto your social media account between sessions.
 For many people with social media addiction, checking your notifications and browsing your friends' posts can quickly become a competition. You may feel like you're not getting enough likes/favorites or shares, or you may simply feel like what you're doing pales in comparison to what other people are doing. Whatever the case may be, you may benefit from changing how you engage with social media.Don't compare your photos, posts, or activities to those of other people you know. This includes resisting the urge to compare whose posts are more popular.
Instead, use social media networks to interact with your friends and share what you're doing in your life. Feel good knowing that your life is unique and live it to the best of your ability.
If you feel tempted to check what someone has posted or to look at how popular someone else's post is, take a step back and do something productive instead. For example, try planning a fun activity for your next day off.
 Oversharing may be tempting for some people with social media addictions, but it only furthers your problems. In addition to promoting a continuous engagement with social media platforms, oversharing also makes you more vulnerable to criticism from others, which may worsen your anxiety.Don't share status updates or photos of benign, everyday things. Similarly, try to resist the urge to post every thought that pops into your head.
Limit yourself to posting about important life events like a birth or anniversary, significant accomplishments like training for a marathon, fun vacations or activities, and things you find genuinely funny or enjoyable.
Resist the urge to post angry, ranting, or dramatic posts. For example, posting a complaint about your ex-boyfriend or ex-girlfriend will only alienate your friends and fuel your anxiety.
If you're not sure whether you should post something, write it down and set it aside for 20 to 60 minutes. If you still think it's relevant, important, or funny, then you can post it, but if not you can simply toss away your note.
 You may be tempted to furiously type out a heated response to a comment you don't like, but this will only cause you more stress and grief in the long run. Speaking without filtering yourself can have unintended consequences, including dismissal from your job, academic probation, and even legal troubles. Some comments and posts on social media live on forever - even if you delete it, someone else may have captured and saved a screen shot of what you posted.If you're tempted to respond to someone else's bad attitude, step away from your computer or electronic device for a few minutes.
Take deep breaths, listen to music, and consider going for a walk. The goal is to relax and disengage from the comment long enough to think calmly and rationally.
If and when you respond to a negative comment, try to calmly educate the other person on their error. For example, you might say, "Actually, I believe you may be incorrect. I've thoroughly researched the subject and can provide you with verified sources."
You may decide to completely ignore the comment altogether, which can help reduce your overall anxiety in that situation. However, if you do decide to respond, be sure your response is polite and comes from a calm mind.
 Trying to amass hundreds or thousands of social media followers or "friends" causes stress and anxiety. It can also leave you vulnerable to online scams from spam accounts. The more people you follow on social media, the more likely you are to compare your life to theirs. This can dramatically increase your stress levels while decreasing your self-esteem.Instead of accepting every friend request you get or following everyone at your school or work, stick with people you've made a meaningful connection with in real life.
Make a rule for yourself on who you will follow or send a friend request to. For example, force yourself to wait until you've spent face-to-face time with someone on three or more occasions before following that person.
 Many people with anxiety turn to social media seeking comfort. However, seeing what others are doing often leads to feelings of inadequacy and a fear of missing out on social events. Instead of obsessing over what your friends are posting about, reach out to them and spend time together in real life.Invite your friends to your place or ask if you can come visit them.
Make plans to do something outside the house, such as meeting for coffee, getting a meal together, or going to cultural events in your community.
Try leaving your phone in your car, or at least putting your phone away and turning off your social media notifications while you are with your friends.
 Social media addiction is a real health problem that will not go away on its own. Reducing your social media usage may help, but for some people it may be too difficult to do alone.Some warning signs that you may need to seek medical help for your social media addiction include:


spending time each day thinking about social media and/or obsessing over what you will post
increasing your use of social media or feeling compelled to do so
using social media as an escape from your personal problems in real life
feeling tense, irritable, restless, depressed, or angry when you can't use social media
being told by friends, relatives, or a significant other that your social media use is causing problems

, Therapy can greatly improve your anxiety symptoms while also treating your social media addiction. Therapy may include cognitive restructuring (changing the way you think), coping with feelings of inadequacy, and overcoming compulsions to use social media.Ask your doctor about finding a therapist near you who specializes in social media addiction and anxiety. You can also search online or browse your local phone book.
 For some individuals, therapy and behavioral changes may not be enough. If your social media addiction is really severe, you may need to cut off all access to the internet and spend time working closely with a mental health specialist.Treatment programs work on changing the way you think and the way you perceive yourself. This is done through intense one-on-one and/or group therapy sessions.
Many therapy programs also work on treating underlying conditions, including anxiety, which may contribute to or suffer from your social media addiction.

