 Breaking an addiction is hard. Talk to your doctor about options if you are having trouble cutting out Excedrin on your own or if you would prefer to seek medical help. She can set up a plan to break your habit and to mitigate your symptoms in the meanwhile. This is called “bridge” or transition therapy.Your doctor can prescribe a painkiller that is short acting and non-habit forming, for example. She may also give you meds to alleviate your withdrawal symptoms, like anti-inflammatory drugs or corticosteriods.Your doctor may also put you on a detoxification program.
Mostly like you will not need a hospital visit. However, in some cases you may be admitted for a short stay, particularly if you aren’t able to stop on your own, are abusing other drugs along with Excedrin, or have limited family support., Your doctor may put you in an outpatient treatment plan for addiction if you have other addictions along with your addiction to Excedrin, such as addiction to prescription painkillers or illegal substances. This will involve a detoxification process to remove the drug from your system, helping you to be less dependent on it.


Good outpatient centers are able to cater to specific addictions and to tailor a plan for you. They can also provide resources like counseling and prepare you to cope with any mental obstacles.Take into account the services that each prospective program offers. Also consider location. Some may want to be close to family and friends. However, people with unhealthy or co-dependent relationships may need to put distance between themselves and loved ones, at least for a time.Your doctor can most likely recommend a drug addiction center to guide you through the detox process.
 If you have been suffering from headaches for a long time and self-medicating wit Excedrin, then seeing a specialist may be necessary. A doctor who specializes in headaches or a neurologist can assess your symptoms and run tests to determine if there is an underlying cause.

A specialist can also prescribe a treatment plant that will help to prevent you from becoming dependent on Excedrin again.
 Some people suffer from both psychological and physical addiction to Excedrin. This means that you become mentally dependent on the drug and, without it, can experience anxiety, a feeling of being unable to cope, a mental obsession with it, mood swings, or insomnia.If you think you are experiencing psychological addiction, set up an appointment with a psychologist who can work with you to kick it.


Your therapist will be able to alleviate any concerns that you or your family may have. You can set up a group family therapy session, too, if need be.
To offer you coping strategies, a psychologist may also recommend a course of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. The aim of CBT is to teach you how to identify and stop problematic behavior.CBT techniques can include discussing the positive and negatives effects of your habit, teaching you how to monitor your cravings, and developing ways to deal with cravings and to avoid “high-risk” situations when you might relapse.
 Some people find that alternative therapies give relief for headaches and can complement other treatments. Since not all of these treatments have proven medical benefit, talk with your doctor before starting one.

Acupuncture is one alternative treatment. There is some evidence that this ancient Chinese practice can help to bring headaches under control.“Biofeedback” is a technique that teaches you better control over your body. You are first hooked up to devices that monitor your breathing, heart rate, and other functions and give feedback. The idea is to slowly learn your natural bodily response to pain and to learn how to reduce muscle tension, control your breathing and heart rate, and deal with pain.Some herbs and “natural” medicines claim to alleviate headaches, like butterbur and feverfew. However, the medical benefit of these herbs is unclear. Talk to a doctor before taking any dietary supplements, especially since they can interact with other drugs you are taking.