 The key to keeping your silver safe is to keep it hidden and locked away. Silence is the most important part of any safety plan; the fewer people who know about your coins, the safer they are. After that, a hiding place and/or safe are important safety measures.


Many obvious hiding places are problematic because they are just as obvious to robbers as they are to you. The best hiding places include unlikely locations like the bottom the of a clothes’ basket.For any substantial silver collection you should purchase a safe. The safe should be too large too carry away and rated UL-15 or higher. An added advantage to owning a safe is that if you notify your insurance company, they will reduce your premium.For added safety, consider an alarm system as well.
For extra protection, search online for “storage compartments” or “secret bookcases.” Build a hidden compartment in the floor or the wall, hide it behind a decoration, and then store the silver in a safe., For $200-$500 a year, you can have your silver stored at the bank in a safety deposit box. This is an extremely secure option, though some people find working around bank hours inconvenient. Furthermore, safety deposit boxes are not insured. You will need to seek an outside third party insurance, in case something unfortunate does happen at the bank., There are some third party companies that specialize in protecting precious metals. Their facilities ought to be highly secure and they should do a regular accounting of your stock to ensure that nothing has disappeared. If anything does go missing, most of these depositories have insurance programs that will cover your loss.Don’t be too trusting. Interrogate the depository’s insurance program carefully to establish that it will protect you adequately in case of theft.
 Regardless of what method you choose to secure your coins, you need to make sure that you know what you have. Keep a list of each of your coins individually that includes the date that it was minted, the type of coin, and any distinguishing features. Review your stash to make sure that nothing has gone missing.