 Before enrolling, make sure the school you're considering is a qualified school with mother tongue, professional and qualified teachers.


Verify the teachers qualifications. Teachers must be mother tongue, qualified and experienced. It is not enough to be Italian to be a professor and teach the language to students. If the school professors are qualified and experienced, you can learn the Italian language very well and very fast. Otherwise, you risk of losing your time and money as well.
Understand the kind of qualification they have, because certifications are not all the same. Before choosing an institute and attending an Italian language course, the most important thing is verifying if the school is officially recognized by the Italian Education Ministry (MIUR in Italian). One of the most valid certifications is DITALS (Examination of the University for Foreigners of Siena that you can find in many other cities as well).;
, Go on the school website and read the study programs.


Enter the name of the school and search on Google for sites, blogs and forums about studies abroad and international schools: verify what users and bloggers write about the institute you want to choose. On these websites you can discover positive and negative messages and check the reputation of the school. Obviously, if posts and comments have a large number of negative reviews, it is not the right school for you!
Find out if the organizers plan special courses about the Italian culture (art, history, music, etc), guided art history itineraries, Italian architecture visits, cultural events, excursions and guided visits to the city’s parks, evenings out at restaurants and “pizzerie”, cooking classes, photography sessions and inter-linguistic exchange with the Italians.
 So, the best thing you can do is buying a book at the book store or taking one at the library.
 Selecting an institute is not easy, because there is a large offer of different classes, according to the different students’ needs. You can choose a full immersion and intensive class or a super-intensive course, but it depends on what you have to do and in particular why you want to learn the Italian language.


If you want to study Italian because you want to visit Italy and know the basis of the language to understand what the Italians say, you can choose an intensive course.
If you wish to move and work there, you should choose a full immersion and super-intensive class. In this way, you will learn the most important rules very fast.

