 Before you start running every day, you should establish a base level of fitness. Running is great for you, but it is physically punishing, and it can wreak havoc upon your body if you aren't ready. If you start running with no prior exercise habits, you risk hurting yourself before you get into the swing of a routine.


Consider starting with daily walks and progressing gradually into running. Consider hiking, swimming, or dancing--anything that gets you out the door and moving, regularly.;
, You should always do this--but it is especially crucial when you're first starting out, as your muscles are unused to the stress of running. Try dynamic stretches.


Traditional, static stretches (touch your toes and hold the pose) are most effective when they follow a period of activity. Save the static stretches for after you run.Dynamic stretches may include lunges, squats, high-knees, and deadlifts. The key here is to limber up and get your muscles working before you settle into a heavy run.
 Running is a highly aerobic exercise, and you will need to keep a constant flow of oxygen cycling through your body. Focus on each breath: in... out... in... out...


Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Nose-breathing is much more efficient than mouth-breathing, and you will find that you do not become so out-of-breath when you are taking measured breaths through your nose.
Breathe from your belly, not from your chest. Make a conscious effort to fill up your stomach with deep breaths. You'll be able to absorb more oxygen this way, and your muscles will be able to carry you further before they tire., Everyone's body is unique, and every runner has a slightly different gait. Start running and work out what feels right for you.


Pump your arms in compact swings. Keep them from swinging out of control, but do not tense them up.
Stand upright with a slight forward lean. Keep your back straight.
Pick your feet up high so that you don't trip over anything; but do not bounce off of the ground, as this transfers more force between your body and the ground. Try to land softly in order to reduce stress on your knees, ankles, and feet.
 When you begin to run, you will notice that you fall into a natural stride length. This may vary between sprinting, jogging, and running long-distance.


Notice your foot strike. When you run in place, you should land on the balls of your feet. This is how you were naturally supposed to run, so when you check your form, you want to either land on the balls of your foot or the middle.
In general, however: when you run faster, your foot will strike the ground further forward toward the toe.If you are regularly heel-striking, your strides may be too long.
 If you hold yourself completely stiff, you'll run more slowly. Keep your arms and shoulders loose, and keep your weight centered.


Keep your head and neck relaxed. When you try to control your head, the tension can extend down through your spine and the rest of your body. This can tire you out earlier than you'd tire otherwise.Instead of focusing on your upper body, try to focus on your stride. This will help you improve your technique and keep your mind off of your head, shoulders, and neck.
 This should feel natural--let them swing with your stride.
 Stretch all of your muscles, but focus especially on your legs. Stretch your calves, your quadriceps, your hamstrings, and your core. Breathe slowly and deeply and focus your attention on each muscle as you stretch it.


Stretching will loosen your tight muscles and lessen the risk of muscle cramps. It's important to stretch after any intense workout.
Stretch until you feel relaxed and loose. Try to stretch for at least five minutes.
 Running to a beat may keep you motivated. However, some runners contend that an artificial beat will keep you from running in the natural rhythm of your body, and that this can make your running less efficient.


If you listen to music, wear earbuds--nothing loose or bulky. Hook the earbuds up to an iPod, a smartphone, or any other digital audio device. Consider buying a strap or a holster to keep your device from coming loose with the impact of running. Otherwise, consider simply holding it in your hand for security.
Keep in mind that a steady stream of song will distract you from your surroundings. You may not hear cars, bicycles, or other pedestrians. If you run while listening to music, you will need to be more visually aware of your surroundings.
Some people prefer to run to slower songs, and some prefer a quicker tempo. Pick something that makes you excited to run.

