 Body language is incredibly revealing. People often say one thing, but their body language tells a totally different story. Look at the positioning of people's head, arms, hands, back, legs and feet. What can you learn from the language of a person's body?


If someone says "yes" while shaking his or her head, that can indicate the answer is actually "no."
If someone refuses to make eye contact, they're probably uncomfortable. (It's a common misconception that lack of eye contact is an indication of lying; actually, the opposite is true.)
If someone leans back or away while talking, that can indicate the person is stressed out or afraid.
If someone crosses his or her arms, that usually means he or she is feeling uncomfortable with a situation.
If someone's hunched over or has bad posture, a confidence issue might be the reason.
If someone taps his or her feet, anxiety or impatience might be at play.
If a woman touches her throat, she might be feeling vulnerable.If a man strokes his chin, he might be feeling anxious., People obviously communicate with their faces by expressing everything from happiness to devastation, but how skilled are you at interpreting the subtle differences between emotions? Some people are naturally empathetic and able to tell the difference between emotions as close as impatience and irritation, while others have trouble distinguishing emotions as different as thoughtfulness and boredom.The better you are at telling emotions apart, the better you'll be at understanding the people around you.


If you find that you have a lot of room for improvement in this area, practice focusing on defining people's emotions. For example, when someone smiles, don't automatically assume "happy." Look for subtleties that can help you find the deeper, truer emotion. Is the person smiling with his or her entire face (including the eyes) or just the mouth? The former might be an indicator of elation, while the latter might be an indicator of mile amusement.
Studies show that reading more literary fiction can help you develop greater empathy, which results in a greater power of observation.
 The way a person speaks is another big indication of how he or she is feeling. The pace, volume, and pitch of speech are all important factors. Notice whether the person you're observing is speaking quickly or slowly, higher or lower than normal, and whether their voice is loud or soft.


People who whisper or speak quietly may be shy or have low confidence.
Nervousness is often expressed through faster speech.
People tend to speak at a slightly higher pitch than normal when they're lying.
When people want to assert dominance, they speak at a slightly lower register.
 This is one of the easiest physical signs to observe, since it's something that most people can't control. Notice whether someone is breathing heavily or quickly, and whether their voice sounds breathy.


When someone's breath quickens, it could indicate that they're feeling nervous or stressed out about the topic at hand.
Heavy breathing may be a sign of health problems.
It could also mean they're feeling attracted to someone - possibly you . . .
 Tiny pupils can be an indicator that someone's using drugs. Dilated pupils can be a sign that someone is feeling pleasure or attraction.When you're observing someone's pupils, make sure light isn't a factor; bright lights will make the pupils shrink, while low light makes them dilate.
 It's a clear indication that adrenaline is rushing through someone's body, which could mean they're feeling stressed, exhilarated or afraid, depending on the situation. Look for a light glow on someone's face, or dampness in the armpit area of someone's shirt. (Take the weather and room temperature into account, of course)., Body language, facial expressions and other physical indicators aside, you can learn a lot by simply looking at the way a person presents to the world. The clothing, accessories, hairstyle and makeup people wear can be extremely telling.


First take note of the obvious: a person wearing an expensive business suit is probably a white collar worker; a person wearing a cross around her neck is probably Christian; a person sporting a Grateful Dead t-shirt and Birkenstocks is probably a hippie - you get the picture.
Look more closely for details about a person's life: the white hairs coating the cuffs of your coworker's black pants. The dried mud caked on the bottom of someone's shoes. A person's nails bitten to the quick. A receding hairline masked with a careful combover. What do these subtle details add up to?

, When you're observing someone over time, check out what makes that person unique. What does she read on the train every day? What does he drink to perk up in the morning? Does he bring his lunch or order out every day? Does she conspicuously avoid the subject of her husband? You can learn something from each of these observations.

