 Remove the peel from each clementine and separate the fruit into its natural segments. Peel away as much of the white membrane as possible from these segments and remove any seeds you find.


Before peeling the clementines, consider rinsing them in running water and patting them dry with clean paper towels. Even though the peels will not be frozen with the flesh of the fruit, any dirt on the peels can get onto your hands as you work. Your hands will then touch the flesh of the fruit and spread the dirt there.
Note that this is the only way to store clementines in the freezer. You cannot freeze whole citrus fruits without significantly damaging its texture and taste.
 Place the clementine segments inside an airtight freezer-safe plastic container or resealable plastic bag. Do not fill the container more than three-quarters full.
 Combine 2-3/4 cups (685 ml) of sugar with 4 cups (1 L) of water in a large saucepan. Heat this mixture on your stove over medium-high, stirring frequently, until the sugar has dissolved and the solution is clear. Allow the syrup to reach a rolling boil before removing it from the heat.After making the syrup, let it sit out at room temperature until it cools. Do not continue on with the rest of the steps until the syrup has dropped to a temperature only a little warmer than room temperature. Ideally, the syrup should drop down completely to room temperature.
 Pour the cooled syrup over the clementine segments inside their freezer-safe containers. Add enough syrup to thoroughly coat each segment, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of empty head space at the top of each container.


You need to maintain a little empty headspace because the contents of the container can swell as they freeze. If the container is too full, the frozen fruit and syrup could burst out, damaging the container and creating a mess in your freezer as it does.
Seal the containers or bags securely, pressing out as much air as possible as you do.
 Place your sealed container of clementine wedges in the back of the freezer. You should be able to store it there safely for about a year.


To thaw, place the container of frozen clementines in your refrigerator and let it gradually drop down in temperature over the course of a few hours.
If stored at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius), the clementines should be safe to eat indefinitely. They may lose a considerable amount of nutrients past the 12-month mark, though, and the texture and taste may also start to decline.

