 Before taking your dog to the mall, the animal shelter, or pet store to meet Santa, call ahead and ask an employee what you should expect. Ask them if they expect a large crowd that day, how long it typically takes, and when is the best time to arrive. If your dog does not do well around other dogs or gets bored easily, you may want to plan your visit during a time when it is not expected to be busy., Make sure your dog gets plenty of exercise before going to visit Santa. Your dog may be more relaxed and willing to pose for a photograph if it is able to expel some energy beforehand.Take your dog on a long walk or a jog, or play tug-of-war and fetch with its favorite toy.
 Bring a friend or family member with you when you take your dog to pose with Santa Claus. Make sure it is someone that your dog knows and is comfortable with. They will be able to help you entertain your dog while waiting in line, and they can offer assistance if your dog begins to misbehave or needs a distraction.Ask a friend who is a pet owner if they would like come and bring their dog along, particularly if your dog and their dog are friendly with one another. Waiting in line with a friend and your dog’s friend can help set your dog at ease in this new environment., If your dog does not do well in new places, is scared by people in costumes, or is nervous around new people, consider capturing a holiday photo with your dog at home. Ask a friend or a family member who your dog is familiar with to dress up as Santa and snap a few photos at home., For your dog’s safety and security, make sure that it remains on a leash for the duration of the photo shoot. There will be many new smells, sounds, and sights for your dog to react to when you take it to get a holiday photo. Be sure that your dog is secure and will not take off at the sight of another animal or run away in fear if it hears a loud, unfamiliar sound.


Many people bring a variety of pets to take holiday photos, so it is important to keep your dog on a leash for the safety of those around you. Your dog may get along with other dogs, but it may bolt if it sees a cat in the vicinity. Keep your dog under control and by your side at all times.
 Your dog may feel more comfortable and at ease if it has its favorite toy in tow. Bring along your dog’s favorite chew toy, plush toy, or ball.Having a toy on hand can help you keep your dog entertained while in a long line.


Be aware of other pets in line. Try to prevent skirmishes and make sure another dog is not grabbing your dog’s toy.
 Take some of your dog’s favorite treats and give your pet one or two when you get your place in line to see Santa. Your dog may be more likely to be on its best behavior if it knows that you are giving out his favorite treat.Periodically give your dog a treat during the wait if it remains calm.

