 Your first instinct may be to slam on the brakes, which is correct, but can result in loss of control. Only pump the brakes if the car starts to veer to the left or right, or if you need to steer the car around something. High speed only increases the danger of losing control so it is best to avoid excessive speed.


Give yourself plenty of time to brake in icy weather. Start breaking long before you actually need to stop, just in case you experience ice.
If you don't quite understand how or why you need to pump the brakes, try practicing the technique in a safe but icy spot, like a completely empty parking lot with plenty of room. Drive on the ice a little, then abruptly brake. See how the car skids? Now try it again, this time pumping. The difference in control should be clear.;
, There is much less friction between the road and tire in slippery conditions. If you accelerate too quickly, your wheels tend to spin. Accelerate slowly and gently, testing to see whether your tires have good traction. If you do not feel them gripping, slow down and start the process again.


If you find yourself in a situation in which your tires can't get a grip, sprinkle the area in front of them with sand, gravel, kitty litter, old towels, or other friction tools. You may also need to dig out some of the snow around them to give them room to move.
Accelerating slowly is another technique that can be practiced in an icy, empty parking lot. Try starting the car on a patch of ice and going hard on the gas. The tires will probably start to spin. Now try again, this time slowly pushing the gas to let the tires get a trip.
 First take your foot off of the accelerator so your car will slow down and regain traction. Gently steer your car in the direction you want it to go. If you overcompensate for the skid and begin sliding the other way, steer back in the direction you want to go. It may take a few subtle movements to straighten your vehicle out.When you're moving in the right direction, you can gently pump your breaks or accelerate to regain control.


Remain calm if you skid. Resist the urge to overcompensate by swinging your wheel too hard in the other direction. Gentle, calm steering will correct your car's direction and set you back on track.
Practice losing and regaining control of your car in safe lot. Approach an icy patch and accelerate into it so that your car begins to skid. Gently steer your way out of the skid by guiding your car in the direction you want it to go. This can be a lot of fun!

