 Having long nails doesn’t mean never cutting them! Once you’ve decided on a desired length, groom your nails often to maintain that length. The length you choose is completely up to you, but remember that the longer your nails are, the more bacteria they can harbor. Diligently keep your nails and hands clean.


Trim your nails straight across, then trim the sides as rounded edges.Doing this will avoid breakage and since you'll be shaping them with a file later, don't worry about trimming them to the desired shape now.
Everyone’s nails having a breaking point after reaching a certain length, no matter how strong your nails are. The longer the nail, the more easily it can break. Experiment a little to find out what length works best for you.
 Apply the nail hardener first and then add a fresh layer of topcoat every 1 to 2 days to keep your nails looking great and to help prevent chipping and breakage. If you polish your nails with color, do that first and then apply the additional products.


There is a wide variety of nail polish, nail strengtheners, topcoat and nail hardeners on the market, which you can find in the same section as nail polish when shopping. Experiment with different kinds and discover which products work best for you.
Avoid changing your polish frequently, because nail polish itself and removing the polish can both be hard on your nails.Decals are popular nail adornments and there are tons of designs available. The best ones to use are the kind you peel off paper and apply to your nail like stickers. Do this after you apply nail color, and then do your topcoat on top of the decals to seal them in.
 The worst culprit is nail polisher remover, which is particularly harsh because many removers contain acetone, which is a very aggressive solvent.


Limit your use of nail polish remover and choose a brand that is acetone-free.
Many nail polish brands use harsh and even toxic chemicals in their formulas. These chemicals can make your nails brittle.If this concerns you, there are nontoxic brands out there that you can use instead.
 Not only are these things harsh on your nails and cuticles, they can also cause nails to become brittle and discolored. Wearing gloves also prevents additional grime from getting underneath your nails, which will reduce bacteria growth and the spread of infection.


Try applying a thin coat of petroleum jelly over the entire nail bed of each finger before you put your gloves on. The petroleum jelly will protect your nail and help prevent cuticle irritation and dryness., Doing so will help to strengthen your nails and keep them looking their best. It also prevents your cuticles from getting dry. Use a good hand lotion and rub it into your cuticles and fingernails when applying it.


Try rubbing a bit of Vaseline or moisturizer over your cuticles before you go to bed for additional protection and strengthening., Be sure to get enough calcium and zinc every day. Calcium plays a large role in keeping your nails strong and zinc deficiency is what causes those pesky little white spots on your nails.


Take a daily vitamin supplement in addition to eating well.
Consider biotin supplements. Biotin is a nutritional supplement that might be able help strengthen weak or brittle fingernails.Always ask your doctor before adding any new vitamins or supplements to your regimen.

