 Generally bone-in roasts weigh 10 lbs. (4.5 kg) or more. They can feed a large family on a special occasion.;
, Most spiral hams or honey-baked hams are pre-cooked, meaning you simply have to warm it up in the oven for 10 minutes per lb. (0.45 kg).


You may be able to pick between a half-ham roast and a full-ham roast. Cooking times will vary, but preparation is very similar.
Cook a 1/2 lb. (0.22 kg) of ham for each person you plan to serve. Increase the amount to ensure leftovers.
 Most hams in supermarkets are boneless. You may need to inquire with a local butcher or pig seller in the area, if you can’t find an uncooked, bone-in ham at the supermarket.
 You can remove the skin yourself at home.
 If your ham is fresh, it should have a cook-by date that is within a week. A frozen ham may be prepared within a few months.
 It will take between 2 and 4 days to defrost completely before you can cook it.
 Unwrap it completely. Discard any juices.
 You can cut horizontally, parallel to the meat. Leave some fat on the ham’s surface for flavor.
 Some hams come with a glaze that you can mix with water.
 Your diamonds should be 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) deep, cutting through the fat and slightly into the top of the flesh. Scoring will let the glaze seep in and render the fat from the top.


You can use a clean piece of cardboard to guide the knife along the top like a ruler. , If you like a traditional flavor and look, stud each of the diamonds with cloves. ,, A 20 lb. (9 kg) ham can take 7 hours to cook, while a 10 lb. (4.5 kg) ham takes between 3 and 4 hours. Cook 10 to 14 lb. (4.5 to 6.4 kg) hams for 22 to 25 minutes per lb. (0.45 kg).
Cook a larger ham for 18 to 22 minutes per lb.
Always check the core temperature with a meat thermometer.
 Choose a shallow rack with a sturdy pan to catch drippings.
 Test the ham halfway through the cooking time. When a meat thermometer reaches 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54 degrees Celsius) in the center, you can start to baste or glaze the roast ham.
 Brush your glaze mix onto the surface of the ham. If you are basting the ham with its own juices, use a baster.


Cover the surface of the ham with pineapple slices for extra flavor.
 Baste or glaze the ham every half an hour. Cover it with aluminum foil if the surface appears too brown or dry.
 Place it on a carving board to rest for 15 minutes and cover it with aluminum foil. , Cut inward until it reaches the bone.
 Remove the knife.
 Cut a 1-inch (2.5 cm) slice of ham from skin surface to the bone. Repeat until the top section of the roast fans out into slices.
 Then, cut away the sides of the ham along the fat lines on each side.
 Carve the slices from top to bone, just as you did on the first side.


Reserve the bone for soup.
