 Use light weights to strengthen your fingers and wrist.


The stronger your left hand becomes, the easier it will be to hold a pen/pencil.
You’ll be able to focus on writing well if you’re left hand is stronger. This is because it won’t get fatigued as you attempt to write.
Flexibility is just as important as strength. Keep your hand flexible to keep it from cramping when you start writing.;
, Once you’ve strengthened the fingers and wrist of your left hand, begin doing basic daily tasks. The more you use your left hand, the more comfortable you’ll be with it. Start out with the most basic tasks and work your way to more difficult ones.


Eat and drink with your left hand. Cutting your food the opposite way and pouring drinks with your left hand will engage your brain as well as continue to strengthen your left hand. This is a good place to start because it won’t interfere with your daily schedule.
Open and close with your left hand. Doors, buttons, bags, and drawers are all great places to start using your left hand. Remember that buttons and doorknobs that twist will be more awkward than drawers that simply slide open.
 Many of us use our computer mouse for hours on end. Start to use your left hand to use the mouse of your computer. You can switch the mouse’s buttons easily with your settings.Enter “mouse” in your Start menu search and select the first entry.
Check the “Switch primary and secondary buttons” box.
You can either use your mouse with your left hand from here, or you can download left-handed mouse pointers to make the process easier.
Download left handed cursors off of the internet.
In your “Mouse Properties”, select the “Pointers” tab.
Browse to the folder with your newly downloaded cursors. Click “Open”.
Change all 6 cursors (Normal Select, Help Select, Working in Background, Busy, Handwriting, and Link Select)
Click “Save As…”, type Lefty, and click “OK”.
 This will help with hand-eye coordination and engage your brain.


Learning to write with your left hand benefits your brain because it helps engage both hemispheres of your brain, start catching (and maybe throwing) with your right hand to start this early.
Learning to engage both sides of your brain before you begin writing lefty will make the process less frustrating.

