 You need to have a cake that has good consistency and can be cut easily. A pound cake may be the best to use. But a yellow, or chocolate cake, from a mix should work fine as well.  Bake your cake according to directions; let it cool 15 minutes after removal from oven, then remove the cake from the pan(s) and let them cool completely before messing with them.;
, This is the step where you use a cake leveler (or a knife if you don't have one), and so that the cake doesn't have that "bump" in the middle. If you have to level the cake, you can flip the side you cut upside down and use the bottom of your cake as your top; it doesn't get as many crumbs and is less messy that way.
 Some people use store bought icing, but it is highly recommended making your own.  Store-bought tends to be too gooey to work with.  


Icing is made by mixing 3/4 cup of shortening and 3/4 cup (one and 1/2 sticks) of butter or margarine that has warmed to room temperature.  
Mix with an electric mixer, then add approximately 6 cups of powdered sugar, 1 and 1/2 tsp of vanilla extract, and approximately 3 tablespoon (44.4 ml) of milk.  
If it's too thick, let it warm up a bit.  If it's too gooey, cool it a bit in the fridge.
  Add green food coloring as needed to get the color you like. In a separate bowl, put the rest of the icing, and add black food coloring to get the color you like.  


Note that it takes a lot of black coloring to get a black color. If you only add a little bit, it'll be grey.
 If you are stacking layers, apply a layer between them as "glue". The crumb coat will look ugly, but it's only job is to seal in crumbs so you don't have crumbs all over your cake icing's finished product.  

,,  Icing spreaders are especially nice for this job, but you can use a butter knife if you don't have one.
 Make sure you are drawing (or printing off the internet) the size you want for your cake. Then, cut out the creeper's face from the paper. Place the creeper paper onto the top of your cake and, using a toothpick, trace the outline of the paper into the icing.
 Load your black icing into the bag. Draw lines along your creeper outline using your black icing.
 Practice making a few stars on a piece of paper with your icing bag by squirting out small amounts of icing holding the bag straight up and down over the paper.  Can you make the stars?  Great.  Now you just start filling in the creeper's face with black icing stars.  Go in lines, and try to get every bit of green covered with a black star.
 Once your design is finished, snap a picture before you tuck in.

