 Safety should be your top priority, as wrestling moves can cause be dangerous if not performed carefully in an unsuitable environment. They can cause serious, permanent injuries or even death.Choose a space where you won’t run the risk of running into walls or fences. It should be flat so you don’t twist your ankle or hurt yourself landing on something jutting out of the ground.


You’re going to be hitting the ground a lot, so it’s best to wrestle on something with some give. If you can afford it, the best option is to buy some gymnastics mats to lay out for your ring. If this isn’t an option for you, grass is also a viable surface to wrestle on. You just have to make sure you thoroughly check the ring for sticks, stones, and other debris.
If you are planning on having guests attend, take where they will sit or stand into consideration so they don’t interfere with the action or get hurt. Plan for allowing a good five feet or so between the edge of the ring and the first row of observers.;
, In wrestling there are heroes and villains, brave combatants and cowardly tricksters. Drama is half the fun of wrestling, so spend some time coming up with a good character and backstory. Memorize the important details of your backstory so you can reference them during matches and work them into your banter.


If you’re having trouble inventing a backstory, think about the questions it should try to answer: Why do you wrestle? What events shaped the course of your life? What’s your outlook on the world? Do you have any wrestling partners or rivals?

, Every wrestler needs a costume that helps display their personality and attitude. It might be a good idea to find clothes specifically for this, since they are probably going to be ruined afterwards. Be careful to avoid anything with zippers and metal buttons or spikes since these can cut you.


Thrift stores are a good place to look for cheap clothes for wrestling. They often have weird and funky items that are perfect for wrestling costumes. Make sure you can move around in anything you buy there so you can wrestle comfortably.
You can make your own costume if you’re feeling crafty. Buy some heavy-duty spandex fabric and some quality polyester thread for your costume. They’re stretchy, which makes them perfect for wrestling. Unless you have a lot of sewing experience, buy a pattern online for the piece you are trying to make. Use a zig zag or stretch stitch to sew a strong stitch that will stretch before it tears. , You need a referee to officiate the match. If you have a lot of friends who like wrestling, this shouldn’t be too much trouble. Give them a black and white striped shirt to serve as their uniform. You should create a set of rules that is agreed upon by all the wrestlers and make the referee responsible for knowing and enforcing them.


While the ref is supposed to call a fair match, it can cause a bit of fun and drama if both wrestlers agree to have the ref favor one of the wrestlers while officiating.
 The point of backyard wrestling is to have fun, not hurt your friends. Make sure you practice with them beforehand so you know how to spar without actually hurting each other. Practice a variety of moves like shoves, counters, clotheslines, dropkicks and leg drops. You can make contact, but don’t put enough force in it for your blows to actually hurt.Make up and practice at least one finisher, but do not attempt any moves that involve slamming the opponents head, neck, or back into the ground, as these can cause permanent and life-altering injury or even death. These look cool on television, but they practice for hours every day so they can perform them safely.

