 If you can complete the forms, but cannot pay in full, you should complete your taxes and pay what you can.


If you submit your tax forms and a partial payment, you will receive a bill in the mail at a later date with the balance due. This will give you more time to collect the money before interest payments must be made.
Even if you request an income tax extension, you will be required to pay interest on payments you received after this date. You will also owe a late payment penalty, if you file an extension. It will be waived if you have paid at least 90 percent of your tax by the mid-April due date.
If you want to avoid interest and pay in installments, then go to the IRS website and click on "Apply for an Online Payment Agreement (OPA)," a program that creates an installment payment schedule for you. You must make less than $25,000 and meet other requirements.;
, Individual Income Tax Return." You can also telephone 800-829-1040 to request Form 4868 or visit your local IRS office, if you do not have access to a computer.
, If you make less than $58,000 per year, you should choose the Free-File option. You will need to fill in the following sections: identification, individual income tax, estimate of total tax liability for the Year, estimate of total payments for the year, balance due, the amount you are paying and an option if you were out of the country when the tax deadline arrived.
Fill out Form 6868 by hand and send it in the mail. Fill out the same information with black ink or on an editable document on the computer (and print it out).
 If you pay at least $1, you will receive an automatic extension of up to 6 months. Pay by phone, Internet or mail.


Pay with a credit or debit card through an private IRS e-pay alliance provider, such as TurboTax, File your Taxes or the Link2Gov Corporation. You can do this by phone or computer. The IRS website lists e-pay phone numbers and providers. Unlike normal tax payments, you cannot pay the government directly for your payments by phone. You will likely be charged interest by these companies of at least $1.25.
Pay by electronic withdrawal from either a savings or a checking account. File through your e-file or free-file computer software or call 1-800-829-1040. Have your Form 4868 and bank information on hand.
Pay by check or money order with your Form 4868 by mail. The payee should be written as, "United States Treasury." Write a phone number where you can be reached, your social security number and the words "Form 4868" on the top of your check.
 Look on page 4 of the document to find out the correct address to send your extension and payment by mail. There are different addresses for extension forms with or without payments.
 If you applied through the mail, you will not receive any acknowledgment until your extension deadline approaches.
