 Sometimes this can improve speed drastically. Wait a few minutes after the system reboots to move on.
 Make sure you’ve backed everything up before deleting any files.
 Look through the list to identify programs that you no longer use.
 Type it if prompted.


Built-in programs like Safari and iMail cannot be removed.
 Desktop, Downloads, Music, Pictures, and various other files may be full of things you no longer need.
 Another way to do this is to Ctrl+Click the icon and select “Move to Trash.”

, The processes running on the computer are listed in the left column of the monitor.
 Look at the percentage listed in the first column (%CPU). You can sort the column by percent by clicking on its header. Programs with higher percentages are using more of your computer’s processing power.


If a single program is using the majority of your CPU resources, contact the developers of that program to request tips for improving performance.
There’s a chance the program may require a faster CPU. If there are no alternatives to this software option, give Apple Support a call to ask for options.
 The same logic applies—the higher the number, the higher of an impact the process has on the hardware. If any of these resources run (steadily) over 75%, check with the Apple store for suggestions on hardware upgrades.


If just the Memory is running high, ask an Apple technician about upgrading the RAM in your system.
If Disk usage is high, you can add another hard disk. SSD (solid state) drives are the fastest and most reliable types of drives that can be installed in your computer. An Apple technician can help you figure out which option best suits your needs.
 Here you’ll find a list of all programs configured to start up when the computer does. Having too many programs in your automatic startup list can bog down your system.
 You can always launch a program after startup by clicking on its icon in the Applications list.


Don’t remove programs from this list unless you know what they are.
Programs like Spotify, Utorrent, Photoshop, don’t NEED to start at boot time. If you use these programs or any other non-essential software which appears in this list, you can safely remove them.
 If you’re seeing pop-up windows, experiencing slow web browsing, or otherwise suspect that malware or adware has invaded your computer, see this article for detailed instructions on how to search and destroy rogue software on your Mac. It’s a good idea to regularly check all computers for malware.
 Here you’ll find available updates for the operating system and individual applications.
 Alternatively, you can choose to install all available updates by clicking “Update All” at the top of the list. Software updates can take several minutes to install, depending on the speed of your hardware.
 In this area, you’ll see “helper” programs (called “extensions”) that are installed by third-party applications. Remove the checkmarks from any extensions you don’t use.
 If you’ve made it this far without speeding up your system, you may need to upgrade your hardware. Click the “Memory” tab to find out how much RAM you have, then compare it to what’s required by the software you run normally. Do the same with the “Storage” tab.

