 If you want to begin the slip jig on your right foot, place the heel of your right foot against the toes of your left foot. Turn out your left and right foot. Turning out means to have your foot on a slight diagonal rather than keeping it parallel. If you're starting on your left foot, follow these directions vice versa. Every slip jig starts on the right foot, but These directions will have it starting on the right foot, so follow them vice versa for the left foot way of doing it. Keep your arms glued to your side. They will stay like that for the whole dance. Make fists, but leave your thumbs out and point them downward.;
, That means you point your right toe when the music gets to '7' (The beat will go 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8) On 8, you'll go up in relieve (meaning going up on tiptoe). Make sure you KEEP TURNED OUT.
 You should now be in the reverse position than how you started, so it should look like you're in Irish dancing position. Repeat this step, but use the left foot to point, use the right foot to hop, and put the left foot in the back. You should be in the same exact position you began the entire slip jig in (Irish dancing position).
 Taking the right foot, you lift it and leap. Your left leg should come up and be bent. It should almost be as if you're kicking your rear. Then, taking your left foot, step with it ON RELEVE in front of your right leg, then do another step with your right leg in front of that one. Step twice more in the same way you just did. Now jump with the left leg, but don't do the two extra steps. (The pattern should be 'jump, step, step, step, step, jump, step, step).
 It should be positioned behind the knee. Go to that position with a hop on your right foot. Then, do the leg lift step again, only hopping on the left foot and putting the right leg in front of the knee of the left leg, again at about a 90 degree angle. Then, do two steps. Step first with the right foot, then with the left foot.
 Then, swing it behind the left leg.
 (Move to the right) Now, abruptly cut the slide and bring your right leg in front, to the 90 degree angle position in front of the left leg. Do two steps (one on the right foot, one on the left foot).
 Now, so five steps in a circle to bring you around to the front again. Start them on your left foot.
, Step firmly with your right foot, not on releve.

