 Exercise can be highly effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder (when combined with therapy and medications), as physical activity stimulates the production of neurotransmitters which are responsible for feelings of happiness and pleasure. Exercise has also been proven to stimulate the growth of new brain cells.


Find a physical activity that you enjoy doing, as this will make you much more inclined to exercise on a regular basis. This could be running, rowing, rock climbing, dancing or kickboxing — anything that gets your heart rate up!
Aim to exercise for 30 minutes, five times a week. Consistency is important when it comes to exercise, so you're better off exercising for shorter periods more frequently, than exercising in a single large chunk at the weekends.
 Many of the symptoms of depression coincide with a lack of certain nutrients, therefore changing your diet and becoming healthier can help you to tackle depression and gain more energy.



Eat more B vitamins: People who suffer from depression are likely to suffer from a B vitamin deficiency. Therefore, it's important to increase your intake of B vitamins, including B6 (pyridoxine), B9 (folacin) and B12 ( obalamin). The best natural sources of B vitamins are yeast, liver, whole grains, rice, nuts, milk, eggs, meat, fish, fruits and leafy green vegetables.Increase your intake of Omega-3 fatty acids: Omega-3 fatty acids are essential for proper brain function, and have even been shown to encourage the growth of grey matter in the brains of people suffering from depression. You can increase your intake of omega-3 fatty acids by eating more oily fish like mackerel, tuna, salmon, herring and sardines., Getting enough good quality sleep is essential for your overall health — it improves your mood, boosts brain function, gives you more energy and ensures the proper function of your immune system.


Aim to get 8 hours sleep per night, and try to follow a consistent schedule, so you are going to bed and waking up at the same time each night.
 People who have lots of friends and regularly interact with people are likely to be much happier and to live longer than those who don't. Therefore, when tackling depression, it's important that you make an effort to see your family and friends and generally be as sociable as possible.


If you find it difficult to meet new people, consider enrolling in a group, joining a class or volunteering for a charity organization.
 Hypericum is an herb which is believed to improve mood by boosting the production of hormones such as serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine, which are responsible for feelings of happiness and pleasure.


Hypericum can be taken in one of two ways, you can drink it as a tea, or buy supplements which contain hypericum extract.
Hypericum produces no adverse side effects, and can be taken in combination with antidepressant medications. However, it is still a good idea to speak to your doctor before starting any new treatment.

