 Mood boards are always an excellent route, but the key to the process is to be able to keep in mind why the girl wants her room changed in the first place (particularly if she loved it before), and what vibe she wants it changed into.;
, Again, understanding the "why" is the key here, and the fact that your color palette (light vs bright vs dramatic vs romantic, etc) will largely be determined by those things is a huge bonus.
 It gives you the biggest bang for your buck every time. Also, keep in mind that although she wants change, it may not need to be something dramatically different to fit the bill. For example, going from a baby pink room to a hot pink one might enable her to keep her "favorite color" as the unifying feature, while still giving the space an entirely different spin. As a plus, those pastel items still look good against other clean colors (aka not muddied or grayed), and can actually make a space look far more complex and sophisticated than you could with all strongly colored décor.
 With a different range of pillow and quilt covers, you can change the colour scheme from without re-painting. A babyish - pink and purple can change to a more sophisticated blue and purple, or pink and green. Match a few other things too.
 Not only can you put up fairy lights instead of those dull, dull lamps - wrapped round the bedspread, I favour fuzzy fairy lights - but you can also change the shade to the main room light. These are cheap, and can alter a room a lot - maybe even changing the colour of the light that comes through.
 By moving your things about, you can give your room the impression of more space, less space or just a new feel. If you wake up at five every morning, with the sun on your face then move your bed. If you can't get to your draws, then move them. If something puts you off whenever you work, get rid of it...or move it.
 If something embarrasses you - say a photo, or a toy, then put it away. Dig out some awesome things from underneath the clutter, and enjoy.
 Make some cushions, or buy some beanbags. Get a furry rug and place it on the floor. Create a space to curl up and read, and put your mini-library-bookshelf near it.
 Not only can this give the illusion of a bigger room, but it can also add more light, and make the room seem less heavy. It is also useful for in the morning.
, The light shines through, and makes them glow and scatter bright colours on the room. You can also alternate the colours, and patterns - from dolphins to friend messages.
 Not too many, this can make a room look over cluttered. A few - one or two - can not only make a room look nicer, it also says a lot about the individual. Art - your own art - can also be cool. You can buy mini canvases and acrylic paint pots, which are designed to go on your wall.
 Chances are she'll be bored of it again in a few years, so the bottom line is to find a way to change the look of the room while keeping most of the things in it the same. Painting the place is usually the most cost-efficient route.

