 Even over-the-counter (OTC) treatments may interfere with certain health and medical conditions, so it’s a good idea to consult with your doctor or a pharmacist before using them.


If you have allergies, medical conditions, take medications, or are pregnant or breastfeeding, always consult your doctor before starting any treatment process.
Do not use treatments on children without consulting a pediatrician first. Treating scalp eczema in children is a different process and is covered in its section of this article.
 There are various over-the-counter shampoos and oils to treat scalp eczema. Over-the-counter treatments are natural first-line treatments that are used before seeking out prescribed shampoos. You can also use them daily over an extended period.


These OTC shampoos are not approved for use on children! Use them only on adult scalp eczema.
 Regardless of the kind of shampoo you use, there are some general instructions you can use to wash your hair with any of the shampoos or oils. Scrubbing your scalp too vigorously or using shampoos that contain alcohol can make your scalp eczema worse.


First, rinse your hair with warm (not hot) water.
Apply the treatment shampoo thoroughly on your scalp and hair, massaging it gently into your scalp. Do not scrub or scratch your scalp. This could cause the scales to bleed or even become infected.
Leave the medication on for the amount of time recommended on the package. Typically, you need to keep it on for at least 5 minutes.
Rinse your hair thoroughly with warm (not hot) water and dry with a clean towel.
Coal tar shampoo can be harmful if swallowed. Avoid getting it into your eyes or mouth.
Some treatments, such as ketoconazole shampoo, may be more effective when you alternate them with a different scalp product twice a week., This shampoo kills the yeast that is potentially responsible for many cases of scalp eczema. If you kill the yeast, your skin will have a chance to heal without increased dryness, inflammation, or itchy scales.


Common side effects include dryness or oiliness of the hair or scalp. Less common side effects can include hair discoloration, hair loss, and irritation.You must use this treatment at least two times a week for it to be effective.
 Tea tree oil (Melaleuca alternifolia) has natural antifungal properties that may help treat scalp eczema. One clinical study demonstrated some improvement when using shampoo with a 5% concentration of tea tree oil.The only common side effect is scalp irritation.This product can be used daily.
Do not consume tea tree oil, as it is toxic. Avoid getting it in your eyes or mouth.
Tea tree oil has estrogenic and anti-androgenic properties that have been linked to conditions such as breast growth in prepubescent males., Egg Oil (Ovum Oil) has natural immunoglobulins that help treat scalp eczema on regular use.


This product must be used twice a week, leaving on overnight for at least a year.
Egg oil is rich in Omega-3 fatty acid Docosahexanoic Acid which promotes new epithelial cell growth.
 Most anti-dandruff shampoos use pyrithione zinc as their active ingredient. Scientists do not know exactly why it is helpful to treat scalp eczema, although it may have antifungal and anti-bacterial properties.It also helps slow the production of skin cells, which helps reduce flaky skin. The only known side effect is scalp irritation.


This method can be used three times a week.
Look for shampoos with a 1% or 2% concentration of pyridine zinc.Pyrithione zinc is also available as a topical cream., This shampoo has exfoliation qualities and helps heal the peeling upper layers of skin on your scalp. It is effective in shampoo at concentrations of 1.8 to 3%. The only side effect is skin irritation.
 Ketoconazole is very effective in treating scalp eczema. It is available in several OTC preparations, including shampoos, foams, creams, and gels. It is also available in prescription treatments.Over-the-counter preparations are lower in strength than prescription shampoos or creams.Side effects may include unusual hair texture, discoloration, scalp irritation, or oiliness or dryness of the scalp or hair.1% to 2% ketoconazole shampoo is effective and safe, including in infants. It can be used twice daily for two weeks., Although it is not a shampoo, raw honey has antibacterial and antifungal properties.It can be used to alleviate itching and loose skin flakes. It is not a cure for scalp eczema, although it may help heal scalp skin lesions.Dilute raw honey in warm water, using 90% honey and 10% water.Rub crude or raw honey into the scalp lesions for 2 to 3 minutes. Do not scrub or rub harshly. Rinse with warm water.
Every other day, rub the honey onto the itchy areas of your scalp and leave it on for 3 hours. Rinse your scalp after the 3 hours are up.Continue this regimen for 4 weeks., This shampoo helps by decreasing the rate at which skin cells are produced on your scalp. It also decreases fungus growth and loosens and softens the scales and crust on your scalp. However, it is not as safe to use as other OTC treatments, so it’s a good idea to try other options first.Use this shampoo twice daily for up to four weeks.
Possible side effects include itching of the scalp, localized hair loss, contact dermatitis in the fingers, and altered pigmentation in the skin.You should consult your doctor before using a coal tar shampoo. It should not be used with children or with pregnant or breastfeeding women. It may also cause harmful interactions with certain medications or cause allergic reactions.