 Steam cleaning can help to refresh your skin and help to sooth problem areas on your face, such as a deep pimple. You can also integrate essential oils in your steam clean to help “draw” out the deep pimple. You will need to following supplies:


1-quart pot
Water
A clean towel
Essential oils
Dried herbs, if you do not have access to essential oils

, You should use essential oils that have antibacterial or antiseptic properties and that can help to sooth the deep pimples.


Spearmint or peppermint: Due to a high percentage of menthol, spearmint or peppermint has antiseptic and immune boosting properties.Thyme: This herb can improve your immune system and is known to be antibacterial. It is also known to increase your blood circulation.Lavender: This herb has soothing and calming properties. It also has antibacterial properties and can help with anxiety and depression.Calendula: This herb can help to accelerate healing and also has antimicrobial properties.Always pre-test the oil on a small area of your skin before you use it. This will confirm you are not allergic to the herbal oil. To test the oil, place one drop on your wrist and wait 10–15 minutes. Only use the oil for steam cleaning if there is no reaction on the surface of your skin.
 Use a hair tie to put your hair back so your face is exposed. Then, wash your face with a plant-oil based product. This will ensure it is clean and ready for steaming. Use oils like glycerin, grapeseed, and sunflower to create a plant-oil based product.


Use your fingertips to apply the product to your face, gently massaging in circular motions. Wash your face for about a minute and then use lukewarm water to rinse your face, removing the cleanser.
Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
 Use the 1-quart pot and fill it halfway with water. Place it on the stove and let it boil for one to two minutes. Make sure the water creates a nice flow of steam.


Add one to two drops of the essential oils. Use dried herbs if you do not have access to herbal oils. Use ½ teaspoon of dried herbs per quart of water.
Allow the water to boil for another minute and then take it off the heat. Be careful, as the pot will be hot. Shut off the stove and put the pot on an even surface in an open area.
 Cover your head with the towel first so you can position your face 12–15 inches from the water. Doing this will cause your blood vessels to dilate and your pores to open up without damaging your skin with the steam.


Close your eyes and breathe in and out deeply. Relax and be calm as the steam wafts over your face.
 One minute in, remove your face from the steam and let your skin rest for 10 minutes. Only reheat the water and steam again if you do not have an allergic reaction to the oils in the steam after 10 minutes, with no sneezing or itching.


Hold your face over the steam for up to 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, remove your face from the steam and rinse your skin with lukewarm water. Pat dry it with a towel.
 End the steam session by hydrating your face with natural oils or a non-comedogenic moisturizer. This will keep your skin soft and prevent damage to your skin.


Go for store-brand moisturizers that are labeled non-comedogenic or non-clogging, like Olay, Neutrogena, and Clinique moisturizers.
For a natural option, go for natural oils that are high in non-comedogenic properties, such as hemp seed oil, shea butter, sunflower oil, castor oil, calendula oil, or argan oil.Begin by moisturizing your face twice a day with natural oils, in the morning and at night. Do the steam treatment once a day, in the morning or the evening.

