 You don't want to pack sweaters and jeans to find out that the weather that week will be warm! Check the weather on a website (a good idea is The Weather Channel) and type in where you are going in the forecast box.;
, Some good ideas are books, video game devices, iPods, cell phones, etc. You never know when you will get bored during that trip!

, Even if you are going to a place with cold weather, bring one in case you were to go to an indoor pool.
 A big travel mistake is forgetting money, and not being able to buy souvenirs or gifts. If you bring any, be careful with it. Carry it in a pocket, or even stuff it in your shoe if you are visiting a busy city like New York City, Las Vegas, Chicago, etc. If you're in a place where it's not so likely that you will get mugged, just put it into a handbag and make sure to be cautious.
 If you have a special item that is important to you at home, don't say, "I don't think I'll need it," then end up wanting the item. Just bring it if it's special to you.
 You need to brush and floss your teeth. Bring a toothbrush, toothpaste, floss, and mouthwash (if you use mouthwash) and a bottle of water, for rinsing.
 What do you use for your hair at home? Well, bring it with you. Hairbrush, Shampoo & Conditioner, and ponytail holders are definitely things that you should bring with you.
 Make sure to shower during this trip; there is no need to be greasy or smell bad. Shampoo, conditioner, deodorant, body wash, body spray, and soap are the main body care items that you will need during the five days, but bring any other body care items that you may use.
 Where will you be sleeping? Most likely you won't be needing to worry about a sleeping bag and pillow unless you are going camping. No matter where you go, you will need pajamas. But bring whatever sleeping supplies you may need depending on where you are going.
 In case it rains, bring a jacket of some sort. Also, in the rare case of a severe storm, make sure you have whatever you would need to get through that storm.

