 Being around people who love you can be its own form of medicine. Aim to spend time with people you care about and have fun with. Even if it’s just enjoying dinner or watching a television show together, it can be helpful to have the company and support of friends or family.If you need to talk about how you feel, seek out a trusted friend who’s a good listener. Sometimes just venting can help release the tension and help you move past your difficult feelings.
Stay away from people (even friends) who are dramatic or needy. This can add unnecessary stress.;
, Maybe you have an overly-talkative coworker or someone asks you to do something last minute. If you know you’re dealing with PMS, learn to unplug and say, “No.” Avoid people, events, and situations that you know will cause you stress. Say no to requests that feel stressful and opt to focus on self-care instead.Get in the habit of saying, “I’m sorry, I can’t do that” or, “I’m unavailable at this time.”
If a task can wait until your PMS is gone, put it off.
 Get in the habit of tracking your symptoms of bipolar disorder and PMS through a journal or mood chart. When you know to anticipate your symptoms, you can better deal with them. By journaling your emotions, you can anticipate them and how you might feel or act, then prepare accordingly.For example, if you notice your symptoms spike 3-5 days before your menstrual period, track the ways you respond to your emotions to see what works.
 When your moods and PMS are getting the best of you, practice mindfulness as a way to connect to the here-and-now. Mindfulness has been shown to increase feelings of well-being and help people deal with their symptoms.If you’re having a hard time coping and want to feel more centered, mindfulness is a great way to do that. Start with your breath and focus on each inhale and exhale coming into and leaving your body.


You can also do a sensory exercise by focusing on each sense for one minute at a time. For example, close your eyes and focus only on the sounds around you, however small they might be. Then, focus on what you see and notice the details that you often overlook. Continue with the rest of the senses.
 If you’re feeling irritable and need some time to yourself, take it. Say “No” to that big event with crowds of people and opt to have some quality time alone. If you’re at school or at the office, excuse yourself and take a quick walk or go to the bathroom and splash some water on your face. If you’re at home, take a soothing bath or try a calm activity.Take some alone time if being with others makes you feel irritable, or if you notice that you’re snapping at others.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. Practicing every day keeps your stress levels low and can help stabilize your moods. Aim to do a relaxing activity for 30 minutes each day. Keeping a consistent routine can help you manage your bipolar year-round, not just when you have PMS.Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.
 The foods you eat can affect how you feel and can even influence your mood. Be extra careful to nourish your body be eating healthy foods, like whole grains, vegetables, and fruit. Limit your salt and sugar intake, especially at the end of your cycle.Stay away from junk foods like candy, chips, and processed foods. Focus on eating whole meals. Even chocolate can have a negative effect due to the caffeine., Sleep disruptions can affect your mood and your bipolar symptoms. Managing your sleep can be hard yet the consequences tend to be severe, so aim to be consistent. Keep a sleep schedule by going to bed and waking up at the same time each day, even on the weekends. This helps your body build routine and can help it fall asleep more easily and stay asleep through the night.If you struggle to fall asleep, aim to put your mind and body into a calm state before nodding off. Relax before you go to bed by meditating, drinking a glass of herbal tea, or taking a bath.
Keep bright screens (like the television or your smartphone) off 1-2 hours before bedtime.
 Exercise is great for both your physical and emotional health.While it can be hard to motivate yourself to exercise, especially when you’re dealing with PMS, try to exercise even just a little by taking a quick walk or riding your bike. Try to exercise regularly throughout the month to minimize your experience of symptoms.


If exercise stirs up your manic symptoms, aim to do something less vigorous. Try walking instead of running or yoga instead of an aerobics class.
Lack of exercise can contribute to PMS symptoms., Caffeine and nicotine may provide temporary relief, but they are not effective long-term treatments. If you’re experiencing PMS or bipolar symptoms, think about reaching for something else instead of a latte or cigarette.It’s especially important to avoid caffeine and nicotine if you have trouble sleeping, as both can contribute to sleep problems., Alcohol and drugs can affect the severity of your symptoms and make you feel worse.Especially if you tend to feel depressed, stay away from alcohol. Alcohol or drugs may help you feel better for a few moments, but won’t help you overall.


You don’t have to cut your lifestyle in order to avoid alcohol. For example, if your friends are meeting socially, opt for a seltzer water and lime instead of an alcoholic drink.
If you’re struggling with alcoholism, get treatment.
 If you have bipolar disorder and are not medicated, it is recommended to start medication. A consistent dose of medication can help control your bipolar symptoms and allow you to feel more stable. Feeling in control of your mood can help you with your PMS symptoms and perhaps make them feel less severe.


Depending on your symptoms, they may add an antidepressant to your treatment.Find a psychiatrist by asking your therapist or physician for a recommendation. You can also call your insurance provider.
 A therapist can help you if you feel like you can’t do it on your own or you could use some help. Talk about your bipolar symptoms and how PMS affects them. They can help you explore and understand your feelings as well as give you tools to help you manage your moods, irritability, and other symptoms.Find a therapist by calling a local mental health clinic or your insurance provider. You can obtain a recommendation from your physician or family and friends.
 Tell your physician about your symptoms and ask for their advice on treatment. They may put you on birth control pills as a way to treat your PMS symptoms. Look for pills that have a continuous dose, especially ones that contain drospirenone.Your physician may recommend pain relievers such as aspirin or ibuprofen for symptoms such as headaches, backaches, and cramping, and breast tenderness.
Talk to your physician if you suspect you have Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), a more severe form of PMS.

