 Think about which flower(s) are going to act as the star for the centerpieces, such as hydrangeas, tulips, lilies, etc, and then decide if you are going to focus on a certain color palette or mix of shades and tones to choose the complementary flowers.Purchase cut flowers from a florist with good quality flowers and lots of variety. If you are going to use a mixed variety of flowers for the arrange, collect five varieties of leaves or shapes. If you are going for a more simple arrangement, look for perhaps one star flower and one complementing flower with a different leaf shape.
Ask your wedding planner to recommend a florist or call around and compare prices for wedding arrangements from several florists.There are also online sites where you can order floral arrangements in bulk, a great option if you are creating centerpieces for a large wedding.If you decide to use silk flowers instead of fresh ones, order silk flowers online in bulk and create your own silk flower arrangements.
You may want to also consider using succulents or tropical plants to create a unique look for the centerpieces.;
, The type of container for the floral arrangements you use should complement the color or theme of the wedding, as well as the size, shape, and color of the flowers. You could use classic glass vases, mason jars, or alternative holders like wicker baskets or clay pots.Look for vessels that are one to two inches shorter than the flowers you are going to use. A wide neck on a vase or jar allows the flowers to sit higher on longer stems, which more narrow vases or jars are usually better for shorter stems.
 Because you are going to be using fresh cut flowers, avoid wilting buds or dull petals by creating the centerpieces the day before the wedding and then storing them in a cooler or refrigerator until the reception so the flowers remain fresh looking.
 You will also need a pair of scissors (or several pairs if someone is assisting you) and access to fresh water.
 Fill the container about halfway with water.
 Place the container of water in front of you and spread out your hands to make a circle over the vase. This will help you keep an invisible boundary for the arrangement., Think of the circle as a peace sign. These three equal parts will allow you to arrange the flowers in a balanced way.
 Run your hand gently along the stems in a downward motion to remove the leaves.
 Angling the cut will ensure the flowers last longer and stay fresh in the container.
 Do this by placing each stem at an angle into the three equal parts you created over the container. It’s fine if they overlap, as long as they are all facing outward, away from the center of the container.


If you are using decorative leaves in the arrangement, place these in the container first to act as a nice base for the arrangement.
 Use three stems of the star flower and place them in the three sections of the container.


Flowers with shapely bulbs like hydrangeas, lilies, and tulips all make great star flowers.
 To add some extra pops of color and texture, slide in the supporting flowers in the three sections of the container to complement the star flowers.


Flowers like roses, snap dragons, and lisianthus make great supporting flowers.
 Fillers can be flowers with wide green leaves, or thin flowers like baby’s breath or astartea.


Primp and adjust the arrangements so it looks even, balanced, and full.

