 Keeping a sleep diary can help you to determine if your sleep apnea is getting better or worse. To start a sleep diary, record as many details as possible about the quantity and quality of your sleep to help you monitor your condition. Some things to record in a sleep diary include:How long you sleep each night
How many times you wake up during the night and at what time
How you feel in the morning
Anything your partner noticed during the night — this is vital, as many people don't wake up enough to realize they have had an apneic (a temporary suspension of breathing) episode, but your partner may notice

, Being overweight is one of the main risk factors for sleep apnea. If you are overweight, then do what you can to get to a healthy weight (defined as a BMI between 18.5 – 25). Losing weight involves reducing the number of calories you take in while increasing the number of calories you burn. To achieve this ratio, you will need to eat less and move more. Some other things that may help you to lose weight include:Drinking more water
Keeping a food diary

Developing an exercise routine

, Exercise will help you to lose weight and it can also improve your lung function and strengthen your breathing muscles. It has also been shown to improve concentration, critical thinking, mood, and a number of other positive benefits. Try to incorporate moderate-intensity exercise five times a week for 30 minutes.Start with some light cardiovascular exercise such as walking, biking, or swimming. Even if you can only do 10 minutes at first, keep at it and increase the length and intensity of your workouts over time.
Include some yoga in your daily routine to tone muscles and improve your breath control as well.
 Smoking is bad for your lungs and it can contribute to all kinds of health problems such as cancer, emphysema, and high blood pressure. Smoking also triples your risk of developing sleep apnea, but you can eliminate this risk factor by not smoking.There are medications and smoking cessation programs that can help you quit. Talk to your doctor for help.
 Alcohol depresses your nervous system, which can interfere with normal breathing. To avoid this potential cause of sleep apnea, do not drink any alcoholic beverages. Instead, choose alcohol-free beverages, such as sparkling water, juice, and tea.If you are used to having an alcoholic beverage before bed to help you sleep, then try switching to herbal tea, such as chamomile. Chamomile can help to relieve anxiety and improve sleep.
 Sleeping on your side rather than on your back or stomach may help stop snoring and breathing problems associated with sleep apnea. Sleeping on your side or on your back does not cure sleep apnea, but it prevents it from happening as long as your stay on your side while you sleep.To make sure that you stay on your side while you sleep, you can use a wedge or place some pillows behind your back to keep you from rolling over during the night.
You can also sew a tennis ball into the back of your pajamas to prevent you from rolling onto your back. This, however, may lead to backaches., Some medications can make OSA worse. Specifically, benzodiazepines, opiates and other sedatives, and some antidepressants. If you have a new diagnosis of OSA and are already taking one of these medications, talk to your doctor about the risk/benefit of continuing.
 Having a regular sleep schedule may also reduce your risk of sleep apnea. Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day.For example, you might go to bed every night at 11:30pm and wake up every morning at 7:00am. Use an alarm and don't hit snooze!

, Heavy or spicy meals before bedtime may increase your risk of sleep disruption. To eliminate this risk, stop eating two to three hours before you go to bed.If you are hungry, try a light snack like a piece of fruit or a cup of herbal tea.

