 Experts suggest that all stimulating activities should be avoided after eating. Children should also avoid eating big meals close to bed time, and they should not have any caffeinated drinks.Caffeine is a stimulant that makes it difficult to sleep, and going to bed on a full stomach can be uncomfortable because of acid build up. Eating and drinking right is the first step towards bedtime., This should include the normal bedtime preparations, such as taking a bath or washing hands, brushing teeth and getting into their pajamas. There are other activities you can try however, that will help close out the day. Thirty minutes is a good amount of time to spend on these activities.Try reading a story to your child.
Listen to some quiet music.
Have you children help their stuffed animals to bed.
Try coloring for a little while.
Play with a puzzle.
Have your child lay out his or her clothes for the following day.
Call his or her grandparents and say goodnight.
Talk with one another.
 Warn your children that bed time is in five minutes, but you can give them the option to go immediately. Make sure their bed is ready for your children with their favorite blanket or toy and tuck your children in so they are comfortable. These steps will help your child know its bedtime.Try to maintain a comfortable temperature in the bedroom, somewhere around 72 degrees Fahrenheit.
 Your child may ask for several things at bed time, and you should not be worried about fulfilling their requests because the first few are probably legitimate. As you continue to develop your nighttime routine, try to work your child's demands into the nighttime procedure. If your children expresses fears at bed time, you should reassure them that there is nothing to worry about.If you child is scared of the dark, turn off the lights and sit with him or her until their fears are overcome.
You can also use a nightlight.
 When you say goodnight and walk out of the bedroom, you need to mean it. If your child calls to you after you have left, wait a while to respond so that your child knows it is bedtime. If you child wakes up at night and comes to visit you, calmly walk him or her back to their bedroom and explain that it is still bedtime.