 These chemicals are sprayed on the surface of the yard, but when it rains they leach deep into the ground and get into the groundwater below. Contaminated groundwater can have a negative effect on the environment as well as the people who depend on it. Switch to natural methods for getting rid of pests and weeds.


Look into organic gardening practices to find creative ways to deal with garden pests. For example, many pests can be dealt with using a simple solution of dish soap and water.
Planting native species can also help, since native species have developed a resistance to the pests and weeds in the area. Species native to other lands are more susceptible to disease as well.
 When a house is surrounded by concrete patios and other surfaces, chemicals pool and runoff leaches into the groundwater instead of getting evenly distributed staying closer to the surface. It might be tempting to pave over your yard so you don't have to deal with mowing the lawn, but keeping a yard is much better for the environment.
 When soil gets eroded and ends up in streams, rivers and other waterways, chemicals that exist in soil mix with the water and create problems for plant and animal life. For example, when phosphorus levels get too high in a body of water, they lead to algae blooms that can kill fish populations. The best way to prevent erosion is to keep the soil in place by planting plenty of native trees, shrubs, grasses and groundcover. The plants' roots hold the soil in place and keep it from falling into the water., Yard waste that sits around can easily wash into storm drains when it rains. Even if the waste doesn't contain chemicals such as herbicides and pesticides, the introduction of large quantities of sticks, leaves, and grass clippings can overwhelm waterways with unhealthy quantities of nutrients.


Your compost should be contained in a bin or barrel to prevent the materials from being washed away. Some municipalities provide these for free or at low cost.
Use a mulching mower instead of bagging grass clippings. Mulching mowers add a natural layer of compost to your lawn and you don't have to deal with disposal of grass clippings.
Dispose of yard waste and grass clippings properly. If you don't compost or if you have yard waste that you can't compost, contact your local waste management or environmental protection agency to determine how to dispose them.
 If your car leaks oil and other chemicals, they can leach into the groundwater beneath the soil. Get your car regularly tuned up and make sure to repair any leaks as soon as they occur.


In addition, don't forget to dispose of motor oil properly instead of washing it down the drain.

