 For the millet tabbouleh, you’ll need a large nonstick skillet. Place it on the stove, and allow it to heat for about 5 minutes on medium heat.You can also use a medium saucepan for the entire cooking process.;
, Once the skillet is heated, add ¾ cup (150 g) of millet to it. Allow it to toast for 4 to 6 minutes or until it is lightly golden.Raw millet is available in many grocery and health food stores. You can often find it in the ethnic foods aisle.
 After you’ve toasted the millet, transfer it to a medium saucepan. Add 2 cups (473 ml) of water and ¾ teaspoon (4 g) of salt to the pan, and heat the mixture on medium-high until it comes to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.If you want to boost the flavor of your tabbouleh, you can substitute chicken or vegetable stock for the water.
 Once the mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low and cover the pan. Allow the millet mixture to simmer for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the millet is tender., When the millet is tender, remove the saucepan from the stove. Leave the lid on the pan, but allow the millet to sit for 10 minutes. Next, remove the lid and allow it to cool for 5 to 10 minutes.After you remove the lid from the pan, use a fork to fluff the millet a bit before you leave it to cool.
 Add 2 teaspoons (4 g) of lemon zest, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of fresh lemon juice, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of water,1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive oil, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt to a large bowl. Whisk the mixture together well to ensure that it’s fully blended.If you like, you can add some freshly ground black pepper to the mixture as well.
 Once the lemon juice mixture is combined, add 1 cup (149 g) of quartered grape tomatoes, 1 cup (150 g) of English cucumber, ½ cup (115 g) of sliced scallions, sliced, ½ cup (15 g) of chopped, fresh parsley, and ½ cup (15 g) of chopped, fresh mint to the bowl. Toss well to ensure that all of the ingredients are mixed.While mint and parsley are standard in all tabbouleh recipes, you can customize the other ingredients based on your preference.
You can substitute cherry tomatoes for the grape tomatoes.
Thinly sliced radishes also make a tasty addition to tabbouleh.
 When all of the seasoning ingredients and vegetables are mixed, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Let the mixture sit for 15 to 20 minutes so the flavors have time to meld.There’s no need to refrigerate the mixture as it sits.
 After you’ve let the seasoning mixture sit for a bit, add the cooked millet to the bowl. Toss the ingredients well to ensure that the millet is well coated and blended with the other ingredients.You may want to taste the tabbouleh at this point, and season with salt and pepper if necessary.
 When all of the ingredients are combined, cover the bowl with plastic wrap again. Place it in the refrigerator and allow it to chill for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavor to really develop.If you like, you can prepare the tabbouleh the day before you plan to serve it. That will really give the flavors time to meld.
 After the millet tabbouleh has chilled for a half hour, take the bowl out of the refrigerator. Use a fork to toss the ingredients once more to ensure that the ingredients are blended and the millet is fluffy before serving.You can serve the tabbouleh chilled or let it sit out and come to room temperature if you prefer.

