 This method involves using water to dampen eyeshadow, and then applying it. Most eyeshadows become hard and unusable when they get wet. Fortunately, there are some eyeshadows that are designed for this "wet" type of application. Most of these types of eyeshadows will say on the package that they can be applied wet. Here is what you should keep in mind when choosing eyeshadow:"Wet-to-dry" eyeshadows are the best for this sort of application. "Baked" eyeshadows and loose pigment powders are also suitable.
Regular eyeshadows are not recommended, because they will get hard and unusable if they get wet. If you must use regular eyeshadow, go for the metallic ones.Keep in mind that the eyeshadow will look powdery when it dries. If you want something that always looks wet, click here.;
, Make sure that the brush is dense and thick. If you don't like to use brushes, you can use a foam-tipped eyeshadow applicator instead. Make sure that the brush or applicator are clean.
 This base can be an eyeshadow primer, cream eyeshadow, or pressed eyeshadow. Applying wet eyeshadow will work on just about anything.









Use eyeshadow primer to help the wet eyeshadow go on smoothly.
Use cream eyeshadow if you want a brighter color.
Use pressed eyeshadow if you want to get a softer blending.
 You can use distilled or filtered water, makeup setting spray, or a makeup mixing medium. Avoid using tap water, as it tends to contain harmful bacteria. Also, do not dip the brush into the water, and don't get the eyeshadow itself wet. You want the brush to be damp, not soaking wet.If the brush is too wet, dab it lightly on a clean towel.









If you are using a foam-tipped applicator, lightly mist just one side. Press the wet side against the back of your hand. This will help saturate the brush., Keep your brush moving back and forth in one direction. Don't press too hard. Try to use the damp brush on only one side of the eyeshadow pan. This way, the other side will always stay dry. Even wet-to-dry eyeshadows can harden with too much moisture.








If you are using a loose pigment powder, shake a small amount into a dish or the cap first.This way, you won't pick up too much and end up with a clumpy mess.
If you are using a foam-tipped applicator and loose pigment, press the pigmented side against the back of your hand. This presses the pigment into the foam. It will help keep the foam from shedding loose pigment over your face., Apply it all the way from the lash line to the crease. If you plan on using other colors, such as in the crease and on the brow bone, you will need to let this first color dry.
 If you want, you can even use a different color, such as in the crease. For an even brighter look, you can dust some dry eyeshadow onto the wet one.







