 Settle on a ring you love that’s within your means and make sure you’re in a financially responsible position to afford it. Have a budget in place and refer to it before making any rash buying decisions. A wedding ring isn’t a make-believe decoration. It’s a serious investment, and no matter who you are, buying a quality ring that’s up to your standards is going to leave a dent in your checkbook. Try not to have any unrealistic expectations about finding a storybook ring for a steal. For the most part, you get what you pay for: quality metals and custom engravings are simply going to cost more.Resist the temptation to spend beyond your means. It’s one thing to live a little lighter for a while until you make up the cost, but spending more money than you have on a ring that you simply can’t afford is ill-advised., Instead of projecting an estimate of what you might spend on a ring and using that figure to inform your search, you might also consider finding a ring you like first and then saving up for it. Again, having a ring fund set up can be an invaluable aid, as all that money will have already been cleared for the purpose of buying a ring and won’t cause any unexpected hiccups in paying the rent or keeping the lights on. Purchasing a ring outright can also be a great weight off your shoulders—it might be a big expense all at one time, but once it’s yours, it’s yours.Quality rings are not cheap. It’s wisest to start saving up for a wedding ring as far as you can in advance.
In certain stores, it may be possible to negotiate the price of an item a little with the jeweler. Knowing that you’re committed to buying a ring then and there may be enough to convince the jeweler to haggle with you until you reach a price you can both live with.
 Realistically, most shoppers will be better off financing their ring of choice. Possible payment plans will differ depending on store policy where you buy your ring, but generally you’ll feel less financially limited if you have the option of paying the ring off a little at a time rather than in one fell swoop. Read the fine print of the jeweler’s payment plan paperwork, and, if possible, look for plans with zero interest or promotional rates that expire after a certain time. If you’re not careful, you might get stuck paying considerably more than you originally anticipated.Be wary of financing plans offered by jewelry stores. Their rates may seem attractive at first, but can skyrocket after the advertised promotions expire, and may leave you with the burden of debt in addition to your shiny new ring.If you’ve got your eye on a ring that you can’t live without but it’s a little out of your current price range, an installment plan might be just what you need, since you’ll be able to pay as you go.
 Jewelry stores (especially the larger brand-name retailers) often run promotional sales or offer discounts as a way to get people to buy from them. Don’t be afraid to take advantage of these offers. You may be eligible for a discount as a first time customer, or for buying a piece in a certain line. Take note of jewelers running specials when it comes time to do your ring shopping.You may also be able to take advantage of special promotions when setting up a financing plan; just watch out for discount expirations, hidden fees and deals that require you to set up a store credit card.

