 Not every estate owes inheritance tax. Some will be too small. For example, in Iowa, you do not need to pay any inheritance tax on an estate worth $25,000 or less.You will have to calculate the size of the estate according to your state’s rules, which differ by state. Usually, you calculate the “gross estate,” which is the market value of all property in the estate as of the deceased person’s death. Then you subtract certain liabilities from the gross estate. These liabilities may include:funeral expenses
debts owed by the deceased
estate property mortgages
taxes accrued before death
some expenses, e.g., attorney’s fees and court costs

;
, Some beneficiaries qualify for exemptions depending on how closely related they were to the deceased. For example, if you inherited from your spouse (or domestic partner), then every state exempts you from inheritance taxes.Sometimes children also qualify for exemptions. In Kentucky and Iowa, for example, children are exempt.These exemptions apply regardless of the size of the estate.
More distant relatives will sometimes qualify for a smaller exemption. For example, in Kentucky, aunts and uncles, as well as nieces and nephews, qualify for a $1,000 exemption.By contrast, they would receive a $15,000 exemption in Nebraska.When the estate is worth more than the exemption, then you need to pay the inheritance tax on the excess.
 In order to understand all applicable exemptions, you should find and read your state’s law. You can typically find your state’s law on the state’s Department of Revenue’s website.


You also might want to stop into your local law library and ask the librarian to show you the law. Your nearest law library will be either at the courthouse or at a nearby law school.
 The estate’s personal representative (executor) should have information on the size of the estate. Ask this person for the “gross estate” and then subtract your allowable expenses and exemptions.


Once you have the estate’s value, you should find your state’s tax tables for the inheritance tax.
Your tax rate will probably depend on your relationship to the deceased. In Iowa, for example, a brother or sister pays 5% on an estate valued up to $12,500. For any amount over $12,500 but below $25,000, siblings pay a tax rate that is 6% plus $625.A nephew in Iowa, however, pays a different rate. He pays 10% on the first $50,000 of the estate., You pay inheritance taxes directly to the state, not the federal government. Accordingly, you need to get the appropriate inheritance tax return form from your state.


Contact your state’s taxing authority, which is usually the Department of Revenue. They should be able to send the form to you. It may also be posted on their website.In Maryland, you must pay the tax to the Office of the Register of Wills. You pay when the estate property is distributed.Depending on your state, the executor or the beneficiary must fill out the form. In Iowa, for example, the Inheritance Tax form must be filled out by the executor.The executor must also complete forms in Pennsylvania., Be sure to fill out the form completely. Print legibly using black ink. You can also use a typewriter. Each state’s form differs. However, you should gather the following information which will help you complete the forms for most states:the name of the deceased
the deceased’s address
the executor’s name and address
the value of any property, including real estate and personal property
allowable deductions
information on beneficiaries, including the amount they received from the estate

, You may have to submit additional supporting documents along with the inheritance tax return. Check with the appropriate taxing authority. For example, you may need to include the following:a copy of the will and any trust agreements
any deeds
any contracts of sale
appraisals
a copy of a federal estate tax return

, Each state gives you only so much time to complete the inheritance tax return and pay the taxes owed. In New Jersey, for example, you generally have eight months after the deceased dies.You can mail your inheritance tax return to the address listed on the form. If no address is listed, then call the department or agency which gave you the tax form.


If you owe inheritance tax, then make sure to include sufficient payment. Depending on your state, the executor will gather checks from all beneficiaries, who must pay the tax. Typically, you can pay using a check.
Be sure to mail the form certified mail, return receipt requested. This way, the receipt will serve as proof that the state received the form. Keep a copy for your own records.
 Every state that subjects individuals to an estate tax has different laws regarding who must pay. For example, Washington exempts the first $2.054 million. New Jersey, however, only exempts the first $675,000.To determine if you will owe estate taxes, first find out if your state has estate taxes.
Second, make a rough estimate regarding the size of your estate. If you think it will be more than your state's exemption amount, you should continue with the process. For example, if you live in Oregon, the estate tax exemption threshold is $1 million. If your estate is worth more than that, you will most likely owe estate taxes., If your estate owes taxes, you will be required to file a state estate tax return. That form must be filed within a certain time period after the decedent's death. For example, in Oregon, you must file Form OR706 within nine months after the decedent's death.


Most states will allow for an extension of time if the estate is particularly complex. In Oregon, for example, you can ask for an extension of time to file or an extension of time to pay.
If you do not file your return on time, you may have to pay a penalty in addition to the tax., Once you know you have to file an estate tax return and you know when it must be filed, you will need to get the required forms together. Each state will have their own forms. You will be able to find them on the state taxing agency's website. For example, in Washington and Oregon, you would access the state's Department of Revenue website. From there you would search for "estate tax return forms."

, You will only owe estate taxes on the portion of your estate that exceeds the exemption threshold. When you start to fill out your state's return form, the first thing you will do is calculate your gross estate. Each state's form will walk you through this calculation. Your gross estate will include, among other things:Real estate
Stocks and bonds
Mortgages;
Cash
Life insurance
Any property transfers you made during your life
Annuities

, Before you assess your estate tax, you will be able to deduct various amounts from your gross estate. Every state will allow for different deductions. Generally, you will be able to deduct:Funeral expenses
The decedent's debts
Various bequests to the decedent's spouse (i.e., the marital deduction)
Various charitable gifts

, Your taxable estate is the amount you will use when you calculate your tax liability. It is calculated by subtracting the amount of your total allowable deductions from your gross estate.For example, assume you live in Oregon. Your gross estate equals $1.45 million. In addition, you are able to deduct $500,000. In this scenario, your taxable estate would equal $950,000 ($1,450,000 - $500,000). However, Oregon's estate tax exemption threshold is $1 million. Therefore, you would not have to pay any estate taxes.
In another example, assume you live in Oregon. Your gross estate equals $1.75 million. In addition, you are able to deduct $500,000. In this scenario, your taxable estate would equal $1.25 million ($1,750,000 - $500,000). Because Oregon's estate tax exemption threshold is $1 million, you would be required to pay estate taxes.
 If you are required to pay estate taxes based on the value of your taxable estate, most states will calculate your tax liability using a formula or a tax table. The formula or tax table will usually be included with the state estate tax return form. In Oregon, for example, you would use a tax table that is included in Form OR706.For example, if you live in Oregon and your taxable estate equals $1,250,000, you could look at Part 6 of Form OR706, which contains the tax table. Using that tax table you would determine that you would owe a 10% tax on $250,000. When you do the math, you would end up owing a total of $25,000 in estate taxes.
 Once you calculate all of the numbers and input them in the correct spots on your tax form, you need to file the return as required by your state. In Oregon, for example, you must file Form OR706 online or in the mail.Each state will have their own filing requirements.
 Most estates are not big enough to require the payment of federal estate taxes. As of 2015, only estates with combined gross assets and taxable gifts exceeding $5.43 million will be subjected to the tax.


To estimate the size of your estate, do a quick calculation and add up the fair market value of everything you own. In addition, add all of the taxable gifts you have made in your lifetime (since 1977). If this amount exceeds, $5.43 million, you will have to file a federal estate tax return., If you have estimated that the size of your estate exceeds the exemption threshold, you will need to fill out IRS Form 706. This is the federal estate tax return. You can find it by going online to the IRS website., Part 2, line 1 of IRS Form 706 asks you to input the value of your gross estate. To calculate the value of your gross estate, you can use the guidelines in Part 5 of IRS Form 706. You should add together the total fair market value of all of the following assets:Real estate
Stocks and bonds
Mortgages
Cash
Life insurance policies
Certain property transfers during your life
Annuities

, Your gross estate is reduced by the amount of any allowable deductions you take. Part 5 of IRS Form 706 lays out the deductions you may be able to take. Add together all of the allowable deductions, which might include:Funeral expenses
Debts
Mortgages
Charitable gifts made during your lifetime
Bequests to your surviving spouse

, Your tentative taxable estate equals your gross estate minus all of your deductions.For example, assume your gross estate equals $7 million and you are able to make $1 million in deductions. If you subtract your deductions from your gross estate, you get a tentative taxable estate of $6 million. Because $6 million is more than the federal exemption threshold ($5.43 million), you will be required to file your federal estate tax return.
 Before you calculate your tax liability, you are allowed to deduct the value of any state estate taxes you paid. Once you do, the final amount is considered your taxable estate.For example, assume you lived in Oregon and paid $25,000 in state estate taxes. Since you are able to deduct this amount from your tentative taxable estate, you do so and come up with a final taxable estate equaling $5,975,000.
 If your taxable estate exceeds the federal exemption threshold, you will have to pay a 40% tax on the amount that exceeds it.For example, assume you have a taxable estate equaling $5,975,000. You would subtract the federal exemption amount (i.e., $5.43 million) from your taxable estate. This would give you $545,000, which is the amount that will be taxed. You would finally take 40% of $545,000, which equals $218,000. This is the amount you would owe in federal estate taxes.
 Once you have filled out IRS Form 706 and determined the amount you owe in federal estate taxes, you will have to file the form and any attachments on time. The federal government requires you to file IRS Form 706 within nine months of the decedent's death.


You can also ask for an extension by filling out IRS Form 4768., While estate and inheritance taxes are two different concepts, they can be difficult to separate and understand. To distinguish between the two, think about what government is requiring you to pay the tax and who the tax is levied against. An inheritance tax is a state tax paid by beneficiaries of a decedent's property.On the other hand, an estate tax can be either federal or state and is paid by the decedent's estate., As of 2015, 15 states and the District of Columbia impose state estate taxes. In addition to the District of Columbia, if you live in any of the following states, or if your estate will be probated (i.e., when a court establishes the validity of your will) in any of the following states, you may be responsible for paying an estate tax:Washington
Oregon
Hawaii
Minnesota
Illinois
Tennessee
Vermont
New York
Maine
Massachusetts
Connecticut
Rhode Island
New Jersey
Delaware
Maryland

, As of 2015, only six states impose inheritance taxes. You might have to pay taxes even when you don’t live in one of the states. If the person who left you money lived in one of these states or owned property in the state, then you might owe inheritance taxes. The states with an inheritance tax are:Iowa
Kentucky
Maryland
Nebraska
New Jersey
Pennsylvania

, The federal government, like some states, also imposes an estate tax. However, if you have already paid state estate taxes, you will be able to deduct that payment on your federal estate tax form., If you have questions about the inheritance tax, you should meet with a tax professional. A tax professional can help answer your questions and also look over the tax forms before you submit them.


There are many different kinds of tax professionals, including accountants and CPAs. To find a tax professional, you can look in your phone book or search on the Internet.
For information on finding an accountant, see Hire an Accountant.
 You might also want to contact a lawyer if you have legal questions. Make sure that the lawyer practices tax law.


You can find a tax attorney by visiting your state’s bar association and asking for a referral. You can then set up a half-hour consultation with the lawyer.
Ask how much the consultation will cost. Tax attorneys sometimes offer free consultations, but some might charge a reduced fee. However, you might only need to talk to the lawyer for a half hour to have all of your questions answered.
Make sure that you arrive at your consultation with prepared questions so that you can get answers efficiently.
 You can also ask questions by calling your state’s taxing authority. It should have contact information, such as a telephone number or address, on its website.