 While most internships are not paid, there are some that will give you a stipend to help pay your bills or offset the cost of traveling abroad. There are even internships that provide housing, which can be a huge help financially. These positions are usually highly sought after but are applied for just as unpaid internships are, so if you are highly qualified a paid internship may be right for you.If you are interested in getting a paid internship you will need to find some to apply for. You can do an internet search for internships that are available to you but you may also be able to consult with your school's study abroad program to see if they know of any that are available.
A paid internship may require a work visa, but these programs usually make that arrangement.;
, If you do not have the financial ability to pay for a traditional study abroad program, you may be able to find a work abroad program instead. These programs are usually seasonal, so they can be great for making money and getting an experience abroad during summer break.Some common jobs that are offered in a work abroad program include being an au pair or teaching English.A work-abroad program will require a work visa but programs designed for foreigners usually make those arrangements.
 There are some countries that will allow you to work while studying abroad if you apply for a work visa. Whether or not you are granted a work visa will depend on the country you are going to, the study program you are doing, and the length of time you are staying, which in most cases needs to be at least six months. Some countries that do grant work visas include the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, France, Germany, and Spain. However, there are a lot of limitations placed on the amount and type of work you can do while a study abroad student.
Work visas require a fee and an application process. Do some research about how much a work visa costs in the country you are going to and assess whether you meet their requirements. For instance, in the UK you will need to pay a fee of £328 to apply for a Tier 4 student visa. In the application you will need to guarantee that you can write, read, and speak english, that you can afford to stay in the country without a job, and that you are enrolled in approved courses.Once you get a work visa, you will still need to apply for and get a job once you are abroad.

