 If you feel tears coming on due to emotional stress, sometimes stepping back from the situation can help. Putting some distance between yourself and a stressor can help you hold back tears.


If you are crying because of an argument then you need to show the person involved that you are upset about it. Tell them if you need to cool down. Say something like, "I need a minute" and leave the room. Go for a walk. Read a book. Do anything you can to distract yourself from growing emotional.If you're at work or school, leave a meeting or class to run to the bathroom. Take a quick five minute break if possible. Return to your office or cubicle and simply breathe for a few moments., You cannot always simply leave when you feel tears coming on. If you can't duck out from a meeting or a classroom, try to distract yourself from the emotional distress.


Take notes. They do not have to be relevant to what's happening. You can write song lyrics, poetry, simply doodle, anything to get your mind out of the present moment.Use your phone. If you're in a situation where it's appropriate, try using your phone as a way to get your mind off the situation. Go to a funny webpage. Check your Facebook profile. Send a text to a friend., If you learn to use self-talk to ground yourself emotionally, you can avoid crying when upsetting situations arise. You can think of a positive quote or applicable song lyrics to calm yourself down.

For example, you might think of a phrase your grandmother often used to say, such as “When life gives you lemons, make lemonade.”

, Oftentimes, people use crying as a means to convey frustration and distress. This is not necessarily a conscious decision. The chemicals released in tears often quell aggression, so crying is sometimes an evolutionary means of defense. However, sometimes it’s more effective to express anger when being disrespected.For example, say you arrive for a doctor's appointment to find your doctor is not in. You have a very busy schedule and today is the only day you have time for your annual physical. When you arrive, the doctor is not in and the receptionist unapologetically tells you he forgot to cancel the appointment. In such a situation, you may feel tempted to cry in frustration. However, instead express that you are angry.Express anger in a firm but non-aggressive manner. Do not curse out the receptionist or start yelling and making a scene in the office. Instead, say something like, "That's incredibly rude and I really don't appreciate it. I need you to make me another appointment." You've expressed that you are displeased with the situation in an upfront manner rather than attempting to diffuse the situation with tears.