 It's important to remember that PTSD is not something you're born with. Anyone can develop PTSD, as it is simply the brain's way of responding to and coping with severe trauma. If you or someone you know has PTSD, it's important to get help as soon as possible.You may need to see a doctor about your risk of PTSD if you experience any of the following:


nightmares or uncontrollable thoughts about the traumatic event
the urge to avoid any person, place, thing, or situation that reminds you of the traumatic event
a constant urge to be attentive or on guard
fright or anxiety over benign environmental factors
a numb, detached feeling that makes it hard to connect with people, places, or activities

, If you think you might have PTSD, it's important that you seek medical assistance. Some people wrongly believe that their PTSD symptoms will go away on their own.However, if you think you have PTSD, it's best to work with a medical professional.If your symptoms have not gotten better after three months or if they have gotten worse after any span of time, seek medical assistance right away.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an effective method of managing PTSD. A therapist can help you work through your trauma and develop coping methods to adjust back into your life.
Some therapists may recommend exposure therapy. In this treatment plan, you will be gradually exposed to whatever it is you're frightened by while working with your therapist to cope with the experience.Medication may be prescribed to treat the symptoms of PTSD. This may include antidepressants (particularly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors), anti-anxiety medications like benzodiazepines, and sleep medications like prazosin.
 If someone in your life has PTSD, let them know that you're available if they want to talk. However, you must also respect the fact that they may not want to talk about the traumatic event or their condition. You can also be supportive by encouraging your friend or relative to live a healthy lifestyle.Offer to join a friend, relative, or neighbor with PTSD when they attend medical appointments or therapy sessions. Encourage them to seek professional help if they are not currently getting it on their own.
Urge your friend or relative to avoid substance abuse, as this can make PTSD and anxiety worse.Be on the lookout for signs of substance abuse and voice your concerns if the situation arises.
Support a healthy lifestyle by encouraging your friend or relative with PTSD to exercise with you. Exercise can help reduce stress and calm anxiety in many individuals.
Encourage anyone you know with PTSD to stay in close contact with their family. People living with PTSD need support, and it's important for them to feel connected with loved ones during difficult periods.
 If someone with PTSD has talked about harming themselves or others, get help immediately. Take that individual to the nearest emergency room, call emergency services, or have them contact a crisis or suicide prevention hotline.Always take threats of self-harm or violence seriously.
Never wait and see if the problem gets better. Getting emergency help may save the individual's life, and it may save the lives of others as well.
 Though many of the media's representations of people with PTSD are misinformed, some individuals with this condition do live with mood swings. These changes in temperament can be difficult to predict in some (but not all) individuals, but by remaining calm and open to the other person, you can help defuse such tense situations.If someone you know has PTSD and is prone to mood swings, agree to take a mutual time-out whenever one of you needs it.
Agree that any discussion or series of events in progress will immediately pause whenever one of you calls a time-out.
Let one another know where you'll be and when you'll be back. Try to give yourselves at least 5 or 10 minutes to calm down and regroup.
When you meet up after the time-out, listen to one another and be open to each other. Avoid criticizing one another and focus on using "I" statements (such as, "I feel hurt when you say that") instead of making accusations or placing blame.

