 Sit down and take a handful of deep breaths. Focus in on how the air flows through your body and how you exhale. Do you naturally inhale with your mouth? Do you automatically exhale through your nose? As you head toward a nose-centered breathing technique this will help you to identify your strengths and weaknesses., The goal is to maintain a continual, uninterrupted air supply while playing the didgeridoo. You will pull air in with your nose while simultaneously pushing air out through your mouth into the didj mouthpiece. You will also continue to drone throughout this process.With circular breathing you consider the air that you breath in and the air in your mouth as two different entities. They should both feel as if they are never empty and consistently in motion. Establishing a rhythm is important here.One of the keys is to resist blowing the air out of your mouth. That will empty your lungs and stop the drone. Instead, slowly push the air out of your mouth mimicking the same motion as you would when spitting out water., Before you are ready to hit the didj, you need to practice. Get a straw and a glass of water. Place the straw in the water and put your lips the tip of the straw. Inhale through your nose while blowing bubbles in the water. Try to keep the bubbles constant as they represent the constancy of your drone. Repeat this multiple times a day until it becomes easy.Another way to practice is to drink and hold water in your mouth until your cheeks puff out. Then, slowly spit the water out of your mouth. Inhale through your nose as you do this. Your tongue should keep you from gagging or swallowing the water. It is easy to practice this one in the shower., Without the didj, simulate your breathing movements. Breath in until your cheeks are full. Keep inhaling through your nose as you push the air out of your mouth. Be controlled in these movements., Apply your circular breathing techniques when playing the didgeridoo. Keep up the inhale/push out rhythm while maintaining your drone. Avoid incorporating any extra sounds until you have a good handle on the breathing. If your breath is holding steady, the didj will sound steady and full of air as well.You should not expect to master circular breathing right away. It is generally one of the more frustrating parts of learning to play the didgeridoo. Keep working on your breathing but recognize that you can still play the didj without holding long notes., Inhale in a controlled manner until your lungs feel full. Hold this air in for one second before exhaling slowing until your lungs feel totally drained. Pause for a second and repeat. Do this exercise for 10-15 minutes every day and you will see results.You can also improve your lung capacity by avoiding smoking and regularly exercising.

