 The hammer of dawn is an orbital laser which decimates anything which it hits instantly. Used well, it is very easy to rack up multi-kills on enemies, particularly when you have the element of surprise. However, the laser has a rather slow charge up time and an even slower re-charge time. If you fire the laser and miss, it will take about 6 'beeps' for the laser to re-charge and for you to use it again. keep that in mind and make every shot count.;
, This means that you should keep the weapon trained on your hapless victim constantly while you are charging it up. Do not try to anticipate where they WILL be once the weapon is charged. The opponent will see the pointer on the ground in front of them and dart into cover.
 This only serves to waste the laser ammunition and is not very lethal compared to the devastating primary strike, where the laser first hits the ground. It is much better to only fire the laser for a millisecond then release the fire button. This maximizes your lethality and the amount of shots you will have.
 The enemy does not have to be directly below the laser when it hits the ground to score a kill; in fact, the laser is lethal for a range of about 4 meters (13.1 ft) around the initial strike. You can use this very useful property of the hammer of dawn to kill people inside buildings or beneath cover, albeit only if they are not very deep within buildings or cover(see step 5). Also, understand that you do not have to aim at a floor in order to fire the laser. the pointer can also be used on walls and is particularly useful on parts of a wall that 'jut out' because this allows the user to fire the laser in places where a horizontal plane is not available and hence hit smug enemies who think they are safe from the hammer's mighty blow!

, Two maps where the hammer of dawn has a large impact on gameplay are Day One and Jacinto. On Day One, enemies will usually hide under the neon strips on the walkway, sniper-side. Normally the hammer of dawn cannot reach them there as the neon strips form an overhang on top of the players, giving them the illusion of protection. However, when aimed at one of the two 'jutting out' bits on the left and right side of this overhang, the Hammer will obliterate anyone hiding under the strips. It is useful to play private matches to identify these 'jutting out' parts of the overhang. On Jacinto, popular camping places for both teams are the grenade rooms on opposite sides of the map, and normally it can be very hard to kill anyone holed up in the rooms, as veterans of the gametype Guardian will tell you! However the cowards in the rooms are not completely safe from the Hammer of Dawn, which, when fired at the area just outside the room, will usually kill anyone inside, unless they are pushed far back into the wall. While it is possible to aim at the floor outside the room, it is much easier for Novice players to aim at the tiny triangular overhang right above the doorway . Fire the laser there and you'll soon be reaping the rewards!

