 Many common backyard plants are poisonous or may cause allergic reactions. These types of plants may be particularly problematic if you have small children in your home. You should research the plants in your yard you do not recognize and find out which ones are poisonous or can cause rashes. Teach your children not to eat berries or plants they find in the yard.Some common plants that are poisonous include aconite, Angel’s trumpet, almond tree seeds, apple seeds, apricot seeds, autumn crocus, azaleas, black henbane, chinese lanterns, many nightshades, delphiniums, English laurel, mistletoe, jimson weed, and many others.#*Check any plants before you plant them. Determine if they are safe or poisonous.
 You may use a variety of chemicals in your backyard. If you do, make sure that any pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, pest sprays, or other chemicals are properly stored. Keep them in places where children and pets cannot get into them. Don’t leave them open so they may spill onto the ground, which can be harmful to pets and humans.Make sure to use all yard chemicals properly. Read all directions and instructions regarding the use of these chemicals before using them. Carefully follow them so you can keep everyone safe.
 Doing regular upkeep on your lawn and the trees around your house can help reduce hazards in your yard. Mow your grass regularly to prevent it from getting too high. High grass provides hiding places for snakes and allows vermin, such as moles and mice, free reign.


Keep an eye on any trees in your backyard. Prune regularly and remove any dead branches. You don’t want your kids playing under trees with falling, dead branches.
 Another aspect of home maintenance if you have pets is to remove pet waste from the ground. Make the rounds around your yard from time to time to dispose of any dog or cat poop lying around. Animal feces can contain infectious organisms, which can spread to humans.


If you have backyard chickens or other animals, make certain their coops or other housing is cleaned regularly.

