 Draw a rough outline, making sure to get accurate shapes and most importantly good proportions.


Try to draw shapes as you see them in order to get a more accurate drawing.
Getting accurate proportions will be easier if you compare size and distance of features in your reference photo. An example of this is noticing the size of an eye compared to the ear in the reference photo. You should try to get as close to these proportions as you can in your drawing.;
, Don't go too crazy with details yet, just imply that features will be there. Start cleaning up your outline.


Again be sure you are checking the distances between and sizes of features compared to your reference photo.
 Note in the picture the distance between the feet as well as any types of curves in the leg or toes. Use your photo to clean up the area and add a bit more detail.
 The thinner you make the outline the more realistic it will look in the end.


Leaving thicker lines where there would be more shadows (ex: belly, between legs, underside of neck, tail and chin) can create a feeling of depth if done correctly. In order to do this, the areas with more light will need to have thinner lines. (ex: the top of the head, back and tail)

, This will create the illusion that the whole body is furry without the extra effort of drawing hairs everywhere. Treat the fur like you would shading; the more shadow an area would get the more fur you should put there. Notice in your reference photo where fur is most visible.
 If working on paper, use a soft pencil. Start shading where you want to add depth. The shading should generally follow where you put fur. Be sure to pay attention to your reference photo and where you can see underlying bones and muscles creating a shadow.
 If using a reference photo, remember it is just a guide; don't feel obligated to place the dots exactly where they are on the photo. Dots often curve when they raise up or cave in over body structures, so when working next to the edge of a leg, etc make sure to pay attention to the difference in shape.
 Go through and make sure the fur and dots are how you would like them, as well as the features such as the eyes and nose.

