 Keep a copy of the current insurance summary in the car in a safe place so it is easy to find but won't get tossed out when you clean up, vacuum, and de-trash your car.


Keep in mind that if you crash into the nice car that belongs to someone else it could cost over $50,000 to fix or replace the car. Make sure you have enough coverage.;
,,, Some people keep these in another location but this is a problem when you are at the shop, or home for the weekend. You may wish you had them in the car if someone asks when you last rotated the tires, changed the oil or transmission fluid, or flushed the radiator. Keep these receipts in the car.
 Under inflated tires cause many accidents. An under inflated tire can be torn off the rim when cornering hard causing a serious crash.
 Check the owners manual for guidance. It is recommended to change the oil every 3,000 miles (4,800 km).
 Dirty oil and dirty air filters will allow dirt into the engine and scar the inside of the engine making wear out much faster and cause early and very expensive engine failure.
 This means having the wheels taken off and put back on in different locations such as moving the front tires to the back and vice versa. This helps the tires wear more evenly and last sometimes twice as long.
 Seasonal temperature swings can change the pressure in tires even if there is no leak.
 Brake shoes eventually wear out just like the soles of your walking shoes. When they wear all the way through it can cause damage to the brake rotor that can be expensive to fix. Even though they stop the car effectively the shoes could be very thin and start damaging the brakes any time so check them visually when rotating your tires.
 These are easy to check on most cars by opening the engine compartment:


Oil
Coolant/Anti-freeze
Transmission fluid
Brake fluid
Windshield wiper fluid.
If they are low they should be topped off. If they keep getting low you might have a leak. Check your parking spot for drips.
 Learn how to use the jack and lug wrench that is in your car and practice jacking up your car and changing a tire in your driveway so you will know what to do if you get a flat.
 Think about what you might need or want if your car broke down or got smashed and you had to stand outside for 3 hours waiting for help. What if you had to walk home in the heat or in a storm. Suggested items include:


2 liters (0.5 US gal) of drinking water
First Aid kit
Working Flashlight
Warm jacket
Rain poncho
6 X 8 foot tarp
50 feet (15.2 m) of thin rope (parachute cord is ideal)
$30 cash in ones and fives.
If you live in a cold climate you may want to add an extra bag in the winter months that contains:

An extra warm winter coat
Warm winter gloves
Extra pants or thermals
Extra socks (wool)
Winter boots

These items could be used items from a garage sale or thrift store.
 Never wipe off a dry car, it will scratch the paint.
 Just throw it into the washer once in a while. Be careful to keep it away from the brake, clutch and gas pedals.
 Label the outside with the make and model of your car so if it finds its way into the house it is obvious that it needs to be put back into the car. In this booklet of sheet protectors insert the following documents:


Insurance summary
Registration papers (Write the expiration date in your planner)
Safety and Emissions inspection papers
Receipts from repairs and maintenance

,