 For a long period of time, cystic acne was treated effectively with antibiotics. Now, most likely due to overuse, bacteria have formed a resistance to antibiotics, limiting its standalone effectiveness.Antibiotics used to treating cystic acne are either tetracyclines or erythromycins.The most common antibiotics available by prescription are:
Tetracycline
Doxycycline
Minocycline


Talk to your doctor about possible side-effects. Side-effects of antibiotics include photosensitivity, possible liver damage, and complications with pregnancy., Like it or not, acne is effected by our body's hormones.That's why many doctors prescribe the birth control pill or anti-androgen medications to stem outbreaks.Talk to your doctor about anti-androgen medications that may limit the severity of your cystic acne.


Understand the possible side-effects. Side-effects include irregular menstrual cycle, fatigue, dizziness, and breast tenderness., Topical retinoids unplug clogged pores, allowing other medications to come in and fight the acne-causing bacteria.Topical retinoids are usually reserved for moderate to severe acne, for which other methods of treatment have not worked.


Topical retinoids include:
Adapalene.
Tazarotene. Not recommended for women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.Tretinoin. Is more effective if starting with a lower dose, and then ramping up.Topical retinoids may initially make your acne worse before it gets better. Redness, dryness, and peeling appear in many cases, along with increased cystic severity in some, before getting better after several weeks to a month.Talk to your doctor about possible side-effects. Side effects include photosensitivity, dryness, redness, and peeling of skin.
 Systemic retinoids, such as isotretinoin (also called Accutane), are extremely effective in treating cystic acne.Taken orally, usually for a period of six months to a year, isotretinoin can dramatically reduce the incidence and visibility of cystic acne, and in many cases, produce prolonged remission. In some cases, isotretinoin is looked at as the closest thing to an acne "cure" as dermatology will get.Still, isotretinoin comes with some very serious side effects. These include: depression, birth defects, miscarriage, deafness, and bowel disease, among others.Talk with your doctor about using isotretinoin; only the worst cases of cystic acne, or years of trial and failure, may warrant prescription of this very strong drug.
 Laser therapy is now used not only to minimize scars caused by cystic acne, but to actually fight cystic acne outbreaks. Laser therapy does this by either burning away the follicle sac, by burning away the sebaceous gland (which produces oil), or by oxygenating the bacteria, and thereby killing them.Still, there are side-effects and contradictory results, which means the treatment works for some patients but not for others. In some cases, the laser cooling system has malfunctioned, resulting in burns.

