 This one won’t need as much preparation simply because this place will be special already to both of you. You can make her think it’s a casual date by pretending you don’t remember the significance of the spot. But when you’ve finally arrived, you may want to start talking about the time you first met as a lead in to your proposal.


Some topics you might want to use to set the tone for your proposal include: what you thought about her the first time you saw her, what makes her special to you, and how she still makes you feel. You might also bring up particular moments that you shared where you overcame an obstacle or you spent your time together enjoyably.
Set out candles or other romantic touches. If you first met at a park, you might have a blanket laid out close to the exact location you met. Scatter your blanket with some sweet smelling blossoms to up the romantic appeal. She’ll think you’re just being charming, but when you ask her to marry you, she’ll likely think you’re her one and only., A special occasion will make the extravagance of a hotel stay a little less suspicious to her. You might tell her it’s for her birthday or your own. You could plot to spring this proposal around the time of your anniversary or some other special date that you celebrate together. Call or text her and let her know you’ve arranged a hotel reservation for the two of you.


To make it an even bigger surprise, don’t tell her any more than she needs to know. Inform her of the date, time, and room number. Then you can leave the door unlocked so she can walk in. But Before she does, you should arrange the room for maximum romance. This might mean playing soft, sweet music in the background, or even leaving a trail of scattered flower petals to a balcony with a table set for two. Then, when the moment is right, all you have to do is ask.
Some hotels might have services in place for wedding proposals. While you are booking your hotel, you should let the person handling your reservation know that you plan to propose to your soon-to-be spouse on this day. The booking agent might be able to suggest a more suitable room, or a special room service course that you and your partner can enjoy., Many religions look at the commitment of marriage as a commitment before the divine. If you and your girlfriend, or either of your parents, are religious, or if you want your proposal to have a sacred, reverential tone, you might propose before, during, or after a religious service. She might be even more pleasantly surprised if, following your proposal, her friends revealed they had been watching all along as part of the congregation.


You’ll want to coordinate your plans with the clergy presiding over the service to prevent any disturbances. Marriage is a joyous occasion, and sharing the start of that journey with fellow believers will likely be warmly regarded. You might even be able to play music on the sound system, or have the church band plan a special song leading up to or following your marriage proposal.
You might want to involve the presiding minister and ask him or her to offer a blessing for your engagement. This is an easy way of leading into your proposal. First the minister can say some words of encouragement or offer a special message, and then turn the stage over to you for your special question.Be certain this kind of proposal won't embarrass your hopeful bride to be! Public proposals can put pressure on her to say yes, even if she's not entirely certain.
 A scavenger game is sort of a treasure hunting game with map, clues, and other features. You can pretend this game is nothing more than a special date you’ve planned for her or something you read about online that you thought might be fun. This way, she doesn’t suspect that you’re about to propose.


You can also include your friends and tell them about your plan. Friends can help you think of clever clues for the hunt, set up those clues so they are ready for your girlfriend to find, and can even help you keep an eye on your partner’s progress through text messages.
Avoid making the questions for your scavenger hunt too difficult. You don’t want to be waiting too long at the other end, but you also don’t want your girlfriend getting frustrated along the way! While she’s out finding and solving the clues you’ve left, you can prepare the ending location to be extra romantic.
Be careful where you arrange the scavenger hunt, the path should not contain anything hazardous. For example, you arrange for your girlfriend to walk across some rocks on the beach to find the next clue, but she ends up slipping and injuring her foot. Not very romantic!
You might end your scavenger hunt at the beach, in a restaurant, a hotel room, at the place you first met, or anywhere you think she’ll appreciate. When she’s finally found you using the map, clues, and the hints you gave her, give her a reward she’ll never forget – a small box with a ring inside.
You can put a spin on the normal scavenger hunt by going geocaching instead! Geocaching is where an item is hidden somewhere no one will find without precise location information, like longitude and latitude. Or you might start off with a point and have this turn into a series of clues. Learn how to create and hide a geocache for more details., Even if your wife-to-be isn’t a big sports fan, she’ll know how serious you are about your engagement when you do it in front of a stadium full of people! You’ll have to contact stadium officials to see what the policy is for wedding proposals and how you might organize your proposal to be broadcast on TVs and screens across the entire stadium.


You could arrange for a quick, heartfelt proposal before, during, or after the half-time break. After making the arrangements, all you need to do is prepare a short speech, gather a lot of courage, and pop the question, “Will you marry me?”
Have your friends sit together on the other side of the stadium, and then when the moment is right, send them a signal, like a text message. Then your friends can lift up signs that spell out “Will you marry me?” When she notices the sign and wonders who is proposing, you take a knee and hopefully her hand in marriage, too.Consider this kind of proposal carefully before putting it into action. Proposals in front of large crowds can be overwhelming. She might prefer a more intimate proposal

, There are a number of TV shows out there that will use any excuse to add drama to the show. The most accessible kind of TV show for average people to join is most likely a game show. Game shows frequently use ordinary people to compete in challenges to win money and prizes. Of course, you won’t really be joining the show for the prize money. You’ve got a bigger prize in mind – her hand in marriage!


You might want to discuss your proposal plans with the staff of the show beforehand. These people can help ensure you get you get the perfect chance to pop the question even if things go differently than planned. Win or lose the game, you’ll still hopefully get the girl!
Certain game shows choose candidates at random from the audience. Even if you can’t get the gameshow staff to help you out with your proposal, they’ll be hard-pressed to stop you if you’re already in the audience. Simply plan your moment, and show her and the rest of the world you’re ready to love her forever.Live TV doesn't always go as planned. Be sure that this is the right way of proposing to your bride-to-be before you decide to pop the question on a live broadcast. Your girlfriend might say no, and then you both may go down in infamy.
 Some gals like a more laid back and intimate approach. You can spring your question on her following her favorite breakfast while staying at an opulent bed-and-breakfast. If a bed-and-breakfast isn’t your style, do the same while in the comfort of your own home. Wake up early and leave bed as quietly as possible, add a few romantic touches, like rose petals on her breakfast tray, and when the moment is right, bend your knee and ask for her hand in marriage.


Time your breakfast preparations to coincide with the time she normally wakes up. You don’t want all your delicious food to get cold, or to awake her too soon and spoil her rest.
You could also commemorate a day that’s already special by adding your proposal to it. This way, she’ll think that you’re celebrating something else, like your anniversary, when you arrive with her tray and food. When you spring the question, she’ll be extra surprised.
Take some time to tell her how special she is and why you love her more than anyone else. Keep eye contact with her as you slowly kneel down on the floor beside the bed, open that small special box and ask her your question: “Will you marry me?”, Take her somewhere that has sentimental value, or plan your trip for a romantic place she’s always wanted to visit. When you surprise her with her holiday, present her with her ticket, but not the real one. Have a fake ticket with the words "Will you marry me" typed on it, or use your best handwriting and write out your message on an old ticket from a trip you went on together before.


Buy refundable tickets. Even if you’ve taken every precaution, there’s always a small chance you could be rejected. As much as you might not want to think about this, it would be even more bitter to lose your lover and have to foot the bill for a non-refundable trip for two.
Come up with an excuse for your trip, like celebrating a recent accomplishment such as graduation or a promotion, and then surprise her with the engagement ring at an opportune moment. You might have a stewardess bring your girlfriend a glass of champagne with the ring inside, or you might arrange to have the captain announce your engagement to passengers on board.