 Let yourself experience the anger, sadness, fear; feel whatever it is you need to feel, without feeling ashamed or selfish for feeling it. Accept your emotions. Don’t bury them. Don’t worry about what other people think of you and whatever emotion you might be working through. Be gentle with yourself, and understand that for these first few days you’re going to find you aren’t quite yourself. And that’s okay. If you want to stay in bed and eat chocolate all day, do it!;
, Find something to focus on, no matter how small or big it may be. It can really help to find a project or a goal that will impact both you and your partner. Something like saving money for a long term goal you have together, like a house deposit or a holiday, can help you move forward but still feel connected to your boyfriend/girlfriend or husband / wife.
 Your difficulties with the deployment will come in waves. After that short Skyping session, you may ‘relapse’ and feel not at your best for a few days. Reward yourself for the small things, the little things you achieve, even if it’s just making it to work in the morning.
 Communication is key; don’t feel as though you have to work through the next few months on your own. Keep up good communication with your partner and friends and family. If you don’t feel able to, or prefer not to talk with friends and family, there are plenty of support groups available online and offline where you can talk to people experiencing the same things as you.
 Tell them the good and the bad. Make sure you have plenty to talk to and write to them about. Remember those goals that you set yourself, let them know what you’re up to.
 All those things you never have time to do when your partner is home. Take a class, do something fun, do things you don’t normally do. Get in shape, learn to sew, do something to keep you busy, get you out of your comfort zone, and focused on something else. Find something you're passionate about.
 Get a pet, start a business, find something you can pour all that passion into. Don’t forget your partner, or show them any less affection, just try to think of now as a time to try something new and develop yourself.
 Discuss this with your partner prior to deployment, since they may have their own personal reasons and preferences for getting or not getting packages. If you do get the go-ahead from them, devote some time to assembling them. Pick up stuff day to day. Out on a lunch break, pick up one of their favorite chocolate bars. Having a clear out of your DVD collection? Send him a film you know you both enjoy. Try turning every day activities into ways to remember him/her and keep them involved in your life.
 See friends you don't get to see enough of. Even get out by yourself. Don't feel like you have to stay in Saturday nights because you'd usually spend them with your partner. Get outside, see the world, remember how beautiful it is. Even find activities and new places to go to to share with your partner when they return.
 Communicate with your partner as much as possible, but remember, you need to live for yourself as much as you live for them. Use this time for self development, keeping busy, and keeping happy and understand that while this time is challenging, and there will be good and bad days, it will only make your relationship stronger.

