 It means when you do that you no longer are in your country! You physically are but virtually you are for example American or German or wherever internet has no filtering (depends on your anti filter software or your new IP). One of the ways of changing IP is with software such as "Ultra Surf". This program has many versions but the one you can easily get is Ultra Surf 9.8. To get this program you should go to Google and write "download u98" (you should write download in Farsi) and search for a site which is not blocked itself and download this program. After downloading, open the program and wait for it to connect then you can surf the internet free but not that fast!


Another software which is really safe for political movements is "Tor". Search it in Google and find a site which is not blocked itself and download it . then you extract the download file and run the program then you wait for it to connect. Tor uses three IPs in one time so you pass through three different countries which is what makes it really safe and free but not that fast!
Another software that you can easily download and use is "Free Gate". right now it's the easiest way to use internet freely. you can just look for a website in Google (right now most of Iranian websites that have this program are NOT blocked) and download it, then open it and wait for it to connect , in the end it shows you your new IP address then you can surf the net freely . it also doesn't have any effect on your Internet speed.;
, VPN is an anti filter which you should buy. But where? There are too many ads for selling VPN in Iranian sites which you shouldn't buy because most of them are for government and they can easily control you. Beware that many people got arrested in this way. The safest way to buy VPN is internet cafes. They make VPN themselves and you can buy it. They give a connection program, username and password. Then you use user name and password to connect with your program to another country like USA. Then you can surf the internet safe and fast.
 Socks is like VPN, available on the internet but you shouldn't buy online for the same reasons as VPN. You get them from internet cafes. It's like VPN but using it is not that easy. When you buy it the seller tells you how to use it. It's the best way of skipping filtering and it's really fast and really safe.

