 If you want to win your woman back, the worst thing you can do is call her constantly, text her every two seconds, or even follow her around everywhere. Though "out of sight, out of mind," is true to an extent, you should start off by giving your ex some breathing room so she can have some time to reflect, enjoy her privacy, and regain enough emotional strength to want you again.


Knowing that it's important to give your ex some space is a sign of maturity. She'll appreciate the fact that you respect her enough to know not to smother her, and that you're mature enough to do your own thing for a while.
You don't have to cut down on communication completely. You can still check in once in a while, as long as you don't make it sound like you're desperate to hear from her or always around.
If she gets in touch with you, you should respond but don't get back to her the second she calls or texts, or she'll think you're obsessing over her. Just play it cool.
You don't have to avoid her 100% of the time, but you should cut back on visiting your favorite hangouts or hanging out with mutual friends in hopes of seeing her. Think of this as your time to regroup before you win her over again.;
, Every relationship is different, and so is the end of your relationship. If you want to win your woman back, then you have to consider whatever it was that ended things, and to make sure not to go down that path again. Were you too controlling, too distant, or were there some general incompatibility issues? Maybe it was more simple -- you couldn't get along with her friends, or she couldn't understand your love for motorcycles. Whatever it was, it's time to dig deep to find the source of the problem.


Make a list of all of the things that went wrong in the relationship. Then, look at the biggest issues that led to your downfall.
You and your ex may have openly discussed these issues before you broke up, or maybe you thought your relationship ended for one reason, when it was really completely something else.
Once you've pinpointed the main problem, or main problems, make sure that it's something that you can really control. For example, if your main problem was your fundamentally different religious beliefs, or the fact that you live across the country from each other and can't relocate, that may be hard to fix.
 Before you can make a move and start talking to your ex again, you have to think of a way to address the problem. Once you've figured out what it was, you can think about all the things you can do to fix it. If it's relatively simple, then great, but be aware that some problems take a long time to fix.


If the problem was your lack of confidence, then you'll need some time to work on developing a positive sense of self.
If the problem was your jealousy, then you have to work on being more trusting and less paranoid.
If the problem was a quality of your ex, then you have to think about how to be okay with that quality, or about how you can work together to both change.
 Everyone can use some self-improvemnt, and what better time to do it than when you have to win your ex back? While you're backing off from your ex and giving her some breathing room, you should spend some time focusing on becoming a more self-assured, confident, understanding, and mature person. This will help you make a better impression on your ex once you win her over again.


You can't fully address your flaws in a matter of weeks, but you can certainly get a head start.
Make a list of the things that your ex complained about, as well as the things you'd like to fix. See how many of them you can address, or try to focus on the aspect that matters the most to you.
If your ex complained that you were messy, then spend more time cleaning your space.
If your ex complained that you were flaky or always late, then work on sticking to your commitments and showing up on time when you make plans with your friends and family.
 You shouldn't spend all of your "me time" obsessing over improving yourself or wondering what your ex is up to. Instead, enjoy your own company by reading, exercising, or just taking the time to pursue your own interests and goals to become a better person. If you're comfortable on your own, then your ex will know it once you reconnect. It's important to be secure by yourself before you try to jump back into a relationship again.


If you're busy pursuing your own interests, your ex may see you doing it -- whether you're going for a run or reading your favorite book in a coffee shop, if she sees you doing your own thing, she'll be impressed.
Doing your own thing will also make you a more interesting person. When you reconnect with your ex, you'll have more to talk about.

