 You’ll want a space where the cat can at least see outside. If you have a sunroom or a closed-in porch, that can function as the perfect catio. The cat will be able to see birds and squirrels, which will keep them entertained for hours. A window can be a great fit for a catio., If you rent, you may not be able to add a catio without the permission of your landlord. If it is an easily removable catio, this might not be a problem, but if you are building onto the house, it will likely need permission. Permits may also be required by the city or home owners’ association. Contact your local permit office to get more information., If you don’t have a sunroom or closed-in porch, you may have to build or buy a catio. Many places have design plans you can buy, as well as pre-designed catios that you simple have to install. If you’re making your own, you’ll need a screen that a cat can’t claw through, wood for structural support, and a hard piece of material for the base. You can always make the base cushy, once you have the basic support.Make sure you measure your window before ordering a pre-made catio.
 When you have your catio, install it in the window. If you’ve measured correctly, this should be as easy as installing a window air conditioning unit. You’ll want to make sure that there is no space around the catio for the cat to escape. If the catio doesn’t fit perfectly, place some kind of firm barrier that the cat can’t move in the space., Make sure there are no cat-sized spaces for the cat to escape. Also make sure the catio has enough structural support. You might want to place something that weighs the same as your cat or cats in the catio to see if it remains stable. Shake the catio to make sure it's firmly in place. The last thing you will want is to come home and find your cat has escaped.Don’t forget to make sure that other animals, especially predators, can’t get into or dislodge the catio., This is important for a couple of reasons. Letting the cat go for a test run while you’re home will allow you to see if there are any problems that could arise while you’re gone. It will also let you see if your cat even likes the catio and how your cat interacts with it.