 Were you in a car accident and broke your leg? Did you have a heart attack? Were you admitted for a psychiatric evaluation? Were you treated for physical trauma? Understanding your condition helps you and your healthcare providers come up with a plan to ease the transition from the hospital to home.;
, Pay close attention to every word of advice your doctor says. Ask questions if you need to.
 Most pills and other oral drugs are self-explanatory: "take 5 mg of this at 8:00am every day".


If, however, you need to give yourself an injection (such as insulin for diabetic patients), learn how to do it correctly. Refer to Give an Injection and Give a Subcutaneous Injection for more information, but it's important that you learn from your doctor first.
 For example, patients given a blood glucose monitor should know how to test for their blood sugar.


Especially if you've injured your leg or undergone surgery, know how to walk on crutches or use a wheelchair.
 Depending on your condition, they can be drastic or minor.


If you're on any diet restrictions, know what you can and can't eat. Patients treated for heart conditions may need to reduce their salt intake. If you're on warfarin therapy, talk to your doctor about specific information regarding foods that have vitamin K. A heart attack survivor may need to cut back on fats and cholesterol.
Understand your physical and mental limitations. Since you're about to leave the hospital, you may still be quite weak. Continuing to rest for a few days or weeks instead of instantly going back to playing sports or work will help you recover better.
Accept the fact that you may need to stop doing activities that you used to enjoy.
 Most of the time, the sterile dressings used to cover incisions and wounds are gone by the time you leave.
 If the hospital is quite a drive to your house, fill up on gas. Make sure the vehicle is large enough to accompany any equipment (e.g. crutches, wheelchairs).
 Some doctors may wish to order final examinations/tests before the actual discharge.
 Do this once you've been disconnected from all IV lines and machines and you're able to move freely; otherwise ask a family member or friend to help.
 Separate your clean clothes from the dirty and pack them.
 If you have a prescription, get it ordered before you arrive at home. In some cases, your doctor may provide you enough medication to last the week until you can order your next set of drugs at a pharmacy.
 Depending on where you live, you may or may not have to pay for it.
 These include things like board games, books, and anything else used in entertainment.
, Before you go, you can quickly go to the gift shop and buy a card and some flowers for your nurses. Address your card to your entire nursing team, not one specific nurse.

