 In order to vote in the state of Arizona, you must meet a few basic qualifications. You may register to vote if the following is true:You are a US Citizen.
You are a resident of Arizona and the county listed on your registration.
You will be 18 years of age or older on the day of the next General Election.
If you have been convicted of a felony, you must wait until your rights have been restored before voting.
 Go during regular business hours, Monday through Friday, so you can speak with someone in person and ask for an application.
 This is only necessary if you are registering to vote for the first time or if you have moved to another county. If you have an Arizona driver license or non-operating identification issued after October 1, 1996, write the number in box 9 on the front of the Arizona Voter Registration form. If you don't have one of these IDs, you'll need to attach a separate document to prove your citizenship.The following documents are acceptable:


A photocopy of a birth certificate that verifies citizenship; if the name on the certificate is different from your current name, also include supporting legal documentation (i.e. marriage certificate)
A photocopy of the relevant pages of your passport
U.S. naturalization documents, or fill in your Alien Registration Number in box 11
Indian Census Number, Bureau of Indian Affairs Card Number, Tribal Treaty Card Number, or Tribal Enrollment Number in box 10
Photocopy of Tribal Certificate of Indian Blood or Tribal or Bureau of Indian Affairs Affidavit of Birth

, Use black ink to fill in every blank to provide your personal information, Social Security number, and other requested information. Sign and date the form to confirm that you are a resident of Arizona who is eligible to vote. Submit it along with your proof of citizenship to the County Recorder.


Make sure to enter your legal name and your address of residence for at least 30 days prior.
You can also choose to draw a diagram of where you live using the compass in the bottom right hand corner of the form.
 Once your registration has been processed by your County Recorder, you're registered to vote. On election day, go to the correct polling place (you can find it at https://voter.azsos.gov/VoterView/PollingPlaceSearch.do) to cast your vote. Your name should be on the voter roll. Remember to bring proof of identity, such as your driver's license, tribal enrollment card, or another government-issued form of identification so you'll be allowed to vote., You'll receive a card in the mail verifying that you are registered to vote in the state of Arizona. You don't have to bring this card with you to cast your vote, but keep it for your records.

