 Now the best situation would be to find a good friend because you should have a good idea of who you will be living with! Who knows maybe a friend is in the same boat as you and you both want that city experience!;
, Now you may be confused about the difference between the two. Well it's simple: Apartment you rent/Condo you own, the interior fixtures, but will still need to pay rent to maintain the building's common areas. Now ideally two young graduates might want to find an apartment only for the fact that you can easily get a new place quickly if one of you has a change in plans! A condo would be good if you and that roommate are settled in the city and you both feel you would like to own your own little part of the city! Overall, apartment/condominium aren't all very different and both are just little boxes we call home up high in a fabulous city!

, Assuming you will just have one roommate (that is most common), search for a place with two bedrooms! Another good thing would be to have two bathrooms, only for the fact that it will create a lot less stress in the living situation because you both have your separate places to take a shower and get ready in the morning. The common areas like the kitchen, living room, laundry and dryer are obviously a must and you obviously have to share these spaces. Also, if you live in a city and don't have a car which is completely normal, make sure public transportation is nearby and look into finding out about getting monthly pass cards. This will save you time and money.
 This might be scary, but everyone leaves the nest eventually and goes off into this big world. You and your roommate, however, are just leaping in because you are choosing to live in a city. Now, you probably don't own much of anything so you will probably have to buy a lot. Try to pack one big suitcase of all your things to take to your new home. Example: Clothes, shoes, important documents, purse, books, electronics, makeup, etc. Don't bring personal hygiene items like shampoo/conditioner, body wash, deodorant, razors, feminine products or anything else like this because there will be plenty of drugstores to stock up and who wants to lung all of that with you?

, Yes, you thought the place would be sparkling when you move in but the true is, you don't know how well they clean. Go with your roommate to the grocery store and get clean products and have a day for (non-fun filled) cleaning. Scrub the walls, bathroom, kitchen and all floors. Vacuum the whole place and dust. When you don't cleaning I recommend you and your roommate go to home depot or other hardware store and pick out a paint color to paint your bedrooms.
 Yes, we know you are extremely excited to make your place feel homey and relaxing. I would recommend you each make your first purchases on your bedroom furniture. This is because you sleep here every night and it is important you each have you own space done before you tackle the common areas. When you each finish with your bedrooms then you should start furnishing the living space.
 This way you can get whatever you want and there will be no money issues. Now once you start working you should definitely go out for dinner with your roommate so you can both bond. Try to go out to eat on Friday or Saturday or even Sunday when you both have time. You could even grab a bite to eat after work or meet up for a couple of drinks.
 You both have your own lives and own relationships with other people. Look, you will see your roommate every single day most likely so having some space and doing things with other people is a must. I am not saying you should never hang out with this person outside your home, I am just saying do you own thing and don't be glued to the other person because trust me... people who live together and are always together will argue and get frustrated with each other.
 This might be a good thing because when you each come back home you will be happy to see each other and tell stories about the weird relatives.
 Yes of course! Definitely take trips whenever money is not an issue. It will be nice to get away from hectic city living and sit on a beach for a week.
 When you are finally unpacked and settled in make sure you take advantage of your new city and explore. Try a new restaurant every week, go to parks, shop, even do touristy things. This will help you know your city a lot better and make you feel more comfortable.

