 Your cake needs to be thick enough to absorb the condensed milk, so use a deep pan. Grease the bottom of your pan with some melted butter or a cooking spray. It's important to wait till your oven is preheated or your cake may be underdone.

A 9×13-inch baking pan is a good size to use.
 Take the red velvet cake mix that you made and carefully pour it into the baking pan. Let the pan fill up with the mix before leveling the surface of the cake with a spatula. Once you've used all the batter, you can put it in your preheated oven., Bake the cake until it's done. You can test the readiness of your cake by inserting a toothpick into it. If you can pull the toothpick out clean, it means that inside of your red velvet cake is done. Do not leave your cake in for more than 25 minutes or it may overcook., Use oven mitts or oven rags to carefully take your cake out of the oven. Letting it sit for 20 minutes helps the center solidify., Using the end of a wooden spoon, create holes across the surface of the cake. Make sure to space the holes out evenly. Space the holes two to three inches apart from one other. Go over the entirety of the cake until there are four or five rows of holes with four holes in each row., Add the condensed milk over the top of the cake so that it gets poured into the holes that you made. You can pour the milk directly from the can. This will add sweetness and smoothness to your red velvet cake. Spread the milk over the surface with a spatula so that there is an equal distribution., Cover your cake with a clear plastic wrap or tin foil and place it in the refrigerator. The cold will help the condensed milk harden and will make it easier for you to apply your icing to the cake. If you haven't made the frosting yet, this is an excellent time to do it., Take your cake out of the refrigerator and use a spatula to spread your cream cheese icing over the top of the cake. Add as much or as little icing as you want. Once the icing is on the cake, it's ready to be eaten. Cut pieces of the cake and serve.

Do not try to spread your icing over a hot cake. Allow the cake to cool, or your icing will liquefy.

