 If you think you or your child may have a learning disorder, consider what they are doing to make you think that. Take note of what you see and hear from your child that you believe may be a symptom of a learning disability.Write down any behaviors or challenges your child faces that you believe may be unusual. This will be useful when you talk to a professional. Look for particularly disruptive or uncharacteristically aggressive tendencies, as well as extreme shyness or reservation.
If your child is in school, ask their teachers if your child has reported any particular problems to them. Also take note if a teacher says your child is excessively active or disruptive.;
, Different learning disabilities will have different symptoms. However, some struggles and symptoms are commonly seen across many learning disabilities. Observe and talk with your child to see if they experience symptoms such as:A short attention span.
Poor memory retention.
Poor reading comprehension or writing abilities.
Struggles following directions.
Difficulty differentiating between or among letters, numbers, and sounds.
Poor eye-hand coordination.
Noticeably differing performance from day to day.
 In toddlers and young children, you may be able to detect a learning disability early on by looking for delays in developmental milestones. Early detection can help ensure your child gets the assistance and support they need as they first start school.


Late walking or speech may be early indicators or a learning disability. Babies generally take their first steps around one year. First words often occur around the nine month mark.Struggles socializing may also potentially indicate your child has a learning disability. If they seem unable to understand body language and nonverbal cues, or if they cannot grasp social concepts such as eye contact, you may want to have them screened., There are a number of indicators that may help you identify if you or your loved one is more likely to have a learning disability. Indicators do not definitively diagnose a learning disability, but they can help parents and doctors determine if early screening or evaluation is necessary. Consider:Low birth weight or an early birth.
Difficulty suckling, sucking, and swallowing in infancy.
Frequent middle ear inflammation that may cause occasional hearing loss.
A family history of learning disabilities or language comprehension struggles.
Exposure to environmental toxins, such as lead.
Limited language exposure in the home.
Limited impulse control.
Constant repetition of ideas or thoughts.
 Untrained professionals should avoid making diagnostic decrees without the input of a trained professional. If you believe your child has a learning disability or a condition that can make learning more difficult, schedule an evaluation with a team at your child’s school, or recommended by your doctor.


The evaluation may include input from special education teachers, an assessment by the school psychologist, and work with specialists in areas such as speech pathology and motor function.Your doctor may be able to screen your newborn or infant for early signs of a learning disability with tests that check for vision, hearing, and responsiveness., Screenings performed by schools and professionals not specifically licensed to diagnose a learning disability likely won’t come with a diagnosis. Instead, they will include observations and recommendations for treatment.Seek the help of psychologist, psychiatrist, or clinical social worker who is licensed to diagnose a learning disability. Ask them, “Are you licensed to diagnose my child’s learning disability?”
Work with them to gather supplementary information they may want to review from your home or your child’s school. This may include report cards, work samples, teacher comments, and more.
Ask for a written report of the professional’s diagnosis after their evaluation is complete.
Ask the professional, “How can I coordinate with my child’s school to help them get the attention and treatment they need in class?”

, Working with a psychiatrist outside of school can help anyone with a learning disability learn both skills to manage their disability as well as skills to deal with the emotions that often come with it. Find a psychiatrist or other therapist in your area that specializes in learning disabilities.


Schedule an initial appointment to meet with the specialist and simply discuss your interest and concerns. Let them know, "I want help managing a learning disability. What methods and practices do you use to help people with these kinds of problems?"
Ask your psychiatrist and/or therapist what measures of progress they would like to see. They may want something from the school, or they may want an evaluation directly from the child or parent. Ask them openly about what communications work best for them.
 The type of education and treatment your child needs will depend upon their diagnosis. Once you have a written report with your child’s diagnosis and professional recommendations for treatment options, work at home and with your child’s school to get them the care they need.You will work with your child’s school to create an Individualized Education Plan (IEP). The IEP will state your child’s learning needs, what services the school will provide to address them, and how their progress will be measured.
Those who evaluated your child, your child’s teachers, the school administrators, and you as a parent will all be active in creating and implementing your child’s learning plan.
Ask about what techniques a special education teacher will use with your child and how they will help benefit your child’s education.
Also inquire about what instructional methods will be used to help integrate your child into inclusive general education classes.Check in regularly with your child’s teachers and ask them, “Is there anything we can do at home to help my child’s treatment and development?”

, In this case the child has difficulty in understanding the relationship between sounds, letters and words. On the other hand, while reading they cannot understand the meaning of words, phrases and paragraphs. Symptoms include:Difficulty associating letters with sounds.
Trouble "sounding out" unfamiliar words.
Difficulty writing or copying words or letters in order.
Pronunciation confusion, such as "coft sat" instead of "soft cat."
Difficulty with reading level, reading aloud, and reading comprehension.
 Dyscalculia impacts one’s ability to understand number and/or learn mathematical concepts. Some kids have a tough time telling the time from the clock. They may also struggle in memorizing the tables and adding (6+6= 12 or 6x6=36). Other symptoms may include:Difficulty counting by twos, fives, tens, et cetera.
Difficulty distinguishing between or ordering numbers

, Affected people cannot maintain neatness while writing. They may also be unable to copy accurately from a different source or to put their thoughts into writing, and have difficulty in spelling correctly. Common warning signs include:Illegible handwriting.
Inconsistent spacing on the page.
Poor spatial planning on paper.
 Auditory processing disorder, also referred to as receptive language problems, involves difficulty processing and distinguishing between sounds. This makes it difficult to understand spoken language. This confusion can lead to difficulty in reading, writing, and spelling.Children with APD may also have a difficult time recognizing where sounds come from or ordering sounds mentally.
 A person with this disorder has eyes that work fine; however, this information can get jumbled inside the brain. Symptom may include:Difficulty reading; skipping words and lines, or reversing letters.
Hand-eye coordination issues.
Depth perception trouble; may appear clumsy.
 Autism, ADHD, anxiety, and depression may also be contributing to your or your child's struggles and differences.When setting up an evaluation for your child, let the evaluators know if your child has been screened for or diagnosed with mental health or social disorders.
Ask evaluators if they believe your child has a non-learning disorder-based challenge, and see if they may be able to provide you with referrals for further evaluation.

