 Start by placing the diapers in the bag, stacked side by side. Have the middle of the diaper facing up so they are easy to pull out and open when you need them.Put the diapers in one side of the diaper bag. Depending on how big your diaper bag is, you may only be able to fit four to five diapers. This is fine if you are only planning to be out for three to four hours.;
, Most diaper bags will have small zip pockets inside or outside of the bag. These are great spots for wipes and cream, as you can pull the items out easily when you need them.If your diaper bag does not have side pockets, use a smaller plastic bag to keep the wipes and cream. Place the plastic bag next to the diapers in the diaper bag.
 Rolling up the baby clothes will make them compact and easy to pull out. Tuck the rolled up baby clothes next to the stack of diapers in the bag., Fold up the changing pad and slide it against one side of the diaper bag. It should be flush against the inside of the bag. This will make it easy to find and ensure it does not get lost at the bottom of the diaper bag.
 Fold up the blankets so they are flat and smooth. Then, place them against the other side of the diaper bag. This will make them easy to find and pull out for a diaper change.


Alternatively, you can roll up the blankets so they are compact and place them next to the baby clothing. This may be ideal if your diaper bag is small.
 Check that the snacks are sealed in bags or packaging. Place the snacks, toys, books, and plastic garbage bags in the diaper bag by the baby clothing.If there are small pockets in the diaper bag, you may be able to store snacks and plastic garbage bags in these pockets.
 Personal items like your wallet, your keys, and your cellphone should be kept in a small zip bag in the diaper bag. Store the small zip bag on top of everything so it is easy to find.You can also store personal items separately in a purse if you’d prefer. However, keeping them in the diaper bag will ensure you don't forget them and that you only have to carry one bag.

