 Surprise parties aren’t for everyone and if you’re planning one for a parent, it’s a good idea to ask permission first. Since you don’t want to ruin the surprise for your mom, ask your dad. If that’s not an option, try asking a family member that your mom is close to, like an aunt or grandparent.It’s good to have someone else on board who can help plan the party and also weigh in on your mom’s likes and dislikes.
Some people don’t like surprise parties, so if the person you ask says no, brainstorm alternative ways to celebrate your mom.;
, The most important step in planning a surprise party is picking the date; this will inform the rest of your party planning decisions. Think about what the party is for – is it a surprise birthday party? A surprise Mother’s Day party? A surprise party to show your mom how much you appreciate her?If you’re celebrating a specific thing, like a birthday or Mother’s Day, try to pick a Saturday night near the date you’re celebrating.
Check your mom’s calendar to make sure she doesn’t have any plans that would conflict with the party.
If your mom doesn’t have a calendar, ask your dad or one of your mom’s friends to check to make sure the date is okay (make sure you let them know it’s a surprise!)

, In order to effectively throw this party, you need to know how much money you have available to you. Ask your dad, a relative, or one of your mom’s friends to help you plan the budget for the party.Make sure to factor in things like the venue, food, drinks, decorations, invitations and cake.
If you’re working with a small budget, figure out how many of these things you can do yourself to save money.
There may be small ways you can cut costs. Instead of sending out physical invitations, you could try inviting people online via email or social media. You could also consider throwing a potluck to cut down on the costs of catering.
 Decide how big you want the party to be. If you’re planning a big party, you might want to consider inviting the following people: your immediate family, extended family that live nearby, and people that your mom is close to, like co-workers, friends and neighbors.If you’re planning a more intimate party, maybe stick to just immediate family with a few close friends.
Ask your dad or one of your mom’s close friends to help you construct the guest list.
Make the guest list a month before the party is scheduled to happen.
 Once you know how big or small you want the party to be, it’s time to figure out where to hold it. If it’s a smaller party, consider having the party in your own home or in the home of a friend or family member.If it’s a larger party, you may need to rent out space, which will cost money.
Look for free spaces in your area. If you belong to a church or synagogue or community center, they may rent out rooms for free for members.
Make sure you choose a place where your mom is unlikely to go leading up to the party. If you end up selecting a place that your mom frequents, you will have to find ways to keep her away while setting up the party. This adds an extra layer of complication.

