 You want a rose which has a nice bloom, but also no moisture or flaws. The moisture will cause molding and the flaws will be exaggerated in the drying process.You can use blooms which have opened a bit, but don’t use a rose which is already beginning to fall apart and lose its petals., You want to trim the stems, but not too short. Leave 6 inches or more of the stem for drying. Remove the foliage from the stems. The leaves will not dry nicely and should be removed.









Leaves also hold water and will slow the overall drying process., Bundle all of the roses you will be drying and wrap a rubber band around the stems. Leave at least 2 inches of stems beyond the rubber band. Continue wrapping the rubber band around the stem until the roses are secure.








You can arrange the roses into a nice bouquet before drying so they are already prepared to be displayed.
 Find a room which you don’t use often, like a laundry room, attic or a utility closet. The space should still have good ventilation to allow the moisture to escape. Stretch a clothes line or rope between 2 points in this room and tie it securely. Make sure it is sturdy enough to hold your roses.You want to choose a dark space. The color of your roses will darken in the drying process, but exposing them to light will increase this color change, while using a dark space will reduce the alteration in the rose color.
 Pull some of the rubber band used to wrap the roses together over the hook of a hanger. If you have a hanger with an extra hook under the hanging hook, you can strap the roses there. Otherwise, pull some of the rubber band over the hanging hook of the hanger.
 Hook the hanger onto the line in the dark room and leave them to until they are dry. It can take several weeks before your roses are completely dry.
 Once the roses are dry, they will be brittle. Remove them from the hanger and spray them with hairspray to reinforce and protect them from damage.








Use an unscented hairspray when spraying your roses.
Spray the roses lightly to avoid saturating the roses you have just dried.

