 The drivetrain is the transmission of your bike. It consists of all the parts that get your back wheel moving: chain rings (big gears next to your pedals), a cassette (collection of gears on your back wheel), a rear derailleur (metal arm on the back wheel), and the chain itself. As dirt, grit and grime collect on your drive train, it wears down and becomes prone to skips and slips.


Frequent cleaning and maintenance of your drive train can add years to your bike's working lifespan.You will need to turn the bike upside down, or clamp it in a bike rack, in order to work on the drive train.
 Biodegreaser, sometimes called biodegradable solvent, is a powerful soap that cuts through grime but won't ruin your chain. Most bike stores sell it next to the chain lube. Pour a little bit on a damp rag and clamp it lightly over the chain with one hand. Use the other hand to pedal the bike, running the chain through your rag for 2-3 cycles.


Go through 2-3 cycles putting pressure on the top and bottom of the chain, then another few putting pressure on the sides.
Lightly scrub away any patches of grease or grime with your rag if you still see them.
 Just like human teeth, gears need to be flossed from time to time. Dip your brush into the biodegradable solvent and run it in between each gear as you pedal with the other hand. This removes clumps of grease that can dislodge your chain if they are allowed to get too large.


Use a screwdriver to scrape off hard to reach areas or precise, small spots.
 If it looks dirty then you should get rid of it. Use your damp rag, brush, and a little degreaser to get into as many nooks and crannies as you can and get your bike sparkling clean. Let the bike do the work for you whenever possible, holding the rag/brush in place while spinning the pedals. Common areas to focus on include:


Both sides of the jockey wheels, which are the small cogs on the derailleur arm.
The backside (closest to the bike) of the chain rings.
The bike frame, joints, and hinges near the chain., If a rag and a toothbrush don't cut it, you'll need a chain cleaning tool. These little boxes clamp over your chain. You add degreaser and hold the tool in place while pedaling the bike, allowing it to automatically brush and scrub the chain links for you. They are only $20-$30 and frequently come with degreaser and a brush., Purchase a bottle of bike lube, which should both lubricate the chain and protect it from dirt and moisture. After cleaning and drying the chain with your rag, slowly turn the pedals. Apply a single drop of lube to every 2-4 links, right on the joint where one link meets another. After you've gone through the whole chain, shift through your gears and apply another 10-12 drops. Use your rag to wipe up any excess lube from the chain when you are done, as extra lube can hold dirt and lead to grime.


Your goal is a light coating of lube on the entire chain.Anytime you ride in the rain, clean the chain, or hear squeaking, you should apply lube.
Feel the chain with your fingers -- if it feels dry then you need to apply more lube.

