 While you can never eliminate stress from your life completely, you can take steps to reduce the stressors in your life.


Learn to say "no." Don't say "yes" to that dinner with your friend when you know you'll be working late to meet a deadline or agree to take on another project when you're already swamped. Learn to distinguish between the things you "must" do and the things you feel you "should" do.Change your situation. Are you a ball of stress by the time you arrive at work because traffic has you so frustrated? Find an alternate route, take the train, or see if you can start your day early to avoid the gridlock. Identify small changes you can make in your environment and everyday life to eliminate unnecessary stress.Spend less time with people who stress you out.Maybe you can't eliminate these people from your life — it could be your mom or your boss or co-worker who stresses you out the most — but try to limit your contact with these people as much as possible. Tell your mom you'll call her once a week, but you're too busy to talk every day. Avoid a stressful coworker as much as possible. Find reasons to excuse yourself from his presence.
 Mediation does not mean to sit with an empty mind. Instead, meditation is about witnessing your thoughts as they come and go, but not judging them. Doing this for a few minutes each day can significantly reduce your anxiety about things that could happen to you.Try sitting in a comfortable spot and taking deep breaths.
As you do this, imagine each of your thoughts is a bubble that floats out of you toward the ceiling and pops.
Listening to a guided mediation can also help.
 Giving yourself a yummy treat is a wonderful distraction from your worries. In addition, chocolate has been shown to reduce cortisol (the stress hormone that causes anxiety symptoms).The compounds found in dark chocolate can actually improve your mood., If you chronically worry about your family, this may be easier said than done. However, if you regularly let yourself stay up late, you may be feeding your own anxiety. Research has shown that people who go to bed earlier are less likely to be burdened by anxious thoughts. Try tucking in a bit earlier.Adults should get between seven and nine hours of sleep each night. Teenagers need between eight and 10 hours, and school-age children should get nine to 11 hours., If you are worried about bad things happening to yourself or your family, it means that you love yourself and you love your family! In other words, you have a lot to be grateful for!Anytime you feel worry coming on, stop and count five of your blessings.
Some example may include: your family, your health, nice weather, some time to yourself, or a satisfying meal.

