 Most states allow licensed attorneys to consult clients on discrete aspects of a case without representing them in the case as a whole.Unbundled services often allow attorneys to charge you a flat rate for the services they perform for you, rather than charging you by the hour. This can be easier to budget.
Some states have rules regarding the unbundling of certain aspects of representation, particularly if you want the attorney to speak for you in court. These limited appearances can cause confusion if the court and the other party don't know who is responsible for the case.
Search online for "unbundled legal services" or "limited scope attorney representation" with the name of your state, or call your local bar association's public help line to find out what attorneys in your state are offering.
 Many state bar associations have free hotlines that can help you answer basic legal questions.Hotlines typically are staffed with volunteer attorneys and paralegals who can answer general questions about legal problems and provide you with information on court procedures and the law that applies to your case.
Some hotlines also have websites or provide other services, such as the ability to have a form you filled out reviewed by a licensed attorney.
The hotline also may be able to give you a referral to an attorney who is willing to take your case for free, or for a smaller fee that fits within your budget.
 Your state court system typically has forms available that you can fill out and file to handle most basic legal issues.Many county courthouses staff lawyers and paralegals to work as facilitators. These people are there to assist you with filling out forms or filing a lawsuit, and typically can provide you general assistance with the court process.
Keep in mind that facilitators usually cannot give you advice on your specific legal issue, and don't represent you in court.
 Most state and local bar associations have searchable attorney directories that allow you to find attorneys who offer unbundled services for clients with legal issues similar to yours.To find your local bar association's website, search for "bar association" with the name of your city or town. If nothing comes up, try your county or perhaps a larger city nearby.
Many bar associations also have referral services, which can match you with an attorney who suits your needs and budget.
If you don't qualify for free services anywhere, find an attorney willing to provide you unbundled services, or who uses a sliding-fee scale in which his or her fees are based on your income and ability to pay.
 Private attorneys practicing many areas of law offer a free initial consultation which you can use to get some advice and assistance on your case, even if you ultimately plan on representing yourself.Free consultations are more likely if you have a personal injury or similar case, for which attorneys typically will work on a contingency basis. This means you don't pay them anything up front and they get a percentage of any settlement or award you win.
Some family law attorneys provide free consultations, particularly those who have sliding-fee scales or charge flat rates rather than billing you per hour.
Keep in mind that if you are being sued, for example in a personal injury lawsuit, you may find it more difficult to find an attorney who is willing to give you advice for free. This is because there's no contingency-fee basis in defense – if you win, you simply don't have to pay anything to the person who sued you.

