 This step is optional, but can help you get in the mood. Get a pair of goggles, some comfortable clothes, and running shoes. If you want to be more on the Digimon side, get a digivice, and digimon cards. Carry around a digimon plushie if you have one!;
, Taiki's catch phrase is "Hottokenai" which means "I cannot turn my back on him/her/them". You must adopt this personality for this controls everything you do. However, Taiki knows when to step back and let someone do it themselves. If someone needs help, help them. Excel in everything you do. Even if you don't like it, give 100%!

, Taiki is always positive, and never gives up. Never let bad situations bring you down. Even when you are faced with an enemy, look at the bright side, or look at the good in them. Enjoy the small things in life, and celebrate your victories (Yatta!!).
 Taiki is a sweet caring boy who always puts others first. Everyone wants to be his friends. Even when people treat you harshly or look down on you, continue to extend a hand of help and friendliness. People can only be so mean for so long when someone is being nice to them. Taiki is so kind that he turned his enemies around. Be kind to everyone.
 Taiki is always smiling. Be able to laugh at your mistakes, and cheer people up. Be proud when you accomplish something (but don't brag) and be humble and laugh at yourself when you fail. Don't be a serious person unless the situation calls for it.
 Maybe not book smart, but common sense smart. Be creative and always come up with good ideas. If you want, try solving mysteries shows, and do Sudoku to keep your brain healthy and smart.
 Never let your friends down, and always be there when your friends need you. Even if they abandon or back-stab you, never give up on them. Be a shoulder to lean on, and risk your lives for them. If you say you will do something, do it! Taiki often wears himself out helping people and filling in places, but he kept his promise to help.
 Yes, Love! Is his team not called "Xros HEART"?? Never hate (except evil). Do nice things for others, and give up your meal or money for someone who is less fortunate. Volunteer whenever possible and just be a good person that everyone can depend on. Love everyone and try to be friends with everyone.

