 Share your campaign on Twitter and increase your word count by adding a personal message. Tell your supporters about your cause, why you need their help and how their contributions will help you. A tweet is like a short Facebook status update. The difference is that every tweet arrives at every follower’s feed, unlike the filter of Facebook’s algorithm.;
, You should use words that you think will make an impact on your followers. Add some compelling details of your cause to this tweet to catch follower’s attention. Keep is simple – tweets with less than 100 characters have a 17% higher rate of engagement than longer tweets do.
  Go to Twitter Search and find out if there is any conversation about a cause or project similar to yours, what people are talking about it and whether you can join or start a conversation. It will help you reach more people.
 Twitter is about connecting to people, building your own community. To reach out to as many people as possible you should start following people you know, people in your neighborhood, non-profit organizations and communities related to your cause. Twitter can help you find people you know by scanning your email address book.
 Make sure to include relevant and popular hashtags! (Find lists of popular hashtags here). You can have a hashtag that enables anyone to find your project easily. On the other hand, using relevant hashtags you get engaged in different Twitter community, which members can then tweet and Retweet your campaign several times a day. It allows you to maximize the promotion of your campaign to its fullest potential possible. You can reach out to as many people as you can without having to do it all by yourself. Remember, with hashtags other people can easily find and tweet or retweet your campaign.
 People love to look at pictures, so include photographs in your tweets whenever possible. Twitter adds every photo you share to a photo gallery. The first six appear on your profile page. Take advantage of this feature to tell a visual story of your cause. Be sure to let people know when the link is a photo by adding before the image.
 Are you looking for more retweets? Just ask your followers. A tweet’s retweet rate increases 12 times when you ask followers for a retweet. Asking followers to retweet using the whole word “Retweet” (instead of the short and casual “RT”) increases retweet rates by 23 times.

