 Your child may be ignoring you because the tasks you assign to them might be too broad or intangible. Instead of saying “clean your room” to your five year old, you might say “put your toys away and put your dirty clothes in the hamper.” Children tend to respond better and more readily to details., If your child typically ignores you or if they reply with an “mmhmm” and you’re not sure that they heard you, make them repeat the instructions back to you. This will ensure both that they heard you and that they will remember what they need to do., A simple hand on shoulder can work wonders in getting your child’s attention. When they are ignoring you, simply walk over to them, put your hand on their shoulder, and then repeat what you said once they are looking you in the eye.Don’t be forceful with them. Just use physical touch as a gentle reminder that you require their attention.
 If you have a bit of flexibility with the task that you need them to complete, set a timer for your child. Let them know that by the time the timer goes off, they need to have begun completing the task that you have assigned to them.Say something like “you have 10 minutes to start folding that laundry.”

, If your child is not listening to you because they are focused on something else, then give them a warning. Perhaps they are on their cell phone or watching television; let them know that you will take their phone and TV privileges for the day if they do not respond or do as you ask.Or perhaps your toddler refuses to come to you on the playground after you called their name. Let them know that if they don’t come now, you will go get them and take them home.
 Take away privileges if they don’t do as you say within the timeframe that you asked. Go to the car without them, and leave them home if they are old enough, if they did not come after you called them several times. Honor your word so they know what to expect., If you know your child has been waiting all week to watch a new episode of their favorite show, consider avoiding having a discussion or assigning a chore during this time. Wait until the show is complete to engage with them.If they are older, you could also consider texting them what you need them to do, as teenagers tend to use their phones often.
 When your child listens to you readily, praise them for it. You can say something simple like “Thanks for getting that work done so quickly, Mariah, I appreciate it.” A simple expression of gratitude goes a long way and helps to reinforce good behavior., Perhaps, they ask to hang out with friends often and you always tell them ‘no.’ And then later, when you try to talk to your child about their friendships, they ignore you. An environment where a child is always shut down will create a child who feels frustrated, defeated, and not in control of themselves., Just as you don’t want them to ignore you, be sure that you don’t ignore them, either. Have family time at least a few times per week and stay off your phone and engage with them more. Avoid drifting off when you have conversations, and focus instead on the people in front of you.

