 All the advancements in golf club technology have really brought club designs a long way. With each advancement in technology, companies have studied and learned each aspect of the golf club and how to make it better. There are a couple of features that club companies try to maximize for each club. These features include things like center of gravity, moment of inertia, sole design and grooves.


Since manufacturers are trying to optimize the same things, it really makes clubs very similar. Also, technology has come so far that club performance is very comparable. The only real changes between clubs are the slight differences in the way each company designs and manufactures the club. These slight differences give each club a slightly different feel.;
, While manufacturers try to optimize a club's center of gravity, moment of inertia and other aspects to give a club increased performance, making these changes comes at a price. Technology such as cavity backs make clubs more forgiving on off center hits and help player's hit the ball straighter, but they also make the club a little bit of a one-trick-pony.


Skilled players want much more control to bend the ball left and right and hit it at different height levels. They are willing to trade forgiveness for control because they do not need that forgiveness. While a skilled golfer can play well with forgiving clubs, they might find it a little difficult to hit big draws and fades. An unskilled golfer will find it very difficult to play with clubs designed for a skilled golfer, though.
 Before you can pick the best set of clubs for you, you have to come to terms with what your golfing skill level is. You would probably fall into one of these four categories.


Low Handicap: 0-5 Handicap; You are a able to hit both draws and fades and have a good understanding of the proper mechanics involved in the golf swing. You consistently hit the ball in the center of the club face.
Mid-Low Handicap: 5-15 Handicap; You are an avid golfer who loves to play the game in your spare time. You get out most weekends and usually play well mostly on your own natural ability. You are comfortable hitting most of your clubs but you do miss-hit the ball every once in while.
High-Mid Handicap: 15-25 Handicap; You are a recreational golfer who likes to play casually every now and then with friends. You still miss-hit the ball and probably have a hard time keeping it around the fairway and hitting the green. You need clubs that are forgiving.
High Handicap: 25+ Handicap; You are new to the game or a senior who has a hard time moving like you used to. You need clubs that are very forgiving. You also want clubs that will help you lift the ball off the ground by having a sole that won't dig into the turf.
 Club manufacturing companies generally make clubs that fit into each category. You can go to their websites and look at the different clubs and probably pick out which clubs are which. The thinner, compact, blade-like clubs are for the more skilled players while the the larger cavity-back or hybrid type clubs are for players who need maximum forgiveness. The clubs that are in-between are for the avid and recreational golfers.
 Once you have picked out a couple of clubs from different manufacturers that you think might be geared toward your skill level, go out and hit a few balls with them. As mentioned above, each club's performance is going to be relatively comparable; so after you've picked some club's designed for your skill level, the only real difference is going to be how they feel to you. This is why it is important to hit each club.
 After hitting each set of clubs, pick the one that you liked the best. The most important thing is that you feel comfortable, your swing will take care of the rest.

