 If you are going to talk about the state of your relationship, you should find a time when you two can hang out alone together. Ask him if he’s free one weekend and invite him over to your place. If he doesn’t agree or tries to avoid coming over, it might be a sign that he’s not interested.
 Don’t ambush him right away with the big question. Do something fun that you two have always enjoyed together. Play a video game, watch a movie, or discuss sports.
 When you feel the time is right, pause the video game or movie. You can even wait until just before he goes home. Ask him if you can have a few minutes to talk. Reassure him that you don’t want to make things awkward, but that you want to clear up some confusion about your relationship. You don’t have to reveal if you like him or not yet.


You can try saying, “Hey, do you mind if we have a quick chat? I want to discuss something with you. I’m confused about the state of our relationship, and I want to clarify what we are.”

, A conversation like this can be awkward, and you want your friend to be as comfortable as possible. Tell him how much you value your friendship.


You can say, “Your friendship means so much to me, and I want to make sure that nothing happens to it. At the same time, I want to make sure that we are both clear in what we want from each other.”

, The question itself can be difficult. You might want to practice beforehand with a friend or counselor to help you. There are a number of ways you can phrase the question.


“How do you see our relationship?”
“Do you ever see us being more than friends?”
“How do you feel about me?”

, He may react by being shy, bashful, embarrassed, or nervous. Allow him some time to think and phrase his answer. Don’t interrupt him. Wait until he is finished speaking before you say anything.
 If he says you are like a sister, a friend, or “one of the guys,” it’s a sign that he values your friendship but doesn’t want anything more than that. React gracefully. Tell him that it is fine for him to feel that way and that you are much happier knowing how he really feels.


Try saying, “I completely understand what you are saying. I also feel like you’re my best friend, and I want to make sure that we can remain friends. I’m just glad we were able to talk to about this.”
Your friendship may not be exactly the same as it was before, and there may be some initial awkwardness. Still, if your guy friend still wants to hang out with you platonically, it’s a sign that he does care—just not in a romantic sense. , If he does admit that he likes you as more than a friend, be clear in how you feel about him back. If you share the same romantic attraction, tell him immediately.


You can say, “I’m glad to hear that. I like you too, and I feel the same way.”

