 When you don’t know why someone is upset, first ensure that no one is in danger, and then attempt to calm them down. The best way to get the information you need to do so is to ask what has happened. Before doing so, however, assess the situation to make sure you can approach someone safely.Initially, look around. Are others around who may know what happened or may be able to help? Are there any apparent dangers in the area?

, Approach the person and indicate that you’re there to help. If you do not know the person, introduce yourself as well be saying something like, “Hey, I’m ____, and I’m here to help.” If they do not say anything, continue by asking if you can join them and beginning to do so. As you sit down, say something along the lines of, “If it’s alright with you, I’m going to sit with you for a while.”If knowledge of your career might also comfort a stranger – for instance, if you’re a teacher, doctor, or firefighter – you might also want to mention this as well.
Avoid giving generalized reassurance. Though it may be tempting to say something like “everything will be okay,” this ignores how the person is feeling in the moment. Statements like this may even make someone who is upset less willing to receive consolation.
 It’s important to establish what has happened. Keep questions simple, but straightforward, and try to figure out what has happened. Specifics things to look for include any indications that a person may be suffering from more than emotional distress, and what the person needs. Recognize that it is unlikely that you will be able to resolve the situations. Your focus is on getting them calm, and seeing to it that they get further help if needed.Speak calmly, slowly, and softly. Avoid whispering or shouting.
Be ready to back off if the person perceives you as a threat or acts aggressively towards you. If either of these occur, make sure that authorities are on the way, but remain at a safe distance.
 Listening closely to someone, especially someone who is upset, takes patience and care. Holding eye contact may not be appropriate, as someone who is upset may feel vulnerable or embarrassed. Sit with someone quietly, ideally beside them. Make sure your body language is relaxed, and don’t move around. As the other person is speaking, offer non-verbal encouragement by nodding and making affirmative sounds to indicate that you’re listening.
Do not argue with that an upset person is saying. They may be saying things that do not make sense, or that may even be insensitive.
Keep in mind that your goal is consoling the person, not having a conversation, and that their brain is likely flooded with emotion.
 A person experiencing intense emotional distress will also be experiencing changes in their body chemistry that prime them to fight or to flee. Aside from being extremely sad, they will also likely be jumpy, easily irritated, and confused. They will have trouble listening and concentrating, and may not be able to follow what you’re saying. Accordingly, focus on conveying a sense of safety and an environment of calmness.If the person insists on a drastic or unreasonable action, do not argue with them. Rather, propose alternatives and otherwise attempt to distract them from any course of action that may be unsafe.
 While humor and lightheartedness can help people cope, it may not be appropriate when someone is deeply distressed. Let the suffering person take the lead; if they crack a joke about a humorous side effect of something that has happened, join them in their laughter.Humor may be especially helpful in serious situations, wherein a moment of respite might help someone calm down. Just make sure you know the person who is upset will appreciate any humor before trying to lighten up the situation.
 As long as the person isn't injured or at risk in another way, they may simply need to calm down. For instance, if someone received traumatizing news, or witnessed a traumatic event, they may become extremely emotionally upset, but not be in any medical danger. In these situations, an ambulance is unnecessary, and may contribute to further distress. Continue providing emotional support and wait until the person is able to speak with you or someone else about what to do.