 So much of today's society is based on grab-and-go convenience. Unfortunately, these items are all ultimately trash. Throughout your day, make an effort to only use items you can use again.


Switch to cloth paper towels and diapers.
Use your own silverware, plates, and cups -- never go plastic to avoid washing.
Don't buy bottled water. Carry around your own water bottle to stay hydrated.
Bring eco-friendly bags to the grocery store. What do you do with those paper or plastic bags when you go shopping? You either end up throwing them out or stockpiling until you have an entire cupboard full of bags you'll probably never use.
 Cars are a huge culprit when it comes to pollution and, put more formidably, destroying the ozone. Who wants to get stuck in traffic anyway?


Less fuel consumption affects oil digging across the world -- a finite resource (that is just getting more and more expensive thanks to demand). Another important consideration in using less fuel is in the amount of toxic gases being released into the air as the fuel is burned to make the engine run.And it saves you money, too.


A bicycle is even better. You know why? You spend zero money on gas, you emit zero toxins into the environment, and you burn way more than zero calories while riding. Win. Win. Win.
 Alright, hybrids are expensive. And bicycles don't go fast enough. What's the next best alternative? Car pooling. And the more people who do it, the better for the environment (and traffic).


As if being greener weren't enough, you'll now get to be one of those people that uses the carpool lane honestly. Because let's be honest: Everyone hates the guy driving down it alone.
 Nowadays, everything is available online. Whether it's your bills, junk, or the newspaper, get out of it. Instead of resenting the pile you're accumulating, you'll get excited when special mail does come.


For all your statements, go green. Get an online account for your bank, credit cards, and subscriptions. Emails don't hurt the environment.
Start reading online. Magazines and newspapers are slowly becoming a thing of the past -- for the environment (maybe not so much for nostalgia), that's a good thing.
 This is one of the most obvious and easiest ways of helping the environment. Whether it's paper, cardboard, plastic, aluminum, or tin, recycle it. If you don't have a recycle bin given to you by your local government, ask for one. They'll take care of it for you.


Recycling doesn't stop there. Nowadays, you can even recycle your old electronics and even get paid to recycle your old phones and MP3 players.Set up your own program in your home. Have your family or roommates put recyclables in designated areas. Have different tubs or containers for different products. When it comes time to recycle, it'll be a cinch.
 When you get fast food, it comes in wrappers and bags that you just throw away. Apart from it not being good for you, it's also not good for the environment. Do what you can to avoid buying packaged goods. Fewer packaged goods on your end means less trash. And our landfills definitely aren't going away.


Moreover, don't waste your food. Though food is better because it's biodegradable, it's still wasting. Keep it for leftovers -- you'll save money and end up using fewer packages or containers.
 Less everything. The fewer things you buy, the smaller your footprint. Get into DIY projects to turn your trash into treasure. Donate your unwanted goods to a thrift shop. Cook more at home.


Don't assume something is trash. Could someone else use it? Is it fixable, but you're just too lazy to fix it? Could it be turned into something else?

, It's good for the environment and for your garden. Designate an area in your yard to put your yard waste, fruit peels, and uneaten food. After a while, you'll be able to use it to fertilize your lawn or garden.


Unfortunately for us and our children, landfills are slowly running out of room. Composting slows the growth of these facilities, making them last longer and ultimately putting trash to good use. It also is a cheaper alternative to reinvigorating soil.That means less methane in our air to boot!

