 If you're not sure which outfit you'll be wearing, select a pair in a neutral tone. Black tends to be a very safe color for most outfits.


Be careful matching the color to the dress or outfit; this can easily look overdone. A complementary contrast is often preferable.
Know the pageant rules about shoes in advance. Read these before going out to purchase the shoes, just in case they have specific height or style requirements.;
, While most high heels are going to be the same size as your usual shoe size, it's important to try the shoes on before buying them. Slight variations in sizing within different brands can mean all the difference between comfort and pain. Ask for a sizing from the retailer, then begin looking for the shoe.
 This requires wearing them indoors for a few days in a row, at selected times of the day, and giving your feet breaks in between. This gives the shoes time to stretch and mold to your feet. (See below for a suggested walking approach.)


Sit down when putting on high heels.
If the shoes aren't breaking in well, there are some processes you can use to help to speed this up; you'll find extra help in the article How to break in high heel shoes.
Return the shoes if they aren't breaking in as they should and they're uncomfortable. In case this is needed, it is advised that you walk only on carpet indoors, so as to avoid scuffing the soles.
 Stand up carefully, placing your weight against something through holding or leaning onto it. For example, a wall or a chair-back. While leaning on this object, take tiny steps forwards and backwards, to help you get used to walking with these heels on.
 Each day, try to use the wall less and less until you are able to balance on your heels and walk by yourself without anything supporting you. When you walk, make sure to stand up straight with good posture because this is how you will need to walk during the pageant.


More advice on walking in high heels can be found at How to walk in high heels.
 If you are using your own clothing, combine it with the shoes. This will allow you to get a feel for the movement of both clothing and shoes together, allowing you to practice what it will feel like at the event. It will also alert you to any potential snags, such as a long dress getting caught on the heels, and so forth.
 For example, walk on stairs or steps, walk on different floor textures and walk on a slippery area (with great care), just in case you will encounter any of these floor types and differing levels.
 This will reassure you that you are comfortable with the heels on, and your outfit. Walk down a length of floor and also walk on steps or stairs, just in case. This practice will not only provide confidence but aids your muscle memory too.
 Every little bit helps but be careful not to err and fall over.
 When you're on stage, it's your time to shine. Walk with your head held high, and work it! The judges will most likely give you the best score if you look like you know what you're doing. Just do your absolute best and all of that practice will pay off in the long run.

