


Aquariums have public feedings several times per day. Provide one of the divers with a laminated sign to hold up to the glass for your loved one (and everyone else watching the feeding) to see.
Arrange to make your proposal during a community event such as a July 4th or Mardi Gras parade, Oktoberfest, jazz or arts festival, or concerts in the park. Contact your local parks and recreation department, convention and visitor's bureau, or other organization that plan events and ask if you could ride on one of the floats to make your proposal from the parade itself or see about taking the microphone and making the proposal from the event stage.
Buy ad space in one auditorium of your local movie theater during pre-movie advertisements then take your girlfriend or boyfriend to a movie. Score extra points with your loved one and with the whole audience if you arrange it before a romantic movie.;
,


Arrange for family members to arrive at a favorite park ahead of you so they can set up everything for a surprise proposal picnic. Take your fiance-to-be on a walk through the park and then just happen upon the festivities with your loved one as the guest of honor.






Schedule a family dinner and have all the family members don T-shirts with a message for your future intended. Display the same message on all the shirts or have individual letters on each shirt then have your family members line up so your girlfriend or boyfriend can read the message.



Take her to your favorite bakery or coffee shop where you've already had a specialty cake made with "Will You Marry Me?" written on it. The ring box can serve as the cake topper.
Plan a day at a secluded beach where you've gone ahead of time to make a sandcastle and written the proposal in the sand far enough away from the shore so the tide won't ruin your surprise. Arrive a few steps ahead of her and slip the ring box into a turret or on the drawbridge.






Create a website with photos of the two of you and your message then email or text her the link to open. After she accepts, she can send the link to her family and friends to give them the good news.

