 Brainstorm locations you've always wanted to visit, a country that's central to your family's ancestry, or a trip to a special place from your childhood. Picking the destination will help your parents feel involved and allow them to voice any concerns they have over traveling to certain areas or activities.
 The itinerary describes what you want to do when you arrive at your destination. Your trip will be more organized and less stressful if you write out an itinerary about exactly where you’ll go and what you want to see or do.Choose specific sites and think about how long you want to visit each.


Setting an itinerary will keep you all on the same page and make it easier to make arrangements with hotels, airport shuttles, or taxis.
Be sure to schedule free time into the itinerary. This will give both you and your aging parents time to explore or relax independently of each other.Be realistic. Don’t try to plow through a tour of Europe when your parents aren’t up to it. Instead, go relax on a beach somewhere for a week or so.
You may need to exercise diplomacy when setting the itinerary. If your parents are not realistic about their own limitations, try to frame your decision to avoid certain places or limit the extent of the trip in terms that express your own disinterest or dislike of a place or places.
Print a copy of the itinerary for everyone on the trip.That way everyone can refer to it and know where the group is going next.
If you are an elderly adult traveling alone, let your sons or daughters know. If you are planning a trip with your parents, then you may want to have a direct flight so that they do not get confused with a transfer, connecting flight, or bus trip.
 Rapidly unpacking, rushing about to see the sights, and then repacking and jumping on a plane or bus every few nights can be tedious even for the hale and hearty. For aging parents, this exercise can be even more exhausting. Plan on at least four days in each location.
 This will give your older parents, who will likely tire faster than you, a chance to rest, eat, stretch, take medications, and hydrate themselves as needed. A break will also allow you to assess how the trip is going and make sure your parents are having fun.
 However, always think about how adjustments to your itinerary will impact the rest of your trip. You might have less time in Shanghai or another location, and might lose money if you’ve booked hotels in advance.

