 Compliments ease tension between two people and help make their interactions more positive.If you are not very confident, you might find it difficult to take compliments from people. Maybe you become uncomfortable or reject the compliments outright. In order to become more confident, you need to learn how to accept a compliment gracefully. The next time someone pays you a compliment, resist the urge to reject it and just thank them for the kind words.


For example, you can respond to a compliment by simply saying, “Thank you. I appreciate that.” Or even a simple, yet enthusiastic, “Thanks!” will do.
Make sure that you learn how to compliment others as well. Complimenting others will help take the attention off of yourself, which may help you to be more confident. Your ability to pay genuine compliments to others will also help to demonstrate your confidence.
 Sometime people lack confidence because they rely too much on how other people react to them. In order to be more confident, you will have to accept that you cannot change other people and you cannot do anything about their reactions to you. All that you can control is yourself. Work on becoming more accepting of other people as they are. Avoid lecturing others on their faults or trying to get other people to change., Part of being confident is projecting a positive attitude, even if other people try to bring you down. Remember that you are in control of you future, your goals, and your own happiness. If people try to damage your confidence, remind yourself of your accomplishments and admirable traits. Keep the glass half full!Try smiling or laughing, even if you don’t feel like it. Research has shown that even forced smiling and laughing can help you to feel more optimistic and confident., Staying calm in a difficult situation is not always easy, but remaining calm when a problem arises will help you to be more confident and will demonstrate to others that you are a confident person. Try taking a few deep breaths when you become overwhelmed, stressed, angry, or upset. As you breathe, count slowly to ten and then attend to the problem.< br>

