 When you walk up to any table, you'll want to know just who you're dealing with. Because craps involves the most money out of any standard casino game, you can expect to be working with a fair amount of employees.


Walk into virtually any casino today and you'll find a craps table with a double layout. At one side of the table (probably closest to the pit) in the center is the "boxman," -- he supervises the game and handles and stashes all the cash (way more than what's circulating in all of the Democratic Republic of the Congo). Opposite him is the "stickman" (not the stick-figure man)-- he's the one operating the stick, believe it or not, using it to push the dice around. He controls the tempo of the game, calling out the results, working with the dice, and urging players to be decisive.
Near the stickman will be two dealers who manage all the bets, pay the winners, and collect the losers' money. Surrounding them will be the players -- your new friends.;
, Casinos aren't meant for customers to be scared away by feeling intimidated -- the craps table is simple once you've studied it for a minute. Here are the basics:


All around the table is a "Pass" line. This is for bettors who are on the shooter's side. A less noticeable "Don't Pass" bar is for the players who are smart enough to bet against the shooter.

You'll also notice areas marked "Come" and "Don't Come." These are similar to the two aforementioned sections, but will be utilized later in the game.


If you take a hard look between the boxman and the stickman, you'll see an area for proposition, or one-roll, bets. That's where you'd be betting on one specific roll, naturally. In the same vicinity is an area for hard-way bets. That's where you might bet, for example, that an 8 will come up as two 4s before a 7 or an "easy" 8 does.
Also in front of the players is a section that says "Field." This is for one-roll bets that one of seven numbers (2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12) will turn up next. The boxes that say 4, 5, Six, 8, Nine, and 10 are for "Place" or "Buy" bets that, before the next 7, the chosen number will be rolled.

Six and Nine being spelled out make it easy for players on all sides of the table to be able to decipher between the similar shapes.


In the corners on either end, you'll find boxes marked Big 6 and Big 8 -- bets that a Six or 8 will come up before a 7.(Pays 1:1 or 7:6)

, "Comin' out. Bet those hard ways. How about the C and E? Hot roll comin', play the field. Any mo' on yo?"Did you catch any of that? Odds are that's what you'll be hearing when you saunter up to a game in progress. It will be mind-boggling at first, but you'll be hating those Skinny Dugans in no time. Here's a list to get you started:



Craps - 2,3, or 12Yo, or Yo-leven - 11C and E Craps - 11Snake Eyes - Two 1sBoxcars - Two 6sLittle Joe, or Little Joe from Kokomo - 4 (particularly rolled as a 1 and a 3)Jimmy Hicks - the number 6Skate and Donate - 8Skinny Dugan - A loser 7Center Field - 9, because it's in the middle of the seven numbers on the field betPuppy Paws - Two 5s -- though the more common call is simply "Hard 10," or "10, the hard way"Natural Winner - 7 or 11 on the come-out roll, Just like any avid gambler, the gods of luck must not be scoffed at, lest ye want your money revoked. Avoid certain habits (and do others) to look like a seasoned pro (literally) and not drive the others away, leaving you with nothing but nasty glares for companionship.


The more superstitious of players think it's bad luck to use different dice on the same roll. If a shooter were to throw one or both dice off the table accidentally, you might hear him call "Same dice!" just for good measure.(You might break the other dice and this one too.)
If you call out, "Seven!"(the worst thing to say), don't be offended if everyone automatically flees. It's like uttering Macbeth in the theater. The word should be unthinkable and definitely unspeakable.
If you see a penny under the table, leave it; it's good luck. Or so some people might tell you.
If you're shooting, don't throw both dice in the air at the same time. You'll look like a pro if you toss just the one (maybe the other later); if you toss both, be ready for glares and a rush to the exit.

