 Gray hair, wrinkles, and extra weight might make you feel self-conscious about your body. Negative body image can make sex less appealing and enjoyable, and can cause you to become less interested in sex. Embrace your aging body! Celebrate how far your body has brought you in life. Take extra time to determine what feels good now., You might get the jitters about performance at any age, and maybe moreso when dealing with the physical effects of aging on libido. Relax, breathe, set the mood, engage in foreplay, and remember that this is a mutually shared experience that you can approach together., If you've lost your partner, you might not think you’ll ever find another, or you might find it hard to even think about a new relationship or dating. No matter your age, you won’t outgrow the need for emotional closeness and intimacy. Loving and appreciating someone new won’t change what you had in the past. If you need to see a grief counselor or take some time to mourn  and prepare, that’s fine – but then don’t be afraid to put yourself out there!, You might have a hard time talking about sex, but openly sharing your needs, desires and concerns with your partner will enhance intimacy and enjoyment of the experience.Be honest with your partner about what you need and want. Discuss new ideas together. Tell your partner what you like and what you don’t like, even if you’ve been together for decades. Sensations that felt good years ago may feel different now.


Offer praise, be positive, and make outright requests. Say something like, "Honey, I love when you give me oral sex, and I would really like it if we could spend more time doing that before we make love." Or, "I feel so comfortable with you, let's discuss spicing things up with some toys. I'd love to hear your ideas."

, A therapist may be able to help you and your partner with specific concerns, or with creative ways to improve your sex life. Ask your doctor for a referral.It's okay to tell your therapist something like, "I just don't feel like I get aroused like I used to, and I worry that my partner thinks it's their fault. Can we talk about it?" You wouldn't be the first to ask this, and they'd likely have a lot of helpful advice.

