 Call the vet and explain that you would like to discuss possible options for discussing your cat’s heat cycles. MA requires a prescription, so you will need to meet with vet before moving forward with care. Be prepared to talk about your cat’s medical history as well as their current health situation., Before you give your cat a medication, your vet will likely want you to consider other avenues of care, including spaying surgery. Or, they might suggest a less invasive procedures, such as an ovariectomy, which is the surgical removal of just the ovaries. A birth control shot could be another approach., As with any medication, there are potential side effects and risks associated with your cat taking MA. Some cats experience vomiting or even an increased risk of diabetes. Talk with your vet about all of these possibilities before starting the course of treatment.Make sure that you carefully read any documentation that comes with the medication itself, as potential health risks may be listed in this literature as well.
 MA is a very strong medication with potentially severe side effects. As such, talk with your vet about starting your cat off on the smallest possible dosage and increasing it, if needed, over time. A lower level dosage is usually 0.625 mg/kg a week. The dosage may also depend on your cat’s weight, age, and health condition., Because of the health risks, MA should only be considered a temporary solution to any heat-cycle concerns regarding your cat. Extending the medication beyond just a few weeks use can tax your cat’s system and lead to uterine infections and other issues. Talk with your vet about using MA in conjunction with other treatments.

For example, some pet owners combine an MA prescription with a policy of keeping their cat confined during heat periods.If you get an indication that MA is having an negative effect on your cat’s health, get ahold of your vet and discuss the possibility of halting treatment immediately.
 A treatment might involve one week on the medication and one week off. Most cat owners end up keeping their pets on MA through January up until mid-summer. This will provide general contraceptive coverage while protecting your cat’s health.Work with your vet to estimate the intensity and duration of your cat’s heat cycles. Many cats have irregular cycles unless they are mated.
 If you suspect that your cat is pregnant at any point during MA treatment, call your vet immediately. They will likely advise that you cease giving your cat their medication until a test can be performed. It is also a good idea to delay using MA if your cat hasn’t had her first heat cycle.