 Under a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, your non-exempt assets are liquidated to pay back all or a portion of your outstanding debt. Non-exempt assets include musical instruments, expensive clothing or jewelry, expensive furniture or appliances, and any additional vehicles beyond a single car.As much of your debt is paid back to your creditors as a result of the liquidation of your assets, Chapter 7 bankruptcy will not require you to make monthly payments back to your creditors, freeing up your income for necessary purchases. However, this also tends to prevent you from being to pay cash out-of-pocket for a car, as expendable cash would have been seized as non-exempt assets, making obtaining a loan necessary for the purchase of a car.
 Unlike Chapter 13 bankruptcy which takes many years to finish, Chapter 7 bankruptcies are usually discharged in three to four months.


It is very difficult and sometimes impossible to get a loan before a Chapter 7 bankruptcy is discharged. It is wise to wait until the process is complete before attempting.
 This can be a lot more difficult to achieve under Chapter 7 bankruptcy than Chapter 13 bankruptcy. While bankruptcy laws from state-to-state and the terms of individual bankruptcy cases vary, almost all assets held in bank accounts are liquidated to pay back creditors under Chapter 7. However, if you have been able to keep a sizable amount of cash from being seized during your bankruptcy process, it may be possible to purchase a car outright, with cash, while under Chapter 7.


It is important to note that at least one car, especially if that vehicle is used to get to and from work, will fall under a "motor vehicle exemption" under the majority of state bankruptcy laws- allowing you to keep a car you already own. With this being the case, it may be wise to purchase the vehicle with cash prior to filing for Chapter 7 bankruptcy., If you absolutely need to make a purchase during your bankruptcy period, inform your trustee of your plans. The trustee will likely need to approve any potential purchase, so it is important to work with them rather than behind their back. , You will likely not be able to purchase a car under Chapter 7 bankruptcy until you have acquired a bankruptcy discharge notification. This ensures future creditors that, despite your past financial troubles, you have done everything required of you to pay back your outstanding debts as they are outlined your bankruptcy proceedings.If you have not obtained discharge yet, you will likely need paperwork from your trustee approving you to receive a loan.
 Financing will be available while you are in Chapter 7, but it will be expensive. Most dealers will require at least $1,000 as a down payment, but usually require more., There are many car dealers specializing in making loans to people with bad credit, no credit and even those who have declared bankruptcy. Look online or in local advertisements to find a car dealer who specializes in finding financing for people with credit troubles.Always shop around for as many options as possible. Clearly explain your bankruptcy situation to a lender, being open and clear about your financial difficulties and the reason for them can make them more likely to approve a loan.
Visiting institutions (like a bank or credit union) with which you have prior relationships is an important place to start. These institutions have previous records of your payment history, and if you generally have good credit behavior or they see that your bankruptcy was due to a factor beyond your control (like job loss or medical emergency), they may be willing to lend.
You can also get a loan with the help of a family member or friend, either as a cosigner or as a personal loan. However, be advised that this makes that person legally responsible for your debt should you fail to make payments.
 Having filed for bankruptcy, lenders will view you as someone who has proven the capacity to live well beyond his or her means. Because of this, it is critical to select a reasonable car that you can afford before approaching a lender for financing.If possible, it may be wise to approach a friend, family member or trusted acquaintance who would be willing to sign for a car loan on your behalf and arrange a payment schedule with that individual. This will help to reduce the stress of putting forward a high down payment or paying higher interest rates on monthly car payments., Your car loan will likely have an interest rate that is higher than traditional loans. This will drastically increase the monthly payments you will owe to the dealership or independent lender.Interest rates may be as high as 15-20%.

