 Compare and contrast the teachings and philosophy of each practice. For long-term goals, consider which one emphasizes areas that you wish to develop both mentally and physically. To learn kung fu quickly, however, choose one that already plays to your strengths.The two most prominent schools are Wu Dong and Shaolin. In Wu Dong, the emphasis is on the “internal” with the aim of developing your chi (life force). Shaolin focuses on the “external” with exercises that strengthen your body.
Kung fu styles are further distinguished by the geography of their origins. Northern styles tend to incorporate a lot of leg work and acrobatics. Southern styles, on the other hand, emphasize solid footing and more arm work.
Another distinction between styles is hard versus soft. Hard styles teach you to meet your opponent with equal or greater force, while soft styles rely more on using your opponent’s momentum to their disadvantage.
 See exactly how your body is supposed to move and orient itself to execute moves and stances correctly. Begin with basic moves like kicks and punches. Then watch how these individual moves are incorporated into longer katas (choreographed exercises that combine a variety of movements).


Watch each clip multiple times. Each time, pay close attention to just one area of the demonstrator’s body. Focus on their feet in one viewing. Then focus on their hips. Then their waist. And so on. This way, when you practice it yourself and, say, strike with your arms, you’ll know exactly how your feet and legs should be reinforcing your body so you can deliver your strike with the most efficiency.
To further expand your understanding of kung fu, also watch clips of other martial arts to see how they differ. Note how kung fu appears more fluid in motion. utilizing more circular techniques than are found in other arts, like karate, where movements are more direct and linear., Even though you want to learn kung fu quickly, resist the temptation to train too hard too fast. Although kung fu aims to instill discipline in those who practice it, it doesn’t expect it from you right away, so relax. Forget “no pain, no gain.” Build a training schedule sensibly, according to your capabilities and overall fitness, in order to avoid injury or burning yourself out.For example, instead of practicing 100 kicks right off the bat, start off with reps of 10 kicks spread across the course of the day. Learn how to execute correctly and efficiently without tiring yourself out. Then, once you’ve mastered how to execute a kick, build your endurance by gradually increasing the number of kicks per rep: from 10 to 15; from 15 to 20; from 20 to 30; and so on.

