 No matter what type of illness you're trying not to catch, you can give yourself the best chance of staying healthy by having a diet rich in essential vitamins and minerals. People who are malnourished experience higher rates of disease and illness.Make sure your diet includes the following components, all of which have been linked to immune system health, to keep your immune system strong:



Vitamin A. Eat carrots, sweet potatoes, leafy greens, squash, apricots and melons.Vitamin B. Eat beans, vegetables, poultry, fish, and meat.

Vitamin C. Eat papaya, broccoli, bell peppers, oranges, kiwi, strawberries and brussels sprouts.Vitamin D. Get plenty of sun and eat salmon, herring and soy.Vitamin E. Eat almonds, walnuts, sunflower seeds, wheat germ, and peanut butter.Selenium. Eat tuna, shrimp, salmon, turkey, chicken, and other fish.Zinc. Eat seafood, beef, wheat germ, spinach and cashews., Drinking enough water - and getting water through fruits and vegetables - is essential to keeping your immune system strong and helping your body expel germs. Drink 8 cups a day to keep yourself in good health, and step it up when you feel an illness coming on. Make sure you stay hydrated from morning til night., You've probably experienced this scenario: you pulled two all-nighters in a row, and on the third day you came down with a cold. Sleep deprivation makes the body less able to combat illness, and more susceptible to getting sick in the first place.Aim to get at least 7 - 8 hours every night.
 Related to the issue of sleep is the amount of stress in your life. Social or psychological stress can take a toll on the body's immune response, too. Stress can disrupt the body's communication between the nervous system, endocrine (hormonal) system, and immune system. Basically, stress keeps them from choreographing a delicate balance that allows you to stay healthy. Scientists believe that stress sends out a steady trickle of hormones that affect the function of your body's white blood cells, which are the immune response's fighters., Drinking alcohol and smoking lead to a host of health problems, and they exacerbate common illnesses as well. If you're feeling a little under the weather, pass on going out for drinks or smoking cigarettes. Drink water, eat a good meal, and go to bed early instead, and you just might be able to avoid getting sick.
 Daily exercise is best, but if you can't commit to a daily routine, try to include exercise in your regimen at least three times per week. Working out keeps your oxygen supply going, detoxifies your body, and simply strengthens your body inside and out.
 Add moisture to the air through technology (vaporizer, humidifier) or the old-fashioned way (pots of hot water). When the air around you gets very dry, your body's mucus membranes tend to dry out. Although mucus may seem nasty and useless, it's incredibly important: it contains lots of helpful antibodies that are designed to prevent illness, and it doubles as a sort of flypaper that traps would-be intruders (bacteria) before they have time to fully get into your system.Get just the right amount of humidity in the air. Try to keep the humidity between 30% and 50% in the summer, and between 30% and 40% in the winter.Dip below 30% humidity and the mucus gets too dry; go above 50% and you're prone to giving yourself a different set of health problems.
 While most herbs haven't been proven to prevent sickness, there are a few that seem to help. There's no harm in drinking herbal tea and incorporating herbs into your diet in order to give yourself the best chance to avoid sickness. Try the following healthy herbs:


Garlic has been shown to help prevent infection.
Ginseng is said to boost immune function.Probiotics help with digestion and to prevent infection.
Echinacea is commonly used as a preventative measure against colds, but its efficacy is controversial in the medical community.