 Rinse the rice you're using under the faucet. Rinse it using a colander or similar device. After rinsing the rice, shake the colander gently to remove any excess water.





;
, Rice is combined with water prior to cooking, but precise ratios vary. Check your package's instructions to figure out the rough rice-to-water ratio. In general, most rices call for two parts rice to one part water.More water will make your rice mushy and less will make it chewy. If you want a mushy or chewy texture, try adding a little more or a little less water than recommended.
 Make sure the dish you choose is safe to put in the microwave. It should say somewhere on the dish. If you can't figure out if a dish is microwave safe, use a different dish to be safe. Place both your rice and water in the dish.








Make sure you choose a dish that's a little bigger than necessary, as rice expands when cooked. Also, a bigger dish will keep it from boiling over as easily
It's not necessary to stir your ingredients when cooking rice.
 Switch the microwave to the highest heat setting it has. Microwave the rice for 10 minutes. Do not cover the rice when microwaving it., After 10 minutes have passed, switch the microwave to low heat. Continue microwaving the rice on low heat for 15 minutes. Leave the rice uncovered.Brown rice can take longer too cook than white rice. When cooking brown rice, you may need to microwave the rice for 20 additional minutes instead of 15.Do not stir the rice in between microwave sessions.
 After the last 15 minutes of cooking, your rice should be ready to eat. Take a fork and gently fluff the rice to give it some texture.If your rice is still stiff when you try to fluff it, cook your rice for a few minutes longer and check it again.
Be careful when removing rice from the microwave. If any water has poured over the container, wait a few moments before handling the rice and use oven mitts.
 You can mix a splash of salt and pepper, as well as a spoonful of butter, into your rice for a classic taste. Butter can be added to the water before you cook the rice or you can melt it in after the rice has cooked.
 If you're making rice as a side dish for something else, borrow from the spices from that dish and mix it into the rice. This will add flavor to the rice and help it pair well with whatever you're cooking.For example, if you're making salmon, add some of the salmon marinade to the rice after cooking it.
 If you want to add flavor while the rice is cooking, opt for chicken or vegetable broth instead of plain water. Using too much chicken broth or water sometimes makes rice taste starchy, so opt for a 50/50 mix of vegetable/chicken broth and water to add flavor to your rice.