 A sleep log will help you manage how much sleep your baby is getting. It can also help you plan a routine for your baby so that they get enough sleep as well as plenty of alert time. There are programs and apps that can help you keep track of their sleep schedule, but you can also create your own chart.Make sure to note:


What time your baby falls asleep
What time they woke up
How long they slept for
How often they wake up at night
Why they woke up (hungry, dirty diaper, etc.)
What they were doing before they fell asleep (feeding, playing, crying, etc.)

, Babies who do not have enough sleep may be cranky, fussy, or upset during their alert time. While sleep cannot prevent all fussiness, it can help increase the length of time that your baby is alert and not crying.


Newborns generally sleep about eight to nine hours during the day. They can sleep up to eight hours at night, although they will typically wake every two to three hours to feed.Ideal wake times for newborns are 45 to 60 minutes at a time. By the time they’re six months old, they may be awake for two to two and a half hours at a time. At a year old, they may be awake for between three and four hours at a time., Even if the baby is not sleeping through the night yet, it is important to set an early bedtime. This will create an important sleep routine for your baby, and it will ensure that they are getting enough rest. You may want to put your baby to bed between 6 and 8 PM.Just because you put your baby to bed later does not necessarily mean that they will sleep in later. Your baby may just wake up cranky and fussy, minimizing the amount of alert time they have for that day.If your baby is taking naps in the early evening, it may delay their bedtime. Try waking your baby up early in the morning to encourage them to take naps earlier in the day. You can also put them down for a nap a bit earlier than usual., Near the end of your baby’s alert time, you may notice them becoming sleepy. At this point, you should put your baby in their crib to take a nap, rather than waiting until they are asleep or almost asleep. Do not try to keep them awake longer than they want to be; while they may get a second wind, there is a good chance that they will be cranky or that they will cry more easily.Some signs of sleepiness include:


Yawning
Rubbing eyes
Fussing or crying
Looking away from youStretching
Becoming quiet, calm, or inactive
Flicking or touching their ear