, Do what you said you would and do it as much as is needed. Promises, once spoken aloud, can be thought of a pacts you make with the universe. When you do not uphold your end of the bargain, the other party is less likely to turn to you or count on you in the future. You lose your credibility, reliability, and integrity when you break a promise.


If you are one of those people who impulsively makes promises before fully considering the ramifications, try this: never agree to do anything until you have made sure you understand the request, have a plan in place to reach the desired outcome, and have the necessary resources at your disposal.Fulfill your duties without excuses. If you cannot do exactly as you stated, then have reasons -- but first, help with making other arrangements, make amends, apologize... if that's appropriate.
Never neglect or shrug off your part, becoming lax or slack. You will regret it in the future as the people who thought they were your friends will look elsewhere for favours.
Use electronic reminders, such as on your phone's calendar; so you do not forget your commitments and appointments. Say and mean it: "I will remember" -- possibly, use a day planner book.
 Showing up when you say you will or when you're supposed to can earn you great marks towards dependability. However, according to research approximately 1 in 5 people are consistently late, and overcoming chronic lateness is not an easy habit to break.,
Schedule events realistically without underestimating the amount of time tasks and events will take
Give yourself more than enough 'buffer' time for traveling, things you've forgotten, etc.
Get ready and organized early so that you will be prompt.

Plan all details of doing a good job.
Write a list and fill it if you need tools, materials, supplies, etc.
Make a schedule so you can be on time.


Be okay with down time. People who arrive early may spend some time waiting on events to start. Bring along other work or something to read to make productive use of down time.
 Being trustworthy implies that others have confidence in you. Trustworthiness is built on the opinions of others, and a reputation takes time to build. However, by working on other aspects of reliability, such as punctuality, keeping promises, not telling secrets, and consistently doing good work you can build a reputation of trustworthiness., Truthfulness is an incredibly important human value. When others expect the truth from you, they trust you and find you dependable. Sometimes, telling the truth can be hard. It may even hurt others' feelings. However, if you use tact when delivering even harsh honesty, others will know they can count on you to be candid.


The best way to maintain honesty is to live a life doing things that you are proud of. When you portray integrity in your everyday behaviors, you are less likely to need to lie to cover up a behavior., If someone confides in you, then it ends with you. Avoid gossip, and spreading unfounded rumors. Build up rather than cutting down your team members.
 Be alert, doing duties well. Responsibility can be a very difficult skill to master, but once learned, will earn you much respect from others. Responsibility involves acknowledging how your actions affected others, owning up to your mistakes, and practicing what you preach.,


Practice responsibility by weighing the pros and cons of your choices (especially those that may affect others), using mistakes for growth, and accepting your role in a bad decision or outcome rather than trying to justify it.
If you are a professional, you will need to prove yourself by becoming a dependable consultant, independent contractor, business owner or employee who is able to do the job very well.

