 Obviously, the first step is simply inviting her to watch a movie with you. Make sure to pick a night when she can come. You can do this in a casual way, such as texting or emailing her, or go romantic and write her an old-fashioned letter. You could also simply ask her. Whatever you feel most comfortable with is usually the best option.;
, Go out and buy some snacks for the two of you to enjoy. Popcorn (see warnings though), chips, and/or candy are a few good choices. If she is on a diet or just would rather eat healthier food, try getting some soda crackers, dried fruit, and/or vegetables that both of you like. Also, if you know of a particular snack she likes, then you should get that too. She'll appreciate the fact that you thought of her. Don't forget the drinks. Pop or juice are good choices, but if she would rather drink something healthier, water is okay. Once again, if she likes a certain drink, make sure to buy that.
 Try to figure out what type of movie she likes. Some girls like chick flicks or romantic comedies, while others will enjoy slasher films and horror movies. Think about who your girlfriend is and which one she'd enjoy more. If you're really stuck, just ask her what movie she'd like to watch. It's better for you to ask her than make her suffer through an hour and a half to two hours of a movie that she hates. Also make sure that you would like the film as well as your girlfriend may sense how much you hate the movie and feel guilty that she is enjoying the date but you aren't and it could ruin the date. When you have decided upon an appropriate movie, then go ahead and rent it or buy it (unless you already own the movie).
 Before she comes over, clean the space where you're going to watch the movie and set it up so that it is appropriate for watching a movie. You need to make sure that there is a comfortable place for you two to sit (a recliner, a couch, etc.). It is also necessary that the place where you sit with your girlfriend is a place where you can be close to her and cuddle up on with her. Have a blanket on just in case either of you get cold, as it gives you optimal snuggle opportunities. Make sure that there is a table of some sort around (either a coffee table or a side table) so that you can put your drinks and snacks on it. Finally, get your parents and siblings out of the room - they can really ruin your evening!

, Let her know where she can get the snacks and drinks and make sure that she has everything she needs before starting the movie. If possible, dim or turn off the lights for a better movie watching experience and a more romantic setting.
 This is your girlfriend, so somewhere during the movie, make a romantic move. Whether this means holding hands with her, wrapping your arm around her, kissing her, or cuddling with, do it! She'll like it, and she'll probably be expecting something anyway. However, don't get too crazy, because keep in mind that your family may be only a few rooms away and your girlfriend may not be ready for anything too major.

