 Personal legal fees are subject to the same requirements as business legal fees. They must be incurred in the service of collecting taxable income for them to be deductible, though not necessarily "business" or "trade" related income.
 Examples of legal services provided for personal legal expenses that are not deductible include:child custody proceeding
breach of promise to marry lawsuit
civil or criminal charges resulting from a personal relationship
personal injury damages awarded - except whistle-blower claims and unlawful discrimination claims
perfection of title to real property for personal use or any defense thereto, including preparation of title
preparation of a last will and testament or any codicil thereto
property claims or property settlement in a divorce proceeding regardless of whether or not the legal proceeding relates to the loss of income-producing property
campaign expenses for any candidate running for office - including qualification and registration fees for primary elections
legal fees incurred for the defense of charges arising from participation in a political campaign

, Legalese is difficult to understand and even harder to negotiate come tax time. You may be confused about whether or not your legal fees may have been in some way related to income. If you're not sure, the best person to ask is always your lawyer.


It's always best to discuss these matters before you talk to your lawyer about hiring them and taking on fees. Know what you'll be able to deduct before you hire on for representation and counsel.
 Depending on your personal situation and legal fees, a lot goes into determining whether or not they'll be deductible. In general, though, a variety of deductions are commonly awarded. These include the following deductions, which may be made in most cases:


Deduct counsel related to collecting alimony. If you consulted a lawyer to collect alimony from an ex-spouse on your behalf, those fees may be deducted from your taxes.
Deduct legal fees related to necessary medical care. While legal fees related to the guardianship of estates and other affairs related to medical care are not deductible, expenses directly related to necessary medical care, including mental illness diagnoses, may be included in medical legal fee deductions.Deduct legal fees related to receiving your share of a class action lawsuit, or collecting back taxes, or any fees related to legal issues related to your employment.
 Some expenses, like those related to income-production may not actually be trade or business related, so they can't be strictly "personal" or "capital" expenses. These are still deductible, however. Examples of this include legal fees:


Related to the "management, conservation, or maintenance of property held for the production of income," or fees paid related to the "determination, collection, or refund of any tax."If you own property, say, and needed to consult a lawyer to clear your legal title to a house that you use as a home office, you may be able to claim a deduction based on those fees. The best way to find out is to ask your lawyer.

