 There are two types of jealousy that can affect your love for him. You can be jealous of his life, or you can be jealous of his attention. Either one will lead to disagreements and hard feelings. If you are feeling jealous, analyze why and move on.An example of being jealous of his life is wishing that you had as many friends as he does.
An example of being jealous of his attention is wishing that he would stop hanging out with his friends and spend his time with you.
 Jealousy is not the only feeling that can get in the way of loving him. You might also feel things like sadness, resentment, or neglect. If you have any negative or insecure feelings, you should not repress them or act on them. Instead, analyze what makes you feel that way. Once you know what is bothering you, you can work on accepting that part of his personality.For example, if it bothers you that is never on time, once you realize this you can start accepting it as a part of his personality rather than viewing it as a lack of caring for you.
Avoid taking things too personally. Keep in mind that some of his actions may be harmless and not reflect any deeper meanings other than what you assign to them.
 This might take a lot of time and practice. Be patient with yourself, and constantly analyze why you feel insecure. It might help to keep a diary of your feelings so that you can monitor them. If you are having a lot of difficulty with your feelings, you can consult a mental health professional.Do not leave the diary somewhere that he can read it. Explain that it is private if he seems uncertain. You may prefer to keep a diary in a file on your computer.
Another way to work through your insecurities is to be open and honest about them. Do not blame them on the man you love, but use “I” statements like “I sometimes feel that our relationship might fade over time.”
You might even consider sharing some of your insecurities with him if you are comfortable doing so. This can help to strengthen your relationship. Hiding things may only lead to trouble in the future.

