 Set a 4-quart Dutch oven or pot on the stove. Pour in 4 cups (946 ml) of canola oil and heat it over medium-high heat. Attach a candy or deep-fry thermometer onto the side of the pot, so you can adjust the temperature. You'll need to heat the oil to 385 degrees F (195 C) before you can begin frying the onion rings., Measure 1 cup (120 g) of gluten-free all-purpose flour, 1 cup (141 g) of white rice flour, 1 tablespoon of chili powder, and 1 teaspoon of baking soda into a mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients together, so the spices are incorporated., Keep whisking the dry ingredients and slowly pour in 1 1/4 cups (295 ml) of chilled club soda. The batter will foam up a little, but it should become smooth. Set it aside while you prepare the onion., Peel 1 medium onion and remove the ends. Use a sharp knife to carefully slice the onion into 1/2-inch (12-mm) thick slices. Pull out each ring, so you have a variety of onion ring sizes., Dip each onion ring into the wet batter, so it's completely coated. Lift each ring up out of the batter and let the excess batter drip off before you fry the rings. This will help them crisp up more., Check the oil temperature to ensure that it's at degrees F (195 C) . Add a few of the coated rings to the oil and fry them for 1 minute or until they're totally golden brown. The temperature of the oil will drop a little, but ensure that it stays around 375 F (190 C) while the rings are frying. Scoop out the fried onion rings and set them on a baking sheet lined with paper towels. Fry the rest of the onion rings in batches.Remember to let the oil heat back up to 385 degrees F (195 C) before you fry another batch of rings.
Consider keeping the fried onion rings in a warm oven while you fry the rest of them.
 In a small prep bowl, stir together 1/4 teaspoon of salt, 1/4 teaspoon of garlic powder, and 1/4 teaspoon of black pepper. Sprinkle the fried onion rings with the spice mixture and serve them immediately.Consider serving the rings with ketchup or your favorite condiments.

