 In many cases, you will be able to make a dinner reservation early in the same day. However, if you are planning the dinner ahead of time, call earlier. Most restaurants will accept reservations a few days in advance, and exclusive fine dining venues will often accept (or even require) reservations weeks or months in advance.
 If you are attempting to book a tough reservation, remember that your attitude on the phone will go a long way. Be confident but polite; avoid giving the impression that you feel entitled to a reservation. However, remember that even Michelin-starred restaurants are not in the business of turning away customers. If the host replies that the restaurant has no availability, explain your situation and ask politely if there is any way you can be accommodated in the future.


When calling say, "Hi, I'd like to place a reservation for this coming Saturday at 5." The host will then likely ask how many people are in your party and tell you if that time and date is available. If it's not available, try asking "Is there a table available for an earlier/later time?" If the answer is still no, ask if they can give you their earliest availability and go from there.
 If you book your table a week or more in advance, it's sometimes good to call the day of your reservation just to double-check that you still have it. You should do this as early in the day as you can in case there is a problem. This will allow you to make other plans if you need to, or give you time to work out the problem with the restaurant.
 Once you've secured your reservation, call ahead and apologize if it looks like you'll be up to 20 minutes late. If you are running much later than that, consider canceling and rescheduling your dinner. Remember that reservations are made for a reason - to make sure as many guests as possible are served on each night. If you are late it affects other guests' reservations.
 This way you can let the hostess know you've arrived and ensure that your table won't be given to someone else. Many restaurants will have a bar or waiting area that you can sit in and get drinks. However, remember to re-approach the hostess when the time for your reservation comes up so you aren't passed over.

