 Whether you can take legal action against the player will depend on what is stated in the contract. Accordingly, you should find the contract and read it from cover to cover. Generally, you can take legal action in two situations:


The athlete did not fulfill an obligation under the contract.
The athlete did something so serious that you can end the contract. The contract should usually spell out what conduct is so serious as to justify termination.;
, Make sure that the contract prohibits what you claim it does. For example, if a player refuses to talk to the media after a game, then there needs to be a provision in the contract that covers responding to media requests. Generally, a professional athlete’s contract will require that the athlete do the following:attend and participate in games when instructed by the team
play to the best of his or her abilities at all times
maintain a high level of physical fitness
avoid engaging in activities which could impair physical fitness
play only for the team and not for others
obey the rules of the game
avoid saying or doing anything that could damage the reputation of the team and the sport
participate in media events, including interviews and photographic sessions

, The contract might specify actions so serious that you can terminate the contract. These are sometimes called “morals clauses.”For example, a contract might identify the following as reasons to terminate the contract:The athlete is convicted of a criminal offense.
The athlete committed “gross misconduct,” such as theft, fraud, illegal drug use, or serious damage caused to the club’s property.
The athlete becomes incapacitated because of alcohol or drug use.
 Before disciplining the player, you will need evidence that she or he has violated their obligations. This evidence will also be useful later, if you need to terminate the contract and go to court. Look for the following:


Video or photographic evidence. You might have video evidence that the player did not try his hardest during the game. Or you might have photographic evidence of the player committing a crime or behaving inappropriately in public. Collect this evidence from whatever source has it.
Notes or eyewitness testimony. If the coach does not feel that a player is staying physically fit, then have the coach document why. The coach can write down his or her impressions. Also, if fans saw the player doing something inappropriate—such as downhill skiing, which is risky—then you can collect eyewitness statements from the fans.
Police reports. If the player is accused of committing a crime, then get any police reports.
 The contract should state how you will discipline the athlete for violations of the contract. Although your first instinct might be to go to court, the contract might state that you will discipline the athlete for minor offenses. Alternately, the contract might give you a choice to discipline the player internally or to bring legal action against the player.


The contract might state that you will first give the player an oral warning. If so, then you should warn the player and document that you gave the warning by writing down the date, time, and location of the warning.
The contract may also allow you to fine the athlete or to suspend him or her for a given amount of time.You might find a suspension or fine preferable to a lawsuit.
Each contract is different. In some contracts, the team might reserve the right to not follow the discipline procedures if the violation is sufficiently serious. You should talk with your lawyer to discuss what you should do.
 Your contract will tell you how to notify the player of the violation and punishment. For example, you can meet in person if you give an oral warning.


If you want to suspend or fine the player, then you should send a written “breach of contract” notice, which is described in Part 2., Your team should either have its own lawyer as an employee or have an attorney “on retainer.” When a lawyer is on retainer, you pay a monthly fee so that the lawyer can handle any legal issues whenever they arise.Schedule a meeting with the lawyer and discuss the issue. The lawyer should help you understand whether the contract breach is sufficiently serious as to be “material.” You can only end a contract if it is sufficiently serious.
If the breach was not serious, then you still could fine the player. Your lawyer can advise you about whether a fine would be appropriate under the player’s contract.
 You can warn a player about minor contractual violations with a verbal warning. But you might need to write a breach of contract notice for more serious violations. Your lawyer can write the notice for you, or you can draft it and show it to your lawyer.


Set the notice up like a business letter. Be sure to include the date on the letter.Also make sure that the font size and style is readable. Many people are comfortable with Times New Roman 12 point.
 Point to specific provisions and quote the relevant contract language. If the athlete violated several contract provisions, then make sure to mention them all, starting with the most serious violation.Also mention the evidence that you have of the violation. For example, you could state, “Based on video evidence that has come into our possession, we see that you have violated the morals clause of your contract that prohibits you from bringing embarrassment on the team.”
You can also attach the contract to the letter, as well.
 You have some options about how you want the player to fix the problem. For example, you could request that the athlete pay you money as compensation. Alternately, you could terminate the contract if the breach is sufficiently serious.You can fine the player. The player then needs to pay the fine in order to rejoin the team. Tell the player the amount of the fine and when you want it paid.
You might also suspend a player for a fairly serious violation. The player will “cure” the violation by following the terms of the suspension. Usually, you will tell the player not to visit the team’s facilities during the suspension.You might also want to simply terminate the contract and not give the player a chance to cure.
 The contract might tell you how you must deliver the notice to the player. Make sure that you follow the method provided in the contract.If you don’t, the player could claim you didn’t provide proper notice and then use that as a defense in a lawsuit.


If you need to mail the letter, make sure that you use certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipt is proof that the player received it.
 When you sue a player, you ask the judge for a “remedy.” This is what you want the judge to give you. There are many different remedies available if you sue a player. You should talk about the following with your lawyer before filing the lawsuit:Termination of the contract. You can ask the judge to declare the contract invalid. Once a contract is invalid, both you and the player can stop performing your obligations.
Monetary compensation. You can also sue the player for money. For example, the athlete’s conduct might have damaged your team’s reputation.
Liquidated damages. This is a pre-determined amount of money spelled out in the contract. Read your contract to see if there is a “liquidated damages” provision. For example, a contract might state that if a player injures himself off the field, that he will pay the team a set amount of money.
 Your lawyer can start a lawsuit by filing a complaint with the court. The complaint is a legal document that describes the dispute. You will identify the parties (you and the player) and explain how the player breached the contract.


You also state your remedy, i.e., what you want the judge to give you.You will probably also attach a copy of the player’s contract to the complaint.
 You can serve notice of the lawsuit by giving the player a copy of the complaint and a “summons.” The summons tells the player how much time he or she has to respond to your lawsuit.The notice must be served in an appropriate way. Your lawyer should understand the court rules for how to serve notice properly.
Generally, you will hire a private process server to make delivery on the player. In some courts, you could also mail using certified mail, return receipt requested.
 After you serve the player notice, he or she will have to respond. Generally, the player will file an “answer” with the court. In this document, the player will either admit or deny your allegations.The player can also counter-sue you in return. You should be prepared for this, since it is common in breach of contract claims.
For example, the player will probably claim that you didn’t pay all of the money that you owe him or her. The player will then counter-sue for the amount owed.
 Lawsuits can be quite lengthy. The longest part of a lawsuit is the fact-finding phase called “discovery.” In discovery, you can request information from the player, and the player can request information from you.


For example, your lawyer will probably ask the player questions in a “deposition.” A deposition is a chance to have the player answer questions under oath, with a court reporter recording the questions and answers. They typically take place in a lawyer’s office.The questions your lawyer asks will differ depending on the reason for the lawsuit. For example, if the player failed to show up to several games, you can ask about drug addictions. You can also ask the player who he saw during the time he was missing from the team. Once you get the names of people, you can then contact them to check out the player’s story.
 You and your lawyer should seriously discuss whether it might be better to resolve the dispute outside of court. In particular, you should discuss negotiating a settlement with the player.


Negotiation has many advantages. For example, you can resolve the dispute much faster than with a lawsuit.
Because you reach resolution quicker, negotiation is also generally less expensive.You don’t have to go through the lengthy fact-finding phase of a lawsuit.
Negotiated settlements can also be kept private. In this way, you can protect the player’s reputation, as well as the reputation of your team.
 Your lawyer should handle the nuts and bolts of trial. Accordingly, there won’t be much for you to do. However, you should still stay informed and try to understand the trial process as best as you can.


The trial will consist of the presentation of evidence. Your lawyer will try to show the judge that the player violated the contract. The evidence you gathered early in the process will be critical. Evidence will be presented in the form of witness testimony, video or photographic evidence, and documents.The player may try to excuse the breach. For example, he or she could claim that they didn’t really violate the contract. A player accused of being intoxicated during games could instead claim that he was sick.
After all evidence is presented, the judge or jury will deliver a verdict in favor of one side. Whoever loses can usually bring an appeal.

