 Honey is an important ingredient to include in teas and other drinks you make when you have a sore throat. Studies support what people have found to be true for centuries: it coats the throat and eases inflammation, as well as helping to suppress coughing.Cayenne is another sore throat-fighting powerhouse: it contains capsaicin, a natural substance found in peppers that acts as a pain reliever.Make a soothing, healthful drink by adding 1/2 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper and 1 teaspoon honey to 1 cup of boiling water. Let the mixture cool, then sip it slowly.
If you're very sensitive to hot peppers, reduce the amount of cayenne to 1/8 teaspoon or less.
Honey should not be given to children under the age of 1, as it has been known to give babies botulism.If you swap out the cayenne for one ounce of whiskey and add some extra lemon, this drink becomes a hot toddy.
 Scientific research has shown chamomile, a fragrant flowering herb that people have been using for centuries to beat sore throats and colds, does indeed contain substances that fight infection and relax muscles.Brewing up a few cups of chamomile tea each day you have a sore throat will relieve your throat pain and help you feel more relaxed. Chamomile tea is particularly soothing just before bed, since it will help you sleep a little better.


Chamomile tea is widely available in supermarkets. Check the ingredients and choose a box made with pure chamomile flowers, or one in which chamomile is one of the main ingredients. Follow the instructions to brew your tea.
Add a spoonful of honey and a squeeze of lemon (an astringent that helps to shrink swollen tissue) to make your tea even more beneficial.
 Garlic is thought to have antiseptic and antibacterial properties, as well as the power to fight infection and build up the immune system. While its medicinal benefits have not yet been substantiated by scientific research, many holistic health practitioners recommend taking it to soothe sore throats and fight respiratory infection.Make a savory garlic broth to ease your throat irritation by peeling and crushing 2 garlic cloves and pouring a cup of boiling water over them. Add a pinch of salt to make the drink even more beneficial for your throat.
If you love the taste of garlic, you can receive the same benefits by simply peeling a clove, crushing it, and sucking on it for a few minutes.
 Licorice contains chemicals that are thought to ease sore throats by thinning the mucous membranes and decreasing swelling. Licorice-flavored candy doesn't contain high enough concentrations of these chemicals, but you can access them when you make licorice tea from dried licorice root.Cinnamon has natural antibacterial properties and complements the flavor of the licorice nicely.To make a delicious drink, mix 1 tablespoon licorice root and 1/2 tablespoon cinnamon with 2 cups of cold water in a saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil, then let it simmer for 10 minutes. Strain into a cup and enjoy.
Stir in some honey or a squeeze of lemon to make the drink even more healthful.
 You probably already knew that ginger helps ease an upset stomach, but did you know this powerful herb can also be used to ease a sore throat? It opens up your sinuses and helps to clear your nose and throat, as well as having anti-inflammatory properties.Use fresh ginger, not dried or ground ginger, to get the maximum benefits.


Peel and chop about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of fresh ginger root. Place it in a mug and pour a cup of boiling water over it. Let the drink steep for 3 minutes, then strain and enjoy. You can add honey, lemon or a dash of cayenne to taste.
 If you're looking for another savory sore-throat soother, you can't do better than old-fashioned chicken soup. Recent scientific studies have pointed to the idea that chicken soup really does have components that heal infections and open the nasal passages - it's not just an old wives' tale.Since it's packed with nutrients, chicken soup is a good choice if you're not feeling hungry enough to eat substantial meals.


Be sure to make the soup from scratch, or buy it from a place that makes it from scratch from a fresh chicken. Chicken soup from a can isn't likely to have the same health benefits as soup made with a fresh chicken.
If you want, you can strain out the solids and just drink the broth.

