 You should brush your teeth every morning and every evening before bed. You can also add a third toothbrushing in the middle of the day if you like.Brushing your teeth properly will help prevent tooth and gum disease and can help remove food stains, leaving you with a healthier, cleaner, whiter smile.


The acid in certain foods, such as sodas or some types of fruit, can weaken your teeth's enamel temporarily. Wait at least 30 minutes after eating these foods before brushing your teeth. Otherwise the brushing may have an unhealthy effect on your teeth, weakening your enamel and leading to damage and wear.;
, Brushing has to be done methodically and carefully, for at least two to three minutes each time. Do not skimp on your brushing.If you have a hard time brushing for the right amount of time, play one of your favorite songs that lasts two to three minutes. Use this as a guide to make sure you are brushing for long enough.Angle the toothbrush toward where your tooth meets the gum, at about a 45 degree angle, in order to get the best result.Brush the inside, outside, and chewing surface of each tooth. Make sure you brush your tongue and the back teeth as well as your front teeth.Clean the surface using rotational movements (clockwise and counter-clockwise motions) and avoid back-and-forth movements.
 Toothpaste with fluoride is the most effective way to clean your teeth.There are other toothpaste options, but a fluoridated toothpaste will prevent cavities more effectively than non-fluoridated toothpastes.
 Old toothbrushes become less effective at cleaning your teeth. Be sure that you buy new, fresh toothbrushes every three months or so.Replace your toothbrush when you notice the bristles bending or fraying, or after a tooth extraction or oral surgery.You should also replace your toothbrush after illness to prevent the spread of disease.Keep your toothbrush cool and dry to make sure that it doesn't breed harmful bacteria or mold.Store your toothbrush upright so that it can be exposed to the air and dry properly., Soft bristles are the best way to clean teeth without damaging them.Scraping too hard against the teeth can hurt or scratch the enamel: be gentle with your teeth.Use a soft touch and a soft brush to keep your teeth as clean, healthy, and strong as possible.


An electric toothbrush can also help you to brush effectively and can reduce tooth and gum disease.Even better, invest in a sonic toothbrush. This type of electric toothbrush vibrates at a high speed, which allows fluids (saliva, water, toothpaste) to reach places where the bristles cannot.
 Flossing helps to remove plaque and bacteria that your toothbrush might miss. Flossing requires using a special waxed thread to clean tight spaces in between your teeth that a toothbrush cannot reach. You can floss before or after brushing: both methods work well.Use at least 18 inches (46 centimeters) of floss each time. Be sure that you are using fresh, clean floss on each tooth.Floss gently in between every tooth. Do not skip any teeth, even if they are hard to reach (such as your back teeth). Make sure you gently scrape the floss against the gumline to remove plaque and buildup.Special flossing tools can be purchased to help those who have trouble getting a good angle., If you would like to provide your teeth and mouth with extra protection, you can use an over-the-counter mouthwash. Make sure the mouthwash has fluoride.Most people do better with an alcohol-free mouthwash. Rinse your mouth with the mouthwash for 30–60 seconds using a swishing motion. Then spit out the mouthwash into the sink: never swallow mouthwash.


If you find it hard to remove plaque from your teeth, try using a chlorhexidine mouthwash for two weeks, then take two weeks off. This can increase antibacterial protection and prevent brown chlorhexidine stains from forming.
 Some people have a particularly difficult time getting their teeth cleaned. If you have trouble brushing and flossing effectively, you can buy a special tooth irrigator to assist you, such as a water pick. These tools spray water in a directed way into your mouth, removing harmful food particles and keeping your mouth clean and healthy., Make sure your mouth is healthy before undertaking an at-home whitening regime.Your dentist will be able to tell you whether your teeth are discolored because of disease or other underlying causes. Your dentist should also be able to recommend safe, effective products that will not irritate your mouth.


Women who are pregnant or nursing should not use whitening products., Over-the-counter whitening products are all designed to place bleaching agents on the teeth for several minutes at a time in order to lift stains. Use products with a low concentration of peroxide to get a whitening effect without causing irritation.Look for products that have been approved by your national dental association to ensure their safety. Whitening products take several forms including:


Strips. These strips adhere to your teeth, allowing your teeth to be exposed to whitening agents.Paint-on products. By brushing the whitening product on your teeth before bed, you can lift stains overnight.Gel trays. You fill a tray molded to your teeth with the whitening gel. You bite the gel tray and hold it in your mouth for the recommended amount of time in order to expose your teeth to the bleaching agent.You can also purchase an accelerator light, which uses LED lights to activate the gel and enhance the whitening process.
 Each whitening product works slightly differently. Some have to be removed after just a few minutes. Others can be left overnight. Read instructions on the package carefully to make sure that you receive the maximum benefit without causing harm to your teeth or mouth. It is essential that you do not leave products on for longer than the recommended time.Avoid acidic foods and drinks after use. These can hurt the effectiveness of the whitening product as well as irritate your sensitive teeth.Repeat whitening treatments as necessary. Don't whiten your teeth too often: simply provide touch-ups as needed every six months or so., Whitening toothpastes are a gentler, slower way to whiten teeth. They will not work as quickly or effectively as other whitening methods, though they can be a great way to preserve your desired shade of teeth once you've achieved it in other ways.Whitening toothpastes do not have bleaching agents, but rather use polishing and other chemical reactions in order to remove surface stains.Look for a whitening toothpaste that has been approved by the American Dental Association or other professional dental group in order to ensure that the product is safe and effective., Some studies show that toothpastes with baking soda might be more effective at cleaning teeth than other toothpastes.Baking soda has also long been used as a natural tooth-whitening agent; however, baking soda can also irritate your delicate skin around your mouth. A toothpaste with baking soda should have concentrations low enough that you will receive some benefit from the baking soda without experiencing irritation.
 There isn't solid data about the usefulness or safety of natural tooth-whitening treatments; however, some individuals report positive effects from their use.Be wary when using these treatments, and it is a good idea to talk to your dentist first. These natural treatments include the following:


Applying mashed strawberries to your teeth. Strawberries have an enzyme, malic acid, that supposedly brightens teeth. Mash fresh strawberries and apply them to your teeth. Let them sit for five minutes and then rinse.Using lemon juice and baking soda. Shake a small amount of baking soda onto a thick fresh lemon wedge. Bite into this wedge and let it sit for a few minutes, until the fizzing subsides.Note that strawberries and lemons both contain citric acid, which can cause your teeth to become weaker and predisposed to developing sensitivity. Use natural tooth whitening treatments with caution, and be suspicious of their claims., In order to take care of your mouth, see your dentist every six months. Your dentist will be able to give you advice about how to care for your teeth and will let you know if she sees any developing tooth problems. Moreover, your dentist and hygienist will give you a deep cleaning and air polishing of your teeth. A professional deep cleaning will help remove surface stains from your teeth as well as unsightly plaque: even without bleaching treatments, your smile will likely be brighter after a visit to a dentist.


You might need to see your dentist more often than twice a year if you experience bleeding gums, tooth pain, or tooth discoloration. If these symptoms occur, make an earlier dental appointment to nip tooth decay in the bud.
 Professional tooth-whitening treatments often work more quickly than at-home care; however, these treatments can be pricey and are not often covered by dental insurance. Most professional whitening treatments involve a higher concentration of a bleaching agent along with lasers or other lights to aid the whitening process.Because you will undertake these treatments in a dental office, your gums will be protected from the harsh chemicals used on your teeth.Be aware that some studies show that at-home treatments can be just as effective as professional treatments, though they do take longer to cause a positive benefit., Most developed nations have licensing systems to ensure that practicing dentists and other dental professionals are safe and responsible. Only see a fully licensed dental professional who has been trained in a certified dental program. Do not go to a salon or kiosk for tooth-whitening treatments: these might be less expensive but also carry risks., Food particles on your teeth help to lead to tooth decay and staining. For this reason, you want to minimize the amount of time that your teeth are exposed to foods.Try to avoid snacking in between meals in order to maximize the amount of time that your teeth are totally clean and particle-free.
 Sugar is one of the most harmful substances for teeth, and it can hurt your mouth's health and appearance.Try to avoid products with added sugars to minimize tooth decay and staining. This includes table sugar as well as other sugars including: molasses, honey, maple syrup, corn syrup, and brown sugar. Your teeth and body will thank you.


Be aware of "fermentable carbohydrates," which begin to break down and turn to sugar in your mouth instead of further down your digestive tract, which can be very damaging to your teeth. Fermentable carbohydrates include crackers, bread, bananas and breakfast cereals as well as the more obvious things like cookies, cakes, and candy., Beverages sweetened with sugar are particularly bad for teeth. Sipping sugary drinks exposes your teeth to harmful substances for long periods of time, hastening tooth decay.Even healthy-sounding beverages like sports drinks are chock full of sugar.Find unsweetened alternatives to sugary beverages. Plain tap water (which is treated with fluoride in most U.S. cities) is the healthiest beverage option for your mouth health and the best option for your teeth's appearance.Beware of drinks like:


Sweetened teas and coffees
Soda
Cocktails and other alcoholic beverages
Energy drinks
Sports drinks
Fruit juices

, Coffee and tea can cause unsightly yellow stains;however, coffee and tea are not too bad for your mouth health as long as you drink them without sweeteners. Still, if you want your smile to remain bright and white, try to keep your consumption of tooth-staining drinks to a minimum.
 Fresh foods with a lot of fiber and water, such as fruits and vegetables, provide your body with essential nutrients for keeping your teeth strong. They also help naturally clean and brighten your teeth.Apples, carrots, and celery can all help remove food particles from your teeth while nourishing your mouth health.


Limit citrus fruits, but don't cut them out completely. They contain citric acid, which can damage tooth enamel, but they also help create a slightly alkaline pH environment in your mouth (the bacteria that cause tooth decay thrive in acidic environment). Try to eat citrus foods as part of a larger meal instead of on their own., Sticky foods remain on your teeth longer, leading to additional staining and decay.Stay away from sticky, chewy foods like raisins, chewy granola bars, candy bars, and caramel. Try to find healthy, natural alternatives instead; however, if you absolutely must eat sticky foods, be sure that you rinse your mouth with water soon afterwards: this can minimize the damage they can cause.
 Low-fat dairy foods (such as yogurt and hard cheeses) and nuts help clean teeth naturally.The proteins and calcium in dairy can help strengthen teeth as well.Instead of reaching for a candy bar, try some plain yogurt and a handful of almonds instead.
 Plaque development is the worst overnight, when your saliva flow is reduced. Refrain from eating or drinking anything (other than water) in the hours before bedtime.Not eating before bedtime can also reduce the likelihood of acid reflux, which hurts your tooth enamel.
 Tobacco products can stain teeth and lead to mouth diseases, including mouth cancers.Cigarettes, cigars, and chewing tobacco are all harmful to your smile. Quit them if at all possible, or at least cut down considerably in order to have clean, white teeth.


Try sugar-free gums as an alternative to cigarettes. Gums without sugar can help clean and brighten your mouth.

