 The shack is located near Autumnwatch Tower, on the side of a cliff. You will find Froki and his grandson Haming in the small house. Froki will ask you to kill three guardian beasts.;
, The wolf can be found west of Lakeview Manor, just north-east of Falkreath in the Falkreath Hold.
 You can find the skeever in the Windward Ruins, just southwest of Dawnstar.
 Located at the Fossilized Giant Mudcrab, an unmarked location, you will find the mudcrab. This location is located between the Broken Fang Cave and the Gjukar’s Monument. You will find normal mudcrabs as well as the guardian.


Located close to the pond is a skeleton that can be searched as well as a shield and a sword.
 Once you have slain the three guardians you must return to Froki. Froki will ask you to kill another three beasts which are tougher than the previous three.
 The sabre cat can be found northeast of Journeyman's Nook which is west-southwest of Bleakcoast Cave and southeast of Winterhold. The cat is located at the water level.
 You will find the mammoth southwest of Heljarchen Hall, west of Loreius Farm, and south of Dawnstar.
 Finally, the bear can be found north-east of Twilight Sepulcher, west of Falkreath, and south of Knifepoint Ridge.
 After the three beasts are killed, return to Froki for the next part of the quest. He will instruct you to kill the final beast called the Troll Champion., You can locate the troll in Graywinter Watch cavern. The cavern is near The Ritual Stone, just east of Whiterun. You will find an additional two trolls as well as the Guardian.


After you have killed the two trolls and the Guardian troll, you can find Froki’s bow at the camp located on the eastern wall of the cavern. It is sitting on top of a barrel.
 Once you complete the quest, visit Froki again at the shack located close to Autumnwatch Tower. Once you speak with him, you will be awarded Kyne’s Token from Froki. You will also get to keep Froki’s bow. If you don’t mention the bow before you report the kill of the guardian troll, you will be unable to mention it. Regardless you are able to keep the bow for yourself.

