 Cut the bottom of a foam cup to create the snowman head.Poke a hole through the cup to fit one blade of the scissor into the cup. Finish by cutting around the entirety of the cup. Do not bend your cup too much or it may crack or break. Do not discard the extra piece of the foam cup, because you'll be using this later for the base.


To ensure a straight line, use a marker or pen to draw a straight line around the cup before cutting.
 Draw a face on the cup using a black marker. Get creative and draw whatever shape and color of eyes that you want. You can give your cup different expressions by pointing its eyebrows up or down, or giving your snowman a smile or a frown.


For instance, eyebrows pointed down are representative of angry emotions.
Slightly raised eyebrows can make your snowman look surprised.You can also create your snowman's face by cutting out pieces of felt or construction paper and gluing them to your cup.
 Punch a small hole towards the bottom of your snowman's head and put a brass brad through the hole. Put the snowman's head over the lower portion of another, uncut foam cup and push the brad through the second cup. This second cup will act as the snowman's body. Bend the brads inside of the second cup so that your head will stay attached to the body of your snowman.


You should be able to tilt your snowman's head to the left and right.
 The pipe cleaners on the side of your snowman will represent its arms. Get some black or brown pipe cleaners and cut them three to four inches long. Stick the pipe cleaners in the side of the body piece of your snowman. Fold down the pipe cleaner inside of the foam cup, and attach it to the interior sides of the cup with tape.You can also create hands by cutting out smaller half inch pieces of pipe cleaner and attaching them to the ends of your arms.
 Use the other end that you cut out to serve as the base of your snowman. Lay the base cup on a flat surface and position your snowman over it. Use another brass brad and puncture the side of your snowman's body and attach it to the base. Bend the brads inside of the cup to secure the body in place.
 If your snowman looks too plain, you can create a hat to compliment your new snowman. Cut off the toes of a colorful sock and put the cut end on the top of your cut. This will make it look like your snowman is wearing a beanie.