 A person suffering from heart carcinoma (heart cancer), may not actually have any symptoms.If you think you may have heart cancer, talk to your doctor. However, some common symptoms that have occurred because of heart cancer are listed in the following steps.


Keep in mind that the following symptoms could also be symptoms of different medical conditions, so if you experience several of these symptoms, contact your doctor and set up some tests (these tests will be covered in the next section).;
, If you have heart cancer, you may experience strong pain in your chest. When a cancerous tumor grows, it can cause water to accumulate in the area, especially if the tumor is located in the pericardia (which in the membrane that is situated around the heart). This accumulated water can affect how efficiently the heart pumps blood, which in turn can cause pain.


This pain should appear in the center of your chest, but can also be experienced in other parts of your body. You may find that the pain is relieved when you sit up.If you are experiencing strong chest pain, go to the emergency room right away, as the pain may be caused by a different medical condition, like a heart attack.
 You may begin to feel short of breath if you have heart cancer because the cancer cells can affect the way that circulation occurs in your body.This can limit the amount of oxygen you can bring into your body.


This shortness of breath may feel like you can’t catch your breath, even when exerting only a minimal effort or simply lying down. It may also lead to intense fatigue when doing physical activities.
 If you suddenly feel like your heart has gone out of sync, or that it has skipped a beat, and you’ve never felt this way before, this could be a sign of cancer. If you notice this symptom occurring frequently, contact your doctor.


Some people describe this sensation as their heart seeming to jump out of their chests.
 If you have suddenly started fainting and have never been prone to fainting before, you should take note. If these fainting spells are caused by cancer, they may be caused by part of the cancerous tumor blocking your circulation. When you stand up, your body may realize it does not have enough oxygen, causing you to faint.
 Embolization is when a part of the tumor breaks off from the rest of the tumor and travels to your brain, limbs, liver, or kidney, which causes different symptoms. Some of the symptoms of embolization include:


Limb weakness or spasticity.
An inability to feel sensations such as vibrations.
Limb pain.
Challenges or inability to walk.
Pain in the liver or kidney.
 These symptoms are not specific to heart cancer, but may occur as they would in someone who has a different kind of cancer. If you do have these symptoms, they will most likely go away when the cancerous tumor is removed. These signs include:


Unexplainable weight loss.
Fever.
Cold and painful fingers and toes.
Anemia.
Sweating heavily at night.
 A stroke is caused by the blockage of an artery that sends blood to your brain. A cancerous tumor could block an artery leading to your brain, in turn leading to a stroke.


If you have a stroke, make sure to talk to your doctor about checking for heart cancer.

