 The intended wearer should put the dress on while a second person measures how much of the fabric needs to be hemmed up from the bottom. Use pins to hold the newly measured hem in place, and have the dress wearing remove the dress. When the dress is taken off, cut off the excess fabric using sharp sewing shears. Leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of excess material from the new, intended hem.


The wearer should try the dress on while wearing her prom shoes. Heel height will make a difference when determining how low the hem should go.
You can simply measure the length of the hem with measuring tape and cut away from there, but if you want a more even hemline, you should mark the desired hem all the way around using straight sewing pins or a fabric pencil.
 Fold the raw edge at the bottom of the dress up, and inward, hiding it along the inside of the dress skirt. Say you have about 2 inches of seam allowance. You should fold up roughly 3/4 inch (2 cm) of the raw edge of the fabric.Use a hot iron to press the new crease into place.


You may need to turn the skirt of the dress inside out in order to fold and press evenly.
At this point, you should not put any pins in place.
 Fold up the remaining 1¼ inch (3.2 cm) of excess material in the same direction as your original fold. Press the folded edge in place with a hot iron.The raw edge you previously folded should now be hidden along the inside of the second folded edge. Once again, make sure that the folded material will be hidden along the inside of the dress.
It is recommended that you pin the new hem in place at this point. Place the pins along the hem so that the tops of the pins face toward the body of the dress and away from the edge of the hem., Snap or screw on the blind hem foot as required for your sewing machine. This special presser foot is necessary to complete the hem on your machine.Note that your sewing machine must also be set to make a blind hem stitch. Again, refer to your machine's instructions to determine how to do this.
 Take the dress to the machine with the fabric wrong-side-up. Flip the folded hem under the main fabric, so it’s positioned just to the outside of your presser foot.With the fold hem flipped under, leave a narrow lip of the hem's edge peeking out from the side.


Note that the tops of the pins will no longer be visible, but they will be facing toward the machine from underneath the fabric.
 Be sure that you are stitching with a thread that is relatively the same color as your dress. Slide the fabric beneath the blind hem foot and place the flange (the middle section of the foot that is often darkened or colored differently to distinguish it from the rest of the foot, and acts as a guide) against this new folded edge.When the needle drops, make sure that it sews into the remaining hem edge sticking out from the side of the fabric. Sew all the way around the hem until you finish it.


Most of the stitches will run along the hem's edge, and every third or fourth stitch will catch onto the main piece of fabric. Most of the stitches will go through the ¼ inch of the edge of the hem that is sticking out., When done, open the hem and straighten out the seam, gently stretching the hemmed stitches so that the material lies as flat as possible.Press with a hot iron to smooth out any creases and try the dress on to verify that the new hem looks good. This completes the process.


Note that a blind hem will hide more of the thread than a standard hem will, making it a better option for prom dresses and other formal dresses than a standard hem.
If the skirt flares too dramatically, though, or if you create too large of a hem, you may still notice a little bunching along the folded hem.

