 Kids are more likely to follow directions when there are clear rules that have been written down and discussed beforehand. Make a point to create house rules that help to guide your kids. This way, when they aren't listening, you can refer back to the rules already set in place.Consider posting on a whiteboard in a family room, kitchen, or open area of the house about rules. Be sure to do this from the time that your children are young. This will make it easier to reinforce the rules as they get older.
Make it clear about expectations to follow directions and instructions without having to repeat yourself multiple times. Consider rules like, "After repeating the order three times, a parent will take action to set consequences such as time-out or taking away certain privileges." Keep in mind that while staying strict to the rules and remembering them is important for organizing your household, and possibly the safety of children in particular situations, sometimes being too strict can have a reverse effect.
Try incorporating some positive rewards for your child as they get older to help motivate them, such as one hour to play their favorite video game or letting them pick out a movie to rent or buy.;
, Get your kids into a habit of following routines about playing with toys, cleaning, and personal hygiene. The more consistency that a child feels in their daily routines and how you will likely respond, the better they can understand what the expectations are.For example, if your child continues to forget brushing his teeth before bed, try to get the kid to repeat back what the expectations are for a bedtime routine. Ask them, "What else do you need to do before getting ready for bed? Let's review your schedule."
If you are strict sometimes and very lax in others, kids may become confused about expectations of what they need to do and when. Focus on consistency throughout.
 While you may want to give your kid a lecture or lots of details about why or how do something, kids need simplified instructions that are clear and concise in your expectations. Avoid giving too much or too little information that could just confuse your child.Hone in on the non-negotiables of the situation. Make it clear that if your child wants to argue back, that there are certain things that are set rules and expectations.
If you want your kid to put away their toys before bath time, make it clear and simple about what to do. For example, "Before bath time, you need to put away your toys in the toy bin. If the toys are left out after I've asked you to put them away, I will limit access to them for a week." For these types of punishments, make sure that you limit the time of the punishing action to match the age of your child. For example, a child who is four years old could have a time out for four minutes, while a child who is 10 could have a time out in their room for 10 minutes.
Ask your kid a question as part of your directive. This requires them to respond. Based on how they answer, you can better see if they are listening and if your instructions are clear. You may also want to have your child model this in front you to ensure that they understand.
 When you are giving orders to your child to stop what they're doing and do something else instead, don't yell orders from across the room or hall. Engage them by talking in front of them directly. This will make the request more meaningful and clear to a child. Maintain eye contact when giving orders. This can help you to understand if your child is paying attention the first place. If the child is small, then kneel down so that you can talk to them at their eye level.
You are more likely to have to repeat yourself if you are not present and engaged directly with your child. While it may take more effort to walk over to them and put down what you're doing, this will help to increase the effectiveness and communication in the long run.

