 Although the person may not have been close to you or even known by you personally, you may still have strong feelings about a suicide. If a suicide has occurred in your neighborhood, school, workplace, or local community you can deal with it by first processing your personal feelings.You may not need to keep a full journal, but writing about it can help you acknowledge what you may be feeling.
Share your feelings with others. Your neighbors, co-workers and classmates are likely dealing with the same confusion, disbelief and other feelings that you are experiencing.
Think about doing something to commemorate or honor this person, as this can be very helpful with community healing. Organize a walk or vigil, or donate to a charity in honor of the person.
 The suicide of a community member can have long-term effects, in addition to the immediate difficulties. Although it may be hard, take the time to think about how the loss of this person is going to affect their immediate family, extended family, and the community.For example, if a student at your child’s school died by suicide, how will this be explained to your other children? Think about how will it emotionally impact them now and in the future?If it is a neighbor, for example, will this death impact their family income temporarily or long-term? Consider working with other neighbors to start a fund to assist the family.
If one of your employees has died by suicide you will want to think about the impact this will have on other employees health and morale.
 Just as you might need help dealing with this suicide, the people around you will likely need help making sense of what happened and coping with their feelings about it.Deal with the suicide and help others deal with it by offering support when you can.


Organizations such as the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention provide resources that can be shared with students at your school or in the workplace.If it was a neighbor, work with a mental health or community agency to have professionals available to speak with neighbors and community members about what happened.
Ask those around you what type of support they need most from you. For example, ask your co-worker if there is anything you can do to help them during this time.

