 Your head should be up and your eyes should be on the ball carrier at all times when you're playing defense. Your feet should be shoulder-width apart, with your knees bent and your shoulders back. Ideally, you want to have your back at about 45 degrees relative the ground.


This is sometimes referred to as "breakdown" position. While you're working out, practicing hopping into breakdown and "buzzing" your feet, switching your weight between them very quickly, like you're standing on hot coals and you want to get them off. Stay light and mobile, and you'll be in good form.;
, Accelerate toward the ball-carrier as quickly as possible, then slow down when you get without about three yards of the offensive player. If you keep moving at breakneck speed, you'll be out of position and the player will blow right past you. When you get close, slow down and drop into breakdown, relying upon your lateral movements to make the tackle.


It'll take some practice to determine the proper angle of pursuit. This depends on the distance between you and the ball carrier and the speed of the ball carrier. If the ball carrier is particularly fast, take a wide angle of pursuit that will allow you to stay between him and your end zone.
 Bend your knees, get your hips down, and keep your hands back. Maintain an even center of gravity by keeping your feet at least shoulder width apart. Don't flat-foot it, either, keep moving and watch the offensive player's movements.


Always keep your head up and your back straight. This position is more balanced and safer. Under no circumstances should you ever lead with your head down, which is extremely dangerous for both you and the ball carrier.
 Ideally, you want your head to be across the ball carrier's body and in his path. If the ball carrier is going to your left, when you make the tackle he should be on the right side of your head. The opposite is true if he's running to your right. Watch the player's hips closely to tip you off on changes in direction as you close and as you make contact. Proper tackling placement will take the opponent off balance, making him less likely to fall forward for an extra yard or so, which can make all the difference on third down.
 When the ball carrier is within your reach, push off with your feet as hard as you can and use your legs to drive through your opponent. Drive your lead shoulder into the ball carrier's hips. Keep pushing and driving with your feet until the ball carrier goes down. Pick your knees up high in the driving motion, following through the tackle.
 As your shoulder pads connect with the ball carrier, wrap him up with your arms just under his butt. This allows you to not only knock him over, but pull to his legs out from under him when you extend through him, resulting in a lower chance of your tackle being broken. It also results in some spectacular, highlight-worthy "hits" where you really don't have to hit very hard, just with good technique. Don't stop driving until the ball carrier is down and the whistle is blown.
 Good tackles happen because of proper form and hit-placement. Although the NFL highlight reels are filled with spectacular-looking flying tackles and hits that jostle the ball loose, focusing on making that happen every time will make you miss tackles, pure and simple. Stay focused on getting the ball player on the ground, not stripping the ball.


If you're assisting a tackle, go for the ball, trying to get a hand on it and rip in a down-and-out motion. If your teammate clearly has the tackle in hand, you can do some good by going for the ball at that point, but not before.
Never leave your feet to make a tackle, and never lead with your head. This is an illegal maneuver and extremely dangerous.

