 Brushing your teeth daily is an important way to prevent cavities and infections. You should brush your teeth in the morning and at night. To brush, hold your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to your tooth, and make small back-and-forth motions followed by vertical movements to brush the gums on your tooth surface so you can prevent gum recession. Move the brush around the front, back, and bottom of your teeth. Don’t forget to reach back into your mouth. Perform circular motions on the chewing surfaces of your teeth. Keep brushing for at least two minutes. Use a fluoride toothpaste and a brush with medium to soft bristles.You should brush your tongue as well as your teeth to reduce bacteria in your mouth.
Replace your toothbrush every three to four months to prevent the build-up of bacteria.
 Plaque is a substance that forms between your teeth. If left unattended, plaque can cause cavities, tooth abscesses, or gum disease.To floss, tear off about 18 inches of floss, and hold it tightly between both thumbs and forefingers. Gently rub the floss up between your teeth, working it up until it moves between the tooth and the gumline line. Floss should not snap or jab into teeth, so use light pressure, but expect a small amount of bleeding., Fluoride mouthwash is important to help prevent tooth decay. If you have an infection, your dentist may even prescribe you a special antibiotic mouthwash. Once a day, gargle a mouthful of mouthwash for 30 seconds before spitting it out into the sink. Do not swallow., Acid can wear down the enamel on your teeth, leaving your teeth vulnerable to cavities and infections while sugar encourages the growth of bacteria.To prevent future infections, you should reduce your consumption of both acidic and sugary foods and drinks.These include:


Sodas
Citrus
Fruit juice
Coffee
Candy, particularly gummy candy
Wine
Beer, Smoking can dry out your mouth, leading to a host of medical problems, including mouth or throat cancer. It may also discolor your tongue and cause a condition called "Hairy Tongue."The best way to ensure both your dental and physical health is to quit smoking.
 You should see your dentist at least once or twice a year for a check-up and cleaning. During this visit, your dentist can diagnose any new infections before they become serious. They can also provide a thorough cleaning, preventing further mouth infections and decay.