 While a bonfire or campfire may not seem like a traditional celebration of Independence Day, it was actually one of the ways the day was celebrated on the first anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. They also rang bells and shot off fireworks.Before lighting a bonfire or campfire, clear the area of anything that could catch on fire. Dig an depression in a circle to help contain the fire, and place stones around the outside. Also, have a fire extinguisher or water on hand to put out any sparks.
Of course, make sure to check the fire codes in your area. A campfire is definitely more practical in a backyard.
 Many Americans also buy their own fireworks to shoot off, though most cities have regulations against big displays and some ban fireworks altogether. Nonetheless, if you're outside the city limits, creating your own fireworks display and lighting sparklers is a well-known 4th of July pastime.Be safe. Before shooting fireworks, clear out a fire-safe area by removing any flammable materials, such as dead leaves or grass. You can also water down the area to help prevent it from catching fire.
Make sure to have a fire extinguisher on hand, and use longer lighting devices (such as a grill lighter or fireplace matches). Read the directions, and only light one thing at a time (always on the ground). Never lean over anything you're lighting.
Check your local regulations for popping your own fireworks. Most states have laws against fireworks for personal use depending on the type or size. Some states also have laws about when you're allowed to pop fireworks; for example, most states require you to stop fireworks by midnight or 1 am.
Many of the national firework displays are shown on television, so if you don't want to shoot off your own fireworks, turn the television on.
 Because the day celebrates America's independence from Britain, displaying and wearing American symbols is a great way to celebrate. Fly American flags, dress in red, white, and blue, and plaster the walls with stars and stripes., If you have children (or even if you don't!), celebrate the day by making some patriotic crafts. Any American-themed craft is fair game on Independence Day, so reach for the red, white, and blue.



Make an American flag lapel pin.

Create a homemade paperweight, and paint it with patriotic designs and colors.

Design a greeting card using a patriotic theme.

Make a yarn wreath using patriotic yarn colors.

Craft a glowing star lamp in patriotic colors, and hang it up at your celebratory party.
 A great way to celebrate at home is to invite friends and family over for a cookout. Make it a potluck to take some of the stress off yourself, and include some fun games to stay cool, such as water-gun or water-balloon fights.Some traditional 4th of July foods include burgers, hot dogs, and BBQ. Finger-foods, such as corn on the cob and watermelon slices, are always a good choice. You could also make red, white, and blue foods, such as a strawberry, blueberry, and marshmallow salad. Desserts are a great place to show your patriotism. You could make a cake with whipped cream frosting, decorated with blueberries and strawberries, or you could make cookies with stripes of red, white, and blue frosting.
For some extra patriotism, have someone read the Declaration of Independence at your celebration.
You could also create your own block party by getting your neighbors on board for a big party.