 One strategy to deal with teasing is to pretend like you can’t hear what they are saying in order to transform it into a joke. If they get in your face and try to force you to respond, just hold your hand to your ear and shake your head. This can turn into a funny situation, especially if you move your mouth without making a sound and perhaps pantomime being in a box or behind a wall.


Using humor can diffuse tense situations. If you show the bully how things can be funny instead of hurtful to you, they might start to leave you alone., You can try a good old fashioned cold shoulder, although this action can also carry with it an emotional reaction. If you walk away with poor posture, this makes you look defeated; or if you turn away with tears in your eyes or a flushed face, the bully will know they have gotten to you. Try to walk away with your head held high, as though the bully means nothing to you.


Act like you meant to walk away anyway.
 Looking bored can also indicate indifference to being teased. You can add crossed arms and tapping feet to show your impatience with the barrage, looking at your wrist to indicate that you don’t have time for this. Boredom shows that you aren’t bothered, and eventually a bully should move on.
 If someone approaches you with teasing behavior and you don’t want to encourage it, answer them with a comment or question that has nothing to do with their taunts. Ignoring the teasing this way shows that you aren’t interested in allowing it to take place.


Respond with a joke like, “What games do tornadoes like best? Twister!”Say a comment about something else, like an event or the weather.
 If none of these ignoring tactics work and the bully doesn’t show signs of stopping after a few days, you can tell a teacher, adult, or other authority figure (such as a boss if it is in the workplace). However, your first request of this adult is for advice, not resolution.


If you don’t solve this teasing situation yourself, it can get worse. Having someone else confront a bully on your behalf can show that it bothered you just as much as crying or getting angry in the moment.

