 Find about two trees and chop them down completely. Do not overdo this or you will run out of time.;
, If you have to travel a long way to do this, just do it. Kill a few and make sure that you kill at least three sheep before moving on to the next step.
 Wood can't do very much for you but wooden planks are extremely useful in Minecraft.
 This will be necessary if you want to make almost anything. Now you will have a wide variety of things that you can craft.
 This will cost three wool and six wooden planks. There is no way to sleep and repair yourself without a bed.
 You will need some wood, but that's all.
 This will hold all of your stuff. This will take eight wooden planks.
 The best and quickest option is dirt but if there is no dirt around you there are plenty of other options such as cobblestone and sandstone.
 Consider how many chests, beds, furnaces and any other supplies you will want to put in there. Remember, this is not meant to be fancy.
 Two lots of 64 is good for a normal-sized house but you may want more for a larger house.
 It will be annoying if it is too jagged.
 A good perimeter for your first house is probably about 10 by 12 blocks.
 Jump and click on the corner with your block before you land. Do this as many times as you want your house to be tall. A good starting height is five blocks high. Remember to include the base block.
 Once you are done you will have a complete wall.
 Build across the top to create a roof. Once you are done destroy the blocks you used to get up as you come down.
 Once you have done this destroy the one directly above it to create a door space.
 Now monsters won't be able to enter your home.
 Remember that if you die this will be your spawning point forever.
, This will create glass. Make a lot of this so that you can craft glass panes. Build holes in your walls and fill them in with the glass pane's.
 This will be necessary to cook your food. Craft it with some cobblestone.
 Kill them and collect their meat. You will get this from cows, pigs and chickens. Bring the meat back home.
 Place wood at the bottom of it. This will cook them so you can eat them.
 Craft a fishing rod with woolen thread (from spiders) and a stick.
 You will have to wait patiently before you see bubbles, when you should reel it back in.
 Eating raw meat will cause you to lose lives.
 This will use up some sticks and wooden planks.
 Cobblestone is very useful in creating tools.
 This will make the grass ready and is also a way for you to collect seeds to plant with.
 This will make it easy for you to dig up iron and types of stones. A cobblestone pickaxe will last a long time as well.
 This will make it easy to collect different types of material. It can also be used to collect snow.
 This will make it much quicker and easier to chop down wood and will last for a long time.
 This will increase the damage caused by you hitting a monster, animal or other player.
 Bows can be made with some woolen string (obtained from spiders) and a stick. Arrows are made from sticks and feathers.
 Using a bow and arrow is a good way to do this as you can kill them from a long way away. Go to bed as early as possible to stop them from creeping up on you.
 Always build stairs or across. If you build down you might fall into a cave, where you will have limited resources and lives. You could also fall into a lava pool.
 You could get burnt extremely quickly.

