 You should check your hamster periodically for signs of poor health. Most medical problems are easier to treat if they're caught early on. Once a week, inspect your hamster to make sure he's in good health.


Check your hamster's nose and eyes. Both should be clear and free of discharge. Hamsters are prone to colds. If your hamster seems to be getting colds often, you may need to move his cage into a warmer part of the house. Hamsters are prone to eye infections and chronic eye problems like glaucoma. If you notice tearing, unusual discharge, or droopy and swollen eyelids take your hamster to a vet for evaluation.As your hamster ages, his fur may grow thinner and he might develop bald spots. This is normal. However, if you have a younger hamster who's developing flaky skin, bald spots, matted fur, or rashes take him to the vet for evaluation.Check your hamster for lumps each week. Hamsters are prone to benign skin growths but, in rare cases, new lumps can be cancerous. The sooner a cancerous lump is removed, the better chance your hamster has of recovery. If you notice a new growth on your hamster, make a vet appointment as soon as possible., When it comes to hamster health, prevention is always better than treatment. Take your hamster to the vet for a checkup at least once a year. In addition to yearly check-ups, a vet appointment might be necessary if you notice certain changes in your hamster's behavior or appearance.


Any sudden changes can be a sign your hamster is not feeling well. If your hamster gains or loses weight quickly, has any changes in energy, or seems disinterested in normal activities make an appointment with your vet.
Keep an eye on your hamster's rear end. If you notice staining or stools suck to the fur around your hamster's anus, he may have digestive issues that need evaluation. If you notice a pungent smell coming from your female hamster, check for discharge on the area above her anus. Females are prone to infections of the womb that require fast medical intervention., Check your hamster's teeth and nails once a week. Your hamster's teeth should be yellow and the bottom teeth should be longer than the top. Nails should be long without curving inward. Long teeth or nails can cause irritation and may even puncture your hamster's skin, resulting in health problems. If your hamster's teeth or nails seem overgrown, make an appointment with your vet to have them trimmed., A healthy weight is important for your hamster. Hamsters generally gain weight until the age of 6 months. Their weight should be relatively stable until they reach 18 months. At that point, your hamster's weight will start decreasing slightly each month. Weight changes between 6 and 18 months may be a sign something is wrong.If your hamster is gaining weight, talk to your vet about his diet. You may need to find a different brand of pellet or cut back on his treats. If a change in diet does not result in weight loss, your vet may want to test your hamster for medical conditions that may be causing weight gain.
If your hamster is losing weight, take him to the vet for evaluation. A variety of health problems can cause weight loss or loss of appetite in a hamster. Early detection can help provide more effective treatment for your hamster.

