 Suppressing your emotions or trying to avoid them can lead to increased bad moods.Therefore, it is important to process and release your emotions so that they do not build and become more of a problem.


Cry. If you feel like crying, cry your heart out. Sometimes tears can be the most healing if you are feeling emotional.
Write in a journal. Expressive writing is a great way to put your feelings out there and release them. Write about how you feel and what it feels like in your body (tense, heart pounding etc.). Write about why you feel that way and what you’d like to say to someone you are upset with. You could even write a poem if that is something you are interested in.
Avoid shouting and screaming if you are angry. This is a form of aggression and can cause unwanted social consequences like your neighbors calling the police. Instead, hit a pillow or scream into it. This way, you can’t harm yourself and it won’t harm or bother anyone else. Other ways to deal with anger are physical exercise, martial arts, dancing, and boxing.
 People that don’t believe they have control over a bad mood may engage in negative ways of coping such as overeating, eating junk food, or doing things that are unsafe.Believe that you have control over your mood, because you do. You can change your thoughts, which have a direct effect on your emotions.Think of your bad mood as information.Your feelings are telling you that something is wrong. You are reacting to a situation that is negative. Try to understand and analyze what it is you are reacting to and think logically about it.
Try positive self-talk. This is a form of managing your thoughts where you say or thinking positive things such as, “I can do this. I can get through this.”This can be helpful and encouraging when you are suffering from a negative mood.
Think something that will improve your mood instead of negative thoughts that might maintain your bad mood.For example, if you are in a bad mood because your friend didn’t call you back and you’re thinking, “She’s avoiding me,” change this thought to something more realistic. One way to do this is to think of an alternative thought like, “Maybe she is just busy and can’t get to the phone. I don’t think she would intentionally avoid me.” This technique of reappraising your thoughts does wonder for improving moods., Using problem-solving skills can help you change the situation, which can help lift your mood.First identify the problem.
Next, come up with some possible solutions.
Pick the best solution and try it.
If that solution doesn’t work, try another solution, and so on.
If you don’t get it completely solved, at least you are distracted from your bad mood for a period of time while you are thinking logically.
 Deep breathing is one very common and useful relaxation technique. Try practicing deep breathing by blowing one large bubble out of a bubble-blowing kit (bubbles and wand). This requires that you take a deep breath in and let that breath out slowly and steadily as the bubble fills up in the wand.

