 When you react with anger and frustration in a situation, sometimes it’s because you misunderstand how other people feel. Having a better understanding of what other people feel will help you figure out how to react appropriately in certain situations.


Try looking at pictures of different faces to see if you can “read” emotions. Even looking through a magazine or a photo album can be helpful. Search online for “reading emotions” to find examples of faces that you can test yourself with. For example, the DNA Learning Center has some tools to learn how to read faces.
 Sometimes, when you think that someone is getting angry with you, you might respond by getting angry back at this person. But before the misunderstanding escalates, check in with the other person to learn more about what he is feeling.


Try saying, “Did I say something wrong?” or “Are we okay?” This will give both of you a chance to check in with your feelings before you get into an argument.
 When you get angry, your first impulse may be to hit, push, or kick someone. If you are responding to a bully, you are giving this person what he wants, which is a reaction from you. If you are bullying someone else, you are responding with violence that can hurt someone.If you feel like you need to punch or hit, rather than hitting a person, hit an object, like a pillow.
 In passive anger expression, you don’t actually deal directly with the person who hurt or angered you. Instead, you get even with them in other ways, such as talking negatively behind the person’s back or insulting the person at a later time.
 Aggressive anger expressions, such as shouting at someone, are the most problematic. There is the possibility of violence and negative consequences for failure to control angry outbursts. This can interfere with everyday functioning if anger happens frequently and is out of control.
 Assertive expression of anger is the most constructive way to express anger. Assertiveness cultivates mutual respect for each other. Anger is expressed, but in a way where it is non-accusatory and mutually respectful.Assertive communication emphasizes that both people’s needs are important. To communicate assertively, give the facts without making accusations. Here is an example:“I was hurt and angry because it seems like you were belittling my project when you laughed during my presentation. I don’t know what was going on, but it seems like you weren’t paying attention or taking my hard work seriously. I could have just misunderstood what was going on. Can we talk and work this out?”

, In order to get respect, you have to give it. Then you will foster cooperation and reciprocal respect. Your communications should convey requests rather than demands. Using please and thank you is not only polite, but it also shows respect for others.


“When you have the time, could you…”
“It would be a great help if you… Thanks, I appreciate it!”

, When you figure out how you’re feeling, convey the real feeling, like hurt, and keep judgment statements out of it. Stick to what you feel.


For example, you could say: “It seems to me that you are not being sensitive to my feelings when you read your paper instead of listening to what I’m trying to say.”

, Be sure to get your point across by stating exactly what the issue is. For instance, if your co-worker is speaking very loudly on the phone and it’s difficult for you to do your work, you can state your request like this:


“Would you please lower the volume of your voice on the telephone? It’s making it very difficult for me to concentrate on my work. I’d really appreciate it. Thanks.” By saying this, you are directly addressing the other person. You are making it clear what you need and letting him know why it is a problem for you.
 As you engage in social interactions, keep track of what makes you upset. An anger journal will help you find patterns that you can then use to tailor a specific anger management strategy for yourself. Keeping track of this information will help you learn what triggers your anger. Then you can avoid those situations when possible, or take steps to reduce your anger in situations that are unavoidable.
When you record in your journal, you can make the following observations:

What provoked the anger?
What thoughts occurred as you got angry?



, A trigger is something that precedes and causes your feelings of anger. Once you start tracking your anger by writing down when it occurs and what causes it, you can start to look for patterns. Some common trigger patterns for anger include:


Not being able to control other’s actions.
Other people disappointing you for not meeting your expectations.
Not being able to control daily life events.
Someone trying to manipulate you.
Getting mad at yourself for a mistake.

