 If you want to look amazing on that first day, then you have to be well-rested. It can already be tricky to fall asleep on the night before the first day of school, so to up your chances of actually getting to sleep, you should make sure to start going to bed earlier and earlier and waking up earlier and earlier at least a few weeks in advance, so your body is ready to go to bed and wake up around the time you would normally do so for school before that first day.


Start by going to bed half an hour earlier and waking up half an hour earlier each night and take it from there.
Though getting into a solid pattern a few weeks before can be a big help, it's also important to be in a calm mental state the night before that first day, so you can easily fall asleep. Avoid intense conversations, last-minute decisions, or even arguments after dinner, take it easy on the caffeine, and do something relaxing to wind down before bed, such as reading a book or drinking herbal tea.;
, Try jogging, yoga, swimming, visiting the gym or mixing it up. Do a little something every day. This will help keep your energy levels up and shape you up for the upcoming school year. You don't need to exercise to get a super skinny look; you should do it to feel happy and healthy in your own skin. Don't be one of those girls who tries to lose a ton of weight over the summer unless that's something you really want to do.


Get one of your friends to be your exercise buddy over the summer. This can help you have fun and stay motivated while getting in shape.
 If you have acne, use a high quality facial wash. Wash your face daily. This will eliminate acne, leaving skin pimple-free the first day of school. Avoid harsh chemicals that over-dry and cause redness. Companies offer formulas for oily, combination, normal and dry skins. Use what your skin needs and not what your friends are using.


If you have combination skin, look for something that won't dry out your normal areas when you wash the oily areas.
Go for high-quality brands: Neutrogena, Nivea, L'Oreal, Mary Kay or Clean & Clear.
Drink plenty of water. It's not only good for your skin; it also hydrates your body. It flushes toxins and helps stop food cravings.
 Picking out your outfit in advance will help you feel excited about that first day and will eliminate any last-minute stress you encounter when getting ready on that first day. You don't want to be late for school because you can't decide between three different outfits, do you? Instead, choose an outfit that is flattering and comfortable and lay it out the night before.


Try out different jewelry and accessories along with your chosen outfit to find the look that suits you best.
Depending on where you live, don't dive into fall looks for your first few weeks of school, since it will still be too warm. Wear lightweight and summery styles. Shop for a few summer items to get you through the warm weather when things go on sale at the end of the summer.
Just make sure to check the forecast at least a few days in advance. That first day may be unusually cold or unusually hot, so it's important to be prepared. You can choose a look with layers, so you can control how hot or cold you feel throughout the day.
 Though packing up your school supplies and anything else you need for that first day may not help you look amazing, it will help you get into a relaxed and positive mental state before you walk out the front door of your home. You want to feel prepared and at ease and not have to deal with rifling through your desk to find that homework assignment ten minutes before that first bell rings.


Plus, if you have to run around and look for your supplies the morning of that first day, it'll be harder to maintain that put-together look.
 If you want to go to school with a fresh coat of nail polish on your nails (if your school allows it), then you should either get a manicure or just do your nails yourself the day before the first day. Many girls think they'll have time to do it the morning of, and they just end up making themselves late or smearing their polish as soon as they leave the house.


If you're not the nail polish type, then just file or trim your nails the day before so they are nice and even for that first day.
 Give yourself plenty of time to get ready and get out the door. Remember, there will be lots of kids being taken to school by parents on the first day, so leave early to avoid the extra traffic. Though you'll probably be ready well before you have to leave, getting up early will help you feel calm and relaxed and ready to start that first day; if you're rushing up to the last minute and even forget something, then you won't be in the right mental state for starting your school year.


Try to get at least 7-9 hours of sleep, or however much sleep you need to feel rested.
Spritz yourself with a light perfume or use a scented moisturizer if that's what you normally do. You can use a combination but don't overdo it.
 Though you may think you don't have time to eat breakfast before your first day, or you may not normally eat too much breakfast, it's important to eat a healthy, balanced meal to give you the energy you need to get through that first long day of school. Plan to eat a good mix of healthy carbs, lean protein, and fruits and vegetables. This can keep you from feeling tired or crashing later.


Some examples of healthy meals include oatmeal and berries with a small yogurt, an omelet with spinach and lean ham and a piece of toast, and a whole wheat muffin and a fruit salad. Just make sure you're eating the kinds of foods you normally eat so you're accustomed to them.
You can eat your breakfast as soon as you get up, so you don't have to scarf it down and have some time to digest your food before school starts. But if you'd rather get ready and then eat, it's up to you. Just make sure not to get any food all over your first-day outfit, if you do that!

, Though some people like to take a shower the night before, if you're a morning shower type person, then taking a shower can help you feel clean and ready to start that first day. Showering with cooler water can help you wake up a bit. Wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner, use soap and body wash on your skin, and use a loofah to exfoliate that skin and get rid of any dead skin.


Make sure to give yourself more than enough time to dry your hair, if you don't normally let it dry naturally.
The most important thing is to do what you normally do. You don't want to try a new shampoo or soap on the morning before that first day because you don't know how your body will react to it.
Brush your teeth either before or after you take a shower. You can also wait and brush them after you have breakfast, but don't forget!

, You should get dressed before you do your hair so you don't mess it up if you try to put a shirt or dress over your head afterwards. Just brush your hair, blow-dry it, add a bit of mousse or gel, or do whatever it is you normally do to get your hair ready. Make sure you know what you're going to do with your hair at least a few days before; you don't want to waste time experimenting with different styles on that first day.


If you really want to look amazing on that first day, then you should try to get a haircut about a week before. That will give your hair enough time to settle into the new look but will still keep your hair feeling fresh. Just make sure you're really ready for a change if you want to dramatically change that cut before school starts!

, If you're a girl who is used to wearing makeup or who is ready to start, then you can apply some light makeup, as long as you don't overdo it for that first day. Just a bit of foundation, cover-up for blemishes, light lipstick, eye shadow, eyeliner, and mascara should be enough to make your features come alive. If you like, you can also add a bit of blush to the apples of your cheeks for extra color.


If you do want to wear makeup, then try out your look at least a few days before so you're not disappointed when you put on makeup before that first day. You can ask a friend or an older sibling for an opinion, too.
You can also bring your makeup with you to school so you can touch it up if there's time.
Also, if it's going to be an extra hot day, you may want to minimize the makeup use a bit, because that'll make it more likely that your makeup will run a bit as you sweat.
Of course, just make sure your school allows it before you wear any makeup!

, In order to look amazing on that first day, you have to have an amazing attitude to tie your look together. Smile at people, be friendly, and get excited to see familiar faces as well as to meet new people; if you're cliquish or closed-off, then it won't help you give off a friendly, positive vibe. If you're open and happy to be there, more great opportunities and friendships will come your way.


Also, don't put too much pressure on yourself to have the most amazing first day of school ever. If you do that, then you'll be bound to be disappointed. Just focus on staying in the moment and you'll be guaranteed to have a great day!
Having open, confident body language can also help you look amazing. Stand tall instead of slouching, look straight ahead or at the people talking to you, and don't cross your arms over your chest or fidget too much, and you will give off a friendly, approachable vibe.

