 There are many places where sitting next to a girl that you like can be a great way to introduce yourself or get to know her further. Ideally you want to choose somewhere where you can initiate a conversation. Somewhere where she is likely to have an empty seat next to her.Sit in the desk next to her before class.
Try finding a seat next to her in the cafeteria.;
, Timing is everything when talking to someone you have a crush on. You don’t want them to see you as a nuisance or an interruption. If the girl you like seems busy doing homework or talking to someone on her cellphone, this may not be the best time to approach her.Before or after class is a good time.
Choose a seat next to her during study hall.
 Show that you are courteous and thoughtful by asking her if you can sit next to her. You also want to make sure no one else has that seat claimed, like maybe a friend of hers, before you just jump into it.


“Is someone already sitting in this seat?”
“Do you mind if I sit here?”
If it turns out she was busy, apologize for interrupting.
 No woman is under any obligation to talk to you. Also, if she says this isn’t a good time or that she would rather sit alone, you’ll go further toward earning her respect by be being mindful of her wishes. Say something like, “Oh, okay. Maybe another time.” And then walk away graciously.


Don’t sit down anyway if she says no.
Realize that your crush may just be having a bad day or might be trying to focus on other things. Just because she said no today doesn't mean she'll say no next time.
 When you sit next to your crush be sure not to intrude on their personal space. You want to be close enough so that you can easily carry on a conversation but not so close that your knees touch when you turn to face her.


When choosing the desk next to your crush in class, don’t pull it closer to hers. She may find this to be an overly aggressive gesture. If you strike up a conversation and feel like the desks are too far apart to continue comfortably, you may want to slide it over a bit, but generally you should just leave it where it is.
If you take a seat next to her on a bench, like on the playground or at a table in the lunch room, leave several inches between you.
 Don’t slouch. Sit with your spine straight and your shoulders back. Keep your head up. You might want to turn your body slightly so that you are facing your crush more directly.


Maintaining good posture will not only make you look more confident, it can increase your energy level and actually affect your hormones, making it more likely that you’ll be positive and clear headed while you speak., Tapping your fingers on the desk, shaking your legs, or constantly readjusting your glasses will just make you look nervous. It will also act as a distraction for your crush which will make it hard for her to focus on what you have to say.


Take deep breathes.
Fold your hands and rest them on the desk or table in front of you. If there is no table, rest them in your lap.
You don’t have to keep your hands still the whole time. Many of us use our hands to gesture while we speak, but when they are idle, keeping them folded will help keep you from fidgeting too much.
Take a quick inventory of your body every few minutes. Maybe while she is talking or when there is a small break in the conversation. Check in with yourself. If you feel your leg bouncing or an urge to keep moving around in your seat, take a deep breath and try to relax. Bring your focus back to your crush.

