 A simple greeting of hello is a good start. Did you know that about 30 percent of the population is older and may not have a single person to wish them a nice day? By the way these seniors make great customers.;
, Explain store policies clearly. When a customer returns an item, explain the store policy regarding that item. Maybe the customer did not understand that if the paint was mixed she could not exchange it.
 Help the customer come up with a reasonable solution. Maybe the paint can be made lighter or darker so it is not be a waste of her $50.
 Let her pick what she wants. This would have been helpful if she was able to pick what she wanted from the first visit, rather than a color being picked for her.
 Do not neglect the current customer and go off to service another customer. Your current customer will not be happy if you go off and leave her to wait for 15 minutes while you help the person who jumped in there. Tell the next customer you will be glad to help her when you are done.
 Do not let people stand in line waiting to be checked out while you restock the shelves or treat people like you don’t want to wait on them. Do not fight with other employees over who has to wait on the customer in front of them. Never stand there talking with other employees about your personal life while customers wait to be checked out. Take the next customer in line when you open a new check stand and open up a new line when the line gets long.
 It is rude to be on the phone while helping a customer especially if it is your cell phone. Even a house phone is not good business. However, when a customer calls the store for an item’s availability, check the shelves for the item to be sure it is there. Make sure the phone system helps the customer get the information she needs and does not hinder or block her efforts.
 Making the customer feel heard and important is vital in having them come back or tell their friends about your business.
 The golden rule is to treat others as you would want to be treated. Ask yourself, how would I want to be treated in this situation.
 There is a man who spent hours cleaning and doing his job the best he could. Others said he was a fool and was wasting his time. However there was a girl who noticed his efforts and they are a couple now. She fell in love with him for his character.
 Simple kindness goes far and makes people return. Remember when you are serving the public what you do matters. You may be looking at the clock and wishing you were home with a good movie and pizza. But that sugar soda you just gave a diabetic who ordered sugar free could mean their life. So when you are on the clock your time has been bought and it is no longer yours. You owe it to the person you are working for to give your all and pay attention. There is a Greek philosopher that said, “The source of mans unhappiness is his ignorance. It all adds up to having a kind attitude.

