;
, They should cut the waves in the pattern that looks natural. There is a video down low that shows the visuals of someone doing it. But if you want waves all around the head, then start from the crown, do a little circle, and make your way towards the front. This will ensure that the wave spacing will be proportional to all sections of the head. To actually cut in the waves though, the barber is going to cut into your hair with the trimmer in a line much like how he would if he was shaving designs into your head. He is going to cut a circle around your crown, then leave a cm or two, and cut another circle around your head, and so forth until the head is spinning with waves. The barber should not but right down to the scalp though, he should keep a steady hand and leave a bit of hair, but take most of the length off as it will add texture.
 The hair will be prickly as it is standing up, and this also makes your hair look thinner. Laying the hair down will make it appear thicker. To lay your hair down, you're going to want a soft-bristle brush, and brush in each direction. There are several videos on YouTube which elaborate how to brush down 360 waves, no different here. But, you also want to wear something that will lay your hair down, like a du-rag, wave cap, Tsu-Rag, or get creative if you don't have the money to buy those... use a scarf, or a t-shirt.
, This is for you to decide, you got see when the waves start fading it, that also depends on how deep they were put in. I would suggest getting the waves re-patterned every week or two, and get a shape up while you're at it. But hey, if you're waves look nice without a cut in a month... then they look nice! But, that probably won't be the reality. You'll need weekly or every other-weekly touch ups.
 But the less you shower and the less you get your hair wet, the better the waves will feel and look. Because the more coarse your hair is, the more "natural" the waves will appear.
 Again, it all depends on how deep you want your waves. You could get a cut every month, every 2 months... 3 months... You just need to figure that out out yourself, what works for you. But because straight hair, grows straight, the waves will grow out much faster, so a monthly cut seems realistic, maybe every other month. And when you cut your hair, just restart from the same length you started at (unless there is another length your prefer more)

