 Once you have satisfied all of your loan agreement requirements, and have determined that no issues with the property exist, you are now ready for your closing appointment. A closing appointment is handled by a closing agent, which is a third party recommended by the real estate agent or lender, who verifies all closing documentation and ensures that all payments are received by the relevant parties. Contact the closing agent directly in order to schedule a closing appointment.The closing agent will schedule the closing appointment with the buyer and seller. However, keep in mind that these appointments are usually separate. The buyer and seller will not usually sign paperwork during the same appointment.
The lender will ensure that the closing documents are delivered to the closing agent.
 Since closing costs are calculated to the exact date of the closing, you will not know the final closing amount until you have set your closing appointment date. Your mortgage lender will have provided you with an estimate of closing costs to use as a guideline, although that amount can fluctuate. In general, closing costs are about 3 to 5 percent of the total loan amount. In certain situations, a seller may be willing to pay some or all of the closing costs if it is negotiated in the contract.You should ensure that you have the required funds available in your account as of the closing date. Most banks will place a hold on checks deposited into an account before they are available, so make sure to complete any necessary deposits into your account before the closing date.
On the closing date, you will likely need cashier’s checks for the payments that need to be made at closing. Your real estate agent will let you know the exact amounts of the checks. The escrow officer will contact the buyer with the amount via the final settlement statement along with any wiring instructions. The money should be at the escrow office one day prior to closing and all of the documents need to be signed at least one day prior to closing. If the documents are not signed until later in the afternoon on closing day, there will not be enough time to close that day.
Any last minute and relatively small costs that may arise at the closing can usually be handled with a personal check.
 Review the mortgage loan agreement and the mortgage note for potential discrepancies and errors. Also make sure to collect and review the settlement statement, which contains an itemized list of all of the closing costs associated with the mortgage loan. Make sure you have relevant documentation of your homeowner’s insurance, and a receipt of your first year homeowner’s insurance premium.Make sure you have a cashier’s or certified check in the amount of your down payment and closing costs. Remember to contact the lender a few days before closing to obtain the exact closing amount needed. The escrow officer will usually relay this information to you. The lender approves the final settlement statement that the escrow officer prepares and the down payment goes to the escrow officer to be distributed.
Keep in mind that there are closing costs that are not associated with a loan too, including the escrow fees, property taxes, and recording fees. If you can obtain a second mortgage or a refinance, or equity cash from your home or other property, then the closing costs will usually not be as high as a first origination loan. Talk this over with your lender.
 The closing officer will lead the closing process and ensure that all relevant documents have been verified and signed, and that all of the sales transaction money has been properly distributed to the relevant parties. Some buyers have their attorney attend the closing, and in some circumstances both the seller and real estate agents will also attend a closing. However, it is also extremely common for both the sellers and buyers to complete all closing paperwork in separate rooms without ever seeing one another. The following documents will be reviewed by the closing officer:


The mortgage agreement, mortgage note and property deed.
The settlement statement containing an itemized list of closing costs, which typically includes all closing costs, a summary of all past transactions leading up to the closing, commissions paid to real estate agents, escrow amounts deposited to cover property taxes and insurance, title charges and the net amounts owed to seller and due from the buyer.
 The final part of the closing process is the distribution of the funds generated by the sale. The closing officer will distribute the funds you provide, and present checks to the seller, real estate agents (when applicable), and to all other parties named on the settlement statement.

