 Set up a charcoal or gas grill for medium temperature direct heat.


Allow the grill to preheat for about 10 minutes, then check the temperature every minute or so. Your grill should be between 350 and 400 degrees Fahrenheit (175 and 200 degrees Celsius). If the grill doesn't have a temperature gauge, hold your hand 3 inches (7.6 cm) above the grate; you should be able to keep it there 4 or 5 seconds before needing to pull it away.If you have a charcoal grill, redistribute the preheated coals so that they cover two-thirds of the bottom.If you have a gas grill, preheat all the burners and keep all the burners on for the entire cooking process.
 Fill a 3-qt (3-L) saucepan with approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water, then heat the water on your stove over medium-high until it reaches a boil.


Blanching the sweet potatoes before grilling them can help reduce the amount of time you need to keep them on the grill. As a result, the sweet potatoes are often more tender and less likely to burn.
You can accomplish similar results by steaming or microwaving the sweet potatoes instead of blanching. If steaming them, set up the boiling water as usual. If microwaving them, skip this step.
 Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skins from each sweet potato, then slice each one diagonally into 1/2 inch (2.5 cm) coins.


If desired, you could cut them into eight wedges instead of cutting them into coins. The wedges should be cut lengthwise, however.
 Place the sweet potato slices in the boiling water. Cover the saucepan and reduce the heat to a simmer, then allow the sweet potatoes to cook until they are almost tender (about 12 minutes). Drain the water when finished.


If steaming the slices, place them in a steamer basket and set the basket over the boiling water. Reduce the heat to a simmer, then cook for 12 to 15 minutes.If microwaving the slices, place them on a microwave-safe plate and microwave them on high for 6 to 7 minutes., Place the tender slices in a large mixing bowl and add olive oil, salt, and pepper. Toss gently with a mixing spoon to coat the slices.
 Place the sweet potato slices on the grill, spacing them apart in a single layer. Cook them for another 15 to 20 minutes, or until they feel tender.


If desired, you could brush the slices with melted butter while they cook.
Turn the slices once during the cooking process to evenly char both sides.
 Remove the finished sweet potatoes from the grill and enjoy them while they're still hot. Consider brushing them with melted butter or other toppings.

