 If you want to add some cinnamon to your diet to improve your digestive health choose Ceylon Cinnamon. The form of cinnamon you choose is not as important, but if you are using it as seasoning then it is most practical to get a powder which you can measure out by the teaspoon very easily.


A cinnamon stick is good for making drinks, but is harder to measure how much you are consuming.
 Adding a teaspoon of cinnamon to a meal that is high in carbohydrates can lessen the impact this food will have on you blood sugar levels. After eating, blood sugar rises as your stomach empties, but adding cinnamon can help to slow this process down and thus lower the rise in your blood sugar levels.Scientific experiments have demonstrated the impact that adding a few grams of cinnamon to a dessert can have on the gastric emptying rate.There are dangers associated with taking too much cinnamon so limit yourself to a teaspoon a day, which is equivalent to 4 or 5 grams.If you have diabetes, consult with your physician about the impact of cinnamon on your blood sugar levels. Never substitute cinnamon for insulin.
 An alternative to seasoning with cinnamon, is to have a small amount as a post-meal digestive aid. If you experience heartburn or indigestion following a meal, cinnamon might help you as it can stimulate a weak digestive system. It is the oils in cinnamon that can help break down food and thus aid digestion.Try a cinnamon tea (a teaspoon of cinnamon dissolved in hot water) after a meal.
Or add half a teaspoon to your post-meal coffee.
 Cinnamon is an excellent source of calcium and fibre. The combination of these two components can be beneficial for the health of your colon. High levels of some bile salts can damage your colon cells, and potentially increase the chances of you suffering from colon cancer.Both calcium and fibre can bind to bile salts and contribute to their removal from your body, which in turn can help you lower your risk of colon cancer..


Fibre also helps those with irritable bowels, and can help relieve constipation or diarrhea., It is not proven that cinnamon has a significant impact on lowering your cholesterol. In theory, because cinnamon can affect how your body processes fats and sugars, it could help you to lower cholesterol. This remains speculative, however, and a limited cinnamon intake of not more than 2-3 grams a day should be considered as one part of a healthy diet and active lifestyle.Although cinnamon tastes delightful when mixed with baked goods, adding cinnamon to fatty foods will not help you lower your cholesterol.

