 For this recipe, you will need some very hot, almost-boiling water. You can boil some water by putting water in a kettle and turning on the stove. You can also use a coffee maker, an electric kettle, or even a cup and microwave. Take the water off the stove just before it starts to boil. If you are using a coffee maker or a microwave, then just let the water cool down a little bit before using it., How much coffee you use depends on how big your cup is, how much water you will be using, and your personal preferences. Most instant coffee containers will tell you on the label how much instant coffee you should use to get the best taste. In general, most companies recommend using 1 to 2 teaspoons of instant coffee per 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water., At this point, you can add in some sugar. You will need about 1 teaspoon of sugar per 1 cup (240 milliliters) of coffee. Adding your sugar and spices before the water helps blend everything together better and prevents the spices from floating to the top. Once you have added your sugar and flavorings in, give your base another stir to blend everything together. Here are some ideas on how you can flavor your instant coffee:If you love chocolate, consider adding some cocoa powder or chocolate syrup.
For a more traditional taste, add a few drops of vanilla extract.
Add a dash of ground spices for a unique flavor. Consider using any of the following spices: allspice, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg.
Consider skipping the sugar and spices and use flavored coffee creamer instead. If you choose to do this, fill the rest of the cup with hot water, and then add in the flavored creamer.
 Just before the water starts to boil, take it off the heat source and pour it into the cup. You will need about 1 cup (240 milliliters) of hot water.
 You can use any type of milk or creamer you like, such as whole milk, half-and-half, or even coconut milk. The amount you use depends on your preferences. You can also omit the milk or creamer altogether and drink your instant coffee black.


Consider using some flavored coffee creamer instead. Keep in mind that most flavored coffee creamers are very sweet. If you have already added some sugar to your coffee, a flavored coffee creamer will make it even more sweet.
 Before you can drink your coffee, or serve it for someone else to drink, you will need to stir it using a spoon. This helps blend everything together and dissolve the coffee granules and sugar.

