


Some book fairs are open to applicants of all genres, but others are geared toward specific reader demographic groups, like children's book expos or African-American literature fairs. Be successful at a book expo by entering expos that get the audience that will be the most receptive to the books you're selling. Look for expos that target readers of a specific age or interest group that tend to buy your books.
Become very familiar with each book you'll be selling in your booth prior to entering a book expo. Be sure you know author information, genre of the book and chronological information if the book is part of a series. This information will help you answer questions and make recommendations to book buyers.;
,,


Giveaway items can help you have a successful booth at a book expo by bringing more shoppers to your booth and leaving them with something to remember the books or publishing house you represent. Children's toys that tie into children's books for sale, pens and pencils bearing your publishing house's name and postcards advertising upcoming releases are all popular giveaway items that will boost sales.
Have a lucrative book expo booth by offering book buyers a variety of authors, subjects and genres to choose from. Stock the entire catalog if you're representing only one author. Offer a number of genres if you're selling for a publisher that represents many authors and genres.
,


Coordinate themes within your book expo booth display to attract buyers. Group Christmas books in one festive section up front if the holiday season is approaching or create a grouping of fiction novels related to a current popular movie. This will help you sell more books by appealing to current trends.
Book expos and fairs often feature lectures or interviews with popular authors. Promote the works of these authors in your booth or similar authors or genres of writing. The book expo will already be heavily advertising these featured speakers, so offering related books will draw more traffic to your booth.
,


Bestsellers and books by authors speaking at the expo will sell quickly. Bring extra inventory for popular titles and subjects to ensure that you don't have to turn any book buyers away empty handed.

