 Chinchillas should be kept in cages. Since they are extremely active, the larger the cage, the better. Tall and wide is the best, but tall is better than wide if you can't get both.


Chinchillas love to jump, so multiple levels are advisable. Ferret Nation and Critter Nation models usually have multiple levels.
Ensure the cage has a solid bottom as a chinchilla can get their feet caught in wire floors, and cause serious harm to themselves trying to get free, such as feet sores and broken legs.
Ensure the cage bars are close enough together that the chinchilla can't stick his head through them. If his head fits through the bars, his whole body will fit through them and he will escape. He may seem too big, but don't be fooled. It is all the fur.
If you choose a wire cage, ensure that there are no bits of wire poking out that your chinchilla could cut himself on.;
, Never use cedar or pine shavings as bedding, as the phenols are very strong and cause serious respiratory, skin, coat and liver problems. They are also poisonous to chinchillas if they try to eat them. Try to only use kiln dried shavings or Carefresh. Watch if the chinchillas consume the Carefresh bedding. Take it out immediately if you notice them consuming it. You can replace the bedding with Aspen Shavings.


If desired, provide a nesting box for your chinchilla. This should measure at least 50 cm (20 in) in length and 25 cm (10 in) width and height. The nesting box should be placed on the floor, not on any shelves because the chinchilla might throw it down.
 Lift your pet like a kitten. Slide your hand under the chinchilla's belly and place your other hand on top of the chinchilla. Use the hand under the chin to support its hind legs and bum so it feels secure. Don't hold the chinchilla too tightly but do remember that they can be squirmy, so you need to hold them firmly. It is very important you don't squeeze, especially around the upper torso because they have what is known as a "floating ribcage" and you can cause severe internal injuries to him or her by doing this.



Your chinchilla should always have a supply of good quality timothy hay or second cut local (you can feed them small amounts of alfalfa, but not too much because it could cause foaming at the mouth). Keep it in a hay rack or hanging wire basket to help keep it clean.
If providing Chinchilla pellets, don't buy the kind with little treats in it.
Feed them treats infrequently as it can cause digestive problems. Never give fruit or vegetables (dried or fresh). Never give nuts or other treats that are not safe. Safe treats include: dried blackberry leaves and/or rose petals from plants that have not been sprayed with poisons of any kind, unsweetened cheerios (~3 a week), unsweetened shredded wheat (just a pinch), dried rosehips (~3 a week), safe wood chew sticks.
 Remember to sterilize the water bottle when changing the water. The algae that grows in their water can cause liver problems, severe diarrhea, or kill them. Use either bottled or filtered water - never use tap. Chinchillas can not handle naturally occurring bacteria or parasites in the water like humans, dogs, cats, etc. can. This can be a fatal illness

,, It is generally suggested that you use no soap or chemicals, so use hot water and swish it around the cage's plastic pan and then clean it thoroughly with hot water and then let it air dry, it is a good way to kill most of the bacteria that can harm your chinchilla. Don't ever use bleach or any other chemicals that harm your chinchilla.
 Too much will cause dryness. but too little will cause their coats to build up oils which can cause a disfiguring and deadly fungus to grow on their skin.
 Chinchillas are very active animals and should have an opportunity to exercise every day.


Provide an exercise wheel. The wheel must have a solid surface, and not be made of wire or mesh that can ensnare their feet. Never use the giant hamster balls (death balls) pet stores try to sell you.
If you let your pet out of the cage for supervised play time, it should be in a small room and the room should be chinchilla proof. Chinchillas can jump several feet in the air, and can squeeze through tiny spaces. They will also gnaw on wires, furniture, and anything they can get their teeth on. .
 Chinchillas' teeth can grow up to 12 inches a year. Purchase a special block of wood or pumice stone for your chinchilla to chew on.


Provide your chinchilla with branches that can be climbed and gnawed on. Ensure that these branches are not cut from trees that have recently been sprayed with chemicals, or that are poisonous such as yew, laburnum and fresh pine. Recommended trees are sycamore and manzanita, they provide straight wood that is quite resistant to the chinchilla's sharp teeth. Apple tree branches are another good alternative that can be found quite easily. Unbleached toilet paper rolls are fun for them to chew on and also provide more fiber in their diet.
 Chinchillas overheat easily. They cannot survive temperatures over 75F or below 50F. Keep their cage in a cool room with lots of air flow. Make sure their cage is not in a spot the sunlight can directly land on them, because it can cause them to be overheated. Do not allow them to be in high humidity either.
 Water can harm the chinchilla's fur. Instead, give them a dust bath. The "dust" bath is made of formulating dusting powder made of volcanic ash or activated clay. The dust baths help the chinchilla get rid of excess grease in their hair. The dust should look and feel like dust, not sand. The sand baths that some stores sell are too abrasive on their fur. Look for items such as blue cloud or blue sparkle. If absolutely needed, spot clean the chinchilla with a baby wipe or damp washcloth.

