 In a small bowl, whisk together the lemon juice, honey, and chili flakes. Toss it with the broccoli florets, then sauté the broccoli until it turns bright green and crisp. This works well for both fresh and frozen broccoli., Heat ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil in a sauté pan over medium-high heat. Add 3 tablespoons of minced garlic and 1 teaspoon of read pepper flakes, and cook for 1 minute. Add 2 heads of broccoli, chopped into florets, and cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Add a splash of water, soy sauce, or chicken stock, cover, and steam for 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl, and serve., Mix together 3 tablespoons (45 grams) of grated Parmesan cheese and 1 teaspoon of brown sugar, then set it aside. Toss 1 pound (453 grams) of chopped, blanched broccoli florets into a large skillet with 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of olive oil, 1 teaspoon of red pepper flakes, ¼ teaspoon of salt, and ⅛ teaspoon of freshly-ground pepper. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, then dust with the cheese and sugar mixture. Serve immediately., Chop 1½ pounds (680 grams) of broccoli into florets, then cook it in about 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of water and 2 teaspoons of vegetable oil. In a small bowl, stir together the following: 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) water, 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) soy sauce, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 tablespoon light brown sugar, ¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, and 3 finely-chopped garlic cloves. Add the sauce to the pan, and cook for 1 minute, or until the sauce thickens. Garnish the broccoli with 1 teaspoon of toasted sesame seeds, and serve., Heat 6 tablespoons (90 milliliters) of olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add 1 1/2 large heads of broccoli, chopped into florets, and sauté for 2 minutes. Add some salt and pepper, and cook over low to medium-low heat for 20 minutes. Reduce the heat to the lowest possible, and cook for another 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer it to a serving bowl, then toss it with 3 tablespoons (45 grams) of grated Parmesan cheese, and some more salt and pepper.