 As a general rule, you'll only need to perform deep cleaning on your blender sponge if the sponge still appears dirty after following basic cleansing procedures outlined above.









This is more likely to happen if you use your blender sponge multiple times per day or if you forget to clean it for one or more weeks.
You'll know if your blender sponge needs deep cleaning by looking at it. If the rinse water at the end of your basic cleansing routine seems dirty, or if there are visible stains on the sponge after it dries, try deep cleaning it.
 Hold the sponge under warm, running water for 30 to 60 seconds, or until it absorbs enough water to expand to its full size.









Alternatively, you could place the blender sponge in a bowl of warm water for 5 to 10 minutes. You do not need to use soapy water, nor do you need to wait for the water to change color before continuing to the next step.
 Dab solid or liquid cleanser directly onto the most heavily soiled areas of the sponge.









As with the basic cleaning procedure, you should only use gentle cleansers on your sponge. Specially formulated “Blender Cleanser” works well, but if you'd prefer another option, solid castille soap, liquid baby shampoo, or “sensitive formula” organic shampoos will also work.
 Rub the coated portions of the sponge against the center of your palm, working the sponge in small circular motions. Continue rubbing the sponge for approximately 30 seconds.








The scrubbing should be vigorous and more intense than the scrubbing used during your basic cleansing routine. Note, however, that it should still be gentle enough to avoid distorting the shape of the sponge or tearing the sponge material.
As you scrub, the cosmetics lying deeper inside the sponge will be drawn out through the surface. You should notice the suds on your palm becoming tinted with the color of your foundation.
 Rinse the sponge under warm, running water while continuing the rub it against your palm in circular movements. Keep rinsing the sponge until all of the suds are gone.









You may need to rinse the sponge for several minutes before you clean out all the soap. It's important that you rinse out all of the soap, though, so don't rush the process.
 Rinse the sponge under running water again until all of the suds disappear. Make sure that the water you squeeze out is clear and clean.









Apply more cleanser to the sponge and rub it against your palm. If the resulting lather is white instead of gray or beige, the sponge should now be clean.
 Gently wring out most of the excess moisture by squeezing the sponge with your hand. Roll the sponge over clean, dry paper towels to dry it off even more.









The sponge will probably still be damp after this, so set it aside in a dry place and allow it to air dry. Only use the blender sponge as an applicator once it is completely dry.

