 Black women tend to have curly new-growth. These curly roots make it difficult for your hair's natural oils to move down the hair shaft and moisturize the length of your hair.


Try co-washing (conditioner washing, using just conditioner instead of shampoo and conditioner). Some women do it weekly, some after 5 days, but not daily because product can dry your hair out. Some women also find that wash days take a lot of work and their hair takes forever to dry. Try co-washing weekly, and shampoo as needed but don't wait any longer than 4 weeks - so shampoo at least once a month. There are some women who do wash their hair every day, but with just water.
Deep condition with every wash. Deep conditioners containing olive, avocado or sweet almond oil work well. Play around with different products and see what works best for your hair personally. Don't be afraid to move out of the "ethnic" hair aisle.

Apply heat to your hair and wear a shower cap while you wait--heat activates the conditioner. You can sit under a hood dryer or wrap your head in a towel that has been soaked in hot (but not so hot as to burn you) water; or you can also let your body heat condition your hair.
Avoid getting deep conditioner on your scalp. The conditioner can clog your pores and cause alopecia, clogged and inflamed hair follicles, hair loss.

;
,


Wet your hair with water. Start about 1" (2.5 cm) away from the roots and apply the moisturizer all the way to the ends!
Moisturize daily or as your hair requires - you want your hair to feel soft and pliable. You may have to experiment to find what works for you.
Seal the moisture in. This can be done by using a natural oil like coconut oil, olive oil etc right after applying the moisturizer (which can be water) so even applying oil on damp hair without a moisturizer can work. Do it in sections, it is easier.
 If you have a terry cloth towel you must be sure to not stroke your hair with it, or else strands of hair will latch onto the textured fabric of the towel and as you bring your hand down you'll hear a lot of popping, which is the sound of the hair breaking off. To use the terry cloth, take a section of hair and with the towel over your hand grab the section and squeeze. You should feel the towel get drenched. Unclench the towel covered hand; don't slide it off.
 Excessive brushing can strip the protective cuticle layer off of your hair.


Comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb. Divide your hair into sections. Start combing at the ends and work your way up to the roots.
Don't be afraid to put down the comb. Sometimes if you hit a knot or if the hair has a very kinky texture, you just have to use your fingers and detangle manually. If there's a knot that you can't get out of your hair, add something to soften the hair like water or leave in conditioner to help take out the knot. If the knot still won't come loose, use a pair a good hair scissors to cut it out.
If you are trying to smooth your hairline, brush gently, use a soft boar bristle brush. If your edges still float or curl up off of your head, try wetting the hairline and taking a scarf or a durag and covering your head. Let it dry until you have a tamed hairline.
Experiment with whether it's best to do this when your hair is completely dry and moisturized, or if it's better to detangle while your hair is wet (you might find it's very easy for your hair to break or be pulled out from the roots if you detangle when dry).
 Use a hair vitamin that will increase your hair growth rate and lengthen your natural anagenesis (growth phase).



Drink at least eight cups of water and eat healthy foods such as fish, fruits, vegetables and nuts.
Exercise regularly to increase circulation to your scalp.
Manage your stress with relaxation exercises or meditation. Stress can cause your hair to fall out.

