 Odds are you're getting into the alternative health business because you have a talent for helping people. You may be a gifted acupuncturist or masseuse, and that will serve you well in the business world. However, when it comes down to it, your alternative health business is just that: a business. This means that you'll have to figure out how to properly run a functioning small business, including everything from bookkeeping to marketing to complying with regulations. Starting with this mindset will save you a lot of headaches later on., Once you know what you stand for and where you are going, all business decisions can be made on the basis of whether they support your vision or not., It is not just about finding a certain population, like athletes, to work on. It is about finding clients who will have the same philosophy about health and healing as you do. What does your ideal client value?, What solution do you provide? It is more than just the benefits you read about everyday on every massage therapist's website. Think about how your service improves customers' lives. What can customers expect to feel when they leave your business? Focus this feeling and information into several concise statements. This will help you when you are crafting your marketing materials., Try to distill your business's purpose into a few words. What are you helping your customers achieve? What do you want your marketing materials to say to your customers? What sort of mood do you want to achieve in them? Think about these questions and determine a clearly defined message., A marketing plan is a document that spells out how you will advertise your business, including where, how, and for how long. It also includes your message, your budget, and your marketing goals (to increase customers, revenue, repeat customers, etc.). Start by defining a marketing goal. For a new business this will probably be to get customers in the door.


Include a clear description of your message. This will help you to focus every advertisement around this and your marketing goal.
Create a list of details to include in your marketing materials, such as your location and the prices of your services.
Define your audience and the ways that you plan to reach them., Purchase a domain name that includes the name of your business. Start by addressing the basics: add in a description of who you are, what your business offers, and where you are located. Add some pictures in to each of these sections. Then, consider other questions a potential customer might have when looking at your website and address these questions. Include links to research relevant to your business and explain, in detail, exactly what your services are the benefits they offer.


Your website is a reflection of your business, so make sure it is easy to use and professional looking. This may require actually hiring a web designer., Look around in your area at other alternative health businesses. What types of marketing do they use? What are they saying to their audience in these ads? Learn from both what they do right and what they don't get right. Try to imitate their successes without copying their marketing materials., Think about your customers and what media they will view or hear most often. If they listen to the radio, for example, think about purchasing advertising space on a popular local radio station and creating a radio ad for your business. Alternately, you can advertise in a local magazine or newspaper. Look around see what other alternative health businesses are doing to advertise their products., In addition to local advertising, there are a lot of opportunities to draw in customers by advertising online. Consider using services like Google Adwords or Facebook ads to place advertisements targeted towards customers that already have an interest in alternative health. In addition, you can claim your local listing on Google Places and Yelp to get in touch with customers and add more information to these listings., Many customers may be unsure exactly what your business offers or what it can do for them. Because of this, they will be reluctant to come to you without significant incentives to do so. To remedy this, think about a way to offer a taste of your product or service at a reduced price or for free. Try to make it as simple and low-risk as possible., On your website, create a section devoted to a regular blog. This is a great way to keep customers engaged with new content and let them know about developments in the business. Work from your business strategy to figure out what your customers might want to read and elaborate these ideas into frequent blog posts. Try to use catchy titles like "Ten Tips to Reduce Stress" or "How to Take Charge of Your Life." If your content is good, it will be shared around the internet, drawing in more customers., Throughout your interactions with customers, you'll come across those whose lives have been deeply affected by your business and its services. Ask these customers if they would be willing to share their story or let you share it with other customers. Look for success stories and, in general, good stories to tell in your marketing campaigns. Having an endorsement by a satisfied customer is more effective than any other advertisement you can make., The best way to generate business is through repeat customers and personal referrals. This means that you'll have to devote your full attention to each and every client. Focus on their needs, provide excellent service, and educate them about the service you are providing. This will give them a reason, and the tools they need, to refer your services to all of their friends and family., At every chance you get, try to work your business into a conversation. The conversation doesn't have to be about health or even about business, but just start talking to someone and direct the conversation towards your business organically. In any event, always be ready with your pitch (a condensed description of what your business offers) and a business card. This is especially important at networking events, like trade shows, but can also be useful in your daily life. When you've made a connection, nurture the relationship by passing customers their way when you get the chance; perhaps they will do the same for you.