 When your dog climbs up onto the counter, you need to immediately react. Dogs learn by testing their boundaries. If they have been up on these spaces for longer than a couple of seconds, they might not understand why you are telling them to get down. Rather than associating your command with their location, they might just begin to think that you’re a mean person — someone to be feared., Say it in a firm voice. Don’t yell it, but be sure to be clear. Don’t say “off” and then several other words. You want to make sure that your dog gets the message.


“Off” is the best word choice, if you plan to teach your dog other commands. Some people use the word “down”, but if you want to teach your dog to “lay down” this can get confusing for the dog. For example, if it gets up onto the bed and you tell it “down” it may just lay down., Most people point to the ground when they say “off”. This gives your dog both an auditory and a visual cue that it is time to get down. It can also have the added benefit of telling your dog where it should get down at.
 Many people will use a clicker to further reinforce proper behavior. Every time your dog gets up onto a surface it shouldn’t be on, say “off” and click the clicker while it is getting down. After a while, your dog will associate the clicking sound with the appropriate behavior (getting down). Then you can just click the clicker and the dog will get down., You should present the treat right away if you want your dog to associate their action with it. If you wait a couple of minutes after getting your dog down to give it a treat, it won’t know why it is getting it. Depending on your dog and its preferences, a “treat” might simply be a pet on the head. Typically, food rewards work best. Choose a small treat that your dog goes nuts for. There are dozens, if not hundreds, of choices for you and your dog to choose from. Make sure that the treat is not too fattening and is small enough for you to carry around., Remember to remain vigilant. You never know when a training opportunity will present itself.

