 Once you and your honey are feeling more romantic, it's time to spice things up. Here are some tips for making love in new locations:


Make love in a new part of your home. Having sex in the bedroom can get boring, so try some new places, like your shower, or your kitchen counter---provided that your curtains are closed.
Have sex on the couch or in a special spot of your home. When you have people over, you can wink at each other as you run your hand over the chair where you made love earlier, so you're both thinking of the fun sex you had without anyone knowing.
Take a sexy vacation. Take a trip to the beach or a romantic island, and have sex in a new hotel room.
Hook up in an unconventional place. If you're not offending anyone and have found a private place, hook up in your car, a park, or in a tent while you're camping. Note that you can get in trouble with the law for having sex in public, so choose your locations wisely.
 If you're always having sex in the same one or two positions, it's time to mix things up. A part of passion is keeping things fresh, so it should be your mission to get out of missionary position. Here are some tips for trying new positions:


Make point of not having sex in any of the traditional ways you're comfortable with. If you avoid your comfort zones, you're likely to stumble into something new and sexy.
Switch things around. If you're always on top, switch positions with your honey and see how it feels.
Don't be afraid to look up new positions. Read the Karma Sutra or look up new positions online. If you do this together, you'll be turned on in the process.
Improve your flexibility. Take yoga classes or spend more time stretching your calves, thighs, and hamstrings. This will help you enjoy certain positions even more, or find new positions.
 You've been with the same person for years, so you should be comfortable enough to make your sex a little bit risqué. If you're feeling bold, here are some ways to spice up your sex life:


Don't underestimate the power of sex toys. Go to a sex store together and buy some whips, hand cuffs, sexy lotion, or anything else that may improve your sex life. Though it may feel a little bit awkward, remind yourself that everyone is in a sex store for the same reason, and have fun with it.
Wear sexy clothes. If you're a girl, wear sexy lingerie, such as garters, thongs, and lacy bras. You can even tease your honey by showing him what you're wearing for a second before you cover up. You can even buy clothes that are ridiculously sexy that you would only ever wear in the bedroom and have fun taking them off.
 Why not? Be comfortable with your honey and have fun creating some exciting scenarios to get your blood flowing. Takings some risks can put some passion back into the bedroom. Here are some scenarios to try out:


Dress up really nicely like you're going to a wedding or somewhere important. Pretend like you're running late and really need to leave the house but just can't help yourselves. Have fun having sex in fancy clothes--just make sure to keep them clean!
Try having sex with almost all of your clothes on. That can be just plain hot.
Try some good old-fashioned healthy role play. Go to a sex store and try on some sexy outfits, whether you dress up as a police officer or a princess. It may feel silly at first but whatever, just get it in on in a new outfit!
Pretend that you're having a really big fight and then have "make-up sex."
Tell your partner your fantasy--however ridiculous it may be--and wait for him to act it out.

