 Different models of home ice cream makers can work differently, but most have a removable two-layered bowl with cooling fluid in between the layers.This bowl needs to be ice cold to make ice cream, so put it in the freezer at least an hour or two before you plan to start. Consult your machine's directions to learn the exact freezing time — some models may need to freeze overnight (or longer).

Wrap the bowl in a plastic bag before putting it in the freezer to prevent frost from forming on it.;
, Before you begin, use the instant pudding packet to make pudding. Follow the directions on the pudding's packaging for preparation. Depending on the type of pudding you are using, the process can take anywhere from 5 minutes to an hour. For longer recipes, much of the time will usually be waiting for the pudding to set in the fridge, so you can ready the rest of your ingredients while you wait.

Instant pudding products will vary, but generally all you'll need to do is mix the powder with milk and put it in the fridge to set. See our article on making instant pudding for more information.
 Add the ingredients to a large bowl, making sure the pudding is set before doing so. If you have an electric mixer, you can use this to combine the ingredients quickly. Otherwise, use a whisk.

You only need to mix the ingredients so they're uniform here. You aren't trying to churn the ice cream into something solid yet.
 Stir slowly as you add these ingredients to the bowl. Fold the mixture a few times to combine them well.

If you don't have vanilla flavoring, try adding a tablespoon of vanilla extract instead (which can be a little easier to find at the grocery store).
 Assemble your ice cream maker, taking the bowl out of the freezer and locking it in its place under the paddle. Pour your liquid mixture into the bowl, close the machine, and turn it on. Consult the directions for your machine to learn how long to run it for — most models will get the ice cream to a soft-serve consistency within 20-30 minutes.Soft serve is best-enjoyed immediately. It will keep in a freezer-safe container, but may loose its soft, light texture, becoming something closer to "normal" ice cream.

