 This player shall be in charge of all the money, property, houses and hotels still belonging to the bank. Remember that the chosen banker may also be a player in the game, but he must keep his assets as a player separate from that of the bank's.






;
, Each player will get a mover to represent themselves as they move around the board.
 Each player will begin the game with $1500 divided as follows:

2 $500s,
2 $100s,
2 $50s,
6 $20s,
5 $10s,
5 $5s and
5 $1s.
 Whoever rolls the highest number goes first, and play then continues clockwise around the board.









If you roll doubles, when the two die display the same number, during the game you may move then roll again.
 If you land on a spot with a colored stripe across the top, a railroad or a utility (Electric Company/Water Works), you may buy the property for the amount printed on the board. The banker in turn gives the player the title deed for that property.
If you don't buy the property, it goes to auction. Bidding starts at any amount, and players may bid any amount, as long as they can pay it. The highest bidder pays the bank the amount they bid, and in return, the bank gives the highest bidder the title deed.
 Players who own property may collect rent when another player lands on a property that someone else owns. If you land on someone else's property, you must pay them the rent printed on the title deed card for that property.









Get a Monopoly. If you own all the properties in a colored group, you may charge double the rent for those properties.

Build houses and hotels. If you have a Monopoly, you may start to build houses on any of those properties to charge more rent. (The price to build houses and the extra rent that must be charged are printed on the title deed for that property.) Once you've built four houses on one property, you may replace the four houses with a hotel that you buy to raise even more money when someone lands on that property.
Remember to build evenly. This means that if you build a house on one of the properties in your color group, you must build one house on every property in that color group until you're allowed to buy a second house on any of those properties. You must then make sure to have two houses on all the properties in that group until you are allowed to build a third house on any of those properties.
 Every time a player lands on or passes over the corner space marked "GO", they earn a $200 salary.
 These cards may make you pay or collect money, or make you move to another space. If you land on a spot marked "Chance" or "Community Chest", take the top card off of the corresponding deck of the space that you landed on. When you're done reading the card, return it to the bottom of the corresponding deck.
 There are three possible ways to go to jail:









Roll three doubles in a row - In this case, do not proceed to take your normal turn after rolling a third double in a row - your turn ends immediately and you must go directly to the space marked "In jail". Even if you would have passed GO, do not collect $200.
Pick a card that reads "Go directly to jail" - If you pick a "Chance" or "Community Chest" card that reads this, your turn ends immediately and you must go directly to the space marked "In jail". Even if you would have passed GO, do not collect $200.
Land on the corner space marked "Go to jail" - Move your token directly to the space marked "In jail". Even though you pass GO, do not collect $200.
 On your next turn - that is, your next turn after you went to jail, you may pay $50 bail to get out of jail. Now that you're out, on your next turn - that is, your second turn after being sentenced to jail, you may roll the dice and proceed to take a turn.
Roll doubles. If you do not want to pay the $50 bail, you may try to roll doubles to get out of jail. Starting on your next turn - that is, your next turn after you'd been sentenced to jail, you may roll the dice instead of paying the $50. If you fail to roll doubles, you must stay in jail. If you proceed to fail roll doubles for the third time, you must pay $50 immediately after failing to roll doubles the third time - you may then immediately proceed to take your turn, using the roll that was your third fail to get out of jail.
Use a "Get out of jail free" card. There is one each of "Chance" and one "Community Chest" cards marked "Get out of jail free". If you pick this card, instead of returning it to the bottom of the deck, you may keep it with you until you get in jail. Once you get in jail, you may choose to use this card to get out of jail, free. To do this, on your next turn - that is, your next turn after you'd been sent to jail, declare that you're using the card and then return it to the bottom of the corresponding deck.
, If at some stage a person has to pay rent of more money than they own they can mortgage their houses and get the money from the bank. When a house is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. To unmortgage a house you must pay 10% interest when you pay it off.
 If you owe more money than you and your assets can afford, you're declared bankrupt and are out of the game. Last player standing wins!








