 Be sure to cover most of the paper, but leave room for an "Idea Notes" grid (see the tip below for using a grid). Then do the same for the back of the jacket on the other side of the paper (we want to be eco-friendly don’t we?). Then gather the items you already have that you want to use like patches, pins, etc., and let’s begin.


Use the grid to make notes. On the grid, write a headline such as Studs, then, perhaps, use a color system and put a red dot and write “pyramid stud - half”, and on your sketch draw the stud like a pyramid in red. For patches, you probably won't need the grid, because you can just draw the shape of the patch on your sketch and write the name of the patch on the sketch such as “The Addicts”.
 Ask yourself what you want your jacket to look like? How will your jacket represent you? Should it be a tribute to your favorite bands? A removable upper body tattoo? Or, just a really cool jacket made with all kinds of cool stuff? Well that’s up to you, and this the most exciting part of making your very own Punk Rock jacket.
 If you don’t like the outcome, erase and re-do, or start over fresh until you have your own perfect personal creation! Below are some ideas you can use to help brainstorm:


Get creative with your paint and paint an entire sleeve blue. Use your paint pens and draw a spiderweb on the other sleeve, maybe on the elbow. Stud the entire jacket (what a job that would be), or just the collar. Add some spikes along a seam, or intersperse them in your studs (be careful, because you don't want your jacket to hurt you while you're wearing it), add some band or symbol patches, or write band names the way they do.
Draw some skulls or symbols, or, if you aren’t a great artist, have someone else do it. It’s still your idea, and now you can help promote your friend.
Make a safety pin design, or use safety pins to hold down a patch. Use different colored thread to stitch down patches.
Lace up the side of your jacket with hand-made eyelets and leather string.

