 Staying healthy shouldn’t be just about monitoring what you eat, how much exercise you get, and how many hours of sleep you manage. Try to incorporate all of these elements into your life, but remember that being healthy and happy is also having fun with friends and family.


Having great friends to play and learn with will really help you to be happy and healthy.Take care of these relationships and value them.
If you begin to worry too much about your health, or be completely strict with how you live, you may end up becoming stressed and anxious.
Your health is very important, and you should protect it by finding a good balance and still allowing yourself to have plenty of fun.
 As a kid you will be spending a lot of time at school, so you should try to build strong relationships with the teachers you like and look up to. Having a good connection with a teacher can make a big difference if you are going through a tricky period at school. It's important to have role models in your life that you respect and admire.


As well as teachers, older brothers or sisters and other family members can be great role models.
A role model will help mentor you and give you some useful advice.
You don't have to agree with everything you're role model does or says. Nobody is perfect or right all the time., It’s important to be physically active, but it’s also important to give yourself a little time to just relax and take it easy. You can even combine relaxation with exercise if you try out some yoga. Reading, taking a warm bath, or just chatting with friends and family gives you time to forget about everything else for a while. It's important not to sweat the small stuff, and to give yourself a break when you need it.


Relaxation doesn’t necessarily means using the computer or playing video games, which while not physically active, do make your brain work.
Try to make time to be away from electronic screens and really relax.
Learning to relax may also help you sleep better and fit more stuff into the rest of the day.