 For example, if you are worried that your parents would kick you out and take away your college funds, you should wait until you are done with college and have your own place. Sit down and plan out exactly when you would be able to come out. This will help you look towards a brighter future.


You aren't obligated to share personal information about your gender with your parents, especially if they would judge you for it. It isn't dishonest to avoid telling in order to keep yourself and your education secure.
 For example, maybe your safety would be at risk if you wore a dress, but your parents wouldn't care if you had long hair in a low ponytail, or wore skinny jeans. While everywhere is different, and it may be tough to find "compromises" with your parents, they're out there. You just might have to do some digging to find them.


If clothing is the issue, try looking for clothing that's considered "boy's" clothing, so that your parents don't object to it. You can find many of the same styles of clothing in the boy's section as well (e.g. skinny jeans).
 It can be very stressful to hide your real gender, not to mention just plain hard at times. See if you could find a trans-friendly counselor, therapist, or doctor who can help you stay in good mental health. Your state of mind is incredibly important, so it's important to talk to somebody about how you feel to somebody who can support you and help you.


Get screened for anxiety and depression. Without proper support, trans people can be at high risk for these illnesses. Treatment can improve your quality of life.
Explain the reasons why you do not feel safe transitioning to the professional. They may be able to help you.
 It can be hard to have to live as a boy when you know that you aren't one, so it's important to find a place where you can really be yourself. Maybe if you can't safely show your femininity at home, you could do so at the house of a trusted friend who knows your real gender.


If your school has a GSA or LGBT club of some sort, you may be able to join it and express yourself. Be sure to stay out of club photos, though, or your parents may realize it when the yearbooks are printed.

