 Carpets collect and absorb a variety of items that can produce foul odors, such as soil, pollen, pet urine, and food. In addition to vacuuming regularly, you can also eliminate nasty smells by deodorizing your carpets every few months. You may purchase a deodorizing powder or create your own.


Gather your ingredients and tools. ½ cup borax; ½ cup baking soda; 1 tsp essential oils OR ground cinnamon; 1 bowl; 1 empty parmesan cheese dispenser; 1 vacuum.
Measure and pour ½ cup borax and ½ cup baking soda into a bowl.
Add 1 tsp essential oils (approximately 20 to 25 drops) OR 1 tsp cinnamon to the mixture.
Stir the mixture until it is clump free.
Transfer it to an empty parmesan cheese dispenser.
Shake the powder onto your carpets.
Let the product sit on your carpets for 15 to 20 minutes and then vacuum it up.
If you have light colored carpeting, do not use ground cinnamon.;
, Upholstered furniture can absorb a variety of foul smells, from body odor to cigarette smoke. Deodorizing your furniture may be the key to keeping your room smelling fresh. There are a variety of ways to remove odors from your furniture without harsh chemicals.


Spritz your furniture with a homemade deodorizing spray. Mix together 1 tbsp baking soda, 2 to 3 drops of essential oil, and distilled water. Pour the mixture into a spray bottle and shake. Mist your furniture with the spray.
Cover the piece of furniture with a fine layer of baking soda. Allow the product to sit overnight and then vacuum it up.
Combine equal parts vinegar and water in a spray bottle. Spray the mixture on your furniture until it is moist. Allow the item to dry completely and repeat as needed., Like upholstered furniture, your mattress can absorb foul smells too. Treating your mattress with a deodorizer regularly will allow you to maintain a fresh smelling bedroom.


Clean out an old creamer bottle or parmesan cheese shaker.
Combine ½ cup baking soda and 12 drops of essential oils in the empty container.
Sprinkle the mixture directly onto your uncovered mattress.
Allow the product to sit on the mattress for at least 1 hour.
Vacuum up the baking soda., Like other odors, the smell of our pets seeps into our furniture, beds, carpets, and linens. To neutralize these smells, all you need is a vacuum, baking soda, and apple cider vinegar.


Wash your linens and pillows with a laundry detergent and 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar. You may also purchase specially formalized odor-removal detergent from your local pet store.
Vacuum carpet and/or every nook and cranny of your furniture to remove pet hair.
Sprinkle your furniture or carpet with baking soda. Let the product sit over night and absorb the odors. Vacuum up the baking soda in the morning. Apply baking soda to your bed in the morning and then vacuum it up before bed.