 Make eye contact, and accidentally do something to get her attention. But don't be inappropriate. Next, start a small conversation and judge her by her interests and abilities. Talk to her for a short time, leave her by making up an excuse to ditch her, but be sure you don't make her mad. THEN you judge her. She'll probably judge you too, so don't be mean. Make a good impression.;
,, This can help you a lot.


Adorable/Cute: Maybe not the best athlete and doesn't have the best body. They have adorable faces and hair and are normally grouped with being funny and sensitive.
Nerd: Really smart, okay face, pretty good hair. Always quoting anything and everything, strikes a girl in the heart as a nice guy. Plays chess or something nerdy. NOT a ladies man, unpopular, but has a funny heart.
Funny Gamer: Has good eyes, hair, and sense of humor. Good with electronics, gets girls because if you can get them to think you're really funny, they'll always smile when they see you. If you have to play games around her, play games she likes/knows about.
Gamer: Plays lots of video/roleplaying games. Has an OK face, great eyes, average body, and usually bad hair. Can be sweet. Can also be very perverted.
Hot: Has a great face, body, hair. Sometimes a jock. Doesn't have to be so friendly, but girls fall for them anyway.
Nice: Really friendly and possibly cute. Is typically shy. Gets classified in the "friend" category if he doesn't say that he likes her because she just thinks he's just being, well... nice.
Funny: Has a good sense of humor and, normally, good hair. These guys are great friend material, unless they're physically attractive.
Athletic: This type of guy has a very nice body and is good in sports. They're normally cute or nice, with lots of friends.
Smart (but not a know-it-all or a nerd): Has a semi-good body and doesn't have to be "all that", athletic, or cute. These usually are the guys you run into at the libraries, or studying after class. They also might be mysterious.
Mysterious: They may not have the hottest hair, but they normally have amazing eyes, a fairly good, athletic body, and are irresistibly noticeable (but not over the top), and charm.
Bad Boy: The rebel. They speak out a lot and keep you on your toes, and always wanting more. Bad boys tend to be a little shy or sensitive on the inside, but they're fun to be around. But a bad boy doesn't mean he does drugs or alcohol--they just love to be rowdy, loud, and prove to you that if you go out with them, you're bound to have a good time. But remember, this doesn't include mean.
Musician: They play an instrument, (very helpful to get the girls) normally have good hair, they usually aren't that popular. They usually talk about music but can be romantic.
Rocker: They usually play guitar, drums or electric bass. They have a sort of athletic body. And they always talk about rock, punk, or metal. They are like a bad boy but with metal hair and a rush T-shirt.
Player: Usually the worst of them all, they try to attract any cute girls for the fun of it. Usually good-looking. Can be funny, usually have an okay to great body. Once girls find out you're a player, most of them stay away.
Skater Dude: has a nice body, hair and dresses nice. Always trying to look bad, and get girls' attention and show off you like to skateboard.
All Around: They are smart, nice, funny, sweet, sensitive, hot, romantic, helpful, thoughtful, really athletic, talented, sometimes a bad boy (witch is me). This is rare, but girls love them. If you're hot, work on the other things. Girls will be watching you all the time, but you have to ask them out. Girls don't ask people out because they are afraid of getting embarrassed.
Intellect: Usually not a great body (But not necessarily un-athletic) but has great eyes. Has unusual but sophisticated personal tastes and while is not always 'clever' (i.e, in all the best sets) has strong (but never strongly expressed) opinions and is a clear thinker. Very charming and usually listens, but only to what he is interested in. Although not often physically strong he has above average emotional capacity, but can be slightly anti-social. Quite rare.
Other: They are not the best looking, not that talented, not that bad, not that athletic. But they are calm, and have a positive attitude.
 Don't rush it. Know her family for a while and learn as much as you can about them. Then you arrange the date.

