 A gout attack occurs when uric acid levels get too high, leading to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints and other areas. Increased levels of uric acid can lead to a number of painful issues throughout the body.


Since these crystals are heavier than the blood carrying them, they begin to create deposits throughout the body. However, due to gravity, these heavy crystals are usually pulled to the lower part of the body, including the large space between the joints in the big toe.
Kidney stones happen when uric acid crystals form in the kidneys.
Crystal formations called tophi can form under the skin.;
, Certain meats, fish and other animal products contain high amounts of purine, which converts to uric acid. When too much uric acid builds up in the joints, it leads to gout.Completely avoiding the following high-purine foods will help ease the impact of your gout:


Organ meats
Herring
Anchovies
Mackerel

, All meat, fish and poultry has some amount of uric acid. While you don't have to become a strict vegetarian, cutting back on meat and fish is an essential step to treating the disease.Limit your consumption of the following foods to 4 to 6 ounces (1 serving) daily:


Poultry
Red meat (pork, beef and lamb)
Tuna
Lobster
Shrimp

, Some non-meat products are also naturally high in purines. These foods tend to contribute to the formation of uric acid in the blood. The following vegetables, fruits and legumes have high uric acid:


Mushrooms
Beans
Peas
Lentils
Bananas
Avocado
Kiwi fruit
Pineapple

, Eating a lot of saturated fat has been shown to inhibit the body's ability to process uric acid. Avoid fried foods and foods with a high fat content, like full-fat dairy. Low-fat foods like fruits and vegetables, legumes, and whole grains will help you manage gout.
 Fructose increases uric acid, so avoid beverages sweetened with high-fructose corn syrup as well as desserts and other items that contain this substance.It's important to read food packages carefully, because HFCS is present in a lot of different foods, even those that don't necessarily taste sweet, like bread or snack foods.
 People who are overweight or obese are at greater risk for developing gout. Losing weight can help keep gout in check and move you closer toward getting rid of it for good. Talk with your doctor about constructing a healthy weight-loss plan that involves limiting foods high in purine. It should be constructed around the following foods, in addition to plenty of exercise:


Lean protein options (excluding organ meat and fatty fish)
Whole grains
Low-purine fruits and vegetables
Nuts and other healthy snacks

, A high stress level can lead to gout flare-ups, so it's important to take measures to keep your stress under control. Exercising and eating well can be a big help. In addition to keeping your body healthy, work on achieving sound mental health by doing the following:


Take time to yourself as often as necessarily. If you're feeling pulled in a million directions, that'll take a toll on your body.
Meditate, do yoga, or spend some time outside. Start regularly performing an activity that brings you inner peace.
Get plenty of sleep every night. Aim for 7-8 hours, and try to stick to a schedule.
 Beer is known to increase uric acid, and it should be completely avoided to combat gout. Wine, however, shouldn't increase uric acid if it's consumed in small quantities. Drinking just one or two 5-ounce servings a day does not increase your risk.
 It helps to flush uric acid from the system, relieving your joints of buildup. Drink more than you normally would - at least 8 to 16 8-ounce glasses every day., People who take a lot of vitamins containing niacin as well as some over-the-counter medicines are at an increased risk of developing gout. If you tend to take a lot of vitamins and medicines, meet with your doctor to discuss how they might be affecting your gout.The following supplements and medicines may put you at risk of having flare-ups:


Niacin
Aspirin
Diuretics
Cyclosporine
Levodopa

, Gout is one of the most painful types of arthritis, and when flareups happen, medication can be a big help. It's important to talk with your doctor about a medication plan that will be healthy for your body. Your doctor may present the following options, depending on your pain level:


Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These are available over-the-counter.
Corticosteroids, such as prednisone.
Colchicine. This medicine works best when taken within the first 12 hours of an acute attack.
 Gout isn't always a result of eating too much meat and other purine-heavy foods. Sometimes it's a result of the body's inability to get rid of uric acid for other reasons. If you've been affected by one of the following issues, you'll need to get proper treatment to keep your gout in check:Some people with gout have an enzyme defect that makes it very difficult for the body to break down purines.
Some people have gout as a result of being exposed to lead in the environment.
People who have had an organ transplant are particularly susceptible.
 Since gout is on the rise, new therapies and medications are always being tested.If gout is affecting your quality of life and conventional ways of treating it aren't working, talk with your doctor about exploring all of your options.

