 This will help you focus on the main idea the instructor wants you to recall. Look for any vocabulary words you learned recently in class, and any study terms you recognize., Quickly go through the test and fill in the blanks that you are sure you know. This will give you confidence, and it will “prime” your brain – you'll be subconsciously working on the answers you skipped over. Then go back and answer the hard questions., If you have more than one idea, and you truly can't decide which is more likely to be correct, write them both down. Your teacher may give you partial credit if one of your answers is correct., If you can't decide between two possible responses to a question, try to think of it from the teacher's point of view. What would they most likely want you to say? What sort of things did he or she most often emphasize in class lectures?Imagine the teacher is reviewing the test results in class, later on. Try to picture what your professor would give as the answer.
 If you are having difficulty figuring out the answer to a question, or if you have several possibilities in mind, use the margins (or the back) of your exam to work it out. Write down anything that comes to you, and see if this jogs your memory., Summarize the question using your own words, to see whether this makes the instructors' point more clear. Be careful not to change the question when you rephrase it., If you know your teacher will be giving you a short answer test, prepare beforehand by making note of any key ideas or terms you find in the text book or reading materials. Always include key points your teacher makes in his or her lectures, especially points that are repeated two or more times.Write the key word on the front of the flashcard, and a brief description on the back.
An alternative to flashcards is to fold a regular piece of notebook paper in half, lengthwise (from top to bottom). Write the key terms on the left half of the paper, and the corresponding descriptions on the right side. Then fold the paper so you can only see the descriptions, and try to recall the terms.
 Briefly read through the test questions. Then, if you are allowed to write on the back of the test sheet, or on a cover sheet, try to list any information you think might help you during the test.List any of the terms on your flashcards that often stumped you – get those down, so you don't get stuck on them when they appear on the test.
If you memorized any lists or collections of terms by using mnemonics, quickly write them down.
If you aren't allowed to use the Periodic Table during a chemistry exam, memorize it and sketch it out before you take the test. Then you'll have it to refer to during the test.
Always be sure your teacher is okay with this method, and that it is obvious you didn't bring the paper in with you to class – otherwise, it might look like you're cheating.

