 Make sure it is at least twice the size of your hard drive.


Today, you can buy a backup drive that has a terabyte or more. Most backup drives will connect to your USB drive.






You can also buy backup drives that work with your other Mac ports, such as FireWire 800 and Thunderbolt. You will need to check your Apple manual to see if your machine supports these drives. They can be much faster at sending and receiving information, but also much more expensive than a traditional USB port drive.;
, Find out if the drive comes with its own software.


If possible, choose a hard drive that does not run on proprietary software. This backup software can compete with the Time Machine backup, creating difficulties.
Deactivate your hard drive's backup software by deleting it or following the directions in the instruction manual before trying to run Time Machine.
 You can also choose to connect it specifically when you want Time Machine to run.
 In most cases, you will do this by connecting it with a cord, or directly through a USB drive.
 In most cases, your Apple computer will recognize the device and ask you if you want to use it as a backup drive.


If the dialog box does not appear, or you want to use a drive that was previously inserted as a backup, then go to your "System Preferences" application. Click on "Time Machine." Select the backup drive you want to use from the browser.






For additional security, check the box that says "Encrypt Backup Disk." This will only be available on certain operating systems.
 Click on the symbol of a clock with an arrow around it. This is the Time Machine icon.



You can also go back to the System Preferences application and click on Time Machine to get to the same screen.
, Time Machine will not back up devices that are connected to your computer, but it will back up almost everything else, so you may want to exclude Mail or other items.


Click the plus sign to add something that should be excluded from backing up.
 Click "Enter Time Machine" under the Time Machine icon.
 Select the file you want and click "Restore" to reload it onto your Mac.


You can also use the search bar to look for files, if you don't know when they were saved.
 It is a good idea to do this every day, or at minimum once a week, if you do not use your computer very often.

If you leave the hard drive plugged into your computer, Time Machine will save backups hourly. It will save hourly backups for 1 day, weekly backups for a month and monthly backups for an unlimited amount of time. Backing up will stop when the machine is full.
 Give the system a moment to recognize the drive.
 Select "Back Up Now."

, Removing it without ejecting it will risk losing your data.

