 For this method, you will need access to a handful of household supplies, including dish washing liquid or dish soap, running water, and a clean, dry, lint-free cloth. Avoid dish washing liquid that contains lotion, as this can cause streaks or stains on your glasses. Remember some dish washing liquids are abrasive and can damage coatings on the lenses of your glasses, such as anti-reflective coating. , Wash your hands well with water and soap so your hands are free of any dirt or debris that could get on your glasses. Then, take your glasses and hold them under warm running water. This will help to remove dust and debris on the lenses. This way, you are not at risk of seriously scratching your lenses when you clean them with the dish soap.Make sure you use warm or lukewarm tap water. Hot water can damage the coating on some lenses.
 You may apply one to two drops of the dish soap to your fingertip and then gently place it on each lens. Try to only use a small amount, as dish soap is very concentrated and a little will go a long way.Once the dish soap is on the lens, use your fingers to gently rub both sides of the lens. Do this for a few seconds. Try to rub away any stains on the lens using the soap and the water.
You may also wash the nose pads, the temples, and arms of the glasses. These areas can accumulate dirt and debris so it may be a good idea to clean them.
 Once you have cleaned the glasses thoroughly and removed the stains, wash the soap off well. Use warm running water to do this. Try to get all of the soap off as any leftover soap may smear when you try to dry the lenses., Always dry the glasses well after you clean them. Use a clean, dry, lint-free cloth to wipe them off. Dry the lenses in a circular motion, making sure you remove all the water on the lenses as you do not want the water to dry and cause further water stains.You may try using a microfiber cloth to dry off the lenses. No matter what type of cloth you use, make sure it is soft as you do not want to scratch the lenses when you dry them off.If you launder the cloth, do not use fabric softener or dryer sheets when drying, as this can cause streaking on the lenses.