 The period of time immediately before a canine seizure is known as the “aura.” Dogs often seem apprehensive, disoriented, or restless during the aura phase, and may exhibit nervous behaviors including whining. If your dog is showing signs of being in the aura phase, but still walking around, attempt to lead the dog to an open area where they will not be at risk of hurting themselves when the seizure begins.After the seizure has concluded, your dog will enter the appropriately named “post-seizure” phase. Although convulsions will have stopped at this point, the dog will be physically exhausted and may feel confused as well. Dogs can take hours to recover, so give your pet space while it reorients itself.;
, Don’t panic or try to stop your dog from moving. You should leave the dog alone during this time, as the dog cannot control its movements and may lash out and strike you. If there are pieces of furniture, chairs, etc. near your dog, move these so that the dog does not injure itself on them.Be especially cautious around your dog’s mouth while it’s experiencing a seizure. The dog will not be in control of its muscle function, and could easily bite you if you put your hands on its head or near its mouth.
 Although many dogs love to swim and splash around in lakes, rivers, or even a backyard pool, you should keep your epileptic dog out of deep water. If the dog were to have a seizure while in the water, it would be unable to swim to safety and would likely drown.If you live in an area where your dog could easily run to a large body of water, consider building a fence around a portion of your backyard to prevent your dog from reaching the water.
Alternately, purchase a canine life vest for your dog, and put it on the dog each time it’s in or near water., Most dogs who are on long-term antiepileptic medications gain weight as a side effect. While this may not present itself as an immediate problem, you will need to closely watch your dog’s weight; excessive or rapid weight gain can be harmful to your dog’s health.If you notice that your dog is gaining weight rapidly or is approaching an unhealthy or obese weight, talk to your veterinarian about putting the dog on a diet play.


You can use a typical bathroom scale to weigh your dog in your own home. Since dogs are energetic animals and it’s difficult to have a dog stand still on the scale, weigh your dog by holding the dog and standing on the scale, and then subtracting your own weight from the total.
If you don’t have a bathroom scale, or if you have a large dog that you can’t pick up, your veterinarian’s office will have an animal scale that you can weigh your dog on.

