 A good way to help your child with ADHD sleep better is to get him in the habit of going to bed at the same time. Pick a realistic bed time for your child's schedule and your family activities. Make this your child's bedtime is the same time every night, even on the weekend.


To help your child stick to this bedtime, remind your child it's time for bed starting at an hour before. This will give your child an indication that it is time to start winding down his or her day.
You can remind your child do this by telling him or her that bed time is coming in 15 minute increments. You can also set up a timer which reminds your child every 15 minutes, so that he or she can see those minutes ticking away.;
, During the hour before your child goes to bed, create a list of activities that focuses your child on sleeping and bedtime. This can be when your child takes a bath, brushes his or her teeth, reads, gets clothes picked out clothes for the next day, or does any low-key activity.


Make sure your child does not listen to loud music, play video games, have computer time, watch TV time, or engage in any rough play time.
Your kid should only take part in quiet conversations., A good way to help your child fall asleep better is helping him or her to relax before bed. This may be deep breathing techniques, muscle relaxation, and positive visualization.


You can also try a foot rub or other calming massage for your child to provide relaxation., In order for your child to want to sleep more at night, you need to make sure he or she doesn't sleep too much during the day. If your child is younger, he or she will likely need a small nap every day. However, if your child is older, napping for hours can cause interruptions to his or her sleep patterns.


If you older child must have a nap, restrict it to a power nap of 20 or 30 minutes., If your child is having a hard time complying with your bedtime rules, try setting up a reward system. Give your child a token for each activity he or she does without problem. Once your child amasses a certain number of tokens, give him or her time to do certain activities.


These activities can be time on the computer, time to play video games, a helping of a favorite food or dessert, or extra outside play time.