 Find or build a home that functions with solar, wind, or other renewable power. Use well water or a local stream for water. Install a composting toilet: it will save water, help the environment, and produce “humanure” for vegetable gardens.Campervans (sometimes called caravans or recreational vehicles) may be a good option if you cannot afford a full-size family home with these amenities. It is also easier to find a site near water with a mobile home.
“Earthships” are eco-friendly, inexpensive dwellings that use waste products like old car tires and beer bottles as construction materials. You can often find these materials for free or very cheaply, and you can often barter for labor help.Even if you don’t choose to move house or live entirely without money, things such as solar power panels and composting toilets are friendly to both budgets and the environment.
 World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms is an established, respected organization that coordinates volunteer opportunities all over the world. There is a small subscription fee for the service. Usually, you barter your labor for lodging and food. Some farms accept families.


If you choose to volunteer in a foreign country, you will have to pay for a work visa. In addition, you will need enough money to cover your travel expenses.
Volunteering on an organic farm can also be an excellent way to learn farming skills, which you can then use to grow your own food.
 Many cooperative communities exist with shared accommodation and shared goals and ideals. They may be called “intentional communities,” “communes,” “co-ops,” “ecovillages” or “cohousing.” You may be able to barter skills or food for your housing and support. You can find more information about these communities online.


You will probably want to contact a potential community and visit before you commit to living there. Communal living isn’t for everyone, and you’ll want to make sure your potential home and your personality and values are a good match.
 If you are happy to move from place to place, then building a reputation as a responsible, trustworthy house sitter is a wonderful way to travel and live in comfort. Join online organizations such as Trusted House Sittersor Mind My House , or make a name for yourself in your local community as the go-to person for when people leave on vacation.


You can also check out organizations such as Couchsurfing or The Hospitality Club if you are looking for temporary housing, your plans are very flexible, and you are interested in meeting new people.
 It may take some time and effort to develop the necessary skills, but there are many opportunities for existing away from conventional housing. Caves and other natural shelters can be good choices. ]


Understand that this type of lifestyle is strenuous and requires excellent health and fitness. It is unlikely to be a good option if you are not in good health, or if you have children or elderly persons in your family. Move to a warmer climate. Living outside is much easier without vast fluctuations in temperatures, heavy rainfall, or frigid temperatures.
 There are many religions with communities dedicated to renouncing material living, such as Buddhist Sanghas and Christian monasteries and nunneries. These communities usually provide basic life support essentials such as clothing, shelter, and food, in exchange for your service and commitment.If your values and faith make this experience a good match for you, you can research your options online or by contacting someone within the community you wish to join.
Religious communities usually only accept individuals. If you have a family, this is unlikely to be a good option for you.

