 Foursquare is a social media channel that allows people to "check in" when they have arrived at your location, which posts to the site, Facebook, Twitter and other sites. This location-based service is designed specifically to promote customer loyalty at a location, and people can become "Mayor" or earn a badge if they visit it frequently.


Post a Foursquare sign at each location. Also, experiment with Foursquare promotions, such as badges, for your business. If people earn a badge for visiting a location, reward them with free products or services. See if this increases loyalty. You may also want to sign up to receive the analytic information that Foursquare gathers about the customers that walk through your door.
 Most marketing firms have found that people don't respond well to constant "pitching" of new products. It is important to post educational articles, cross-promote partners, explore company culture, post industry articles, post pictures and videos, and ask your fans their opinions.
 This can be a printable in-store coupon or a promo code for your website, but both will allow you to give your loyal customers something, track how popular it is and post on your accounts. Announce your large contests on your website, social media account and by email at once to increase its likelihood of success.


You may want to stagger promotions on Foursquare, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, so that you can track what account is most useful to you. Each promotion should be slightly different so that people will want to follow more than 1 account. After 6 months to a year, you may be able to determine that only a few social media channels work well for your business, and you can cut back.
 Encourage people to "like" or "follow" you. If you have any upcoming promotions, then include a statement saying Internet-based coupons, promo codes or contests will be going on frequently.
 This works particularly well for musicians, film makers and event promoters. Allow your customers to access exclusive website content using a code that they can find on a social media channel.
 Social media provides you a chance to talk to your customers directly and publicly, and to show them that you care, an extremely important part of customer loyalty. Pay attention to the trending topics on the Internet and engage with your customers about what is important to them.
 Also, consider sending out simple survey questions asking what your customers want in the future. You may find this to be a cheap and effective way to do market research and show you care about your customer's opinions.
 Most businesses try to encourage people to refer their friends or family. Give out a code that users can pass on to friends, in order to enjoy exclusive content, enter a contest or get a discount, and then track your rate of referrals through an analytics program on your website.
 Although this may not be evident when you first start, see what customers respond well to and post according to what's successful. Develop a strong voice and personality that is consistent with your company's motto.

