 Keep your dog on the same feeding schedule for the first few days. He probably ate once or twice a day at the shelter. Maintaining the schedule will keep your dog from getting diarrhea due to a new regimen. If he was only eating once a day, you can begin to transition him to eating twice a day. Divide his meal into two and give him the majority of his food during his first meal. Gradually increase the amount of food he gets at the second meal until he is eating twice a day.Allow your dog 10 minutes to eat and then get rid of any leftovers. This will keep you from overfeeding him.
If possible, feed him the same food he was given at the shelter and slowly transition into the food of your choice.
If your dog was living in shelter, he may have had to fight to make sure he got something to eat. This can result in him being territorial about food. If you notice that your dog is barking or lunging when you get too close to his food, feed him in a crate or a bathroom. Eventually your dog will learn that he does not need to guard his food., Take your dog outside to use the bathroom first thing in the morning, one hour after a meal, as soon as you get home from work, and right before bedtime. Praise your dog when he uses the bathroom. If your dog has an accidents or pees in the wrong place, do not punish him. This will only teach him to fear you.If you will not be around to take your dog to the bathroom, keep him in his crate. Dogs will usually not use the bathroom in their home.
Try to take your dog to the bathroom at the same times each day. This will help him develop a routine and feel secure.
 Your dog will need to have at least one exercise session each day, but the amount and duration of exercise will depend on his individual needs. Pay attention to your dog’s preferences as well. Some dogs may be happy with a walk while other dogs may want more intense activities like running or playing fetch.If your dog is breathing heavily and no longer wants to participate in the activity you are doing, it is time to end the exercise session. For example, if you were playing with a stick and he no longer wants to bring the stick back, take a break.
 Your dog should visit a veterinarian within the first week that you bring him home. Your vet will do a general checkup, discuss preventive health care, and determine any special needs that your dog may have. Try to have the visit scheduled before you bring your dog home. Consider buying pet insurance to help with the costs of care.

