 After installing Themer, press the Home key on your Galaxy device to bring up the home screen app selection pop-up. Tap the Themer icon, a multicolored icon in the shape of a phone with a “t” in the lower left corner. This will bring you to your new default theme using Themer.
 You will notice the dramatic change between your old TouchWiz home screen and the Themer home screen. You can begin customizing the interface by opening the Themer menu with a tap and hold of an empty area in the home screen. You will notice a control panel that pops up at the bottom of the screen, with buttons like “Themes,” “Settings,” “Apps,” “Widgets,” and so on.


Alternatively, you can launch the settings panel by tapping on the menu button on your Galaxy device.
 Themes are free to download over Themer. You can choose new themes by downloading them through Themer. Tap the “Themes” button in the customization panel. This will open the Themer theme repository where creators upload their themes for you to enjoy. There are four tabs: HOME, CATEGORIES, FAVORITES, and HISTORY. For now, concern yourself only with the Home and Categories tabs since you are using Themer for the first time.


In the HOME tab, you will see the themes under Featured and Trending headers. Previews are shown to give you a peek of what the theme is like. You can also choose themes from the CATEGORIES tab by tapping it and choosing from categories, like games, cars, colorful, and so forth.
Tap a theme to see screenshots of what the theme looks like. Tap the “Apply” button at the lower right corner to download and use the theme.
After tapping apply, you will be asked if you would like to import the icons you used in your previous theme. You can tap the checkbox at the bottom of the pop-up to set whether to ask next time. Tap the “OK” button on the lower right corner of the pop-up to begin downloading the theme.
 Open the Themer settings panel by tapping and holding the home screen or tapping the menu button, and then tapping the gear icon for the Settings button. Here you will have access to the many customization options for Themer, like Email and SMS settings, where you can configure what SMS or email app Themer will use when you tap the mail or SMS icon in the home screen. Other such settings include enabling icon badges by tapping on the “Icon Badges” button below the “Email and SMS” button. These badges show up in front of icons when you have notifications involving those apps. For instance, when you have an unread email in Gmail, you will see a “1” badge in front of the Gmail icon in the home screen indicating 1 unread email.


Themer also features gesture mapping in the home screen. Tap the “Gestures” button under the Themer Settings to open the menu. Like Nova Launcher, gestures are listed in the menu, along with their respective icons. To map a gesture, tap it and you will be shown a menu. Under the Themer Actions tab are actions that involve controlling the Themer home screen, like opening the app drawer and minimizing the notification panel. Under the Applications tab, you will be able to map application shortcuts to a gesture, so Themer will launch that app whenever you perform the gesture.
Tap the “App Preferences” button under Themer Settings to change the default app that will launch when pressing an icon in your new Themer home screen. For instance, you can change the SMS app that will launch when you press the SMS icon in the home screen by tapping on “SMS” in the App Preferences menu. A list of installed apps will pop up, where you can then choose the SMS app that you wish Themer will map to the SMS icon in the home screen.
There are a host of configuration options available to you in the Settings menu on Themer, so tinker around to see what you can change in order to make your new themed UI cater to your every preference.
 In the Themer menu, tap the “Widgets” button at the rightmost of the first row in the menu. You will see a grid of the widgets that you can add, along with their previews. Tap and hold the widget of your choice, and drag it to a part of the home screen you want to add a widget to.


If you wish to add it to an adjacent home screen, drag the widget to the respective edge of the screen at which point the home screen preview will change to the next one.
Release the widget once you have it hovering right over the area where you want it placed.
 In the Themer menu, tap the “Wallpaper” button at the lower left corner. Tap the “Change Wallpaper” button at the middle-left of the panel to bring up the image-selection wizard. Tap the upper left menu button to select the directory in which the image of your choice is located. Tap an image you wish to use, and the image-editing menu will come up.


Drag the dots on the sides to resize the image, and drag from the inside of the rectangle to select the area that will be made into the wallpaper. Tap the rotation button at the bottom to rotate the image, and then tap “SAVE” at the lower right corner. Tap the “APPLY” button on the lower right corner of the wallpaper panel to use the wallpaper.
 Themer allows you to save a theme that you have modified, so you can take a theme and tweak it to your liking. Tap the “SAVE” button at the lower right corner of the Themer menu to save the theme settings. You can access the theme in the HISTORY tab in the Themes menu.

