 The single best way to treat any disease is to prevent it. Anyone over six months old should get the flu shot, which specifically targets the influenza virus. This is especially important for anyone at risk of complications from the flu and those who are in contact with those who are especially at risk. This includes those ages 65 or older, young children, women who are pregnant, those with depressed immune systems (such as those undergoing chemotherapy), or those with chronic health conditions like asthma or diabetes. If you are a parent or caretaker for a person with the risk factors just described, or a healthcare worker, it is important you get the flu shot too to protect these people.


Flu season is October to May, with its peak December to February.. Around this time, flu shots, which are vaccines, are available at most pharmacies. Most insurances cover this cost.
Get the vaccine few weeks before the season starts. The vaccine takes a good two weeks to fully kick in, by helping you develop antibodies to the flu so you can fight it off; however, getting it early will help you not contract it during the two weeks you are susceptible to the flu.
The vaccine is only effective for one flu season, so you must get it every year. It also only covers some strains of the flu.Also worth noting is that flu vaccine manufacturers in partnership with doctors basically have to guess which flu strains will be prominent that year and make the vaccine to include those strains. Some years they are wrong, and the vaccine is not effective because it didn't contain the strains that end up being prevalent that season.
 Other than the flu shot, you can get the flu vaccine as a nasal spray. This could be easier for some people, but should be avoided by others. You should not take the nasal spray vaccine if:


You are younger than two or older than 49
You have heart disease
You have lung disease or asthma
You have kidney disease or diabetes
You've had previous problems with your immune system
You are pregnant
You have active respiratory symptoms like running nose, cough, etc.
 There are some complications that can arise if you receive either vaccine. Before getting either vaccine, talk to your doctor if:


You are allergic to, or have previously had an allergic to, flu shots or eggs in the past. There is a different flu shot for those with an egg allergy.
If you have a moderate to severe illness with a fever. You should wait until you recover before getting the vaccine.
You have the rare nerve disorder, Guillain-Barré syndrome, in which your immune system attacks your peripheral nervous system.
If you have multiple sclerosis.
 Despite all the good that flu vaccines do, there are some side effects of the flu shot. These can include:


Soreness and swelling at the injection site
Headaches
Fever
Nausea
Mild flu like symptoms