 In many ways, how you use your time is the most significant factor that affects your productivity. Accordingly, get in the practice of viewing your time as a valuable commodity that you should only spend on worthwhile endeavors. To help get into a corresponding mindset, start asking yourself, “Is this productive?” throughout the day. This will help identify things you might be doing – including that chat around the water-cooler – that might be eating up valuable time.Quit going to meetings you don’t need to attend. If possible, designate a few days of your workweek to “meeting free” days where you can focus on high-priority tasks.
 Even in circumstances of uncertainly, do not allow an inability to make a decision prevent you from moving forward. When faced with an X or Y decision that you’re unsure of, go with whichever option you’re leaning towards and act on your decision in the way that you believe will help you accomplish what you’ve set out to do.Making a decision does not necessarily bind you to one course of action; it simply keeps you working towards your goal. You can always reassess a situation and act accordingly at any point.
Recognize that doing nothing is a decision in itself. Remind yourself of this fact to motivate yourself to come up with a better option.
 It’s admittedly easier to slack on accomplishing tasks that only affect you. However, your personal contentment is heavily affected by the degree to which you keep the commitments you make to yourself. Accordingly, strengthen your sense of self-confidence by maintaining discipline and avoid letting yourself off the hook.More directly, if you tell yourself you’re going to accomplish X by a certain day or time, make sure to do so.
Meeting your personal expectations will mean making personal sacrifices. Know that those sacrifices are well worth it, as they will translate into a more confidence and more productivity.
 Think about a specific problem you would like to address. Write it down, even if it’s very general. For instance, your problem may be: “I’m struggling to make things happen.” This issue is hard to address when framed so broadly, and you’re likely making assumptions that are preventing you from recognizing what’s diminishing your productivity. Ask yourself “Why am I struggling to make things happen?”On the next line, right down as specific an answer as you can come up with.
Look at what you’ve written. Can you act on your answer?
If no actionable steps come to mind, as yourself “why?” again, and until you identify a specific task that you can act on immediately.
 The power of a positive attitude cannot be overstated. Most importantly, the attitude you exude effects the mood and productivity of those around you. Accordingly, push any negative thoughts away as soon as they arise. For instance, replace thoughts laced in doubt or frustration by re-framing your thoughts about a scenario or relationship in a positive way.As an example: A co-worker continues to slack on something, which leads you to think something along the lines of "here we go again." Recognize the negativity in your thought, and think of a positive spin on the scenario. Have they been working a bit more diligently lately, despite this recent slip?
Articulate positive thoughts that arise. Tell your co-worker, "Hey, I noticed you've been putting in extra effort lately, and I appreciate it!" This will motivate them to stay on top of their responsibilities.
Further, choose to spend time around positive people. When someone is a consistent drag on moral of productivity, consider increasing your distance from them, at least professionally. Negativity can be toxic, not only to your mood, but to your ability to get things done.
 If there is an emotion-based reason, including fear, that is keeping you from making things happen in your life, address your emotional health directly. Consider seeing a mental health professional to talk about anything that’s bothering you, or any issues you may be having concentrating or communicating.

