  Evaluate the high school before you attend it. See if it best fits you. Know what advantages you'll get from the school. Advantages Could Include:


Challenging basketball Division. (schedule)
Attends basketball exposure tournaments.
Good learning environment.
Lack of talents-to make varsity easier and sooner.;
, The sooner the easier. Introduce yourself to the head coach prior to your freshman year. Let him know what your goals are and see what his goals are for the team. See what style the team plays at. Here are a few ways to make the team.


Hustle! Coaches love to see a guy that is willing to get down and dirty, fight to lose balls.
Be Athletic, people can't help but keep an eye out for the blazing fast kid or the kid that's throwing down dunks.
Be Well-Rounded, you don't even have to be average at every aspect of your game, EX: Don't look like you've never dribbled a ball or rebounded when doing drills
Do what you do best. Don't go out there doing new things or do that one move you practice every once in a while, if you're a shooter shoot 3's, slasher go to the basket, defensive types, stop your guy and try to get a steal/block.
  AAU is the best way to improve your game in the off season. Not only that, but you can also get college coaches attention in some tournaments. Do some research on the AAU team, see how many DI alums the team has

,  There are countless numbers of prospects that had to settle with no scholarship and play DIII basketball or use a year or two of there NCAA eligibility to catch up on there grades. Having a good GPA that's well above the the standards gives a college coach more confidence that you will be eligible in the college level.
 Email a college coach, make official visit (unofficial visit if you're an underclassmen in high school). In emails share goals you hit, highlight videos and other info that might interest the coach.
 Nowadays there are a bunch of recruiting websites you can join. There you can add highlight videos, stats, and personal blogs.
 Set to improve every year. make career goals say to score 1000 points or make the All-State/Area team.

