 Get your car checked out by an emissions technician in your area to catch anything that you might have missed or overlooked. Typically, in states that require vehicles be emission-tested, these are as common as oil-change stations and Jiffy-Lubes. Look one up in your area and schedule a test.


Just because your car is running fine and shows no signs of "problems" doesn't mean that it'll pass emissions. Many vehicles can continue operating well even though they've dipped under the local government regulations. This can happen when you don't keep up with scheduled maintenance.
 If your check engine light is on, you will fail the emissions test automatically. If you don't know what the problem is, an emissions repair shop can run a diagnostics test and fix the problem for you.


The car must be tested as-is, which means that even if the technician spots an issue that will obviously result in a failure of the test, the vehicle must be failed. If you know, for example, that you've got a leaky vacuum hose, or that your check engine light is on, you need to have those issues corrected at the shop or fix them yourself, before having the test performed.
 Drive your vehicle for at least 20 minutes before arriving at the emissions testing station. This will give your vehicle enough time to reach optimal temperatures for your coolant and oils as well as optimal temperature for your catalytic converter, ensuring that you'll get an accurate reading.


If you cannot drive your vehicle before the test then just run your engine in park or neutral at 1500 to 2000 RPM’s for at least five minutes to ensure your engine and exhaust are warmed up. In colder weather this may take a few minutes longer.
 Proper tire pressure will put less strain on your car engine, which will improve your chances of passing the test. Equally-distributing the weight of the vehicle as it is driven during the test by the inspector will result in a higher likelihood that you'll pass. It's a good idea to fill up the tires to the proper specs before you take it in.
 Because a dynamometer will be involved in the test, driving on slippery roads in which you might lose some traction can affect the efficiency of your engine, possibly enough to skew the test. To give yourself the best possibility of passing with flying colors, schedule the test for a sunny day with nice weather and good driving conditions.