 It’s hard to focus when you’re actually sleepy, so it is common to have trouble with simple tasks like walking in a straight line or picking up and holding objects. Acting slightly clumsy, especially if you usually are not, can send the signal that you need some rest.You don’t have to act like you’re trying to fail a roadside sobriety test, of course. Don’t stagger around, walk into walls, and fumble around with everything you try to pick up. Instead, brush up against a doorway when you walk through, or bump into a desk just enough to knock a few loose papers off. You don’t have to go so far as spilling your drink — dropping a napkin, pen, etc., will do.
 If you’ve ever tried to pull an “all-nighter” studying for an exam, or have had a newborn baby in your house, you’ve experienced being too tired to think straight. Because we can’t think clearly when sleep-deprived, people in that situation tend to have difficulty making simple decisions.Show difficulty in choosing your drink preference or dinner order, or claim you can’t decide which movie to go see (even though you’ve been talking about one of them for weeks).
Go back and forth in your selections. Indecisiveness is common when tired.
 When people are short on sleep, they tend to go through more rapid emotional swings that exhibit as erratic behavior. Here again, moderation in your acting is key, because you don’t want to cause others to worry that you’re having some sort of breakdown.Try over-reacting noticeably (but not excessively) to minor issues, like a broken shoestring or a tardy returned phone call. Then apologize and act noticeably pleasant and easygoing for a bit.
After a few rounds back and forth, explain that you’re feeling a bit “out of it” and blame your lack of sleep last night.
 Tired people also tend to have less impulse control, which can express itself in ways akin to erratic behavior, such as lashing out for no good reason. It can also be revealed through an increased difficulty in denying cravings for things like junk food.Think of getting to pretend you have the “munchies,” especially for fatty and sugary foods, as a reward for all your hard work in faking being sleepy.
It may be an impulsive action for you to jump on stage to do karaoke, when normally you would never do such a thing. But be careful. If the sleepy, impulsive you is more fun to be around, your friends won’t cut you any slack when you start complaining about how tired you are. They won’t want to lose the “fun” you for the “well-rested” you.

