 Rather than simply providing negative consequences for behavior (punishments), discipline is a way of turning misbehavior into teaching moments.When your child refuses to cooperate or repeats the same bad behavior, your end-goal should be to teach your child to cooperate and not repeat the bad behavior.


Consequences for bad behavior should not be arbitrary or punishing. Consequences should be connected to the behavior. This is why time-outs are often very ineffective with children who are stubborn; the time-out itself is unrelated to the negative behavior and feels more like a punishment than a consequence or disciplinary measure. If there is no way to make a consequence, you can take away a privilege, but try to teach a lesson that connects the choice the child made to their loss of privileges.For example, if your child plays video games longer than he is supposed to, the consequence can be that he loses his privilege of playing with friends that evening. This makes sense, since he won't have time to play with friends.
 If you say that a certain behavior will result in a particular consequence, you have to follow through. Do not make idle threats, as your child will learn that you are inconsistent at best and a liar at worst.If you tell your child that she has to pick up her room before she can go to a friend's house, don't give in if she hasn't done the requisite cleaning when it's time to leave. Consistency is key!
Because consistency is so important, it is vital that you never set a consequence that you can't keep. Often it is best to not do this in the moment, as you might be frustrated. For example, if you have to say, "If you do that one more time, I'm going to…" the odds are good that you are already frustrated and likely to overreact. Instead, try to set boundaries pre-emptively. If you know your child is likely to continually get out of his chair at dinnertime because he often behaves that way, before dinner you should tell him that you want him to stay in his chair, and let him know what the consequence will be if he doesn't (for instance, dinner will be over, or he won't get dessert).
 Structure and predictability are important to children and tweens, helping them know what to expect and avoid unpleasant disruptions to their day.Establish daily and weekly routines so that they know what to expect. Moreover, consistent daily routines improve children's behavior and school success.Set and stick to a strict bed- and wake-time each day. Be sure that your child is getting enough sleep, as a lack of sleep is linked to behavioral problems. From ages three to 12, most children need between 10 and 12 hours of sleep each day (including any nap-times), but many children resist early bedtimes and nap times even if they actually need the sleep. If your child seems grumpy or tends to have disruptive behaviors toward bedtime, this is a sign that he is not getting enough sleep.Give your child plenty of warning if you need to change the routine, but reassure them that you will get back to the routine as soon as possible., Many stubborn children and tweens are highly sensitive and tuned in to your demeanor and tone of voice when you discipline them. They are likely to mirror your responses to them, such as eye-rolling, sighing, yelling, or exasperation.It is normal for parents to become frustrated and even angry when dealing with a stubborn child. The key is to control these emotions and not allow them to influence the way you interact with your child.
Pay attention to the types of things that seem to set you off when dealing with your child. Perhaps you are easily angered because your child makes a mess, talks back to you, or is not compliant. The things that frustrate you most often point to areas where you feel a lack of control. Dealing with your own issues (from work, childhood, or other relationships like your marriage) can help you to react more positively to your child., Past generations of parents were advised to never give in to their children's demands, for fear that doing so would cause the kids to lose respect and forget who is in charge. But today's psychologists recognize that children need to feel that they have some control over their lives, and parents shouldn't try to dominate every decision.When a choice is not a question of your child's health or safety but rather a question of her opinion or preference, it is ok to let her have her way.


For example, you might prefer that your children wear prim and proper clothes when out in public, but your child might have a different sense of what is stylish and comfortable. As long as your child is clothed, choose your battles wisely when it comes to things like this that don't really matter but might give your child a sense of control that she is lacking.
 Sometime around the age of ten or eleven, children begin to experience hormonal shifts leading to puberty. These shifts often result in emotional outbursts, unexpected stubborn behavior, and sometimes, withdrawal.


Children at this age often test the limits of their independence. This is a normal and healthy part of growing up, even though it can be frustrating to parents who are used to being in control.It is important to let them feel that they have some control over decisions that affect them, so let your child help plan the menu for the week or pick out his next hair style.
Remember that your child is first and foremost an individual. Stubbornness is just one part of a complex personality, and that stubbornness might actually be a good trait. As you can teach your child to stand up for himself and his friends, to resist bad influences, and to always do what is right, stubbornness will be a key proponent of his development into a healthy human being.

