 Listen, think about what you are going to say next. Take awhile. Do talk, just speak thoughtfully. Again, think before you speak. Is that comment really necessary? Has that question already been answered? Will that statement actually lead to a proper conversation?


Train your mind to ask these questions before you open your mouth and you’ll be surprised at how much quieter you’ll become.;
, Moi dix mois is good, also Kanon Wakeshima. People that are dark romantics tend to listen to softer, deeper music. Look for things with meaningful lyrics and instruments. One very popular genre with Romantic Goths is classical music. You can also go for offbeat art rock, like Kate Bush. However, you don’t have to go by the rules. Anything deep and emotional or anything that is soft and dreamy is just as good.
 Wear a lot of lace and vintage. That's very romantic. Try making the colors darker. NO NEON! Do wear colors, this will give you a softer edge and also make you more approachable. For example, if you want to wear pink, wear a dark pink with matching lipstick and dark eyes.
 Dark red lipstick is always great paired with dark eyeliner and lots of mascara. This gives a classic look. If you want to go softer, wear soft pink lipstick and a smokey eye or lots of black eyeliner and mascara. Pale out your skin. Stay indoors a lot and if you do go out, wear SPF 30 and above. Hats are your best friend. Wear different ones. When your skin is pale and blemish free, use a fair CC cream and a shimmery translucent powder everywhere. Contour lightly.
 Chokers are awesome with this look. Try not to make it look goth though. Other necklaces, bracelets, dark earrings, and chunky rings with either dark stones or all silver.
 A lot. One thing dark romantic are famous for is their love of reading. They are great lovers of romance, romantic tragedies and classic favourites. If you’re willing, dive right in and experiment with reading classics. If you don’t think you can handle them, try reading romance, tragedy or even just dramas. Romantic literature is softer and dreamier than the other styles of Goth literature. If you’re looking for something a little heavier, try supernatural themes, or stories including characters such as Vampires and Werewolves. Some suggested titles and authors include:


Shakespeare - Although this will probably seem strange, Shakespeare is incredibly popular. Charlotte Brontë -Jane Eyre. Jane Eyre, while not being particularly dark, is romantic, tragic and dramatic and therefore fulfills all of the qualities of a good dark romantic novel. Edgar Allan Poe - A 19th century poet, short story writer and literary critic, best known for his macabre tales, contributing greatly to the science fiction and horror genres. Emily Brontë -Wuthering Heights. Wuthering Heights is sorrowful, tragic and romantic as well. Read poetry. This will make you seem insightful and mysterious.
 Although this step seems obvious, it takes a lot of work. If you’re obnoxious, loud and clumsy, you are going to find it hard to pass off as a dark romantic. Try to appreciate the beauty in life and everything around you. Think outside the box and spread your love to the people who surround you. It isn’t hard to find the romance in everyday life. It’s already there - you just have to open your eyes

, One of the major talents that dark romantic possess is that they are able to find the magic and the beauty in gothic styles and darkness. But there are many hidden beauties in this particular lifestyle. Listen to the lyrics and feel the words in dark songs and writings - feel the emotion. Open your mind.

