 Your goal is to make everyone hate you.;
,, Sometimes, a seemingly regular member of the audience may actually be a member of the production itself. Have a cleverly placed "fan" in the audience whose sign you can steal rip up is a great way to get the rest of the crowd to hate you.
 Talk about your disdain for your opponent. Talk about how great you are, or how you are going to win the title. Talk down to the interviewer, as if he is less than you.
 There are a few different versions of this move: the kick version (kick your opponent from a standing position in the groin) and the uppercut version go down to your knees and then uppercut through their legs into the groin).
The Headbutt: While this move isn't really a heel move per se, it is perfect for a large heel wrestler because of it's sheer brute viciousness. Two human skulls cracking together with raw energy, and the heel brushes it off like it barely hurt.
The Illegal Pin: Hooking an opponents tights/pants or using the ropes for leverage are two great details to add to make a regular pin seem wrong and illegal.
Closed-Fist Punch: All punches in wrestling should be performed with an open-fist to avoid injury. It has also become customary that fans understand that open-fisted punches are used to make punches less fatal. However, this has also given heels a new move to use.
Eye Poke. Exactly what it sounds like.
Eye Rake. Slightly different from an eye poke, in this move you will pace your thumb over their forehead, then sweep it downward across their eye.
The Steel Corner. Removing the turnbuckle padding makes any move you do evil and more painful.
The Removal. For this move, you will want to remove an article of clothing (either your own or your opponent) to make the move seems worse than it is.
Foreign Object. The most classic of all moves, bringing in a weapon is the most evil of all things you can do. The two classic weapons are a chair, and a table, however any object can be used.
Poison Mist. Made famous by foreign Puroresu wrestlers, spitting a spray of mist into the opponents eyes to blind them will seems completely evil and dirty.
Interference. By interfering to help a fellow heel wrestler, or to beat down a face, either way it will look good.
Double Team: Isolate a member of the opponent's team and keep them in your corner. Attack them when the referee is not looking. The attack will end just in time for the referee to turn around.
Talk face wrestlers down in a promo, or make it seem as if they are the ones the fans should be boo-ing.
If you are a wrestler and are seen by fans in an area other than the ring, keep your character and don't break character, otherwise, you will mess up your heel gimmick.
The key to being a great heel, is to make your character convincing, that you don't care about the fans, you only care about being the butt-kicker in that industry.
If you have family in the crowd, treat them like you hate them. They will understand it's only an act.

