 A studio for creating tutorials will be very similar to a photography studio. Your studio can be a corner of a room or, if you have the extra space, you can dedicate an entire room to be your studio. Generally speaking, the smaller the space, the better. It will improve the sound quality if you are not using a microphone.Set up a backdrop if there is a lot of furniture or clutter in the background of your shot. This will make your tutorial look more professional. You can use a glittery or sparkly background for the holiday season and pastel colors for summer. Feel free to be creative with choosing your backdrop!
Make sure you have suitable lighting. A dark video is not useful to anyone, especially for something as detailed as applying makeup. Ring lights are a popular lighting tool for makeup artists and vloggers.;
, The best camera for creating makeup tutorials will be a high quality camera, such as a DSLR, which stands for digital single-lens reflex. Point-and-shoot cameras and camcorders lack image quality and features such as white balance, both of which are crucial for filming something as detailed as makeup.Purchase a tripod if you do not already have one. There are short tripods that will sit on a desk and there are tall ones that will stand several feet off the ground. Be sure to purchase a higher-quality tripod, since cheaper ones are flimsier and may not support the weight of your camera.
There are DSLR cameras that have a Vari-Angle LCD screen, which is a screen that folds out and can face you, so that you can make sure you are always in the viewer.
You can use a phone camera, such as the iPhone camera. It may not be as high-quality as a DSLR camera, but it will do the job and will allow you to make tutorials.
 It may be helpful to create an outline of your video beforehand so that you remember to do all of the things you intend to do in your tutorial. It can be easy to miss a step in the hustle and bustle of filming and it would be a pain to go back and record what you missed. Save yourself some time in the long run by creating an outline.


Create a transcript. If you plan to do voiceovers for your tutorial, it can be helpful to write your transcript beforehand. This can also help you stay on track during filming so that you are remembering to demonstrate every part you intend to talk about.
 Other than the camera and the video footage itself, the video editing software is the most important part of creating tutorials. There are usually awkward moments during filming that you may want to edit out, and you may also wish to add effects and interesting transitions. There are plenty of programs that are available for free and at a cost.


WeVideo is a free, relatively easy-to-use cloud-based editing software that allows you to store your video in the cloud rather than on your computer.VSDC is a free video editing software available for Windows. You can use this program to create videos that look professional., Before recording, prepare your makeup and clean your makeup brushes. It won’t do you any good to use dirty brushes, since it could cause an infection and could taint the colors that you are trying to demonstrate. Set out the makeup you intend to use on a table or desk near your filming setup.


Pick up a daily brush cleaner from a drug store or a makeup store. Sephora offers a great brush cleaner that dries quickly and moisturizes the bristles.