 They may be worried that you will get the dog, get bored, and force them to take care of the little creature instead. Tell them that you've already selected the best walking times for the dog and are determined to walk the dog every day; if you have a sibling, show that you've split up the walking duties. To prove your point, you can even go for walks on your own during the appointed doggie-walking times., Your parents may be worried that the dog will chew up all of their furniture and cords, bring dirt into the house, and shed all over the place. It's your job to show them that none of this will happen. When you talk with your parents about their concerns, make sure to:


Tell them that you'll get the dog plenty of chew toys to make sure the dog doesn't chew the furniture. As for any loose cords or wires, tell them that you'll tape or cover them up, which will make your house look more orderly anyway.
Explain how you'll prevent the dog from tracking dirt into the house. You can explain that you'll clean the dog's paws in the garage or the back porch before the dog sets foot into the house again.
Discuss how you will prevent the dog from shedding too much. Dogs shed, but you can explain to your parents that you'll make a cleaning schedule to clean up the fur.
Let them know that you plan to give the dog a weekly bath, or bathe it however often is necessary for the breed.
 Your new dog will need to eat at least once, but usually twice, per day. Do some research to determine whether or not you’ll go with wet, dry, or combination dog food. Find a food that is nutritious, but also fits your budget. Then, craft a chart showing when the dog will eat and how much. You can also estimate food cost over time., If you plan to adopt an older dog, they may already be house-trained. However, you will likely need to work with a puppy or younger dog on their bathroom skills. Be prepared to talk with your parents about how you will not only pick up the poop, but will also clean up and place pee pads in the home., Show them that you'll be able to give the dog medical care. Do your research in advance and find the best vet in your area. Ask your friends with dogs which vets they recommend, or do research on your own. Try to find a vet that is close to home so you can walk to his office if you don't drive, and show your parents that you've already done your research and can take care of it., Show them that you have a game plan for watching the dog if your family goes on vacation. Your mom might ask, "What will we do when we go away to the beach for a week?" Don't get caught off guard and do your research in advance. Find a doggie daycare nearby that can take your dog in, or find a close friend or neighbor who is willing to take care of the dog., Show them that you won't get bored with the dog. Your parents may worry that once you get the dog, you'll stop taking care of it after a few weeks. To ease their concerns on this front, tell them that you're willing to wait a few months and to keep discussing the dog to show that this isn't just a passing phase; you're really committed to getting a dog and are willing to wait to show them how dedicated you really are.

