 If you have a spouse or partner, talk about how you might divvy up the responsibilities in the morning. Maybe your spouse can make breakfast while you get the kids dressed. This can not only help the morning go more smoothly, because you're not trying to tackle everything on your own, it may also give both of you a little "me" time to prepare yourself for the day ahead.


Even if your spouse goes to work very early, they may be able to help you by making the kid's lunches, setting out the cereal and bowls for their breakfast, cleaning up the house a little, and so on.;
, A sure-fire way to sabotage your morning is to have the kids coming at you full-force when you first wake up. One way to combat that is to get up before they do. Doing so allows you to have some time to yourself to take care of your needs, before you have to start addressing the needs of your little ones.


Use this time to meditate, read a book, take a shower, watch TV, or just sit with your cup of coffee. Even if you only have 30 minutes to yourself, you’ll likely notice that it makes a huge difference in your mood and stress levels, and how the morning goes., Although this is easier said than done, staying calm during the rush out of the door can make your morning dramatically better. Children play off of the energy of their parents, and if they find you upset and stressed, your negative energy may rub off on them. When you stay level-headed and stress-free, the kids will tend to mirror your mood.


If you find yourself getting upset, take time to breathe. Go into the bathroom or somewhere else you can be alone, close your eyes, and take a few deep breaths. Or simply count to 10. Taking a moment to let yourself wind down can make the morning go a whole lot smoother., One of the most difficult parts of the morning is having time to do everything. You can give yourself a great head-start by getting some of your chores done the night before. Not feeling the rush and pressure of having to do everything right after you wake up can dramatically improve your morning routine.


For instance, pick out what you are going to wear to work the night before. Do the same for your kids, including their shoes and socks. Pack yours and their lunches and have bookbags and work bags ready and waiting by the door. Getting this done the night before relieves some of the mental and physical stress your morning may normally include., Preparing breakfast and having your kids eat it in a timely manner is often difficult. However, when you make this meal as simple as possible, you can shave off minutes — and lots of stress — from your morning plate. Do this by preparing as much as you can the night before, and making the meal easy to create.


For instance, pull out a bowl, spoon, and box of cereal on the counter so that it is ready when you need it. You can do the same with toast or bagels, as well. Having it out there and waiting allows you to prepare it quickly.
If your drink coffee in the morning, buy a coffee maker with a timer. You can put the grounds in the night before and wake up to freshly brewed coffee without having to lift a finger.
Additionally, consider portable breakfasts like sandwiches or waffles if your kids struggle to eat before you leave. Doing this allows them to eat while on their way to school. However, you may want to use this option only on rushed mornings since on-the-go breakfast options tend to be less healthy. Also, sitting down for meals instills better habits.