 One way you can use your outline to help you start your novel is to read over your outline and look for any gaps or missing plot points. Is there a plot point in your outline that feels lacking and needs to expanded further? Do you feel a certain character moment needs to be fleshed out more on the page? You may choose one of these gaps in your outline as a way into your novel.For example, perhaps you notice you have a gap between two crucial events in your outline. You may then write what happens between these two crucial events in the form of a scene with a setting and characters. Once you’re done, you can weave together what you have written with other scenes focusing on the two crucial events to create the beginnings of your novel.
 Maybe there is one chapter or section in your novel that you are excited about. Focus in on this chapter and explore it more fully by writing out a scene with dialogue and action. Start fleshing out the chapter so it moves from a note in your outline to a full fledged chapter in your novel.For example, you may have a chapter early in your outline that explores the climax of your novel. It may noted briefly in your outline as, “Chapter with climax between two main characters.” You may then flesh out what the climax is and how the two main characters interact leading up to the climax in the chapter.
 Read through the outline and identify any chapters or sections that feel full of tension and conflict. You may then pick that chapter as a way into starting your novel. Think about why there is so much tension and conflict in the chapter. If there is not enough tension or conflict, add in more details to up the stakes in the chapter.For example, you may notice that a chapter about a fight between two characters in your outline. You may then pick this moment of tension and explore it further on the page. Use dialogue and character actions to up the conflict so it feels engaging and meaningful to your reader.
 Another way you can use your outline to further your plot is to follow the “show, don’t tell” rule. Choose a chapter or section in your outline and think about how you can describe it on the page by showing the reader what is happening. Avoid telling or explaining too much of the action. Instead, put your characters in the setting and have them interact. Use action and dialogue to show the reader what is happening in the scene in an engaging way.For example, you may have a pivotal scene between your main character and her father in your outline. You may then use sensory details and unique description to explore this scene in more detail. Focus on showing the reader how the interaction occurs using your main character’s perspective or narrative voice.

