 Even keeping a list of every little bisexual moment you have had can go a long way as you will be asked how you know. Have a bank of leaflets or websites just in case they want to do some research to find out what your sexual orientation means for them and you. Try and answer their worries first and then give them the leaflets this way they will know that you understand all the implications of your bisexuality and choice to come out. If you need moral support arrange to tell them when you can go see a friend afterwards or have a friend with you if you need that. Do not tell them before you are ready, that can only end badly., Your parents will not believe you if you stutter over the word sex.
Practice with a friend in all different scenarios, find one that you are comfortable with.
Also practice in front of a mirror, watch your body language. You should express confidence and knowledge with everything you say and do.
Record yourself, do you stutter or lower your voice?
You can also watch YouTube clips of other people coming out and see what they said how they acted and what the reaction was.
 Think about the questions they might ask, plan your answers and the put your answers into your speech, this will let them know that you have thought this through and aren't rushing.

Use simple, but knowledgeable language. Do not use slang terms at any time or use any phrase that they will not understand, if need be you can explain something and then say "This is called...". Use mature language, if you dance around uncomfortable words your parents will not believe that you are mature enough to know you are bisexual.

Write a letter to them, use a computer if you can, this means you can change things quickly, but a printed letter can seem less personal. If need be you can give them this letter, but try to just remember it when you are coming out, or use it as a prompt or even give it to them at the end of your conversation (this is an easy way to give them links to websites they may want to look at).
 That means you shouldn't be in a cartoon t-shirt or dinosaur slippers. However, don't go overboard trying to look mature, thick make-up and tight tops will only make them worry about what situations you could get into., Make sure they and you are comfortable. If you are only telling one parent at a time, make sure the other parent is out of the equation. Remember this is about you, keep calm and don't apologise. Be polite, be respectful. Don't rush what you need to say and do not let them ask questions before you are done., They don't want to think about you with anyone so their reaction may be only to the idea of you with anyone not of you with someone of the same gender. They will ask questions, some of which you will have already answered but answer them again. If they want to know more tell them about the websites you have picked out., Don't get them to tell your other parent, they won't respect that and you need their respect, however, if they offer it is OK to let them so long as you are there to answer any questions.