 Chickens are separated by two size groups which are bantams and standard breeds. Bantams are miniature breeds of chickens such as Pekins and Silkies whilst standards are the original (AKA standard) sizing of chickens.
 The body proportion is determined by the purpose the chicken was bred for such as meat and layers breeds. Meat breeds are heavier and have a larger bone structure to support their body weight whilst laying breed tend to have smaller bodies in order to put all their nutrients and resources towards their egg production.Dual purpose breeds such as Australorps and Orpingtons have an in between body proportion of a meat and egg layer breed. They tend to have a large mass but still lay an adequate amount of eggs.
 Primarily the combs are the parts you want to be looking at as different breeds have different shaped combs. There are eight distinctive combs which are single, pea, cushion, strawberry, walnut, buttercup, V-shaped and rose.Most common breeds have single combs whilst breeds such as silkies can be seen with walnut, Chickens can have close-fitted or loose-fitted feathers. It's all up to the breed and their purpose. Decorative breed such as silkies have more exotic feathering which are more fluff/hair like than feathers., The colour of your chicken can really help you determine what breed you have. You could have a blue chicken or red, orange, black or white. Or perhaps a mixture., A book can become really helpful in this specific situation. You want books that provide pictures and descriptions of each breeds., Type in the comb, colouration, feathering and body shape and enter into your search bar. You should get some results showing up on your computer (or whatever device you're using)., Chickens are popular pets and you're not the only one who's been in this situation. Go onto a chicken forum online and create a thread on there. Include pictures and a description of your chicken., A chicken breeder should have some knowledge on your specific breed. Aim for a person who specialises in breeding various chickens from bantams to standards.