 Shopping online is a great way to holiday shop, but if the site you’re using is disorganized and poorly designed, you should look elsewhere. An easy-to-access shopping site ideal for the last-minute holiday shopper should be accessible on mobile devices and desktop computers alike.Additionally, the site you’re shopping on should quickly provide relevant information about the product you’re looking for. For instance, if you’re shopping for computer monitors at the last minute, you should be able to enter a search in the site’s search bar and quickly get information about the monitors available. You should be able to customize and organize the results by brand, size, and price.;
, When last-minute holiday shopping, you’ll get better deals the closer you get to the holiday. However, if you get a great deal too close to the holiday, you might have to pay extra for rush delivery, which could negate any savings you might have had.Buy online on Green Monday. Green Monday is December 12, and many online retailers offer deep discounts on this day.
December 16 is free shipping day for hundreds of stores. Look for free shipping deals on this day from one or more of the stores with an online presence at http://www.freeshippingday.com/.
 Shipping has two important components that the last-minute holiday shopper should be concerned with. First, you must check the shipping costs.Second, you must ensure that you’re ordering something that will actually arrive by the holiday you’re celebrating.Shipping a small toy or game might not have much – if any – added shipping cost. But a larger item – a piano, guitar, or computer – will probably have a significant added shipping cost.
If you order something on Christmas Eve, it likely will not arrive on Christmas. Check the expected shipping and delivery date during your last-minute online holiday shopping.
Alternately, if delivery will take too long, you might be able to accelerate the process of getting the gifts you want in your hands by selecting in-store pickup when you order online. Just choose the “pickup in-store” option when checking out.