 You’ll need to find out the local bullfrog season for your region. Although a few places, like Texas and Florida, allow bullfrog hunting all year, most places have a few summer months designated for bullfrog hunting. Your local tackle store should be able to give you the dates for bullfrog season but, if they can’t tell you, you can always contact your local department of parks and wildlife.For instance, the bullfrog season in Kansas goes from July 1st to October 1st., Since the type of license you require to catch bullfrogs often depends on how you will catch them, you’ll need to make this decision before getting your license. Once you have an idea of what kind of fishing or hunting instrument you want to use, such as a frog gig or a rifle, you should contact your department of fish and wildlife to find out if it is legal and what type of license is required.A traditional and challenging way of catching bullfrogs is by hand, which is a lot of fun!
Many people prefer to use a six or eight-foot pole with barbed tines, which is called a frog gig. People also use fishing lines, dip nets, bows, and rifles.
If you are using a rifle, you may need a hunting license.
If you are using a fish net, you may need a fishing license.
 Call your department of parks and wildlife to find out what license you need. If you are using fishing methods to catch bullfrogs, you’ll need a fishing license. However, if you are shooting bullfrogs, you’ll obviously need a hunting license. Pay for the license that is required for your region and the instrument you want to use., Your region will have a limit on the number of bullfrogs you can catch during bullfrog season, which is typically set by the department of parks and wildlife. Give them a ring or look on the website to find out the limit for your region. It is important to stay within this limit, which will help to ensure the integrity of local ecosystems and allow you to come back and catch more frogs next season!For instance, Kansas has a limit of 24 bullfrogs.

