 Aim the heel of your palm at the aggressor’s nose and push upward. Move your entire body into the movement. The attack should knock them off balance temporarily.When punching, aim the knuckle of your middle finger at your aggressor’s nose (or whatever you’re targeting).Additionally, keep the top of your hand aligned with your wrist when throwing a punch. This will prevent injury to your hand and wrist.
 Your opponent will be unable to fight you when they cannot see. Try to poke or scratch the aggressor’s eyes with your fingers or fist. If you have any sand, dirt, or other debris around, you could grab a handful and throw it in your opponent’s face., If your opponent has grabbed your arm or neck, curl your hand slightly, then smack one of their ears with the flat part of your palm. Your aggressor’s head will jerk to the side. Use your other hand to strike them immediately in their eyes or nose., Use the blade of your hand – the area between your pinkie finger and wrist – to strike your attacker’s neck, stunning them. Hold your hand as straight and firm as possible. Pull your hand back as if you’re scratching your ear, then rotate it forward, extending at the elbow, and finally snapping your wrist into their neck.Alternately, push your whole outer forearm into your aggressor’s throat. This will knock them back and cause them to lose their balance.
 Pepper spray is a handheld canister filled with a noxious gas that irritates the eyes and lungs. If you have pepper spray on hand, you can spray it at the aggressor, then escape the fight before they recover., The exact technique needed to block an incoming punch varies slightly depending on the sort of punch your aggressor has decided to use.Generally, however, blocks fall into three different categories.To perform a "guard" block, cover your face and neck by bringing your forearms up in front of your face while tucking your chin. This block is good for blocking against wide punches.
To perform a "catch," swat your the aggressor's hand away from your body or face just before they make contact. Your reflexes will need to be fast in order to perform a catch.
Finally, you could perform an interception. This involves raising your arm in an "L" shape on the side of your body the attacker is targeting. For instance, if your attacker strikes with their right fist, raise your left arm in an "L" to deflect the blow.

