 Because co-occurring bipolar disorder and social anxiety often worsen the course of bipolar symptoms, it’s important that you have your condition evaluated by a mental health professional. Your doctor will want to identify which disorder came first, bipolar or anxiety? It is also significant to clarify the precise type of bipolar disorder affecting you as that can determine the treatment approach. There are three types:Bipolar I disorder involves the classic and severe symptoms of the disorder: one manic or mixed episode, and, usually one major depressive episode.
Bipolar II involves similar features as Bipolar I, yet mania is a milder form known as hypomania. This type of bipolar has been found to be consistently related to social anxiety. Cyclothymia involves cycling mood swings of episodes of hypomania and mild depression, neither of which can be classified as full-blown mania or major depression.;
, Bipolar disorder and social anxiety are particularly challenging to treat using pharmacological approaches because the traditional treatment options for each singular condition poses problems when they are treated concurrently.


Lithium is commonly prescribed for bipolar disorder. However, you cannot take this medication if you are pregnant, due to the risk of birth defects.
For instance, antidepressants are a typical course of treatment for anxiety disorder, but these medications are known to induce mania in bipolar patients.Benzodiazepines are effective at treating anxiety and bipolar disorder, but they are associated with physiological dependency. If you are concerned about addiction, then long acting benzodiazepines, such as Klonopin, might be a good alternative.
One type of medications called antipsychotics have shown effectiveness in the treatment of social phobia in bipolar patients. Talk to your doctor to see if this type of medication is appropriate for your case., Relaxation training and cognitive behavioral therapy, which are commonly prescribed in the treatment of anxiety disorders, may be useful for people with bipolar disorder, too.Psychotherapy may involve working with a therapist to develop coping mechanisms, learning emotional regulation, repairing problematic relationships, and overcoming negative thought patterns.Ask your doctor for a referral to a mental health therapist who has experience treating both social anxiety and bipolar disorder. Consult with a few therapists to determine which one you feel most comfortable with and to decide if their therapeutic style aligns with your needs.
 There are a range of complementary treatments that some people may use in the management of bipolar and social anxiety symptoms. It’s important to discuss any new therapies with your doctor and mental health provider to be sure that they will not interact with your current treatment plan.


Alternative treatments for bipolar and social anxiety may include natural and herbal supplements, mood charting, mindfulness, deep breathing techniques, and acupuncture., Although triggers for social anxiety symptoms can be more obvious—crowds, large groups, strangers and foreign environments, your bipolar triggers may not be as clear. As you come to terms with living with bipolar disorder, it’s vital to figure out stimuli that worsen your condition in order to plan your life around them.


Pay attention to your lifestyle and focus on things were like before a manic or depressive episode. Common triggers may include stress, lack of sleep, poor diet, antidepressant medications, or an upcoming test or presentation.
Once you pinpoint your specific triggers, you can use healthy coping to help you minimize symptoms or prevent an episode. , Lifestyle factors for comorbid bipolar and anxiety are as important as professional treatment options. While these factors may not “cure” your symptoms, they can help you manage them and support physical and mental well-being.


Dietary choices should include brain-healthy foods with omega-3 fatty acids like salmon and high in B vitamins like vegetables and beans. Also include lean protein, fruits, whole grains and nuts and seeds.
Avoid caffeine which can worsen anxiety. Also, exclude junk foods, fast foods, or processed foods as much as possible as these foods exacerbate depression.Further, avoid alcohol, cigarettes, and illicit drugs; illicit drug use can lead to an exacerbation of symptoms.
 Recommended as a part of a healthy lifestyle for all people, physical activity can be just as advantageous when dealing with the comorbid symptoms of bipolar disorder and social anxiety. Exercise produces beneficial chemicals in the brain known as endorphins that stabilize the mood and even help you sleep at night, which can be especially difficult for people with bipolar disorder.


Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. Try running on a treadmill, biking, dancing, or hiking through nature with some close pals., Insomnia due to anxiety can contribute to a manic episode in bipolar disorder.Practicing good sleep hygiene can have a positive impact on both anxiety and bipolar disorder. Make sleep one of your top priorities.


Create a relaxing bedtime ritual that includes activities like taking a warm bath, reading a book, listening to calming music, or practicing self-massage. Rise and lie down each night around the same time so that your body adjusts to your sleep schedule. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which interfere with sleep quality. Also, avoid naps too late in the afternoon and evening workouts., Research shows that more than half of those with bipolar disorder also have problems with anxiety, which suggests anxiety could be a risk factor.Learn how to control the muscle tension, rapid heart rate, and restlessness that accompanies anxiety with relaxation exercises can be beneficial in the treatment of bipolar disorder, too.


One of the most useful and effective relaxation techniques is deep breathing. This involves taking slow, deep breaths in through your nose for several seconds. Holding the breath briefly. Then, releasing the air through your mouth slowly. For the best outcome, repeat deep breathing several times for a few minutes.Other helpful relaxation techniques to quell anxiety and keep bipolar symptoms in check include mindfulness meditation, deep breathing techniques, progressive muscle relaxation, and visualization.You might also try physical activities like yoga, Tai Chi, and massage to ease tension.
 Many people with mental illness turn to alcohol and illicit drugs to numb the undesirable emotions they feel. Unfortunately, these substances only worsen your symptoms of mood disorders, contribute to more anxiety, and can even lead to dependency.If you are having trouble finding healthy ways to cope with your symptoms, try some relaxation techniques, exercise, call a friend, or try problem-solving your thoughts in a journal.
 Having a strong support network is central to feeling a sense of belonging in life, giving your life meaning, and helping you cope with your conditions. Sadly, relationships can be difficult to navigate for people with bipolar disorder and social anxiety. Your social phobia can complicate the process of making new friendships, so focus first on improving your existing relationships, which may be in jeopardy due to the ups and downs of your bipolar.


Make an effort to involve your friends and family in your treatment so they don’t feel in the dark. If they know what you’re experiencing, they will likely have greater empathy for your varying emotional states. Give your loved ones info about bipolar disorder and social anxiety. Take them to doctor’s appointments and encourage them to ask questions. Connect them with support groups of families with your conditions.Connect with a Certified Peer Support Specialist (CPS). This is a person that suffers from a mental disorder themselves that can provide peer support and advocacy. You will need a referral from a Professional in the Healing Arts.
 Since you learned of your comorbid diagnosis, you may have been feeling particularly bleak about leading a normal life. Although your self-esteem may be exaggerated when you’re in a manic state, depression and social anxiety can take a toll on your perception of yourself. You may feel negative about having healthy relationships or being “ill.”One way to boost your self-esteem is to challenge your negative thought patterns. If you find yourself thinking, “No one wants to be around me because of bipolar and anxiety,” such thoughts can make you feel pretty low. If you challenge the validity of these thoughts, your mood and self-confidence may improve.
Are there any instances when people seem to purposely seek out your companionship? Do you have some meaningful relationships despite your condition? If so, you can easily see how the earlier blanket statement is not only negative, but also unrealistic. Revise the statement to something like “My bipolar and anxiety can make it difficult for me to have healthy relationships. If I work hard to manage my symptoms, I am more likely to enjoy lasting relationships.” , If you have trouble connecting with others, you may feel differently upon attending a support group for bipolar disorder, social anxiety, or both. In these groups, individuals like you share their experiences with these conditions and offer encouragement and support to one another.Taking part in a group locally or online can be a stepping stone to you feeling more socially confident and forming meaningful relationships.
There are hotlines and crisis lines that are available for support and consultation in any situation. This may be a good means for support if you are lonely.
 Social stigma about mental illness has been shown to exacerbate anxiety and, ultimately, bipolar disorder as well. This stigma may contribute to your low self-esteem and may hold you back from making lasting connections with others.


You can become a spokesperson for what it’s like to live with bipolar disorder or social anxiety by spreading awareness about these disorders. Use a social platform like a blog to connect with people online. Tell your story in a support group for families. Or, speak during mental health awareness month at your local school or library. Do your part to reduce the stigma by educating the people around you.

