 You can do this with a pair of scissors or a craft blade. Discard the bottom portion and keep the top. Take this time to clean out the top part of the bottle and remove any labels or sticker residue.


You can use a smaller soda bottle or water bottle instead, but you'll need something smaller for the base later on.
You can make an Elijah's cup using plastic wine glasses instead. Simply skip on over to the decorating part.;
, The top part of the bottle will make the base of your Elijah's cup. Use a pair of scissors to trim down the cut part of the bottle until it is nice, smooth, and even. If you want to, you can trim it down a little further to make a shorter cup., Place a drop of hot glue on top of a soda bottle cap. Quickly place another bottle cap on top of it, upside down, so that the top parts are connected. Draw a line of hot glue around the rim of one of the bottle caps, then place a third bottle cap on top. Make sure that the top part is facing out and that all three bottle caps are aligned.Leave the bottle cap that's already on the bottle in place. Don't include it in the stem.
 Flip the disk over so that the blank side is facing you. Draw a line of hot glue around the bottom rim of your bottle cap stem. Quickly press the stem down onto the middle of the disk. Make sure that the top part of the last bottle cap is facing out.If you can't find a CD or DVD to use, you can use a round, plastic lid from a yogurt container.
If you are using a smaller bottle, a CD or DVD will be too big. Use a small, plastic lid, or cut a disk out of thin cardboard. It should be the same diameter as the bottle.
 Place a large drop of hot glue on the top of your cut bottle, right in the middle of the cap. Flip the bottle over, and press it down onto the stem. Once again, make sure that all of the bottle caps are aligned and even., You don't have to do this, but it will help make everything look like it is made from the same material. Silver and gold are great choices, but you can use a different color as well. Don't paint the inside of the cup, especially if you plan on filling it.


If you are using a plastic wine glass, you can leave it clear.
If you don't want to paint the cup but still want it colored, paint it with decoupage glue, then cover it with small pieces of tissue paper. Give it another coat of glue to seal it all in., You can use all one shape and color, or you can play around with different shapes and colors for a unique pattern. If you don't have any rhinestones, you can use beads, buttons, sequins, or glass tiles instead. You can also try using self-adhesive rhinestones or rhinestone stickers. This is a great option for younger children.


Avoid making the decorations too heavy, or your cup may tip over.
 If you have extra rhinestones left over, you can arrange them on the side/bowl part of your cup in a pretty design. For example, you could hot glue a large rhinestone to the side of the cup, then glue smaller ones around it.To give your cup a nicer touch, outline the rhinestones with glitter glue.
 This is the part that gets handled the most, so you'll want to go easy on the decorations here. Instead, wrap something flat and smooth around the handle. Great choices include colored/patterned washi tape or ribbon. You can also paint the handle with glue, then wind colored string or yarn around it to cover it up.


If your handle still looks too plain, you can hot glue some more rhinestones around the middle. Don't get too carried away, however.
 Try to use the same pattern that you did on the cup part. You can also make the decorations here a little heavier if you'd like to. This will help give the cup more support. As a final touch, you could outline the edge of the base with glitter glue.

