 Your body can more easily absorb and utilize natural forms of vitamin E. The synthetic version of vitamin E is called tocopherol acetate. This form may react with some beauty products, so it is best to choose a natural form of vitamin E oil, which you can find in a health food store, the vitamin aisle of a well-stocked grocery store, or online. Some food grade oils contain vitamin E as well, such as wheat germ oil, sunflower oil, and almond oil., Some people are sensitive to vitamin E oil, so it is a good idea to test a little on your skin before using it on your hair. You can also develop a sensitivity to vitamin E oil over time, so pay attention to how the skin on your scalp looks and feels after a few days of using vitamin E oil.


To test the oil, apply 1-2 drops to the inside of your wrist and then massage it in. Wait 24 hours and then check your wrist to see how it looks. If there is any redness, dryness, itching or swelling, do not use the oil. If the area looks and feels normal, then you can use the oil.
 Oil goes a long way, so it is not necessary to use much. Start with a quarter sized amount and then add a little more if necessary. You may need more or less depending on the length and thickness of your hair.
 Vitamin E has been shown to be effective at promoting hair growth when taken as an oral supplement. Try taking two 50 mg capsules of vitamin E oil daily after eating a meal.For example, you could take one capsule after breakfast and the other one after dinner.


As with any supplement, make sure that you check with your doctor first.
Incorporate additional natural sources of vitamin E into your diet, too. Try nuts, seeds, green leafy vegetables, and plant oils, especially wheat germ and sunflower seed oil.
 If you're taking topical vitamin E, you should take topical vitamin C. Similarly, if you take oral vitamin E, you should take oral vitamin C. These two will be more effective than either on their own., You can use Vitamin E oil in place of your daily conditioner to keep your hair soft and manageable. Shampoo your hair and rinse well, then wring out the excess water from your hair. Then, pour a quarter sized amount of Vitamin E oil into the palm of your hand. The oil is typically thick and greasy.


Instead of using it as conditioner, you can also apply it at night instead of a night cream or moisturizer.
 You can apply the oil directly to your scalp and begin working it into the roots of your hair with your fingertips. Use gentle circular motions to work the vitamin E oil into your scalp.


Vitamin E can be absorbed through your skin and it may even be a more effective means of delivering the vitamin into your cells., If you want to give yourself a deep conditioning treatment, then you can wrap a warm moist, cotton towel around your head and leave it on for up to an hour.The heat will help to increase the absorption of vitamin E into your hair and scalp.


To make a towel warm and moist, fill your sink or a large bowl with hot water and dip the towel into it. Then wring out the excess water and wrap the towel around your head.
 When you are ready, remove the towel from your head (if using). Then, rinse the vitamin E oil out of your hair with warm water. Dry your hair and style as usual.
 You can also use vitamin E oil as a spot treatment for split ends. To use vitamin E oil to repair split ends, pour out a quarter sized amount of vitamin E oil into the palm of your hand. Rub your hands together then take the ends of your hair between your hands, working the vitamin E oil into the ends. Leave the oil on your hair and style as usual.


You can use this treatment on wet or dry hair.
Vitamin E is a potent moisturizer that may help bind water to skin.For this reason, it may help to repair split ends. If vitamin E does not seem to help, then getting a trim is a good way to reduce split ends.

