 Though you should always try to be creative in your writing, you do not want to use language so obscure your reader will end up getting confused and overwhelmed. Try to use language that is accessible and digestible to your reader. You do not want to use a more complex or obscure word in a sentence when a simple, clear one will do just as well.If you do decide to use obscure language, do so rarely and with intention. Try not to pepper every sentence with an obscure word or phrase that may confuse your reader or make it seem like you are showing off. No one enjoys reading a sentence that seems like it is trying too hard.
For example, you may have the sentence, “It was a howling, torrential night in December, the coldest month of the year, and the wind ripped through the cedar rafters of the house until the walls were ribboned and diced.” Though this sentence is descriptive, it uses language that feels overwrought and cluttered.
You may revise the sentence by adjust the word choice so it is concise and clear. You may write, “It was a stormy night in December and the wind howled through the house.”

, Purple prose tends to crop up when we use descriptions that are abstract and vague. You should create descriptions that are concrete and specific in your writing so you do not fall into abstraction and confuse your reader. Try to attach descriptions to the senses, describing how something or someone smells, tastes, sounds, looks, or feels. This will help to keep your descriptions concrete and avoid purple prose.

For example, you may use the following description in your writing, "She was as swift as a bird and as smart as a whip." This description uses cliches and comes across as vague and unclear.
You may revise the description so it is more specific and concrete,"She moved fast across the room, smelling of crushed flowers."

, There is a common phrase in writing: “Kill your darlings.” This phrase suggests that sometimes you have sentences you love so much you do not realize they are full of purple prose. Go through your writing and consider if phrases or sentences that you absolutely love may not be as clear or concise as they could be. You may need to revise these phrases or get rid of them to make your writing stronger.


You should also consider if a phrase you love may be lovely on it’s own but does not fit with the voice of the character. Including phrases that you like for the sake of liking them can be jarring to your reader and make your character’s voice seem less genuine on the page.
 When you are deciding how you are going to phrase an idea or describe a scene, you should always consider who you are writing for. Ask yourself, “Who is my audience?” “What is the reading level of my audience?” “Will my audience understand my sentences?” If the answer these questions is “no”, you may be using purple prose in your writing. You should then consider how you can simplify your word choice so it is more appealing to your audience.For example, if you are writing a story for young adults, you should avoid using words that will alienate or confuse your audience. You may substitute complex words like “utilize” or “proliferate” with “use” or “grow.”
You may also consider how your teenage characters might express themselves and talk to one another. This can help you use language and word choice that is appropriate for your audience and for the characters in your story.

