 Leptin levels have been shown to be connected to total body fat. People who have higher levels of total body fat have lower levels of leptin and tend to get hungry more often. Therefore, losing body weight if you are overweight or obese may help to increase your leptin levels and reduce hunger.Try to start small and set a goal to lose 5% of your total body weight. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds, then 5% of your weight would be 10 pounds.
Make sure that you consult your doctor before beginning a weight loss program. You can also see a dietitian that specializes in weight loss. Get a referral from your doctor to see a dietitian so that it will be covered under your insurance plan.
 Not getting enough sleep has been linked with an increase in ghrelin levels, lowered leptin levels, and an overall increase in hunger.To prevent these effects, make sure that you are getting at least seven hours of sleep every night.


Try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning.
Avoid watching TV or using a computer, phone, or tablet for about one hour before bed.
Make your bedroom a comfortable, inviting place.
Keep in mind that there is a day/night variation in your blood leptin levels. These values are higher at night as opposed to daytime. The peaks and valleys parallel shifts in the timing of your meals, so try to have your last meal for the evening about two to three hours before bed.
 High stress levels can increase your ghrelin levels and your appetite.Therefore, it is important to keep your stress levels under control. Try to include a stress reduction technique in your daily routine to help you manage stress and avoid increased hunger from being too stressed. Some techniques you might try include:



Meditation.

Yoga.

Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.
 Exercising can reduce stress, increase your metabolism, and help to prevent many different health problems. Although exercising may increase your hunger, it will also increase your metabolic rate.Therefore, it is important to include exercise in your daily routine.


Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day.
Do something you enjoy to help you stick with it. For example, you might try walking, biking, swimming, playing a sport, or taking exercise classes at a gym.

