 You may have indoor and/or outdoor housing for your horse. How you manage the housing is important to maintaining your horse’s health and wellbeing. Examining your horse’s stall, barn, and any connected buildings for potential poisons can minimize the risk of poisoning your horse.Examine the floors for any matter that may poison your horse. This includes manure, urine, sewage runoff, or bathing water. A horse may accidentally ingest it or it could mix with the animal’s water source.
Look at surfaces such as tables, dishes, or anything else that may contact your horse.
Remember to check your horse’s trailer for potentially dangerous substances including old hay.;
, Most horse owners keep hay, haylage, or other types of organic matter in a horse’s stall and barn. It’s important to remove old or soiled organic matter regularly. If you don’t, it can expose your horse to botulism-causing toxins than can lead to general weakness and paralysis.Be aware that horses are especially susceptible to botulism-causing toxins. This can occur through ingestion or contact with an exposed wound. Typical symptoms of botulism poisoning in horse are: inability to eat, drooling, nasal discharge, muscle tremors, difficulty getting up, and difficulty breathing. It can also cause death.
 Just as organic matter can poison your horse, so can inorganic substances that may be around the barn. Chemicals used to kill rodents, birds, snails, slugs, ants, and weeds can also poison your horse. Making sure that these chemicals are stored securely from your horse’s housing can minimize the risk of poisoning your animal., They should be stored separately from horse feed, water, and horse equipment.
Keep the chemicals dry and temperature-controlled, too. Store substances that might react together separately.
Recognize that many rodenticides and pesticides contain sweet flavoring or grain bases to attract pests. They may also taste good to your horse, so it’s important to make sure you keep these securely closed and away from the reach of your horse. Follow label directions when setting baits so that you don’t use an amount that could poison your horse.
Keep herbicides securely closed in the barn or in your garage. You probably use them to control weeds outside, which can cause changes in a plant that make them attractive to horses. Your horse may have diarrhea or colic if poisoned by herbicides.
 Although rare, food sources may also contain potentially toxic substances for your horse. The most common form of food poisoning is through moldy corn. Changing your horse’s food and water at least once daily may reduce the risk of injury or death from potential toxins.Remove any moldy corn immediately. It can carry a fungal toxin known as mycotoxin. This can cause equine leukoencephalomalacia (ELEM), a rapidly progressing, often fatal neurologic disease. The symptoms of ELEM include head-pressing, circling, muscle tremors, weakness, or strange, sometimes violent behavior.
Make sure your horses have adequate grazing area, as well. If not, supplement their pasture with clean, dry, and fresh hay.
 Pollution and human carelessness can lead to environmental buildup of heavy metals such as lead or mercury. Determining if your horse’s housing or pasture is exposed to heavy metals can prevent poisoning. Signs of metal poisoning include cause lack of appetite or diarrhea. Ask local authorities about heavy metals present in your home area. You can also have your property professionally tested for the following heavy metals:Arsenic
Cadmium
Fluorine
Selenium
Lead
Mercury
Molybdenum
Sulphur

, Let your horse graze or run in your own pasture or those known to you. This can reduce exposure to potentially poisonous plants, water sources, and animals.Avoid over-grazed pastures. Horses will usually eat around toxic plants and weeds, but may eat them in an over-grazed area because they’re available.
Contact your local county extension office to ask about plants and water sources in areas you don’t know. This can help you decide whether or not to try new grazing or exercise pastures, woods, and fields. You can find your local county extension at http://npic.orst.edu/pest/countyext.htm.
 The best way to avoid poisoning your horse with plants is by inspecting the pasture or training areas for toxic species. Also look at the trees around the pasture and buildings, whose leaves could blow into grazing areas. There are a variety of toxic plants that can cause symptoms in your horse such as irritation or weight loss and even death.The ASPCA provides a comprehensive list of plants toxic to horses at http://www.aspca.org/pet-care/animal-poison-control/horse-plant-list. Common toxic plants to horses found in or near pastures include:Buttercups
Jimsonweed
Nightshades such as horse nettle, bittersweet nightshade, tomatoes and potatoes
Pokeweed
Japanese yew
Wild cherry
Black walnut
Maple trees. Red Maple leaves only become toxic once they’ve been shed, for example.
Poison hemlock
Water hemlock
Alsike clover
Rhododendron
Azalea
Mountain laurel

, Many people like to run their horses outside of pastures. This can provide you and your horse a lot of enjoyment, but can also present potential poisons beyond plants. You may find a pond or stream that looks like a potential drinking spot for your horse. But even the clearest, and cleanest-looking water source can poison your horse. Stick to water sources that you know to reduce the risk of poisoning your horse.Avoid any water sources that have obvious blue green algae. This often grows in ponds in hot, dry weather and can cause diarrhea, muscle tremors, convulsions, liver failure, and even death in your horse.
Look at the color of water or smell it. If it has an unusual color or odor, it’s best to avoid this source.
Test well water on your property often to ensure it doesn’t contain harmful bacteria. Water with blue algae means a high level of organic content, usually from nearby runoff. Consider testing unknown water sources outside of your property to reduce the risk of poisoning.
Pay attention to where you let your horse drink while on trail rides or camping. A good rule is to avoid standing water, which can have pathogens, and to let the horse drink from moving water sources.
 Some live and all dead animals present a potential risk for poisoning for horses. Bugs such as flies and mosquitoes are pests to horses, but the blister beetle can cause death. Dead and rotting animal carcasses also often contain toxins that can cause conditions such as botulism. Avoiding blister beetles and animal carcasses can minimize the risk of poisoning your horse.Keep your horse away from dead or dying animals. This is especially important if your horse has open or exposed wounds. Remove any dead pests, such as rodents, from stalls and barns as well as food and water sources.Protect your horse from blister beetles by purchasing alfalfa hay from growers who take precautions during harvesting. The most common way alfalfa hay poisons horses is through ingestion of blister beetles crushed during the drying process., If your horse is exposed to a toxic substance, it may begin to exhibit symptoms of poisoning. Symptoms may not appear immediately or may develop quickly. In some cases, sudden death can occur. Watching for the symptoms of poisoning in your horse can help you get prompt and potentially life saving treatment. Common symptoms of poisoning include:Abdominal pain
Constipation
Diarrhea or straining
Weight loss
Restlessness
Unsteadiness
Blindness
Breathing difficulties
Head pressing
Problems swallowing or excessive salivation
Lethargy
Tremors
Twitching and fitting
Collapse
Loss of appetite
Colic
Depression
High temperature
Laminitis, which is the inflammation of tissue that attaches the bones and tendons in the hoof to the hoof wall.
 If you suspect or know your horse has ingested a poisonous substance, call an animal poison control center. Experts at these centers can advise you the best way to proceed with your horse, be it home treatment or seeing a vet.Recognize that there are many different animal poison control centers, some of which may charge you a fee for the consultation. Different poison control centers you may want to contact include:


State organizations, such as the Florida Poison Information CenterNational Animal Poison Control CenterASPCA Animal Poison Control, You should seek veterinary help in nearly all cases of suspected poisoning. If you know your horse ingested a toxic substance and/ or is showing symptoms of poisoning, contact your horse’s vet immediately. The vet will usually pass a stomach tube and give the horse activated charcoal or magnesium sulfate to absorb the poison. The vet may also have to give the animal intravenous fluids and other treatments to minimize the risk of long-term damage or death.Avoid watching and waiting for symptoms. This may increase your horse’s risk for lifetime injury or death.
Inform the vet when, where, and how the poisoning happened.
Your vet will also be able to advise you on what to do before they can arrive to help. Do not treat your horse for suspected poisoning without consulting the vet first.

