 Download HSPL4 to your computer’s hard drive.

HSPL4 software modifies the boot process of the HTC HD2 so that the Android operating system can be installed.
HSPL4, or hard secondary program loader, is a software program that lets you change the hardware boot process of the HTC HD2. This is similar to updating or accessing the BIOS on a PC computer.;
, Download a Radio ROM to your computer’s hard drive. Download CustomRUU to your computer’s hard drive.

Leo Radio ROM is a custom radio that will ensure your HTC HD2 cell phone radio will work properly once you’ve installed Android.CustomRUU will install the custom radio ROM.
 Download MAGLDR to your computer’s hard drive.

MAGLDR is an alternative custom bootloader that lets you install Android and other operating systems on the HTC HD2., Download ClockworkMod Recovery to your computer hard drive.

ClockworkMod Recovery will let you install Android from a microSD card.
 Download the Android Ice Cream Sandwich ROM to your computer hard drive.

The ROM file is the Android operating system. Android Ice Cream Sandwich is not the newest version of Android, but many versions are available to download., Move the HSPL4, Leo_Radio, CustomRUU, MAGLDR, Recovery, and NexusHD2.ICS files to their own directory. Unzip the HSPL4, Leo_Radio, CustomRUU, and MAGLDR files. Do not unzip the NexusHD2 ROM file.

You will need WinRAR to unzip the Leo_Radio file., If your phone is on, turn it off. Press and hold the volume button down, and then power on your phone.

Be sure to hold the volume down the whole time until you see the Red, Green, Blue, and White hardware bootloader screen.
 With the USB cable, connect the HTC HD2 to your computer., In the HS4PL directory, right-click HSPL4.exe, and then click Run as administrator. If you see a User Access Control dialog box, click Yes.

If you’re using Windows XP, there is no Run as administrator option. Run the file as you normally would.
 When HSPL4 connects to the HTC HD2, click the dropdown menu, and then click 2.08.HSPL. When the installation is completed, you’ll see a completion message on the HTC HD2 screen and the computer., With the HTC HD2 connected to your computer with the USB cable, turn the HTC HD2 off, and then turn it on while pressing and holding the volume button until the bootloader screen appears., Right-click customruu.exe, and then click Run as administrator., Follow the CustomRUU onscreen steps to install the Leo Radio custom radio ROM.

Make sure you know where the unzipped Leo Radio files are.
The HTC HD2 will reboot when CustomRUU is done.
 With the HTC HD2 connected to your computer with the USB cable, turn the HTC HD2 off, and then turn it on while pressing and holding the volume button until the bootloader screen appears., Using the MAGLDR software will erase the Windows Mobile operating system. Find and open the unzipped MAGLDR folder. Open the MAGLDR113_DAF folder, and then run the ROMUpdateUtility.exe files as an administrator. Follow the onscreen steps to install it on your phone.

While the software is running, a progress bar will appear on the HTC HD2. When it’s done, a message will display on your computer and the HTC HD2.
 With your phone connected to the computer with the USB cable, power cycle the phone. In the MAGLDR bootloader screen, use the volume up/down buttons to select 4. USB Flasher, and then press the call button to go to the next screen., On your computer, open the unzipped ClockworkMod Recovery folder, and then open Recovery_v1.3_250M. Run DAF.exe as an administrator.

Follow the ClockworkMod on-screen prompts. When you’re done, the HTC HD2 will restart.
 Connect the SD card to the computer, and then copy the NexusHD2.ICS.CM9.HWA.V2.3.zip file to the SD card.

The installation won’t work if you unzipped this file. If you unzipped it, zip the unzipped directory.
 Power cycle the HTC HD2 and then, when the MAGLDR boot screen appears, use the volume up/down buttons to select 8. AD Recovery, and then press the Call button. Select Update from SD Card, and then press the Call button to confirm. On the next screen, select the NexusHD2 zip file, and then press the Call button. Select Yes - Install your zip file.

The installation process may take a while. Do not press any buttons or power the phone off during the installation process.
 When the installation is finished, press the Power button to go back. Reboot your phone. The HTC HD2 is now running Android.

If this process didn’t work or you’re stuck, you may be able to find help on the Android Developers forum.