 If you’ve been in an abusive relationship for a while, it can be difficult to spot what are the instances of abuse you should be recording. It’s best to record more and then discard it later if it is not as useful. A way to help you do this is to imagine your life lived by someone you love and are protective of e.g your sister, friend, cousin, daughter or niece. Imagine them living your life and note down all the instances of abuse they face in one day. Think about what they see, hear and experience. Now, repeat this for the whole week.


Once you’ve got all of this written down, circle around points that demonstrate the nature of abuse and manipulation. Now star every instance which can be easily and safely recorded. This is a good starting point for collecting evidence. If you’ve left the abusive situation, you can still collect evidence by saving what’s already been sent or done to you (calls, messages, emails, photos) or by outsmarting them and recording interactions in which they admit to the past abuse they committed, or when they threatened you.;
, Your safety is of utmost importance. You must be very careful when collecting all types of evidence and be sure to collect it when no one is watching, especially those you don’t trust. Make sure that whatever evidence you are collecting, you must keep it safe and out of reach from your abuser so it cannot be destroyed and discovered. Think of what to say if you’re caught recording.
 Write in your journal every day detailing what your abuser does and says to you, in as much detail as possible. This will prove to be useful when you need to show proof of a timeline of the abuse – when the abuse happened, how often it happened, and how your abuser hurt you or exercised control over you. Make sure you put down the dates and times of incidents clearly, also noting who else may have witnessed it. It is never too late to start your journal. Remember to keep your journal in a safe place or you could use an online journal like Penzu.
 It is absolutely vital that you have evidence of the abuse such as photographs, screenshots, videos, audio recordings, e-mails and texts. This will help you build a strong case against your abuser ensuring that you have proof of abuse in case he lies in court. Share these with a friend so that someone else also has copies and save them online on Google Drive or Dropbox, with a password with only you know. Click here to learn how to set a secure password.
 If you have been hurt badly by your abuser and gone to the doctor for treatment, it is a good idea for you to keep all of the medical documentation of your injuries. This is also applicable for letters/prescriptions from a counsellor or mental health practitioner regarding your mental well-being. The same applies to any children, pets or people who have been abused by the same perpetrator(s). Scan them if you are able to and keep both e-copies and hard copies safe.
 Always keep copies of your evidence somewhere safe where you know your abuser won't find them. You could even give them to a trusted friend to keep with them in case something happens to you. It is also advisable to keep digital copies. You can use services like Dropbox or Google Drive to keep all of your digital copies in a cloud based service that won’t be deleted off your computer.
 If you believe the evidence you have so far is weak, there are things you can do to counter that. Can you trick your abuser into admitting abuse, confirming any incident or detail that you are alleging? In some jurisdictions, you won’t be able to submit evidence that was recorded without the consent of the other party. You can confirm this by asking any family or criminal lawyer. Irrespective of what the law suggests, this evidence can still be useful for corroborating your account which could be admitted for other settlements, e.g. asylum, child custody or divorce.




Cover Letter: The cover letter is a way of introducing your case, and the evidence, to the reader in a concise and specific manner. Focus on highlighting the most important information: who you are, why you are writing to them, what evidence you collected and what does it show.

Personal Statement - written by you: The personal statement is the space in which you can explain your situation in more detail. Use it to explain your current situation with relation to your abuser (have you escaped, are you still in the abusive relationship, do you have any children with your abuser etc.), as well as what you are applying for and what you need specifically from the person you are writing to.

Timeline of Events: Timeline will help people reading understand your situation and how the abuse has developed. Sometimes it can be hard to communicate and remember all the details if someone is asking you questions about days in the past. Every time you can’t remember or someone asks you about a specific incident and where it happened, you just need to show them the timeline.

Supporting statements - written by other people to support your case: Like personal statements, supporting statements are written to bolster your case by supporting your account. These can be written by friends, colleagues, any organisation helping you, doctors, nurses and family members.

Anything else that may be relevant, e.g. journal entries.
 The supporting statement can serve several different purposes: as a character witness or as evidence of how the abuse has affected you. You can ask friends, family, your doctor, social worker, NGO, or anybody you have confided in or who has seen the abuse first-hand or seen it’s affect on you. They should mention every time they witnessed or heard of the abuse and your situation from you, your relatives, friends, or anyone else. It is extremely important to clearly state the first time the person found out about the abuse against you and how they found out about it.
 The timeline of events must be chronological. The timeline of events is your chance to demonstrate the sequence of events that have happened to you and how it has affected you. Timelines are an important part of your evidence as they will help people reading to understand your situation and how the abuse has developed. Sometimes it can be hard to communicate and remember all the details if someone is asking you questions about days in the past. Every time you can’t remember or someone asks you about a specific incident and where it happened, you just need to show them the timeline.
 Keeping all your evidence and documents organised is the easiest way to make sure you are building a strong case for yourself against your abuser. Make sure you have all the difference types of evidence you need, supporting statements, and your cover letter. Keeping things organised means it will be harder for your abuser to get away with the abuse and for them to lie about you and your relationship in a court of law. Keeping your documents labelled with dates, times, names, and details will only make your case stronger. Also, keep a note of important documents about shared assets and take copies of them for yourself.
 Living in an abusive relationship can be exhausting and trying to build a legal case against your abuser can be emotional, scary, and daunting at the same time. Remember, you can do it! You have the right to not have to live in an abusive home and building a strong case against your abuser is the first step towards living without fear. Whether or not you have decided what to do, it is always a good idea to keep evidence of what is happening in case you ever need it. Best of luck!

