 The saying ‘first impression is the last impression’ is really appropriate for salespeople. Don’t blabber about your services and products; rather listen to what the customer has to say to you. Once the customer is finished talking, you'll have a good chance to present yourself and your brand as a saviour for the trouble they are facing. Always keep in mind, selling is not just giving away product; it’s more about building relationships that lead to sales. When you know about the trouble that the customer is facing, and the customer knows that you have a solution for it, then it’s a win-win situation. That’s what successful sales are all about.;
, If you think that others are able to sell goods while you are not, then there must be something which you are doing wrong. Never feel shy to ask others about what it is that they are doing differently; they will likely be flattered and be happy to provide advice. Analyse those things, learn from them and start to implement these newly-learned skills in your work. Always remain open to changes in your approach. Learning is a never-ending process. Remember to keep your eyes and ears open all the time to grasp even the smallest things that your successful competitors are doing well.
 Zig Ziglar once said that every choice you make has an end result. This includes choices about your sales. Consider your sales career as a snakes and ladders game, in which the snakes can appear from anywhere. You shouldn't get scared by these snakes. Rather, keep looking for ladders that can propel your career. Once you get into the knack of making the right decisions at the right times, success is bound to follow you.
 Selling is a two-way barter, between you and the client. The most prominent difference between a successful salesperson and the not so successful ones is their attitude towards their customers. While the top performers look to help the customers, the poor performers are just looking to achieve their their sales targets and move on. If you look at your customer as a mere deal, then you are going to remain mediocre like all the other people in the market. If you want to be the alpha male (or female) in the herd, then you must stop selling and start helping. A successful sales career is just like a relationship, which requires nurturing for its development. With a little understanding of customer behavior and market requirements, you may eventually be amongst best in the business. Remember, after-sales care is just as important as before-sales talk.
 Ask any successful person the question "What made you succeed?", and you will get the same reply: they thought of succeeding without being deterred from failure, and made it a habit to win, no matter what the situation would be. In other words, to succeed, you need to make success a state of mind. And, once you are into the right frame of mind, success comes naturally. If experts are to be believed, then success is nothing other than a state of mind.
 "Look up to the sky, you’ll never find rainbows if you’re looking down." – these are the words of Charlie Chaplin. And fit perfectly to people looking to give their career a boost. Failures are bound to come when you are trying something, but getting deterred from those failures and giving in is something that losers do. To climb the ladder of success you need to stand up and face those failures. Learn from the mistakes that you make, every time you fail; and convert them into strength. With a little effort, you can eventually touch the sky and pave way for a successful career. Never give up trying.

