 Make your wiener dog happy by giving it regular outdoor exercise. Your wiener dog will be happiest if you keep your walks about 35-40 minutes. Don’t go too fast since wiener dogs have short legs and may find it difficult to keep up., Your wiener dog will be super happy if you allow it to spend some time smelling interesting things on your walks. Most dogs love smelling things but wiener dogs were bred to be hunting dogs, which means they have a highly developed sense of smell.Give your wiener dog plenty of time to stop and smell whatever interests it.
 Dogs are social creatures and typically love being around other dogs. Your wiener dog will be extremely happy if you organize a playdate for it where it can socialize with other dogs.


Find a playdate group through your vet or an online forum.
Consider a playdate that is just for wiener dogs.
Make sure to supervise your wiener dog’s behavior.
Allow your dog to be shy if it’s not used to being around other dogs.
Don’t let your wiener dog be too rough with other dogs., Wiener dogs love to travel and are some of the easiest dogs to travel with.You’ll make your wiener dog very happy if you drive it somewhere where it can see and smell new things.


Make sure your wiener dog remains safe as you travel.
Always bring plenty of treats and water., Most dogs love water and wiener dogs are no exception. Giving your wiener dog a bath means your wiener dog gets extra attention from you and gets clean at the same time.


Only use dog shampoo that won’t dry out your wiener dog’s skin.
Make sure to keep your wiener dog warm throughout the bath.
Have plenty of fresh towels on hand.
Ensure you dry your wiener dog thoroughly., Wiener dogs have a great sense of humor and are super fun to play with.Spend time playing with your wiener dog and it will be very happy.


Play hide-and-seek with your wiener dog’s favorite toy.Bury a toy in the sand and watch your wiener dog dig it up.
Use size appropriate toys.
Be gentle when you play with your wiener dog.