 If you have a lot of money that you want to guard from creditors or the federal government, setting up a trust for a loved one is a good option. Irrevocable trusts are technically the property of the person to whom you sign them over, but you may still retain the lifetime rights of use.You'll essentially be able to give up your property or investment, while also being allowed to use it, while not being accountable for taxes on it.


Talk to your financial advisor about setting up an appropriate trust. Once you set up an irrevocable trust, the terms are unmodifiable, meaning that you can't go back on it. It's important to get the terms right the first time, so consult a professional to help you name a trustee., Keeping money in other countries with more lenient tax codes is a notorious way of hiding funds from the government. The Cayman Islands, The Philippines, Switzerland, and the Isle of Man are all known for being tax havens for the super-rich.


Banks do sometimes fail. Developing countries often offer extremely lenient tax laws as a way of attracting wealthy investors. This can be a dangerous gamble. Never dump 100% of your savings into an offshore account, or you risk a devastating loss., Homesteading is a principle of land ownership by appropriation. In the United States, some states have very generous homesteading laws, which keeps a property that has been in your family for a certain amount of time safe from creditors. Florida, in particular, has generous laws keeping long-term residents of homesteads safe from creditors.Homesteading usually has a "back to the land" connotation, but it really has to do with your rights as a land owner. If you live in the US, learn more about your local homesteading laws here.
 Gold, metal, and platinum are sometimes thought to be a more secure long-term investment than keeping your money in the bank. Though they are somewhat variable in terms of their cash-value, it's usually thought that in the event of a total bank collapse, the gold-standard will be the safe way to go in the future.


It's pretty difficult to cash in your gold in the meantime.Investing in precious metals might make your money secure, but it might be so secure that you can't actually use it.
 If you've got a lot of cash but don't want to declare it for tax purposes, it's ok to buy prepaid gift cards and instead use those to make purchases. Gift cards are widely available for lots of purposes, and you can use them to buy gas, groceries, and more store-specific items.


This tactic is common among drug traffickers, some even going so far as to explore off-shore debit options that go much higher than the usual $250 limit for gift cards.Buying traditional pre-pay debit cards will typically require you to provide other information, including a social security number. If you have to provide any of this information, it won't be an effective technique.

