 Tired babies can fall asleep on noisy city busses or in the middle of eating dinner, but this is a sign of overtiredness and not a good nap substitute. If you want your baby to nap consistently on a day-to-day basis, you should try to define a single napping space that your baby can associate with (and only with) sleep. In the best case scenario, this napping space will also be their nighttime sleeping space — their crib.Don’t use swings, playpens, car seats, or other places or things as the regular napping spot. A properly set up crib placed in a good sleeping environment is the best and safest place for naps.
Use the crib only for sleep, not as a play space or temporary “holding zone” while you get a few chores done. Create the association “crib equals sleep” for your baby.
 Whether your baby’s crib is located in a dedicated nursery or in your bedroom, make sure that room is set up for ideal sleeping conditions during naps. Use blackout drapes to block sunlight; eliminate noise or use a white noise machine to block out distracting sounds; and maintain a temperature at or a bit below 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius), with about 50% relative humidity.Make your baby’s safety your first priority. Nothing should be in the crib except for your child, placed on their back on a properly-fitted sheet and firm, properly-sized crib mattress. Pajamas aren’t essential for naps, but choose clothing that can’t accidentally cover your baby’s face or head.Even things like the room’s color, use of decorative fabrics, and amount of clutter may impact its suitability as a napping environment. See Make Your Baby's Nursery Soothing Enough for Sleep for more details.
 Your baby still needs to nap when on day trips or family vacations, but your can’t very well drag the whole nursery along with you. In this scenario, bring along a few key comforts of the normal napping space — the white noise machine, your regular naptime books, or even the nursery’s night light. Provide as many of the comforts of naptime at home as is reasonable.When away from home, make sure that any portable playpens or cribs you use for napping are up-to-date with current safety standards, properly assembled, and set up according to the same criteria as the home crib. If you have any doubt about the quality of the sleeping quarters for your baby, bring along a portable crib that you know meets safety standards.
Traveling away from home can play havoc on your usual naptime schedules. Do your best to hold to the usual schedule, but expect to have to make some adjustments and variations. Pay close attention to your baby’s tiredness cues, especially if you are traveling across time zones.

