 Untreated curly, coarse and kinky hair has bends and turns that refract light instead of reflecting it. To add shine to these hair types, try using a rinse, a leave-in conditioner and a finishing serum. These treatments will boost moisture, smooth the cuticle and reflect light.Try an an apple cider vinegar rinse. ACV smooths the cuticle, causing your hair to look more shiny. Add two tablespoons to a cup of water and rinse your hair after shampooing.
Add a leave-in conditioner. Aloe, coconut oil, olive oil and jojoba oil can all be used as leave-in conditioners. Smooth one to two tablespoons through your hair while it is still wet from your shower. Let your hair air dry with the conditioner.
Finish with a shine serum. Buy a serum formulated with mineral oils to add maximum shine to your hair. You can also finish with Moroccan oil or coconut oil to keep your hair conditioned and shiny.
 Hair that has been dyed or bleached tends to get dry and frizzy over time. Instead of just adding shine, aim to repair your hair at the same time. Treating your hair well will also help it retain color.


Get a hair gloss treatment instead of dyeing it. A hair gloss treatment goes above and beyond simply changing the color of your hair. It's a translucent coating that conditions your hair and protects it from drying out. As the name suggests, it also makes your hair look shiny.Wash your hair with cold water. This simple trick will help your color stay in place longer (just as washing clothing with cold water helps retain dye). It will also smooth your cuticle and make your hair look shiny.
Avoid harsh hair products. Harsh cleansers, heavy-duty hair spray, and other products containing sulfates and alcohol can strip your hair of moisture, color and shine. Use natural products designed to help your hair retain moisture.
 In the quest for shiny hair, many people blow out and straighten their tresses every single day. Over time this will cause hair to break and become frayed. If you want your hair to look shiny and healthy again, it's time to give the heat a break.


Let your hair air dry for several months. Put away your heat styling tools and vow to give your hair a chance to repair itself.
Focus on conditioning your hair. Use deep conditioning treatments, hydrating masks, and a boar bristle brush to help restore your hair's health. This will reduce frizz and lead to shinier locks.
Use finishing oil or serum when your hair is dry. Using an oil or serum will protect your hair more than a leave-in conditioner. It will also result in a shinier appearance. Try Moroccan oil, coconut oil or jojoba oil. Focus on the tips, which tend to dry out faster than the rest of your hair., When your hair is thinning, it's important to treat it very gently if you want it to look healthy and shiny. Your goal is to add shine and volume without causing further damage to your hair.


Let your hair air dry on most days so you don't make thinning worse by damaging your hair with heat styling tools. As your hair dries, use clips around your head to lift the roots of your hair away from your scalp. This will add volume without using a hair dryer.
Curl your hair without heat. Use cloth or rag curling methods instead of a curling iron or hot rollers. This way you can gently add volume to your hair without causing damage or hair loss.
Finish with a light serum. A heavy leave-in conditioner, gel or mousse will weigh down thinning hair. To add shine and retain volume, use a very light oil or serum. Aloe vera gel is a great option. You can even make your own hair spray using aloe as your base.Keep shine products restricted to your ends with thin hair, as applying them near the scalp can make hair appear thinner.

