 A roaming dog inside a vehicle hurtling down the highway at a minimum of 70 miles per hour is not a good plan. The dog can become a distraction to the driver. Not to mention that they may be able to unlock doors, open the doors, and roll down the windows if you’re not careful. Keep your dog either crated or buckled in by the leash.Seat belts have not been proven to protect animals in a crash. Your safest bet is to always use a crate.
 It is dangerous to let your dog ride in the back of a truck or otherwise stick heads or body parts outside of a moving vehicle. Dogs do not foresee danger like humans do, and debris along the road can easily injure your dog.Keep the windows rolled up to reduce risk of injury to your dog.
 It is very dangerous to leave your dog in an unattended vehicle, especially when the weather is warm. Many states have "hot car" laws that make it a crime to leave a dog in a car alone. Some states even allow citizens to break into cars when they see pets locked inside during summer heat. Always stay with your dog if you’re going to park the car, or bring the dog with you.Keep in mind that when it is 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius) outside, it can rise to 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 Celsius) inside a closed-up car within 30 minutes. That is enough time to kill a dog.
This is true even with a window cracked. Just don’t leave your pets in the car., Before you head out for a road trip for the first time, you should get your pet used to the idea. Practice for your road trip by taking your dog with you in the car while you run errands in town. Other ways to prepare for a trip in the car include a vet checkup, attaching dog tags to their collar, and ensuring they have an empty stomach.


Practicing with short trips around town is also good because you will discover if your dog gets carsick or not. If they do, you may want to talk to your vet about medication.
You may also want to get your dog used to being crated by placing them in a crate at home for 15 minute intervals. This is especially important if they tend to have separation anxiety when crated.Consider installing a microchip on your dog so that if he runs away at any point, it is not impossible to find him. A microchip is installed between your dog’s shoulder blades. When someone takes your dog to a shelter, the authorities scan for a chip and contact you., Dogs are not designed to stay in one position for 12 hours straight. Just as you probably have to stop every two or three hours to let your restless child take a break, you should stop for your dog. Dogs need to stretch their legs and do their business every two or three hours.Engage your dog on each break in a game or brief run to help release extra energy.
 If your dog is on medication for a specific physical malady, of course you should continue the medication. However, consider whether or not your dog needs medication to fight car sickness. Medication should really be your last resort. First try to minimize how much motion they feel and moving images they see.Get a crate with solid sides so they can’t look out the side windows at scenery flashing by.
Place the crate in the center of the vehicle instead of far in the back. This spot gets the most motion.
If you still need assistance, ask your vet for a mild sedative.

