 As with any doll collection, there should be a purpose behind the collector's passion. Whether it's just for fun, heirloom purposes or as investments, every collector should have a reason to collect. Think about what you'll do with the dolls once you start collecting, where you'll display them and even how you'll care for them.;
, This can be based on a time period, the brand, an artist, the material the doll is made from or a specific doll that is special to you. For example, many doll collections are based around a theme or variation like Kewpie dolls, multi-cultural dolls or Kathy Smith-Fitzpatrick dolls. Finding a focus for your collection not only adds to the personal value and purpose of your collection, but it gives you a guide for what kinds of dolls to look for. Your doll collection can be whatever you want it to be!

, There is a huge community of doll collectors, both online and in local areas, that share your passion for collecting dolls. Get plugged into that community! Share your new doll discoveries with others, hear about their collections and participate in events where you can grow your collection. Making friends who share your love for dolls is a great way to make your doll collecting fun and enjoyable. Find a group, forum or friend who will support you in your doll endeavors before you begin. You can join our Facebook Fan Page to get started!

, This is a very important step in starting your collection. Many times collectors begin collecting before they know how to preserve the beauty of their doll collection. Part of caring for your dolls is having a place to store them (shelf, case, cabinet, etc.) and knowing how to clean and groom them. Not everyone wants to keep their dolls in perfect condition, but for those that are more concerned with maintaining the doll's original state, visit our General Doll Care, Porcelain Doll Care and Vinyl Doll Care pages for more information.
 This is the fun part. Now you can start purchasing dolls for your collection. You will learn more about your doll collection with every purchase. Savor the satisfaction of making smart, strategic doll purchases. Remember that dolls were made to be played with, so don't feel like you have to leave them in their boxes forever. Part of successful collecting is having a personal investment in each doll, and you can create that connection by enjoying your dolls outside their boxes, they are great for decorating you home. Just because you've begun your collection doesn't mean you stop learning about your passion. Continue to learn about your dolls, the rare and unusual dolls that might fit into your collection and what makes them rare and unusual.

