 You should consider hiring a consumer law attorney if the lawsuit involves a lot of money or you don’t feel comfortable representing yourself in the legal process. You can locate attorneys in a number of ways, including:


Referral from friend or family member. If someone you know used an attorney for a civil case, you can ask them whether they would recommend that attorney. A recommendation from a trusted person who has personal experience with an attorney is a good place to start.
Local or state legal bar associations. Local and state bar associations often provide referral services to attorneys in your area. Through state bar associations, you may also check if complaints were filed against your potential attorney. You can locate contact information for bar associations at http://apps.americanbar.org/legalservices/findlegalhelp/home.cfm
;
, When a lawsuit is filed against you, you will receive a document called a Complaint. The Complaint sets forth all of the allegations against you. In order to fight this lawsuit, you must answer the Complaint within a certain amount of time set forth in the court’s rules. You can find out how long you have to respond to the Complaint in the following ways:


Call the court clerk. On the top of the first page of the Complaint, the document identifies the court where the lawsuit was filed. You can call the clerk of that court and ask how many days you have to respond to the Complaint.
Search court websites. Most courts have websites that contain the court’s rules. These rules provide information about formatting of legal documents, the amount of time you have to respond to legal documents, and the information that you need to include in your response. You can find court websites by searching for the court’s name on the internet.
 If you are going to respond to the Complaint on your own, you should immediately begin working on your response, which is called an Answer. Your Answer must comply with the court’s rules where the lawsuit was filed. You can contact the court clerk and ask for a sample Answer or a copy of the court rules. While court rules may differ, most Answers will include the following:


A caption on the first page. The caption identifies the parties in the lawsuit, the name of the court where the lawsuit was filed, the lawsuit/case number and information identifying the type of document. For the most part, you can copy the caption from the Complaint but substitute the word “Answer” for “Complaint.” The credit card company or debt collector is the Plaintiff and you are the defendant.
An introduction to your document. Just below the caption, start a new paragraph and state your name and that you are “submitting this Answer in response to the Complaint, you are alleging the following:.” A sample Answer from the New York Courts can be viewed at http://www.nycourts.gov/courts/6jd/forms/srforms/ans_examp.pdf. Remember, this is only a sample and your Answer must meet the requirements of the court in which the lawsuit was filed.
Answer each allegation in numbered paragraphs. Your document must provide an answer to every allegation in the Complaint in numbered paragraphs. You can either admit that the allegation is true (such as admitting that your address is true), deny the allegation, deny some part of an allegation and admit other parts, or if you don’t know whether the allegation is true or false you can state “Defendant is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of each and every allegation contained in paragraph and therefore denies them.”Include affirmative defenses. These defenses may limit or negate your liability in the case. They are discussed in part 1.4 below.
Request a jury in your Answer. If you want your case to be heard by a jury, you must write that in your Answer.
Include your signature and date. After you have completed your Answer, you must sign and date the document. You should also type or print your name beneath your signature.Include your contact information. After your signature, include your address and phone number where you can be reached.Include a Certificate of Service. You must create a separate document with a caption and document title of “Certificate of Service.” This document must state that you sent a copy of the Answer to the Plaintiff by certified mail and include the address where you sent the document. If the Plaintiff has an attorney, you should send or “serve” the Answer on the attorney., For lawsuits involving a credit card company, consider whether the following affirmative defenses are relevant to the facts of your case and should be included in your Answer:


Statute of Limitations. Every civil lawsuit must be filed within a certain time frame called the statute of limitations. You can check each state’s statute of limitations here http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/statute-of-limitations-state-laws-chart-29941.html. Typically, the statute of limitations begins to run from the date of your last credit card payment. You can have the lawsuit dismissed if the Complaint was filed with the court after the statute of limitations ended.Violation of the Fair Debt Collection Act. There is federal law called the Fair Debt Collection Act, which states that debt collectors need to provide you with certain information about your debt. It also describes how a debt collector can behave when collecting a debt. You should read through the law and determine if the Plaintiff violated the provisions. If they did, you can countersue the Plaintiff for violations of the law.The text of the law can be found here: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/rules/rulemaking-regulatory-reform-proceedings/fair-debt-collection-practices-act-text

The debt was paid. If you already paid the debt, you should include that in your Answer as an affirmative defense.
Fraudulent charges. If someone stole your identity or your credit card and made unauthorized purchases, you should state this as an affirmative defense.Mistaken identity. If a lawsuit is filed against you and you never signed up for the credit card or had any business with that company, you should include an affirmative defense of mistaken identity.You may also want to run a free credit report to see whether someone else opened an account in your name.
Bankruptcy. If you filed for bankruptcy and your credit card debt was wiped out, you can assert this as an affirmative defense to the allegations in the Complaint., Your completed Answer must be filed with the court. You should check with the court clerk from the court where the lawsuit was filed and ask what is required to file an Answer. Typically, your will need to:


Bring your original Answer and several copies to court. Many courts require that you bring one original Answer (the copy with your signature) and two copies to the court for filing. You should also bring any copies that you need to send to the Plaintiff, and a copy for your own records. The court will stamp each copy of the Answer and enter them into the court system.Send a copy to the Plaintiff. Once the court stamps all copies of your Answer, you must send a copy to the Plaintiff or their attorney. You should send it in whatever way you specified in your certificate of service., After filing and sending your Answer to the Plaintiff, you should begin preparing interrogatories and document requests to serve on the Plaintiff. Interrogatories are questions that the Plaintiff must answer and document requests ask the Plaintiff to provide you with documents relevant to your case. You should check with the court clerk to see whether there is a limit on the number of requests that you can make. Some information that you want to request during discovery includes:


Description of how the Plaintiff acquired your debt. If Plaintiff is not the credit card company but a debt collection agency, ask them how they acquired your debt and from whom. Many times these agencies buy and sell debt so many times they may not have any documentation to prove that you owe the money.Ask for the total amount that they say you owe.
Ask for the name of the original credit card company.
Request a copy of the original credit card agreement that you signed.
Request proof that the debt was assigned, i.e. “proof of assignment.” This demonstrates that the debt collector has the right to collect your debt.Ask for documents showing all credit card charges that they claim you made.
Ask them to identify any employees or persons with knowledge or information about the alleged debt.
Ask them to provide all documents evidencing the alleged debt.
Ask them to provide all documents demonstrating how they acquired the debt.
 Just as you did with your Answer, you should attach a certificate of service to the discovery requests, and send the requests to the Plaintiff or their attorney by certified mail.
 Just as the Plaintiff has to respond to your discovery requests, you are legally obligated to respond to their discovery requests. Typically, you need to file your responses within 30 days. Your responses should:


Answer each interrogatory. You can answer an interrogatory by objecting to the question in writing. However, you must answer the questions truthfully and swear an oath to that effect.
Respond to discovery requests. Similar to interrogatories, you can object to document requests. However, if you fail to turn over relevant documents, the Plaintiff can file a motion and ask the court to compel you to turn over the material., A deposition is when a party to the lawsuit or a witness gives testimony under oath and in front of a court reporter. The credit card company or debt collector may want to take your deposition. After reviewing the documents you received during discovery, you should decide whether there is anyone who has information important to your case and consider deposing them. If you decide to depose a witness, you must:


Serve a notice of deposition that outlines when the deposition will take place and where. It is better to set this up with opposing counsel before you send the notice.
Hire a court reporter.
Prepare the questions that you want to ask.
 If the Plaintiff failed to provide you documentation of your debt, before trial starts you should file a Motion to Dismiss for Failure to State a Claim. The Plaintiff has the burden to prove that you owe them money and that you failed to pay. If they can’t prove these things, their case should be dismissed. A sample Motion to Dismiss can be found at http://www.cod.uscourts.gov/portals/0/documents/judges/msk/msk_samp_dis_mot.pdf.
 Once you get a trial date, the Plaintiff may be willing to try to settle your case for a reduced amount before they spend money on a trial. If you feel that they have a good chance at winning at trial, you should negotiate to reduce your debt and pay it off. If you feel that they have no evidence, you can consider going forward with the trial.
 An opening statement is your opportunity to lay out the facts of your case and tell the judge or jury what you will prove during the trial. You should plan and write your opening statement as part of your preparation for trial.
 In a case of debt collection, it is unlikely that there will be many witnesses called at trial. The Plaintiff must provide you a list of witnesses before trial and you should prepare to cross examine them at trial.
 After the Plaintiff is finished putting on their trial, you will have a chance to call witnesses and introduce evidence that supports your position.
 After you finished your defense, you will have a chance to make closing remarks to the jury. Since the Plaintiff must prove his case to win, you should talk about all of the ways they failed to show that you owed a debt or their failure to document the correct debt.
 Once both parties finish their closing arguments, the judge or jury will take some time to make a final decision on your case. If you win, the Plaintiff may be required to pay for your attorney or other legal fees. If you lose, you will be required to pay an amount specified in the ruling.

