 When putting on the halter, the little circle goes around the animal's nose, and then the bigger circle goes around the back of the animal's head behind the ears. Then tighten the halter by pulling on the rope.;
, Place your thumb closest to you with your hand six to twelve inches from animal's head, near his nose.
, Animals will enter the show ring in a line.


When leading the steer, have one hand up by his nose, and your other hand on the end of the rope. Pull the rope and walk. Your steer will begin to walk behind you.
Keep the steers nose up if he gets it to the dirt he will then have momentum and control and then be more prone to run.
If your calf moves out of line, pull animal in a clockwise circle to move him back into his proper place.
 Look at the judges, do everything they tells you to do.
, The animals will be facing head-to-tail.


When the judge tells you to stop, stop your steer. Usually you can do this when you stop walking. Turn around and face your steer with the halter in your left hand.
 As you do that, switch show stick from your left hand to the right.
 You're going to set up your steer. Take the stick and use the pointy end and poke in between the two hooves. This will make the hooves move backwards so that they are lined up. Use the hooked end to pull from behind the two hooves to pull forward to line up. Either way works.


The fore-feet and one hind foot (preferably the one closest to the judge) are directly under him, and one hind foot (the one furthest from the judge) more under the animal. The rear foot that is farthest from the judge should be pulled forward or staggered.
, Typical questions include birth date, current weight, name of and breed of the sire and dam, feeding program, etc.
 Make sure the judge is still watching you when you do comb the back so he knows you did comb it back.
 Keep looking at him and smile. He will tell you to stop your steer again. Then he will go down the line asking questions about your show animal. Answer them confidently, and be persuasive.
 Turn the steer away from you when you are turning your steer. Judges tend to like this, and you will definitely get a higher ranking.
 Don't be disappointed if you don't get Grand Champion. At least you know how to show a steer!

