 If you are unsure about how to calculate your heart rate or find your fat-burn zone, consider talking to your doctor. They will be able to help you determine the appropriate amount of exercise. This is particularly important if you suffer from a medical condition.


Make sure that raising your heart rate does not aggravate an existing medical condition.;
, Calculating your heart rate will help you maximize the number of calories that you burn while playing Pokémon GO. First, you will want to subtract your age from 220. This will give you your maximum heart rate. To maximize fat burn, you will want your heart rate to be about 60 to 70 percent of this max. You will then multiply your maximum heart rate by .6 and .7. This will give you your fat-burn zone.You can monitor your fat-burn zone while you exercise by putting your fingers on your neck and counting your heartbeats.
If you are 30, your maximum heart rate would be 190 and your fat-burn zone would be 114 to 133 beats per minute. Staying between 60 and 70 percent of your maximum heart rate will ensure that you are burning as many calories as you can.
 Because calculating your own heart rate and fat-burn zone can be difficult, particularly while you exercise, you may want to consider purchasing a fitness tracker or heart rate monitor. These electronic devices will keep track of your heart rate for you and allow you to focus on catching Pokémon. Some fitness trackers will even calculate your fat-burn zone and let you know if you are in it while exercising.Fitbit and Garmin both make trackers that monitor your heart rate.
There are many fitness trackers that you can wear on your wrist. You can also purchase heart rate monitors that you can wear on your chest, which tend to be more accurate.
 This is the easiest, yet least accurate, way to determine your fat-burn zone. The talk test figures out your fat-burn zone based on how winded you get during exercise. After about 15 minutes of moderate exercise, try to carry on a conversation. If you are able to talk easily, you are not working out hard enough. However, if it is too difficult to talk, you are exercising too strenuously. If you are in the fat-burn zone, you should be able to speak a short sentence comfortably.This test works best if you are exercising with someone else. However, you can also talk to yourself if need be.

