 Run as fast as you can to whichever solution you have near by. Search the bullet points below for a product currently available to you. Further instructions for each product will be listed in the subsequent steps.


Table Salt (Best quick option!)
Club Soda
Milk
Soap and Hydrogen Peroxide
Kitty Litter
Hot Water;
, Make sure to completely cover the stain and let sit for an hour. The salt will absorb the wine and can be easily brushed off afterwards.









Salt is the preferred stain removal method, but works best when applied within two minutes of spillage. If the wine has not yet completely soaked into the fabric, the salt crystals should easily absorb the red wine. As most natural fabrics, such as cotton, denim and linen, absorb faster than synthetic materials, stains on natural fabrics should be tended to with more haste than synthetic. , Let the liquid bubble up. Continue pouring the soda over the stained area until the color fades away. Once the stain is removed, let the fabric dry. Use paper towels to clean up any spilt or excess club soda.









There is much debate over the club soda remedy, some arguing tap water would work just as well. However, the general consensus believes the soda’s carbonation to have stain lifting agents. Club soda also has a lower pH than regular water. As weak acids (those with low pH values) are known to help in stain removal, this trait could be a contributing factor.
Be advised not to use any flavored club soda when removing stains, even those clear in color. Dyes as well as sugars and additional ingredients can contribute more to the preexisting stain. , Quickly cover the stain with a thick layer of salt and pour the club soda on top. Let the stain sit for an hour before brushing off all salt into the garbage. Blot up any excess liquid.









Both agents can work on their own, but using the two together may double your chances of completely clearing the stain. The salt absorbs as much wine as it can, while the club soda will lift out the stain as you blot.
 Let it soak into the fabric, blotting the stain with a tea towel or paper towel. Do not rub, as this will settle the stain into the fabric. The stain should be gone in an hour or less. Wash as usual to remove excess liquid and odor.









Another option is to completely soak the fabric in a bowl or bucket of milk for an hour or so, depending on the size of the stain. If the stained fabric is easily movable and the stain is rather large, this is a more thorough and efficient method.
Milk works similarly to club soda, soaking up the stain. However, milk’s thick white consistency can essentially override the red color.
Milk is one of the least popular methods in red wine stain removal, though some still prefer it to the salt and club soda method.
 Pour on, sponge over or spray the solution generously onto the stain. Blot with a paper towel.









General opinion deems Dawn the best soap to react with hydrogen peroxide and get the job done. If available, using a spray bottle is suggested. The resulting bubbles should help lift the stain out of the fabric, much like the carbonation in club soda.
If your stain has only soaked through one layer of a two-sided piece of clothing, be sure to place a towel between both sides. This will prevent any leakage as you spray and blot.
 Press down the kitty litter with your hands softly to absorb the wine. Once the stain is removed, vacuum the kitty litter off the fabric.









Kitty litter contains highly absorbent chemicals that will quickly soak up liquid, much like salt, though slightly more powerful.
Timing is especially crucial with kitty litter, as it was with salt. Work quickly — preferably within two minutes of spillage.
Vacuuming is the easiest method of kitty litter removal as the litter can clog drains or add unwanted odors to standing trash cans.
 Once you have a heavy boil going, stretch the stained fabric over a pan in the sink. Stand on a chair and pour the boiling water onto the fabric from 3-4 feet (.9-1.2 meters) above. Pour the water generously over the stained area until it is removed. Dry the fabric of excess water with paper towels. 








Though hot water sets in some stains, it has proven successful with red wine stains because of its fruit based ingredients.
Avoid using water on wool or silk as water weakens these fabrics.