 Although not common, many colleges and universities offer classes in Old English because young scholars need the language to do their work.Seeing if any of your local learning institutions have classes in Old English can help you find a beginner class or any other level you may need.Check university websites to see if they offer courses in Old English. You may find that English, history, archaeology, or other humanities and social science departments offer Old English classes.
Find faculty who specialize in English literature from that period. They can often tell you when and where courses are offered.
Figure out if you can sit in, or audit, Old English courses without enrolling at the university. You may first want to contact the professor to inquire if she minds having someone audit the course. Once you have her approval, contact the university registrar to see how you audit a course. You may want to ask if you have to pay anything or if you can just sit in on the lectures.
 Some universities or other institutions may offer online courses in Old English. Conduct research online and see what your options for online courses in the language are.If a local university or institution in your area doesn’t offer an Old English, consider an online course from an accredited institution like the University of Texas or the University of Calgary.See what the requirements for registering for the class are. You may be able to participate without paying any fees.Try and find a course from a university or other institution of learning because they are more likely to have useful sources to help you successfully master Old English.
 In some cases, professors or even graduate students may be able to give you private lessons in Old English. Realize that this may be expensive, but an excellent way to learn the language.


Contact professors in your local area to see if they teach private lessons in Old English. If not, see if they know of other professors or graduate students who may be able to offer a private course.
Be prepared to pay at least $20/ hour. Old English is not a common language and using the time of a scholar to teach you takes away from their time. Ask what they would expect as payment and see if you can negotiate if it seems too high.
 There are enthusiasts for Old English around the world, many of whom stay in touch and expand their knowledge with study groups and online forums.Inquire if you can join one of these study groups or online forum to learn the language and network with others who have this common interest.Be aware that some of these groups require registration or subscription, which means that you may need to send an email stating why you’d like to join. You also may need to commit to participating regularly as well.Keep in mind these forums may also provide you with other resources or opportunities to learn old English.