 “Growing pains” are a very real part of your teenage years. Adding Epsom salt to a bath before bed can greatly soothe any aches and pains you’re dealing with. Simply soaking in warm water can help relax muscle, loosen stiff joints, and even fight insomnia.When using Epsom salt:

Fill the bathtub with very warm water that is comfortable to the touch.
Add 1 to 2 cups of Epsom salt while the water is running, the aid in dissolution.
Soak whatever part of your body hurts for at least 12 minutes. Enjoy the opportunity to relax.
 Reserve this step for when you have pain that keeps you awake at night. Talk to a health care provider about what medicine makes the most sense for someone your age. They will likely recommend acetaminophen or ibuprofen, though your age, weight, and level of development will dictate what the safest choice and dosage is for you., Gentle, restorative yoga or stretching can help with the discomfort associated with your teenage years.These types of exercise can also calm you down and prepare your body for rest.Signing up for a weekly yoga class, or watching yoga videos are good ways to learn some poses. Some of each are geared specifically towards teens. Poses where you fold forward, either upright or on the ground, can be particularly helpful in calming you down.Breathe with purpose. Whatever the pose, breathing is an important aspect of yoga. A 1:2 pattern is great for relaxation; exhale for twice the count of your inhale, in whatever increment feels most natural. For instance, if your natural inhale is three counts, exhale for six counts. Increase these numbers as you relax. Even without doing a pose, this simple breathing exercise will calm you down.Try a forward fold. From an upright, standing position, fold forward as far as it is comfortable to do so, exhaling and extending your spine. Slide your hands down and around to the back of your legs. As you inhale, straighten your back to a horizontal position, sliding your hands towards the back of your knees. Push your chest gently down through your arms. Exhale and bend back down, hands on the back of your legs all the while. Keep the knees slightly bent throughout the routine, and allow the head to hang loosely when you’re folded forward. After six folds, hold a downwards forward fold for ten breaths, using the 1:2 breathing method., This will help primarily with restlessness that is not recurring. Take note of these in particular:Melatonin is a hormone associated with sleepiness, and can be taken as a supplement. Do not take melatonin before puberty, or in the early stages of puberty. However, since melatonin production kicks in later in the day for teens (around 1AM, as opposed to 10PM for adults), this supplement may work especially well teenagers. Take the lowest dose that works for you, and do not consistently use melatonin to help you fall asleep. Keep in mind that melatonin works well for some people, but some people have negative experiences with it. If you don't like the way melatonin makes you feel, then don't take it.

Passionflower is a plant that is effective in fighting restlessness, anxiety, and over-active bedtime mindsets. Drink passionflower tea 30 minutes before bed if you’re dealing with any of these symptoms, or stress about relationships, school, or anything else.

Chamomile is another plant that can be used to aid in falling asleep. Chamomile tea is widely available, and the best way to consume this plant. Drink it 30 minutes before bed.
Do NOT take Valerian root. Though this is one of the most common natural sleep-aids, it is not recommended for teens. This root can actually cause restlessness in young people.

