 Many pet supply stores sell these during the holidays, and they can be a great option. However, they should be opened for your pet as most of these stockings are made of clear plastic so the buyer can see inside. Make sure the stocking stuffers are appropriate for your dog’s size. If you want to get a dog stocking for a pet owner, the prefilled variety is likely your best option., Choose a variety of treats for your pet, and try to find some that will take your dog a while to enjoy. Rawhide chew toys, bones, and other items are a great way to keep your pet busy during all the holiday fun. Make sure to select treats that are appropriate for your specific pet. Most treats have size and weight recommendations on the packaging., Again, make sure you select items that are appropriately sized for your dog. Try to include toys that will help keep your pet entertained. Toys that hide treats or have to be taken apart a specific way provide hours of fun for your dog while you enjoy all your new holiday gifts!, These are great for tug of war, and dogs love playing with them all year long. Select rope toys that are large enough for your dog. Small dog rope toys can be swallowed by larger breeds, and this can damage their digestive system.
 Tennis balls, rubber balls crafted specifically for pets, or other dog-friendly balls you can use to play fetch are great way to entertain your pup at the holidays. Throw a few in the stocking for your dog to enjoy.


Choose balls made with a dog-friendly material.
 Choose Christmas sweaters, booties, a fun Christmas collar, and other items your pet can wear for the holiday. Include your dog in family photos wearing all of its fun new pup clothes.
 Avoid stockings made from felt, plastic, and other materials that will be easily torn up and possibly ingested by your dog. Instead look for a stocking made from burlap, canvas, and other hardy materials that will be difficult for your dog to take apart. This is more important for large dogs, in most cases, but it’s always best to find products and materials that are safe for pets., Before your start filling the stocking, take any tags, plastic, or other packaging off of all the materials you include. That way, your pup is protected even if it decides to rip into the stocking before you can help. This can also make giving the stocking more fun, since you can just let your dog dig in and play with all his new toys and treats. Digging all the fun stuff out of the stocking can be a fun game for your dog as well., You don’t want to crush treats or toys with heavy items. Fill in the bottom of the stocking with the heaviest items, and use squishy toys, holiday sweaters, and other soft items to cushion easily crumbled treats like milk bones., As a finishing touch, put several different fun snacks in the top of the stocking to entice your dog. Once you give them the stocking, these treats will tell your pup the stocking is theirs, so consider using treats that your pet receives on a regular basis. The recognizable scent should signal your pet that the stocking is theirs, and encourage them to keep digging for more treats., Make sure that the stocking can’t be reached, even if your dog stands up on its hind legs. You can also wait to add treats until the very end. The familiar scent of treats will attract your dog to the stocking, but without it, they are much more likely to ignore another stocking.If you don’t have a fire place or other stockings hanging, you may choose to keep your dog’s stocking put away, until you’re ready to give the stocking to your pet.
 Distract your dog by letting them try to get all of their treats and toys out of the stocking. This is great for dogs who have a bad habit of “helping” you or your loved ones unwrap their gifts. Make sure you’ve removed all packaging, and that the stocking is made from canvas or other hardy and dog-friendly materials that your dog is unlikely to tear up or eat.


Let your pup explore its stocking looking for treats.
Each time your dog finds a new treat or toy, clap, pet it, and encourage it.
Take a few moments to play fetch or tug of war, when they find toys.
Take pictures and video., Unpack a treat from the stocking daily leading up to Christmas, especially if it is a tradition in your family to open presents before Christmas. The goal of the stocking should be to make your dog feel included in the family festivities, so any time you give gifts as a family, make sure your pup is included., If you purchase a prepackaged stocking, you’ll need to take it apart for your pet. Remove all the packaging and give your pet the treats and toys inside. If you notice your dog is struggling to extract all its toys and treats from the stocking, you should give them a hand. In most cases, older dogs will need your help.Watch your pet as they try to unpack their stocking, and step in to help them when they need your assistance.

