 If you don't know how you should eat, then go to a physician and ask them, ask a personal trainer, or go to choosemyplate.gov and get your pyramid plan. (All Events);
, Make sure you stretch well before your training and after your runs in order to avoid chances of injury. In other words, pay attention to the warm-ups and the cool-downs. They are equally important!


Please note this advise is primarily geared for those of the ages most likely to be in a track meet, such as those still in High School or College. Therefore if you are a senior or handicapped and have joined some form of track and field team, and luckily there are more and more of these type sports teams going around, you will need to scale back some of the distances and goals suggested in this "how-to." To support all ages, especially the young, the elderly and those with disabilities, it is highly suggested to first get a work-up and see your physician. This is mandatory in order to make the most gains and keep your goals aligned with your capabilities.The point is if you are handicapped or are over the age of 40 you will need to scale back much of this advice and go slower. Ultimately, yes the daily 3-miles is a lofty goal, certainly attainable by those with the pre-requisites of prior health. This is primarily for the "20 something" age crowd. For all others, please take it piecemeal.
Start with the proper pre-run exercises and on day 1 do not attempt over an eighth of a mile or 1 full lap on a standard track field. Do this for several days and then raise this up to the quarter mile mark for several more days. By the way, "never" run 7 straight days in a row, always have days of rest in between, so the muscles recuperate. By the end of the month you then may be able to do the full mile. From there, you may wish to add an extra mile every two to four weeks. In this way, within 3 short months you could be running 3 miles (4.8 km) per day.
 You can do this by doing a warm-up lap and running drills. Stretching is also good before your run. If running three miles is too hard for you then gradually increase your mileage every week. For Example: Week one, run 1 mile (1.6 km) everyday. Week two, run 1.5 miles (2.4 km) everyday. Week three, run 2 miles (3.2 km) everyday. Week four, run 2.5 miles (4.0 km) every day, and week five, run three miles everyday. It could actually be better to gradually increase mileage than just running three miles every day for all five weeks, because you are gradually increasing stamina and muscular ability. (All Events)

, This is much easier if you live near a track. On some days, sprint one hundred meters and mark your time. Then, sprint two hundred meters and mark your time. Then run four hundred meters and record your time. Sometimes during the five weeks, you may see your times get either better or worse. If they get worse, work harder, or check to see if you're injured. If they get better, you are doing well.
 (Hurdling: 100 hurdles, 200 hurdles, and 300 hurdles.> hurdles.)

, Use a proper jump pit (Long Jump and Triple Jump)

, Throwers also need the correct equipment. Just wait for track season and stay very fit and healthy. Lift weights to build strength too. (high jump, shot-put, discus, javelin)

, If your forte is "distance" than work up to running either 800 meters (two track laps on a 1⁄4 mile (0.4 km) track)or one mile/1600 meters (four laps on a 1⁄4 mile (0.4 km) track. (Distance: 800 meter, 1600 meter/ mile.) On the other hand, if your best event is short distance running or "relays" than practice short speed runs with a team member with a digital stop-watch. Even the tenths of a second count in a real track meet.
 Log-in your work-outs and exercise routines. This is the best way to know if you are excelling and at what pace. It will help you set realistic goals. Use this journal to plan your meals and sleep schedule if you are really looking to take this to the extreme. Only you know the degree or the actual reasons you are partaking in the track field. Always strive for a balance between excellence and yet not being a perfectionist to the point of drudgery. Make this great fun...create fond memories for you, your family and your team-mates. Sports camaraderie will be something you will look back on someday with great pride!

, For many of you, the goal is running a marathon or partaking in a triathlon. It has become ever so popular to have marathons in support of badly needed charity funds. People will get sponsored for the amount of miles they run and these monies are then forwarded to the charity sponsoring the marathon. A very noble goal!

,