 Drinking water is extremely important to singing successfully. However, it's important also to drink water at the correct times relative to when you plan on singing. If you're experiencing phlegm or other issues while you're singing, you should definitely plan to drink water as you sing, but primarily remember to drink about an hour before you plan to sing. This is because water does not go into your vocal chords when you drink it because of the epiglottis, but is secreted when needed from glands in that collect previously drank water. Drinking ahead of time will lubricate your chords as you sing. Weird, but true.;
, Yes, it's probably weird to read about balance in an article about singing, but it's a commonly overlooked necessity to healthy singing. If you have unbalanced weight or are fidgeting as you sing, not only are you going to be forcing your body to do strange things it's not meant to do under a lack of oxygen, but will also look pretty stupid. Sorry, just don't fidget.
 Roll your head around 270 degrees, but do not roll your head backwards to tilt your chin to the ceiling, and anything in that realm. It will stretch out muscles in the front that will encourage your neck to crane when you reach for high notes, which is a habit that too many singers fall into.
 Sorry to mention this again, but it's IMPORTANT. If you don't, you're not going to have lubed up chords and all hell will break loose.
 If you've ever taken voice lessons or done theater, you've probably been told not to eat or drink dairy before a show or performance, which is very true. Dairy creates phlegm and, in case you were wondering, is one of the reasons your voice cracks and makes weird noises when you sing. However, there's something you've probably never been told to avoid before you sing, and that little-known chemical is my little friend "caffeine." Yes, it's extremely random, but caffeine tends to dry you out. That explains why things like coffee and Monster can be so addicting- They leave your throat dry and make you thirstier, so you drink more and more until you've had a dysfunctional amount of caffeine and, on top of that, are thirsty.

