 Washing off excess oil, sweat, and dead skin cells will help prevent them from forming plugs in your pores.Start with warm water to open your pores and remove any plugs that may be forming. Then use cold water to constrict the pores and close them. This will help prevent dirt, oils, and dead skin from getting in.


Wash once in the morning and once in the evening, but be gentle so that you don’t cause irritation.
Use only mild, oil-free, water-based soaps. Oily products may, themselves, clog your pores.
Avoid oils from your hair getting onto your face. Wash your hair daily to keep oils from building up and if your hair is long, tie it back to prevent it from falling into your face and transferring oils to your facial skin. , A comedone is a plug, and in this case it is the plug of oil and dead skin that forms the center of a blackhead. Noncomedogenic products have been tested and verified to not plug up pores.Oily foundations frequently clog pores.
Wash off your makeup before you go to bed. This will allow your pores to breathe and prevent the makeup from getting stuck in the pores.
 Tight clothing, backpack straps, helmets, and hats absorb the sweat and oils from your skin and hold them against your skin.Wear loose clothes for sports to reduce the amount of sweaty, oily cloth against your skin.
Wash your sports equipment and workout clothes regularly.
Shower promptly after exercising to rinse off oil, sweat, and dirt that could get stuck in your pores.
 For some people dairy products, refined sugars, and carbohydrate-rich foods, seem to aggravate their skin.Contrary to popular belief, research shows that greasy foods do not cause pimples or blackheads.Nuts are also not a cause of blackheads.Studies have not produced a clear consensus about whether chocolate causes skin to break out.If you feel that chocolate is a trigger for you, then try omitting it from your diet to see if you skin clears up.
 Sun damage to your skin may make it more prone to breaking out. Use a non-oily sunscreen that won’t clog your pores., Stress alone doesn’t cause blackheads, but stress causes hormonal changes in your body which may make you more likely to get them.Manage your stress by:


Walking or jogging several times a week
Practicing meditation to clear your mind of worries

