 You can spend quality time with your partner while learning something new. There are many hobbies that can bring you “start to finish” together time. In fact, child-free couples often report happier partnerships as they prioritize time differently than those with children and can often invest more time into their relationship than their peers with children. For example, many couples enjoy gardening together. From going to the garden center to planting seasonal flowers, you can spend quality time with each other. You can enjoy the small talk of things you are learning about as well as enjoying the quiet sounds of the outdoors and the serene feeling the quiet brings.
 Page through the Sunday paper or an online events calendar to see what events are going on around you. There are probably things you have never considered and you may find yourself enjoying a new and unexpected experience with your partner. From music and beverage tours to many different arts festivals, you can usually find something fun to do with your significant other.
 Whether you prefer the mountains or beach, love a winery or brewery, or enjoy arts or sports, there is a getaway for everyone. From Travelocity to Kayak to Orbitz, there are numerous online room booking sources for hotels and B&Bs. You could even consider renting a place through a service like Airbnb. Online coupons can make such a getaway affordable.
 Set goals to achieve the plan, such as how to save up money and when to go. Even if the trip doesn't come to fruition, you'll still have spent quality time with each other.


Begin with a realistic savings plan. Learn about different saving strategies and find one that fits you. A little bit will add up over time.Consider your calendar and timing. Planning well ahead will prevent last minute conflicts. Consider your work schedule and consider how holidays affect your destination.
Begin to learn a new language. It will add to the excitement. You can speak it to each other to practice.The planning and anticipation can be half the fun.
 You can plan a romantic weekend at home and save money. Unplug! You will be surprised once you get over the initial uncomfortable feeling, how liberating it feels. You and your partner will enjoy being the center of each other’s attention as well as the quiet time. Stay in your pajamas until noon and then prepare brunch together. There are so many ways to relax and be happy at home., You may have more free time than people with children and be less stressed. Use the time to be intimate and keep your relationship fresh. A great sex life has proven a key factor in enduring relationships.Childless couples report better sex lives and often greater happiness, so spend time with each other. Even just cuddling can allow you to develop your bond., There is a clear correlation between fitness and happiness. Child-free couples may have more opportunities to exercise together, so take advantage of your free time to work out with each other.Exercise together at a gym, at home or outdoors. You can motivate each other to reach fitness goals. Your relationship will benefit and you will have personal health benefits as well.
Join a co-ed recreational sports team. Check with your local parks to see what is in season. You will enjoy the experience together and meet other people together.

