 There are many reasons why you might choose to spay or neuter your rabbit. Rabbits who are spayed or neutered live longer than those who are not, and have a lower risk for certain cancers. They also have better temperaments, and are more relaxed and loving than rabbits that don’t get spayed or neutered. This makes them easier to train and more affectionate than other rabbits. Plus, you don’t have to worry about your rabbit breeding if it shares space with another rabbit of the opposite sex., If your pet is female, it will need to be spayed. If it is male, it will need to be neutered. In order to identify your rabbit’s sex, cradle your bunny gently in your arms. It should be sitting in a position where its belly is facing up, and its back is nestled in the crook of your arm. Hold the bunny steady and look at the region toward the bottom of its belly between its back legs.Female rabbits will have a small prepuce, a protuberance that covers the vulva. Pressing down gently on the side of the prepuce facing you will reveal the vulva.
Male rabbits are most easily identified by the presence of testicles -- two hairless, round sacs, usually pink or gray in color, and crisscrossed by a network of blood vessels.
 You can neuter or spay your rabbit once it reaches the age of about five months old. Some female rabbits need to wait a bit longer and can only be spayed after they reach six months of age. Your vet will tell you if your pet is an acceptable candidate for spaying or neutering.Rabbits younger than five months (their age of sexual maturity) cannot be safely operated on.
 When a rabbit hits a certain age, it becomes riskier to perform surgery on them. For any rabbit over the age of 2, your vet will probably recommend a full health checkup and bloodwork before going forward with the operation. And after about the age of six, rabbits do not respond as well to anesthetics and take longer to recover. Some vets might spay or neuter after that age, but you might have a harder time finding someone who agrees to perform the operation.