 The smile is one of the most important strategies in dealing with people in all lifestyles and is an important means for building and establishing rapport. Given the reality that our enjoyment of life depends largely on how we manage and connect with people, a sincere smile is always the best strategy to build and establish rapport. The smile maintains attention, helps bolster open body language, and reassures the other person of your sincerity. Be the first to smile; don't wait for others!;
, We have our individuality and preferences to what kind of people we'd like to hang out with. Sometimes people carry with them preconceived ideas about people and respond to them based simply on how they look, carry themselves, or dress. While this response of building invisible walls around a person for the sake of self-preservation is normal for many people, and is something to respect when interacting with others, it doesn't stop you from being able to use the smile as a way to melt the walls of indifference.
 A bad mood usually results in facial characteristics reflecting the negative feelings, including a frown, furrowed face lines, and perhaps a scowling demeanor. A smile changes the equation immediately. And in so doing, choosing to smile instead of frown can influence your choices about everything else you do that day. A smile can brighten your mood, improve your outlook, and lead you to make positive choices using sound and good judgment.
 Smile affects things and lives around us. People, pets, and even the systems in which we work and socialize are at the mercy of our treatment. When we smile, our mood brightens up and affects our responses towards both beings and objects. The positivity that emanates from relying on the smile to guide our way helps us to love our life, and to be inspired to treat others with kindness and compassion, realizing that all beings matter and that smooth-running systems make life easier. Our pets deserve our kindness, out wilting potted plants deserve watering and weeding, and the people we meet each day deserve our warmth and appreciation. The smile's aftereffect? Love, kindness, gentleness, goodness and compassion start to flow out from you as a natural response.
 Some people find that when they are hurt and fall into despair, they tend to become negative and seek to manage the world to minimize their interactions to avoid being harmed again. In doing so, they can withdraw and find life meaningless and cruel. A well-timed and caring smile could give such unhappy people a glimpse of hope as they see that another person does care and does find this life meaningful. A smile means that they can share that meaning. Lift their mood with your smile, the smile of hope.
 A smile could be an indication of a great attitude. Smiling is one of the best responses towards mistakes and failures; that kind of smile says "D'oh! I am so human!". Using humor in the face of shortcomings shows a great attitude and at the same time wisdom. Smile, brighten up and be wiser the next time around!

, A smile is a powerful tool for peace. It is a powerful gift and is one that can help to initiate and maintain peace through its expression of love, understanding, humility, and kindness. Smiles in the family create unity and acceptance; smiles in the face of danger express a determination to overcome hardship with a level head and a kind heart. Smiles can hold together a nation and a world, in peace. Smile, and it will be a great life ahead!

