, Rinse the sweet potatoes under cool, running water and use a vegetable brush to scrub away as much visible dirt as possible. Pierce each sweet potato several times using the tines of a fork.Do not peel the sweet potatoes during this step. You'll remove the skins after the spuds have finished baking.
Piercing the sweet potatoes should help regulate the distribution of heat, preventing the sweet potatoes from bursting while they cook. Try to make four to seven sets of piercings, and position the holes evenly around the entire spud.
 Place the sweet potatoes on your prepared baking sheet, then place the baking sheet into the preheated oven. Roast the sweet potatoes for 40 to 50 minutes.


When ready, a fork inserted into the center of the thickest sweet potato should glide all the way through without resistance. The sweet potatoes should also give a little when squeezed in the center.
 Remove the sweet potatoes from the oven. Set them aside for about 5 minutes, or until they are cool enough to safely handle with your bare hands.
 Cut a slit into skin of each sweet potato using a knife. Then, peel the entire skin away using your fingers.


When fully roasted, the skins of the sweet potatoes should loosen and peel away without much effort. You shouldn't need to use a vegetable peeler or knife. Work carefully, however, to avoid burning your hands.
If you have difficulty peeling the skins away, you can cut the sweet potatoes open lengthwise and use a spoon to dig out the flesh, leaving the skins behind.
 Place the flesh of the sweet potatoes in a large bowl. Lightly mash the sweet potatoes with a fork. Gradually add the milk and butter, working in small increments and mashing after each one. Stop when the mash reaches your desired consistency.


If you prefer chunky sweet potatoes, you should add very little (if any) milk and minimal butter, and continue mashing the spuds with a fork or potato masher.
If you prefer creamy mash, use the full amount of milk and butter and beat the sweet potatoes using an electric hand mixer or immersion blender., Add 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper, or adjust the amounts to fit your sense of taste. If you would prefer another flavor profile, however, skip the salt and pepper and add the appropriate set of seasonings instead.


Sweeten the mash with the conventional autumn flavors of maple syrup, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
Try mixing in some salt, pepper, paprika, and garlic powder to create a more savory dish.
Spice things up by adding a few dashes of chilli sauce, along with some cinnamon and nutmeg to balance the flavor.
 The sweet potato mash is ready and best enjoyed while hot.

