 You must finish drawing your entire cartoon before going onto any further steps. If you own a drawing tablet, draw your frames on your computer and skip to step 6.;
, Every picture must match to make your animated movie move from frame to frame. You may want to flip your cartoon over to see if it every frame does seem to match each other.
 You must have taken a picture of every picture you drew to make your cartoon move. But the drawings must be photographed in order in which your movie goes. If you have a scanner, scanning the images is preferable to get a cleaner look, especially if your camera is low quality.
 You must then save all of the pictures you took of your cartoon to the computer. But EVERY picture you drew must be saved to the computer for this to work. If you used a scanner, your pictures are already on the computer.
 If you have Photoshop or GIMP (which may be downloaded for free), you can edit each of the drawings to clean it up, line it, etc. Make sure that each of the pictures are placed in the same place in the frame or else the animation will become very choppy.
 But you must have Windows Movie Maker downloaded onto your computer. In the right hand corner, click on import pictures.
 Then all of your pictures you took should come up in the middle of your screen of Windows Movie Maker.
 But this must be done ONE at a time by picture by picture in which the order of your cartoon goes. Then a rectangle should come up.
 Then the picture you right clicked on should appear at the bottom of the screen on a rectangle that says "Video" on the right side of it. But you must do this to all of your drawings.
 But do not touch the pictures that are in the box where it says "VIDEO" until later.
 Right click on "ALL" of the pictures one at a time drawing by drawing. Then another rectangle should come up. Click on the "7TH" box in the rectangle where it says "VIDEO EFFECTS".
 Scroll down all the way to the bottom of this box of varieties. You should see a video effect that says "SPEED UP, DOUBLE" that comes third last. Select that option. Then you should see a button in the middle that says "ADD". Select that option 6 times. Then you should see an option that says "OK". Click on ok.
 You can do so by going up to the menu buttons up at the top of windows movie maker. You should see an option that says "PLAY" at the top. Click on play. Then a drop down rectangle should pop up. Click on the 3rd option that says "PLAY TIMELINE". Then you should see your movie play by picture by picture.

