 Thrift stores, charity shops, consignments, estate sales, and antique stores will often have old vintage items that are much cheaper than new. This is a great way to get inexpensive but quality items, such as wooden tables or embroidered chairs.


Old wooden furniture can always be repainted. If you find a piece that is chipped or faded, you can paint it to match your color palette.
You may find interesting and unusual décor in these stores. These will seem expensive because they are unique. For example, you might find a lunchbox from the 60s with old superheroes on it, or you might discover an antique milk pail that you can use for flowers.
 Websites like eBay, Craigslist, and Gumtree allow people to sell their old furniture and décor. Search through these sites to see if you can snag a deal. It may take a little while to find the perfect deal, but you may be able to score a truly expensive piece for very little money., If there is a more expensive piece that you have your eye on, you might be able to find a cheaper replica online. Search for words that are associated with the original piece.


For example, you might type, “cheap crystal chandelier” to see what pops up.
 If you can’t afford originals of art, you can buy prints from the internet. If the artwork is in the public domain, you can even print out your own copy at a print shop, and frame it yourself. This is a great way to get quality reproductions of famous art pieces in your own home without paying a fortune.


When sending the work to the print shop, make sure you send an HD copy so that you get the best image possible.
You can also tear out images from an old calendar and frame them. This is a great way to reuse an old calendar, and the images are all professional quality., You might find interesting pieces of décor that can be used for different purposes than intended. These pieces can be a focal point for your room if you choose. Transform your old furniture, or keep an eye out for things that can become tables, wall hangings, or accent pieces.You might:


Use an old luggage trunk as a coffee table
Hang antique dinner plates on the wallDrape an old quilt over a chair
Frame vintage fashion magazines
Make shelves out of old wooden planks
Position a TV on a painted crate

