 If you're in a rush or a public place, visit the bathroom for a quick refresh. Fold a paper towel twice to make a neat square, then soak it in cold water. Press it lightly against your eyelids, for fifteen seconds each. Look upward and place the towel just beneath your lower lashes, pressing gently for another fifteen seconds on each eye. Let your skin eye dry. Repeat if necessary.


Do not scrub your eyes or use soap.
Some people like to mix in about 1 tsp (5 mL) table salt in 1 cup (240 mL) ice water. Don't try this if you have red, irritated skin.;
, Wet a soft, fluffy cloth with ice cold water. Wring it out, then fold the cloth over your eyes for about ten minutes. The cold should constrict the blood vessels around your eyes, reducing the swelling.


You can get similar results with an ice pack or a bag of frozen peas. You can even make your own cold pack by stuffing a sock full of raw rice and tossing it in the freezer. Don't use a bag of large, chunky vegetables, since it can't mold around your eyes.
 Choose a pair of metal teaspoons that fit closely over your eyes. Freeze them for about two minutes or keep them in the fridge for 5—10 minutes. Place them over your eyes with slight pressure. Leave them until they warm up.


If you have time, freeze six spoons instead. Replace the spoons with a new, cold pair once they warm up. Stop after the third pair to avoid skin damage from prolonged cold.
You can also try adding cold teabags to your eyes to reduce puffiness.
 Lightly tap the puffy areas of your eyelids, using your ring finger. This can stimulate blood flow, moving pooled blood out of the area.
 Close your eyes and massage the upper area of your nose. Focus on the skin to the right and left of the nose, where a pair of glasses would rest. This can relieve sinus pressure, which may have built up as you were crying.
 Place two or three pillows underneath your head to keep it above the rest of your body. Lie with your neck straight, close your eyes, and relax. Even a short break can lower your blood pressure.
 Refrigerate moisturizing face cream for about ten minutes, then rub gently into skin. The cold will treat puffiness, while the cream will soften and brighten your skin.


Specialized eye creams are controversial. It's unclear whether they are more effective than normal face cream.Avoid creams that contain fragrance or mint. These may irritate your skin.

