 Non-religious stained glass is often seen in Victorian buildings, a result of a revival of the gothic style commonplace in European churches. In particular look out for floral and geometric patterns of stained glass surrounding entrance doors to domestic buildings.;
, The industrial revolution led to mechanized brickwork. The sharper, more uniform bricks allowed for a tighter construction and cleaner façade on buildings, and the process allowed for more variation in types of brick.


Victorians took advantage of this to create intricate patterns of different coloured brickwork in their buildings. In particular look out for variations in the use of the 'header' (the short end of the brick) and the 'stretcher' (the long side of the brick) to create yet more pattern types.
 Canted bay windows (straight front and angled sides) became popular in the Victorian era as developments in construction methods and manufacturing made more elaborate building elements more accessible for domestic architecture.



The proliferation of railways and canals during the Victorian period opened up more options for builders and architects, and slate was one material that experienced a boom as a result. Slate was shipped around the country from quarries in Wales, Cumbria and Cornwall for roofing and cladding.
 What better way to finish off your new slate roof than an ornate finial (an architectural device that adorns the apex of a gable). Finials were born out of the Victorian love of religious architecture and allowed everybody to have their own spire-like construction on the roof of their house.


These finials were often very ornate in design, mimicking Gothic and Rococo styles, either flora or fauna, and often mythical such as dragons.
 Similarly ornate in design are the iron railings that were often seen at the front of urban Victorian houses. The industrial revolution made ironwork much more affordable and accessible for domestic architecture and Victorians used iron railings to create an impressive welcome at the front of their properties.


The railings were often elaborately decorated with sculptural finials atop the spears. In London, iron railings are particularly linked to the Victorian era, as upon Prince Albert's death in 1861 (Victoria's consort) the railings of the city were painted black in mourning. The majority of railings in the city have remained this colour ever since.
 At odds with the mass production and severity of the industrial age, Victorians warmed to the much more 'home-made' aesthetic of the Arts and Crafts movement (particularly towards the end of Victoria's reign).


Common in more rural towns and villages, this style drew on local materials and craftsmanship, and laid bare for all to see the function of the materials and construction. The beauty of this style came from the hand-crafted quality of the workmanship rather than any elaborate decoration or adornment.
 Production methods made decorative clay tiles more accessible, and beautiful hallways and verandas created from colourful geometric tiles can be seen in many Victorian houses of the period.
 Less easy to spot than the others on this list perhaps, but the Victorians introduced the cavity wall to domestic architecture.


This method of building two 'skins' of brick to create the outer walls of a building creates a cost-effective method of insulating from outside temperatures and moisture.
 Perhaps the most beloved aspect of Victorian domestic architecture for modern inhabitants are the large, heavy sash windows. Although they were certainly around prior to the Victorian era, sash windows were not commonplace in houses until the production of sheet glass was introduced in the 1830s.


This allowed for larger windows with fewer, thinner bars. The 'sash' element of the window refers to the opening mechanism. Created using internally run cords, the sash mechanism literally 'hangs' the bottom half of the window construction from the top. This allows the bottom section to slide up in front /behind the top section, and a counterbalance system holds the window in place.

