 Some states offer the option to ask a court to reduce a charge from a felony to a misdemeanor after you have served your sentence. There are many reasons to seek a reduction of the charge, including being able to get a professional license, keeping the right to serve on a jury, restoring your right to own a firearm, and being able to deny ever having been convicted of a felony when filling out a job, housing, or loan application.If you are not sure whether your state offers charge reduction, research online or contact the court clerk's office, an attorney, or a librarian at a law library.
 Ask the court clerk what forms you need to submit to ask the court to reduce a felony to a misdemeanor. The court may have pre-printed forms available for you to use. You will be required to enter your personal information, as well as information about the case, the punishment you received, and the reason you wan t the charge reduced.
 States typically require that the felony you want reduced not be a particularly serious offense. Check your state's requirements, which should be listed among the instructions of the form you request from the clerk.


For example, in California, you can only get a felony reduced if the offense was a "wobbler." A "wobbler" is a crime that the prosecution can choose to charge as either a felony or a misdemeanor, such as burglary or assault with a deadly weapon.In Indiana, the charge must have been a "Class D" felony and not been related to a violent or sexual crime., In addition to certain requirements about the nature of the felony itself, different states impose additional requirements that must be met in order to ask the court to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor. These requirements should be listed on the forms.


In California, you are not eligible if you served time in prison. You are still eligible if you were granted probation or only served time in county jail.in Indiana, you must wait three years after finishing your sentence before you apply. You must also not be a sex or violent offender, have any other felony convictions, or have any pending criminal charges., Make several copies of your documents and take them to the court clerk. The clerk will stamp your documents, file the originals, and return the copies to you. You will be required to pay a filing fee. The fee may be either for a petition or a motion, depending upon how your court handles these requests. If you cannot afford to pay the fee, ask the court clerk for information on how to apply for a fee waiver.
 Unless the clerk's office routinely serves the prosecutor on behalf of applicants, you will need to give formal notice of your request to the prosecutor's office. You cannot serve the prosecutor yourself. Arrange for a process server, the sheriff's department, or anyone over 18 and not involved in the case to deliver the documents to the prosecutor's office.


The server must complete and sign a "Proof of Service" or "Affidavit of Service." This form should be available from the clerk's office. Once the server completes the form, take the form to the clerk's office for filing.
 The clerk will notify you of your hearing date by mail. On the date set for your hearing, dress professionally, arrive in court early, and wait for your case to be called. The judge will ask you any questions he or she has about your request, and give the prosecutor an opportunity to object to your request.


Be prepared to explain how you have turned your life around and why you want to have the felony conviction removed from your record. For example, explain to the judge that you are no longer abusing drugs or alcohol or involved with gangs, if those factored in to your conviction. The judge will want to see that you have been able to stay out of trouble and are not likely to commit another crime.
If your request is granted, the judge will order that your criminal record be modified to reduce the felony charge to a misdemeanor.

