 Books and the internet are good places to find information, and they can provide loads of good tips too. Be sure to look for sound and factual material, not opinionated rants.;
, Small things can make a huge difference. Of course, you don't have to give up everything that you like and are used to. Read up on things that you can substitute that won't use as much energy or resources as the things you're currently using; doing this can lower your impact without causing you to lower your lifestyle.

Have quick, refreshing showers instead of water wasting baths. Just think of all that water going down the drain when it could use as much water as 3 showers in 1 bath! Showers are just as good as baths.
 It saves energy and saves fossil fuels, which are irreplaceable. Fluorescent or LED lighting is more energy efficient than incandescent bulbs.
Don’t have unnecessary energy running when you won’t use or need it. Switch off that CD player, and limit your TV to only about 2 hours a day (maximum!).
Turn off the computer when not in use.
Keep radiators off when it's not terribly cold. If it's cold, wear extra clothing.
 Be careful too. Scraps of wrapping paper and material would be ideal, unique additions to a scrapbook. Grab a piece of scrap paper to scribble down a note. And implement the 3 R's! Reduce, reuse, and recycle:


Reduce the amount of waste that is being produced, use things more than once, and give things to others that you don’t want any more. Don’t go shopping every weekend or when you get the chance to (you can reduce the amount of waste in packaging by not shopping more than 2 times a month).
Reuse things that can be used more than once, instead of chucking them away after one use. Take plastic bags, an organic cotton bag or a big bag of your own to the store. Giving things you don’t want any more to the charity shops and using materials like postcards, old Christmas cards and notes for craft all count.
Recycle more. Paper, cardboard and cards can be made into something new. Put them into your recycling bin and make sure the contents are collected when full. Who knows, those old, scruffy notes could be turned into a new notebook next fortnight! Think of new things being made out of new materials and you get the idea.
Compost organic waste in your garden instead of sending it to a landfill or incinerator. You would be giving back to the environment and having a compost pile will improve soil for gardens.
, Encouraging the younger generations into playing outdoors will help them connect with nature and be more aware of our environment.

