 Survive! Let everybody think that you are fond of the job you are performing by showing maximum initiative and creativity, when completing assignments you receive. Do little things to make the day more enjoyable, such as listening to music while you work.;
, However, if you are a direct person, try to smile more to your colleagues and think 5 times before you snap back. Nobody likes unhappy people and will not like to listen to your problems or come to your office just to see your serious and gloomy face.
 Try to put together a list of positive sides of your job, company, employer, and staff. While doing so, keep your mind focused on positive; remember some funny stories that have happened to you recently. This will help to concentrate your thoughts and make them positive.
 If you failed to find any positive sides, you could try to use your imagination in full and make up some positive things or even act to make changes. For instance, take one negative thing - a constant bad smell in the office. You could interpret this fact in your head, as, "It does smell bad. But I'll buy those little funny smell improvers and hang them all over the place and encourage people to open windows more often.” And after all the actions are implemented, you will feel like a hero, who has just saved the planet and therefore you'd come to realise what a silly thing it'd have been to have left such a comfortable place like the one you have just created.
 Whenever you feel like crying, find a calculator, and work out the salary, which you will receive soon and think of shopping, visiting, going to the theatre or dancing.
 Find a task you will enjoy doing (or if not a task - an online magazine or newspaper you have always enjoyed reading). In addition, whenever you have a bad mood, or something wrong has again occurred to you at work - just keep yourself busy with what you enjoy. This is how you could distract and focus on spelling, vocabulary and other more enjoyable or enriching things.
 Imagine your colleagues in funny situations (this works with bosses), and laugh at it when you are alone remembering about them. Laughing will make you happier.
 If you are asked to complete an unwanted task, suggest an alternative way. If it is not approved, act like you were instructed. At the end, everything will happen as you had warned. Just keep this case in mind and wait for the next stupid task to follow. When it arrives, remind politely about the previous case.
 Try to go out for a lunch break, so you would feel the freedom, breathe the fresh air, and stay for a couple of minutes away from the working place.
 Find people you can at least talk to, or ask for advice in the organization, but do it with utmost care having all your wits about you. This does help a lot, when you need support and understanding. If the place is not so perfect, there will be many people supporting you because they have already gone through the same. However, do not rely on them and filter what you say in public. To be on the safe side, be a bit vague, so you will always find a way out.
 Just spend your time filling in application forms and sending out CVs. This will improve your mood greatly by distracting you and giving you something to look forward to and by increasing your chances of finding a better job.
 Put on stylish clothes and spare some of your morning time for make up and a perfect hairdo. A person makes a place, not a place makes a person.
 How long will I be able to stay here? Mark a date on your calendar, when you will leave, if nothing changes. After all, you will be able to see if you are strong enough to overcome the difficulties.
 If the money you get at this place is not the only source of income in your family, if you feel the job is no good for you and you will not reach your personal and career goals being employed by the company, look for another job and leave. You can also leave straight away. Nevertheless, be sensible; there might be some money involved whether you do things one way or another. Ask for advice before taking such a drastic step.

