 While it takes more time and work, creating a scary environment, such as a haunted house, will build a lingering dread in people's hearts and minds while they expect the worst to happen at any moment. When creating a haunted house or other spooky scene, location is key.


A house or structure with scary elements—like narrow hallways, squeaky steps or dark basements—is a good place to start.
Make a map for yourself. Make sure people can easily move from room to room without difficulty.
 A theme will help you decide how to decorate and what elements to include. For true authenticity, come up with a story for why the house is haunted. Is it haunted by an old lady whose husband disappeared into thin air? Is it haunted by a family that was brutally murdered in the basement? Make it at least a little bit believable.


Abandoned insane asylum
Torture chamber
Vampire's lair
Zombie invasion
Evil scientist's lab

, Creating a haunting house on your own can be a challenge. Instead, have your trusted friends dress up as eerie characters and help you decorate the house and spook the guests as they walk through the house. They can leap out at people, hide in closets, or spring out of fake coffins.


You can station some guests on the porch, having them "play dead" until the guests get close enough. Then, they can jump out at your guests, scaring them before they even set foot in the house.
 Create spaces that build tension, which is essential for a good scare. A long, dark hallway that must be followed will have people expecting the worst at any moment. People who are tense and anxious are easier to scare. Each room should have its own spooky theme so your guests are always on their toes and never know what to expect.


Station a volunteer in each room to help create the spooky environment and direct the guests.
Each room can have differently creepy effects, such as a bowl of cold noodles meant to be worms, or a jar of peeled grapes that are supposed to be eyeballs.
Create "specimen jars" by placing broken toys or bent utensils in cloudy water that is dyed green.
 Sound effects can go a long way in completely scaring a person out of his wits. There are a few things you can do to truly scare your guests with just a few key sounds. Here are some things to try:


Have your volunteers scamper from one side of an empty room to the other, wearing heavy boots.
Place a few coins in an empty soda can and tie it to a string. Have your volunteers shake the can to create a "rattling" sound.
Play a recording of spooky sounds in every room, from the sound of a woman screaming, wind wildly blowing, or the sounds of chainsaw.
Make the most of silence. Make the house absolutely silent from time to time so the fear factor goes up during the next spooky sound.
 The lighting can also go a long way in scaring the living day "lights" out of people. You can build areas of complete darkness, incorporate disorienting strobe lights into one room, or pump in fog in front of a light for an eerie effect, all of which will confuse a person's senses and make him more susceptible to scares. Here are some other ways to create spooky lighting:


Designate a hallway where the guests have to wear blindfolds -- just make sure they're comfortable with this.
Light a spotlight under fake creepy insects or a spiderweb to create a spooky shadow on the wall.
Drape black plastic bags around the furniture to catch a little bit of eerie light.
 Always stay in character in the haunted house to maintain the illusion. Don't stop and say hi to your friends. Keep the haunted house completely scary and believable. Don't break character, not even when you escort your guests out of the house.


Later, when the guests tell you they had a great time at your haunted house, act like you have no idea what they're talking about.

