 Your mechanic can check if there are components that need to be replaced and fixed. A well-maintained vehicle runs efficiently.;
, Replacing this essential car component promotes fuel efficiency and performance providing the optimal spark to ignite the most air/fuel mixture, boosting engine combustion and reduces unburned fuel waste emissions. This should be changed regularly because they wear out after some time. Most recommend replacing them every 50,000 miles.


Experts recommend using iridium spark plugs. They last longer than regular copper or platinum spark plugs.
Always check with manufacturer or your truck service book for the recommended spark plugs. Although iridium spark plugs do last longer than cooper or platinum spark plugs, copper metal is a better conductor for electricity and creates a bigger ignition spark.
Inspect each spark plug for the correct electrode gap. Manufacturers package spark plugs with gauge already adjusted and protected with a small plastic or carton cylinder around the thread protecting the electrode from impact.
Use a spark plug gauge to check and adjust gap if you drop the spark plug. Most auto parts stores have spark plug gauge key-chains on display at the counter along with single electrical grease packs.
 It is recommended to use a high quality wiring harness set with silicone isolation. Silicone has superior heat tolerances and are more flexible and higher tensile strength.


Worn or cracked wiring can reduce performance or break off when pulling the booths making plug removal more difficult.
Inspect contact connection plugs on ignition coils and spark plugs for a solid connection grip and use electrical grease to prevent arcing short-circuit damage on the cables.
 It extends your vehicle’s lifespan and keeps it running smoothly by having the parts of the engine clean and well lubricated.


Using synthetic oil is highly recommended. They perform better in extreme weather and lubricate engine components better than regular oil.
Use the recommended thickness/Viscosity S.A.E oil rating for your vehicle's mileage and weather season.
 It keeps the fuel system clean by removing dirt and carbon buildup in the engine's valves, cylinders and fuel injectors. This is a proven way to maximize fuel efficiency and boost engine performance.


Pour the recommended treatment bottle on the empty tank before topping with fresh fuel. This helps mixing the fuel additive evenly.
Refill after the entire tank is used up.
 Performance tires or lower resistance tires offer a better traction and handling than regular tires. The engine works harder with less inflated tires because of increased road friction.


Read customer reviews on tire websites before making a decision.

