 Korean women have blemish-free faces (most of them) with a porcelain finish. This requires a lot of maintenance and even cosmetic alterations to achieve clear skin.


Before creating the look, conceal any blemishes, pimples, or marks in your skin using a concealer.
Use a yellow concealer for more stubborn spots. For redness or acne, dab a green concealer first, then top off with the skin-toned concealer.
When you apply it, use a concealing brush. If you're going to use your fingers, do not rub on the concealer; make light and gentle taps instead until the concealer sets evenly.;
,

After your concealing session, dampen a makeup sponge, rub on the foundation powder, and dab on skin. Moistening the applicator helps the foundation powder give you a no-cakey look which lasts for hours.
If you want to exactly copy the traditional way of applying foundation, you can simply use a light powder, but that won't work much in controlling sebum or giving you porcelain texture. You will know when everything is done when your pores are hardly/slightly visible now, and when your blemishes have faded for about 60%-80%. Too much application can give you an unnatural appearance which is a big no-no in traditional makeup routines.



Prepare a black/dark brown eyeliner. Whether it be gel, pencil, or cream liner, as long as it is edible, then it is good.
Choose a non-smudging liner to prevent a huge mess around the eyes.
First, dampen the sponge applicator before applying a neutral-colored shadow along the crease of your eye.
Do not put beyond the crease or you will be ruining your intended no-makeup look.
Afterwards, tightline your upper lids. Make the line as close as possible to the eyelashes.
If you want to intensify your eyes, you can make the winged-style eye lining, where the line exceeds the corner of the eye to lengthen and narrow the eye shape.
Draw a thin white line below your lower lids (use a neutral/white/peach eye shadow or simply a white eyeliner to do this). This brightens your eyes so your upper lids are emphasized.
After finishing applying eyeliner, use a clear mascara on the lower and upper lashes, then curl them.
 Bushy brows are a trend in Korea! Even in the Joseon era, if you notice photographs of real Joseon people or Joseon queens/princesses (well, not all. If you look at Queen Min's photo, her eyebrows are thin), they have bushy eyebrows which give them a youthful, innocent look.


Grab an eyebrow powder applicator (You can use a little brush if there is none), dip into a dark brown eye shadow, and sweep lightly over the inward end of the brows. Do not move across the whole brow. The objective here is to fill in the gaps between the hairs to saturate the natural thickness and curve of your brows.
If you have thin brows that make it impossible to create a bushy look, just define the curves and make the color a little darker. Overshadowing the brows robs you of a natural appearance; it makes you look like a constipated queen.
 Joseon women also blushed their cheeks. They used dried persimmons to color them. A tinge of orange or light brown blush does the trick, but to use darker shades ruin the picture. The blush should only be around the center of the cheeks, not the whole cheekbones.


Do not brush across the side of your face.
Do a circular motion around the center of your cheeks while you blush.
 Before putting any lip color, use a clear lip balm to soften and moisturize your lips.


If you wish to sport a sterner look, use a brown/nude matte lipstick.
Never go for glossy shades!
Use a tinted lip balm to complete it. Tinted ones look best in keeping a neutral and youthful glow.

