 The idler spring (aka simply the "extension spring" by the OEM) is a 6.17" extension spring connecting the idler bracket assembly to a stationary 1/4" x 1-3/4" hex bolt mounted onto the mowing deck assembly. This spring, because of its location is typically exposed to the elements and will periodically require replacement.
 Due to the orientation of how the idler spring is mounted onto the idler bracket (the Spring is attached to the Bracket from the underside) turn the bracket assembly counter-clockwise until the spring clears the deck surface and then can be removed.



NOTE: When turning the bracket assembly there was noticeable friction between the bracket and the deck indicating something amiss. Take note of the following optional steps that deviate from the standard OEM assembly.
: After turning the bracket Assembly, unmount the V-belt from between the idler and #2-Pulley.



OPTIONAL STEP: See SHORTCUT #02 in the "Tips" section below for details.
 Using a 9/16" wrench remove the 3/8" hex nut that secures the idler bracket assembly to the deck assembly. This is followed by removing the 3/8" flat washer, the Shield Spacer, and finally the 3/8" x 1" hex bolt.



OPTIONAL STEP: See SHORTCUT #02 in the "Tips" section below for details.
 When the idler assembly is removed, check the mowing deck surface for scoring or damage caused by the Bracket coming into contact. Damage or scoring indicates either a misaligned or damaged bracket. It is also possible that this is an indication of an "erroneous" assembly by the factory. Refer to SHORTCUT #02 in the "Tips" section below for details.



Insure that the bolt-head is flush against the metal surface of the mower deck and that there is no debris underneath.
 Make sure that its orientation is correct with the idler pulley being towards the front of the deck.
 Then, using a 9/16" wrench, place and secure the 3/8" hex nut that mounts the idler bracket assembly to the deck assembly.


NOTE: Another wrench of the same size may be required to hold the mounting bolt-head as the assembly is being tightened down.
 Then, aligning the bracket assembly with its mounting hole in the deck assembly insert the 3/8" x 1" hex bolt up through the bottom. This is followed by removing the 3/8" flat washer, the shield spacer, and finally the 3/8" x 1" hex bolt.
 To begin re-installation of the idler assembly, flip the shield spacer with its wide-face down and align it over the 3/8" mounting hole in the deck. (Optional)

, Lubricate the seat of the shield spacer with a small amount of general-purpose grease and then seat the idler assembly down onto the spacer. (Optional)

, Re-insert the 3/8" x 1" hex bolt from the underside of the deck assembly up through the idler bracket assembly. Replace the 3/8" flat washer followed by the 3/8" hex nut and tighten using the 9/16" wrench. An additional 9/16" wrench may be required to secure the bolt-head while tightening down the hex nut. (Optional)

, Lubricate the seat of the shield spacer with a small amount of general-purpose grease and then seat the idler assembly down onto the spacer. (Optional)

