 Pick a spot that’s level and free of obstructions. If any part of the ground rises slightly above the rest, plan to make this your infield. If possible, select an area where strong, dense grass already grows for proper turf.Although the infield’s measurements are standardized, the size and shape of the outfield may vary from field to field. To have a total distance of 200 feet from home plate to the backend of outfield, you will need an open field of roughly 60,000 square feet.If you’re constructing a baseball field for official play (as opposed to one for neighborhood pickup games) and no ideal patches of turf are available, choose one where the grass can be easily nurtured back to health. If no such area exists, hire a professional landscapist to plant adequate turf.
To maintain quality, install both an irrigation and drainage system if your field is for official play.
 Determine where “home” will be. Position your plate. Face the flat portion of the plate toward the field so that the back corner points away from it.


For official play, plan to remove the grass surrounding home plate. Once you’ve positioned your plate, measure a 9-foot circle encompassing it, with the back corner of the plate as its center. Use spray-paint to trace the circle of turf to be removed later., Begin your measurement from the back corner of home plate. From there, extend your tape measure straight forward from home plate into the infield. Measure a distance of a 84 feet and 10 1/4 inches. Mark this measurement with a stake in the ground.If you’re only setting up a diamond for a friendly neighborhood game, go ahead and place your second base down now, with the mark from your stake as its center.
 After you’ve marked second base, keep your tape measure fully extended. Slowly retract your tape measure until you’re 46 feet away from home plate. Stake the ground here to mark where the front of your pitcher’s rubber will be.For a temporary field, go ahead and place your pitcher’s rubber now, with the front of the rubber centered at the mark you’ve just made in the ground. Position the rubber so that it’s parallel to the front of home plate.
For a permanent field to be used for official play, plan to create a pitcher’s mound. Once you’ve marked where the front of the rubber will be, continue to slowly retract the tape measure toward home plate by another 10 inches. Stake the ground here to mark the center of your mound. With this mark as your center, measure an 10-foot circle surrounding it. Use spray-paint to trace the area for later turf-removal and/or added soil to elevate the mound., To find each base, use two tape measures. Begin one measurement from the back tip of home plate. Start the other from the center of second base. Extend each tape measure in the direction of either first or third base until they both read 60 feet. Stake the ground where the two tape measures meet.To set up a diamond right away for immediate play, set the bases down now with the back corners of each (the ones pointing away from the infield) positioned at the marks you’ve just made in the ground.
For a professional field, use spray-paint to trace all of the baselines from stake to stake for turf-removal. Also measure and trace a 9-foot radius around each base within the square created by the baselines for the players’ slide areas.

