 This will alert your horse to pay attention to you.
Once your horse begins to slow, add another cue. Keep your upper body rigid, tall, and motionless. Let your weight settle into your legs.
Use your legs to give your horse a light squeeze around its sides. Hold your legs in this slight squeeze for two or three paces before giving your horse its next command.
If your horse isn’t responding to your cues, try the half-halt again a few steps later. A successful half-halt results in an alteration of your horse’s gait.;
, Repeat your verbal cue of choice every time you slow your horse. This way, your horse will come to associate the word you selected with the action of slowing down and moving more cautiously.
 By the time the horse is an adult, walking through water will be second nature to the horse.


A foal cannot, obviously, cross water at the same depth that a larger adult horse can. Train young horses in a wide puddle of only a few inches deep.
This early training will build up the horse’s confidence and make it comfortable with being in the water.
Gradually increase the amount of water the horse trains in.
 If your horse is truly uncomfortable with water, walk it and train it near a garden hose. After your horse can adequately perform all your commands near the garden hose, turn the hose on, allowing just a trickle to come out. Continue training near the garden hose, slowly increasing the flow of water from the hose over time.Once the water is coming out of the hose at its maximum rate, expose your horse to more direct sources of water such as a sprinkler system. Start training your horse at a distance from the sprinkler that the horse is comfortable with, and gradually move your horse toward the sprinkler during training sessions.
Teach the horse that water is fun. Lead your horse into deeper water, especially on hot summer days. Many horses enjoy splashing and playing in pools and rivers.
When your horse has a positive association with water, getting it to walk through water will be easy.

