


Financial professionals often recommend projecting approximately 60 to 80 percent of your pre-retirement income. Your particular situation may require more or less income than this. While your budget may no longer include some employment-associated costs such as commuting, medical bills and other costs will almost certainly increase dramatically as you age. Furthermore, you might have plans to travel the world during retirement, or make annual gifts to your family. In any case, an accurate estimate of your monthly retirement expenses is a logical starting point to projecting your retirement income needs with inflation.;
,


Common assumptions for annual inflation rates typically range from 2 to 4 percent. Historically, inflation rates range from more than 5 percent for extended periods of time to other periods with little or no inflation, or even deflation. It would be prudent then to assume a relatively modest rate of inflation around 3 percent.
 Find a calculator that allows for manipulation of the inflation variable rather than one which assumes the company's generic inflation projection.


One mistake future retirees make is assuming their retirement expenses will inflate at a steady pace throughout retirement. While this might be true for expenses like food and gasoline, some expenses are almost guaranteed to increase much faster than inflation. As you continue to age during retirement, medical expenses could begin consuming a growing portion of your monthly income. Based on your medical history and underlying conditions, you may need to add several percentage points to your original inflation assumption.



Many mutual fund companies or brokerage firms have complete planning software available free of charge on their websites. Excel spreadsheets can also help you calculate your retirement income needs by annual inflation factors.
 An adviser with the CFP (Certified Financial Planner) designation, for instance, can help you run accurate projections of your retirement income needs with inflation.

