 Yes, it’s best if you can go into an exam well rested. But people can still function relatively well with little sleep, so long as they don’t string too many sleepless nights together. And worrying about getting sleep can actually make it hard to fall asleep. The best approach is to understand that more sleep will help, but not to panic if it won’t come.If you can’t sleep, don’t go back to studying. It is important to let your mind rest, even if you don’t fall asleep. Try the relaxation techniques below first. If you still can’t sleep, read a book or do some other relaxing activity., A good way to deal with worries or distracting thoughts you can’t get out of your head is to write them down. Putting them in a list means you don’t have to concentrate on remembering them, letting your mind relax.This also helps when meditating. Have a journal nearby so you can jot down any thoughts you can’t get out of your head., Napoleon was famous for being able to go to sleep almost instantly in any circumstances. His technique was to take any thoughts that were bothering him and to imagine putting them in a filing cabinet drawer and closing that drawer. Try it. Lie down, close your eyes and try to clear your mind. When thoughts enter, imagine placing them in a drawer and filing them away. This should help you to clear your mind so you can sleep., Worries about things you need to do often keep people from sleeping. Instead of dwelling on things you have not yet done, try focusing on what you have already accomplished in order to calm your mind. Lie still, relax and recall your day; it does not matter if you go from start to finish or in reverse order. Do not summarize or skip anything. The key is to recall as many details as possible.

For example: I woke up. Stretched in bed. Rolled out of bed. Went to the bathroom. Put toothpaste on my toothbrush. etc.Just don’t stress out if you can’t remember any details. The goal here is not perfection. It’s a way to help you get your thoughts in order so you can relax.
 There is a long tradition, going back at least to the Greeks, of using mental images to stimulate sleep. To help you sleep, conjure an image of a place that you find restful and soothing, like a tropical beach or fern-covered forest floor. Or, try one of these tried and true mental exercises:The ball of yarn – Imagine a tightly wound ball of yarn, which represents your tensions and worries. Now, imagine the ball slowly unwinding as it rolls across the floor. The strand of unfurled yarn grows as the ball slowly shrinks. Concentrate on breathing steadily as the ball slowly unwinds until the yarn lies stretched out, relaxed, like you.
The sleep dome – Imagine a dome-shaped barrier sitting over you, protecting you from the world and any tasks you need to accomplish. Focus on the texture, color, and shape of the barrier. Know that no worries can penetrate it. As other thoughts enter your mind, imagine them bouncing off the dome, unable to reach you.
The river of sleep – Imagine yourself floating like a leaf on a gentle stream. Let yourself be carried along, buoyed up by the warm water. Hear its gentle murmur. Feel its caressing you. Relax into it and let it carry you to sleep.
 Several herbs can help you deal with anxiety and fall asleep. You can usually find these herbs as teas, but you can also find extracts, caplets, and tinctures at most health food stores.

Valerian root. Valerian has been shown to be effective at battling anxiety and helping you sleep, although it can take a few weeks to take full effect.Passionflower. Passionflower is generally milder than valerian. It can help you relax and fall asleep. It can interact with sedatives and some other medications, so talk to your doctor if you take other prescription medications.