 Some of the things to point out include:


That it captures CO2 and releases O2 more efficiently than many other plants.
It is an evergreen tree and grows in hot climate like that of India and cool climate like that of Nepalese high hills.
It is regarded as an incarnation of Lord Vishnu and The Buddha (high religious importance).;
, The ideas and definitions surrounding the vision of sustainable development are many and various. Nevertheless, there is a broad measure of agreement among both academics and business practitioners that sustainable development is desirable and necessary. Sustainable development requires effective achievement of targets in each of the following dimensions: ecological, economical, social, and financial. Thus, the general business task resulting from the goal of sustainable development on the one hand is effective satisfaction of ecological and social needs, and on the other is skillful integration of environmental and social management in the conventional economic management. Using Ficus religiosa could be a valuable model to demonstrate this concept on real ground.
 The CO2 capturing capacity of Ficus religiosa could be utilized for climate change management:


The traditional approach for watering these trees has been through maintaining ponds near by the tree (pond culture).
The tree could be shelter for various birds and insects.
Planting this tree on riverbanks can help control soil erosion.
 Because Nepalese villagers consider the Pīpal as incarnation of Viśņu and Buddha, they have a spiritual attachment with this tree. Tree worship on Saturday, constructing stone platforms around the tree, tree marriage of Ficus religiosa with Ficus bengalensis are special aspects of Nepali culture demonstrating the villagers' love of trees generally, and this species in particular. Saturday worship to pleased the planet Saturn is part of popular folk culture of the region, which is made difficult by the lack of availability of the tree in many localities. (The situation is bad enough that some folk have resorted to planting Ficus religiosa in pots.) Planting this tree on the bank of the holy river may help villagers to maintain tree worship culture, while supporting the integrity of the river bank.


The number 108 has sacred importance in Nepal. Aiming to concentrate 108 trees on the banks of the holy river will be viewed as yet more auspicious. Additionally, if we can plant Ocimum basilicum L along with this tree, and surround them with all types of fossil stone, it may help to develop a locality into a pilgrim site.
 Equity investment in a conservation project is very important. Planting the Pancapallav tree on sacred place could generate people participation. By planting this tree, we can generate grass root awareness of climate change with minimum effort.


Link the social value of Ficus religiosa to make the local people more aware of their cultural heritage.
Concentrate on one locality, as this can innovate tourism. The place could be effective product to demonstrate the slogan " Naturally Nepal, once is not enough". The site could be equal productive on Spiritual tourism, Academic Tourism and Eco tourism.
Use for craft sales. By applying simple techniques to remove the green layer, the leaves with attractive tail like tips could be utilized for crafts. By disseminating the technology among young and disadvantage groups, you can disperse the tourism opportunity among targeted people.
Besides leaf-craft, develop the conservation-based micro business by applying the concept of social marketing. The site could provide market incentives to conserve the product, if you can explore the message in the tourism market. This approach may prove as effective in-situ conservation of agro-bio-diversity.

