 While issues of money can cause anxiety for many people, it's important to make it a regular part of the conversation. It shouldn't be a taboo topic in your household in particular. You and your family need to be on the same page about how to spend and how to save.Instead of only bringing up the topic of money when things are past-due or bills keep increasing, talk with your spouse and family about the values that you have related to money.
Explore what you think it going well in terms of finances, as well as what needs improvement.
Choose settings that allow for undivided attention, and help to foster learning. For example, have family dinners be a time to talk about finances and how to manage your money. Teaching your kids in particular about healthy spending habits that will help them in the long run.
 You may feel like you're out of control of your finances, yet cope with this stress by in turn making poor choices. Do you feel like you spend as "retail therapy"? Do you feel your finances are making you turn to other poor coping habits, such as smoking, drinking, or avoiding people?Stress with work, your family, or your health may cause you to overspend as a way to compensate for feeling overwhelmed. It can be a vicious cycle in which the spending can in turn cause more stress at home or with your health.
Figure out if you are using negative coping to avoid thinking about your financial problems. Do you smoke, drink, or do drugs to avoid stressors about money? Do you make choices that are only about the short-term, such going out and partying with friends, but failing to see how this could lead to more trouble down the road?
Realize that your impulsive habits may be making things more stressful for you. Try replacing negative or impulsive thoughts with positive ones where self-control feels rewarding.
 Sometimes, your financial stressors may not be just your own, but they could involve your partner, relatives, friends, or children. Avoid being taken advantage of as a source of money for other people. Set boundaries of what others can take from you.


If they are relatives or friends, helping out once or twice is one thing. Helping out every week or month is different. Help them to figure out ways to reduce their spending or increase their income. Avoid letting them manipulate you into giving away your money, particularly if you are already struggling.
If they are your spouse or children, this could require you to set spending limits for your spouse and children if they continue to overspending or misuse the money.
Don't enable them by giving money when it only continues their bad habits. For example, let's say that your children continue to overspend their allowance each month on clothes, and end up asking for more money. Address this concern with them and help them to understand where they might be overspending. Set limits if it continues to be an issue.
 While our modern culture often portrays wealth as happiness, it may give a false impression. While being able to meet basic needs like food, shelter, and transportation are key, there are lots of people who get caught up in assessing their worth by how much money they have.Understand that you are not alone in your struggle. Avoid assuming that you're the only person making sacrifices because of financial issues.
Once you have your basic needs met, focus on how you can be happy with what you have. Focus on being grateful for a home, friends, family, a job, and other things that you might take for granted.
Get out of the "keeping up with Joneses" mindset. Avoid constantly comparing yourself and your worth based on what your friends, co-workers, or relatives have. If they are only your friends because you're spending money on fancy trips, nights-out, or dinners, this is not likely a genuine friendship.
 Focus your attention on friends and family that don't make you feel less-than if you're having financial stress. Identify people who care about you, no matter how much money you have.Turn your attention to building stronger and healthier relationships with your family and friends. If you're used to buying things for them as a way to show appreciation, consider new ways to show you care by spending more time with them, or using words of affection.
Openly communicate about any financial challenges you may be facing. For example, let's say your friend asks if you want to take a trip with her to New York City this summer. You may already know that you can't afford that. Be honest about your limitations. Loving relatives and friends will understand and be supportive.
 Learn to reduce stress through self-care. Find ways to relax and de-stress without spending lots of money. It could be a matter of having more time to yourself, or feeling more in control of your work and life.


Take five minutes each day to write down what you're grateful for. Consider talking about at least three positive things that happened that day or that week.
Get active. Exercise more at home, at work, or with your family. It could be as simple as taking a walk around the office building, or jogging around the neighborhood.
Set limits when your family or your work needs you. If it's after work hours, avoid taking home piles of work to do. If your spouse wants you to do everything around the house, learn to delegate tasks to your family members.
Find a relaxing space to unwind. Consider taking a nature walk. Having a hot bath. Or relaxing in the backyard. Use this time to avoid distractions. Put away any electronic devices.

