 Make sure they know that you’d like to have an important conversation. You don’t want them to feel caught off guard. Ask them when would be a good time. Make sure you’ll have enough time to have the conversation without it feeling rushed.
Choose a place where you can speak privately and comfortably.
 Be honest without being accusatory. You don’t have to place judgements on their behavior; you can simply talk about how you feel.Use "I" Statements. Instead of saying, “You make situations with my other friends unpleasant,” you can say, “I feel awkward when we’re with my other friends and you comment on their clothes.” Instead of saying, “You’re too needy,” you can say, “I don’t feel like the energy I give to this friendship is satisfying to you.”
Mention specific examples, if you can. You can say something like, “When you suggested that I skip my friend’s birthday party, I felt that you didn’t want me to socialize with people who are important to me.”

, Your friend may be feeling particularly vulnerable at this point. Make sure they know that you value their friendship because of their wonderful qualities.Remind your friend of things you share in common, especially if it’s something unique. You could say something like, “You’re one of the only people I can share my passion for rugby with.”
Show them that you appreciate their positive qualities. Say something like, “I’ve always valued how great you are at problem solving. I really appreciate that about you.”

, It’s great that you’re making these efforts to restore your friendship. However, your friend needs to do some of that work too. Let them know that they need to have faith in your friendship in order to meet you halfway.If your friend can’t work on their own jealousy, the friendship may not last much longer. You can gently say something like, “I have a hard time dealing with this jealousy. I hope you can work on it, so that we can continue being good friends.”
Be assertive. Let them know that trust is important in a friendship, and that it’s a two-way street.
 At the end of the conversation, make plans to spend time together again soon. This will let your friend know that you don’t plan to end the friendship.Ask your friend how they’d like to spend time with you. This shows that you want them to be getting something out of the relationship.
Send a text or e-mail later that day thanking them for the conversation. Reiterate that you are grateful for their friendship.

