 During the fast, you use only cash. Hide your credit and debit cards or freeze them in ice so you can’t access them easily. Instead, take out cash from your check or savings account to spend.


By paying with cash, you’ll become more aware of what you are spending.You might not really know how much you spend on a morning coffee or a magazine during your lunch break, especially if you pay with credit.
When you get come, put your coins in a jar. You might need that change before the fast is over.
 During the fast, you will commit to buying only necessities with cash. Generally, necessities will include your food, housing, medication, and transportation.However, there’s no bright line. For example, getting a new hair cut might be a luxury to one person but a necessity for someone who must look professional for their job.
The key is to define necessities before you start fasting, and not in the middle of the fast when you are about to make an emotional purchase.
 Keep a detailed journal about what you buy. Include other helpful information, such as your desire to spend on that day. Where were you? What did you want to buy? What time was it. Keeping the journal will help you identify financial “triggers.”, You’re more likely to stick to your financial fast if other people hold you accountable. Tell your family and friends when your fast begins. With luck, they’ll understand why you didn't buy a birthday gift or go out for happy hour.
 At a minimum, you need to follow your fast for at least 21 days. At the end of three weeks, you should feel a reduction in temptation to spend. You’ll also have saved a little money, which you can also use to pay down your debts or save for retirement., Go back over your journal and check what you bought with cash. Compare your purchases to what you made before the fast. Did you spend a lot less? What were the triggers that tempted you to spend?


Going forward, you can eliminate triggers. For example, you might be tempted to buy clothes after a stressful day at work. Change your commute so you don’t pass your favorite clothing stores.
Also identify when you spend. Everyone needs their little rituals to get through the day, and you don't need to cut them out altogether. Instead, you can find cheaper substitutes.For example, instead of getting a drink with a colleague, go for a brisk walk with a coworker and talk about your day.

