 Some abuse may stem from intent, but some abuse may also come from simply not understanding. If you think someone is keeping a dog in poor conditions, neglecting them, or otherwise harming the dog’s health, talk to them directly about the concerns.Try to be polite. Aggressively confronting another is not the way to get them to hear your point, and it helps to give an individual the benefit of the doubt.
If you see a dog looking lethargic, for example, you might want to say, "I noticed your dog looking a little tired. Have you gone on any long walks recently? If not, it might help to offer them a bit of nourishing food and make sure they always have access to water."
Let the individual know what you’ve seen, why you think the dog is hurting, and what the individual can do to better help care for the dog. Offer them contact information for resources such as groomers, animal rights groups, and vets if you have it available.
Offer to help care for the dog if the individual seems unable to fully do so themselves. If they simply seem unwilling, the situation may require professional intervention. Allow professionals to handle the matter, as you taking the dog away could be seen as theft.;
, If you see a dog being actively abused, call emergency services right away and report what you’re seeing and where the abuse is happening. If you know of a dog that’s regularly abused but not in imminent danger, call your local humane society or animal control as soon as possible.Examples of active abuse may include physical abuse, as well as circumstances such as being chained up outside in dangerous or inclement weather, or being left in a hot car.
Try to document as much as you can about the case. Get down dates, times, locations, and details of suspected abuse. If possible, include photos or video footage as evidence for the authorities.
 Talk to your local Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) or humane society about a suspected case of abuse. They may have legal resources or counselors that can help you determine what does and does not constitute abuse in your area, and what options you have if law enforcement is not responsive.Try to use advocacy groups as a resource. They often have limited authority unto themselves, but may be able to put you in touch with others that can better assist a particular situation.
 If you spot an abandoned dog, call your local animal control or humane society immediately and let them know where you last saw the dog. While waiting for someone to pick the dog up, you may opt to put out food and water to help keep the dog close and ensure it has some nutrition if it is malnourished.Try to avoid coming in close contact with the dog. Leave food and water out front, but do not touch the dog or bring it into your home. You do not know how it will react to you, so the best protective move is to avoid aggravating it.
If you believe the dog is acting erratic or unsafe, use a barrier such as your bag or jacket in between you and the dog. Allow the dog to distract itself with the barrier while you escape elsewhere.

