 Find a store that sells farm and garden supplies and ask an associate about buying metal livestock paneling. Livestock paneling is a kind of thick, heavy metal grating designed to be rugged enough to keep smaller animals from getting into or escaping confined areas. It usually comes in sections that are about 16’ long and 4’ wide.Livestock paneling will be slightly more expensive than concrete wire or wood for making tomato cages. However, they will last considerably longer and will be in no danger of being uprooted or damaged by animals or the elements due to the paneling’s tough construction., Use a sturdy pair of bolt cutters to snip the paneling to the right dimensions to serve as the tomato cage. Measure a section to 6 grating squares widthwise and cut away the rest. Do the same for the length of the panel, counting about 9 squares down from the end and cutting all the way across. You should be left with a rectangular section of paneling 6 squares wide and 9 squares high.Use gloves and eye protection when handling the bolt cutters. The severed edges of the metal will be sharp.
Work in a flat, open space outside somewhere where the metal trimmings won’t get lost underfoot. Safely dispose of the unused trimmings when you’re finished.
 Take a spare wooden plank at least the length of the panel you cut. You will be using this to help you shape the cage. Place the plank across the length of the panel at the midway point, three squares down from the top. Stand on the plank with all of your weight to hold down the panel as you pull one edge up toward you. Bend the panel to a 90 degree angle to create an open cage that will contain the growth of your tomato plants.The thick metal bars of livestock paneling might be difficult to bend on your own. If possible, recruit an extra set of hands to help you provide leverage in shaping the cage.
These dimensions create a fairly large open-style corner cage. For a cage enclosed on three sides, measure the panel 9 squares wide and make an additional bend so that each of the sides is 3 squares wide., Cut away the horizontal bars at the bottom of the panel to create spikes that you can stick in the ground. Take a moment to make sure that each spike is straight. Stand the cage up lengthwise, spike-side down, and push it down forcefully into the soil around your tomato plants. The cage will protect and contain the growth of the plants on two sides, allowing the other sides to remain open for easy watering, mulching and picking.The cages will be slightly heavy, so the spikes should be insert 5-6” into the ground to help it hold steady.
If you’re using cages to support multiple tomato plants, position them so that the cage corners are facing each other. This will keep the tomato plants from growing unchecked into one another.

