 You should never breed a dog unless you have their bloodlines’ medical history. Without having medical history, you may perpetuate genetic flaws, disorders, or other medical problems.


Make sure you have registration paperwork with a nationally or internationally recognized kennel club or association. For instance, the American Kennel Club allows you to register your pure bred dog. If your dog is already registered, they may have your dog’s family breeding history.
Gather information about a dog’s medical or breed history. If you’ve had the dog and its blood line in your family for years, you should already have this information. If you don’t, contact the breeder or person you acquired your dog from for a medical history.;
, You should never breed dogs that have health problems that they can pass on to future generations. The main reason for this is that it is ethically wrong. By irresponsibly breeding dogs with health problems, or not checking to rule out health problems before you breed them, you may be creating a future generation of puppies that will suffer as a result of an inherited disease.


Ensure that each parent in your breeding stock is free from inheritable diseases. For example, you would need to be screening for hip and elbow problems in Labradors and screening Collies for Collie Eye Anomaly. If you are not sure what diseases your breed of dog is susceptible to, talk to your veterinarian and ask about screening options.
Never breed dogs with a history of medical problems. For instance, avoid breeding boxers who develop tumors or pugs that develop hip dysplasia early., Whenever thinking about breeding a dog, you need to make sure to gather all records pertaining to their behavioral history.


Make sure you have personal experience with the dog.
The best dogs to breed are those that conform to the behavior traits most associated with the breed. For instance, herding dogs like collies are generally anxious, protective, and obedient.
The worst dogs to breed are those that demonstrate problematic behavior attributes for their breed or type of dog. For instance, bad traits for collies include: fear-based aggression, separation anxiety, and destructiveness.
Gather information about the behavior of the dogs’ parents or grandparents.
Never breed a dog that has shown aggression toward other dogs or humans., One of the biggest problems with breeders is the penchant to produce more puppies than they can place in good, well-qualified and responsible homes. When this happens, breeders will often lower their prices, standards, or just give away dogs.


Lowering your price or qualifications may result in you placing a dog in a poor home. The dog may suffer abuse, develop bad habits, and contribute to your poor reputation.
Overbreeding places a strain on the mother, which is morally wrong. Reputable breeders will not overbreed because they care about the health and well-being of their dogs, not just their profits. Overbreeding of dogs may also result in overpopulation and an excess of a certain breed in an area. This will lower the price of that breed, hurting your business. In addition, if you overbreed, you will likely develop a poor reputation with your competitors, kennels, and veterinarians., Without following positive habits, you'll put your dogs -- especially your female dogs -- at risk. In addition, you'll gain a reputation as a greedy and unscrupulous breeder.Wait until your dogs reach sexual maturity before breeding them. For most dogs, this is two years.
Provide time between pregnancies. In most cases, this is one heat cycle. Many dog breeds cycle two or three times a year. As a result, you should only breed a female dog once a year -- or twice a year if they cycle a lot.
Never breed a female dog older than five years.
Check with your vet before you breed a dog.
Breeding a female dog more than five times may put the mother dog and puppies at risk.
 The best time to socialize your puppies is when they are between the ages of three and 12 weeks. This is the time when they will be the most likely to accept new people and experiences. As dogs get older, they are less likely to accept new things, so it is important to start the socialization process early.While it is important to start socializing your puppies early, you also do not want to rush things. Make sure that you give your puppies plenty of time to get used to new stimuli. Don’t expose them to too much too quick.For example, before taking your puppies to a busy park with lots of people in it, start by letting them get used to being around a small group of strangers, such as a few friends that they have not met yet. Then, work up to taking them to a public place as they grow more comfortable with new people.
 The more you can expose your puppies to when they are still young, the better. Puppies will grow into more relaxed, well-adjusted dogs if you expose them to as many people, places, and things as you can early on. Some things you should expose the puppies to include:Different types of people.
Other dogs and cats.
Different types of places and things, such as parks, crowds, and people riding bicycles.
Loud noises, such as thunder and passing cars.
 To encourage your puppies as they encounter new people and situations, make sure to provide them with lots of positive reinforcement. This will help them to see the experience as a positive one and be less likely to be frightened of it the next time they encounter it.You can use a combination of praise, petting, and treats to provide positive reinforcement.
Make sure that you are confident when you introduce your puppies to new situations. If you seem nervous, then they may pick up on it and feel nervous as well.
 After your puppies have been vaccinated, you can enroll them in a puppy class to begin getting socialized with other dogs and people. This will give you a structured environment for socializing your puppies with the help of a professional dog trainer.These classes are offered by pet stores and dog trainers.
 Make sure all dogs in your care regularly see a veterinarian, and have been dewormed and vaccinated. Without regular medical care and precautionary measures like deworming and vaccinations, you could be jeopardizing the health of a pregnant dog or newborn puppies. Make sure to:


See a veterinarian regularly while your dog is pregnant.
Have all your dogs immunized on a regular schedule. One of the biggest causes of puppy death is lack of immunizations and healthcare in the weeks and months following birth.
Have all of your puppies and dogs wormed on a regular schedule.
Be sure to get preventative care for the mother and her puppies while they are under your care. This includes all of their recommended deworming and vaccinations.
Follow the recommendations of your vet., Caring for and creating a loving space for your dogs is critical in producing loving dogs that will make great family pets. Thus, you need to go out of your way to create a space that nurtures your dogs.


Treat the pregnant dog well. Love her and show her affection. Affection, like genetics, is passed down from a mother to puppies.
Play with the puppies when it is time to appropriately do so. Make sure to handle them, love them, and get them used to human contact. The more well-adjusted they are, the happier your clients will be., One of the biggest problems with many breeders is the unsanitary nature of their facilities. By keeping an unsanitary environment, you’ll endanger the health and well-being of your dogs and turn off customers who may visit your facilities.


Clean runs and cages daily. Remove fecal matter and urine.
Use safe cleaning solvents that are safe, and use them appropriately. For instance, if you use bleach, make sure to dilute it at a ratio of 1 part bleach for every 32 parts water. In addition, make sure to rinse kennels and other surfaces thoroughly after applying any sort of cleaning solution.
Bathe your dogs at least once a month under normal circumstances., Ultimately, after your dogs, your clientele is the most important aspect of maintaining a good reputation as a breeder. This is because the environment of a home is a huge influence on the character of the dog. If you place your dogs in bad homes, the dogs themselves will develop bad habits.


Ask for references from friends, vets, and other animal care professionals.
Ask questions gauging the preparation and intentions of the family. For instance, ask: “Why are you interested in a dog?” or “Why do you want to adopt this particular breed?” or “Who will be primarily responsible for taking care of the dog?” You’ll be able to make a decent judgement just based off simple questions.
Schedule a home visit so you can see the conditions that any dog you place will live in. Pay special attention to safety, such as the availability of chemicals, people food, or small pieces of plastic out in the open. Identify if the person has a fenced yard? If the person does not, do they intend to walk the dog, let the dog roam, or will they chain it to a tree? Lack of a fence might be a red flag for you., Always make sure to accept your customer’s feedback and accept their calls whenever they have a question or want to offer you feed back.


Whenever a customer calls, you should politely and enthusiastically answer the phone and address any question or problem they might have. If the customer has a problem, start your response with “I’m sorry you are having difficulty,” and then proceed to explain what they should do to remedy the problem.
Create a formal avenue for customer feedback. For example, when you provide them with paper work associated with the adoption, also provide them with a survey card asking them about their perception of you as a breeder., As word of mouth can only get you so far, you need to spend some time formally managing your reputation. Thankfully, technology and the publishing industry makes this fairly easy. Consider:


Craft a website for your breeding business. Your website can be very simple -- just sections for basic information about you and your dogs, photographs of puppies and breeding stock, and maybe even some testimonials from satisfied customers.
Create a small ad or flyer with basic information about your business. Ask other pet care professionals, like vets or kennel owners, to put up your flyer. Publish the ad in local newspapers, if you need extra business.
Don’t hesitate to ask for formal testimonials from clients you know are happy with you as a breeder. Post these on a website or on a wall in your home or office., Perhaps the most important aspect of winning your clients’ appreciation is offering them advice and appropriate information before and after they adopt a dog from you. This way, you’ll make sure that they are on track to succeed as new dog parents.


Provide instructions on how to care for a new puppy. This should include information on food, housetraining, toys, and immunizations.
Let prospective owners know the average costs for dog ownership.
Provide prospective owners with details about the breed-related medical problems, temperament, and life span.