 You can apply for this position in the public or private sector, nationally and internationally. Available fields include residential construction, sustainable building, and commercial infrastructure. Employers hiring quantity surveyors tend to require 2 to 5 years of experience or more as a post-graduate intern or assistant.Search online job boards and recruitment sites for “assistant quantity surveyor,” “assistant cost estimator” and “assistant estimator.”

, Search online job boards for the titles quantity surveyor, cost engineer and project controls manager. Your on-the-job training will vary based on your prior experience. Upon being hired, you may be trained from a few weeks up to several months.Approximately 40% of cost estimators work in the construction industry, and about 14% work in manufacturing.
Be prepared to impress in your interviews. For instance, educate yourself on the company beforehand, dress professionally, arrive early, and have stories prepared that demonstrate your skills.
Ace your application. Your application should convey your talents and explain how they will make you a valuable asset to the position and the company.
 Keep up-to-date with computer literacy and information technology. Strive to meet your clients’ needs. Personal and interpersonal skills are important to the business success of this profession, as are project management and marketing.Participate in networking opportunities where possible. Try searching online for meetings and dinners where discussions are held about your field.
Make it a point to learn from mentors in your profession, whether at the firm where you’re employed, or by reading news in your field.
 Once you’ve gained experience, you can become a senior quantity surveyor, or opt to be self-employed as a freelance quantity surveyor. You may even decide to open a private practice. At this point, you will have more control over your schedule and hours on the job.An experienced quantity surveyor has at least five to seven years in the field.