 This craft uses a straw wreath and painted yogurt cups to make a modern looking wreath for your home. Straw wreaths can be purchased at craft stores or in the home and garden section of general retailers, like Walmart and Target. In all, you'll need:


36 yogurt cups (larger wreaths may take more cups, smaller wreaths fewer)
Spray paint (for plastic)
A straw wreath
A hot glue gun (and glue), Leftover bits of food in your yogurt cups could turn your lovely wreath into a smelly, bug attracting mess. Rinse each cup thoroughly with warm, soapy water, and remove any remaining bits of foil as you do so. After cleaning, lay your cups out to air dry.
 Once your cups are dry, use hot glue to attach the lip of the cups to the wreath’s outer rim so the cups are sticking off to the sides. Repeat this process until there are 12 yogurt cups evenly positioned around the perimeter of the straw wreath.Hold each cup in place for 30 seconds to allow the glue to fully set.
You can alternate the angle of your cups on the outer edge to create interesting designs. For example, you might switch back and forth between cups sticking straight out to the sides and cups angled slightly forward.
When you're finished, the outer edge of the wreath should be entirely covered in cups, but the front of the wreath should still be bare.
 Apply hot glue to the lip of a cup, then hold it against the front of the wreath to attach it. Continue doing this until you create a second ring of yogurt cups.You can stagger this ring of cups in a slight zigzag to create variation in your design.
 Smaller wreaths may only be able to accommodate two rows of cups. If you have space for a third, use your hot glue in the same fashion you did previously to attach the mouth of the cup to the wreath.To give your wreath a 3-D effect, you should orient this row of cups to face directly forwards.
Allow the wreath to dry for an hour so the glue completely sets before painting.
 Take your spray paint and spray your wreath to give it color and uniformity. Be sure you spray thoroughly, as missed spots may make your wreath look less professional.After allowing the paint to dry, you may notice that your wreath needs a second coat. In this case, spray your wreath once more.

