 Heat 2 gallons of cow milk to 29.5°C (85°F) in a large pot, stirring frequently. When the milk reaches the desired temperature, add either 1 packet of direct set mesophilic culture or 1/8 t. bulk mesophilic culture to the milk, stir the culture and milk together, and cover it, allowing it to ferment for 1 hour. Stir the ingredients to homogenize the milk., Add ¼ tablet vegetable rennet dissolved in ½ cup cool water to the mixture. Stir up and down to ensure that the rennet and milk combine thoroughly to make the most cheese. Let the cheese set for 1 hour, or until the whey starts to separate from the curd. There should be a layer of mostly-clear whey that floats to the top of the crud as the curd pulls away from the sides of the pot., Use a knife to cut the curds into 1/4-inch cubes. Allow the cubes to set for 5 minutes to solidify their shape. Do not stir the curd., Slowly heat the curds to 29.5°C (100°F) over the course of 30 minutes. Stir the curds frequently. They will shrink as you stir them. Once they reach the desired temperature, maintain the temperature and keep stirring the curds for another 30 minutes. Then, stop stirring and let the curds settle to the bottom of the pot, which should take about 20 minutes., Return the colander and curds to the cheese pot and let it drain for 15 minutes. Then, take the colander out of the pot and turn the curds out on a cutting board. This should have made gelatinous mass. Pour the whey out of the pot and cut the mass into five slices. Then, return it to the pot and cover the pot., Keep their temperature at around 29.5°C (100°F) and turn the slices every 15 minutes for the next 2 hours. This is the cheddaring process that will make the cheese distinct from other cheeses. After this time elapses, the curds should be shiny and firm. Remove the curds from the pot and cut them into 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) cubes., Cover them and place the pot in the sink filled with hot water. Let them sit there for ten minutes and then stir the curds gently with a wooden spoon. Repeat this process two more times. Take the pot out of the sink and add 2 tbsp. of sea salt to the pot, stirring once more to combine the ingredients., Line your cheese press with cheesecloth and place the curds into the press. Wrap the cloth around the cheese and press it at 10 lbs. for 15 minutes. Flip the cheese and cover it with a fresh piece of cheesecloth and press it at 50 lbs. for 24 hours., Remove the cheese from the press and let it dry in the air for 2-3 days. When it's finished, it should be smooth and dry to the touch., Melt the cheese wax and coat the cheese with it using a wax brush. Age the cheese at 13-15°C (55-60°F) for at least 60 days., Enjoy this tasty cheese on its own or with a variety of tasty breads and meats.