 Before releasing the dog into the house with your cat, you should give the animals time to acclimate to each other’s smells. This will make them calmer and more tolerant when they finally meet. Bring some of your cat’s bedding out into the house and let the dog smell the blankets or bed.Then, bring one of the dog’s blankets to the cat, and let the cat smell the dog’s scent.


If you plan ahead, you and the dog’s owner can even switch the pets’ bedding, so they have more time to acclimate to one another’s scents. Give the dog owner your cat’s bedding, and take the dog’s bed from them.
 Once the animals have become used to smelling one another, you can slowly introduce them face-to-face. Keep the dog on a leash, and bring it into the room where the cat is. Let the animals smell and walk around one another—but if the dog becomes hostile or the cat fearful, separate the animals.Protecting your cat is the priority here. If the dog barks or lunges at your cat, or begins to play with it too roughly, remove the cat.In this scenario, you may need to desensitize the dog before you bring the animals together again.
 In order to ensure that the dog you’re pet-sitting does not attempt to attach or chase your cat, you can slowly increase the dog’s exposure to the cat, thereby lowering the dog’s novelty and excitement towards the cat. Temporarily shut your cat in a bedroom, using a plastic gate. Then walk the dog up to the gate on a leash, so it can see and smell the cat. Keep the dog there briefly, then walk it back away from the cat. Repeat this process several times—the dog should become less and less excited at seeing the cat with every repetition.When the dog is calm when being exposed to the cat, praise the dog and give it a treat. Once the dog can be near the cat without barking or showing much excitement, remove the gate and let the animals meet face-to-face.
Desensitization is a good introductory method if the dog too much energy—whether friendly or hostile—when first seeing the cat.
 Even if the dog and your cat get along—or at least tolerate one another—you’ll still need to provide a space for your cat to retreat to. Dogs often have more playful energy than cats, and your cat will need an area where it can rest, sleep, eat, and receive human attention without being bothered by the dog.Move your cat’s food bowl, water bowl, and a couple of favorite toys to a location that the dog cannot access.

