


Your doctor can also help you find the right therapist to treat your BED.
Your doctor may suggest some medications that have been approved for BED, though these will likely need to be accompanied by lifestyle changes and therapy.If you have a very severe case of BED, your doctor may suggest you check yourself into an inpatient facility where you can receive around-the-clock support.;
, One of the best treatments for BED is cognitive behavior therapy (CBT),a form of talk therapy that you do with a trained mental health professional. CBT will analyze your current thoughts and behaviors and help your restructure them into more productive and healthy patterns.In these sessions, you will formulate a treatment plan with your therapist, coming up with behavioral strategies and methods for managing your feelings and stabilizing your eating.After this, you will also examine the thoughts that lead to your BED and work to restructure these thought patterns so you have a healthier relationship to your thoughts, feelings, and body image.You will then work on reducing your triggers, maintaining your current progress, and avoiding relapse. This method sets out to get you back to a healthier way of life.You can look for a CBT therapist in your area through an online locator. Look into one that specializes in eating disorders to ensure you get the best care possible.
 Dialectical behavior therapy is a type of talk therapy that merges aspects of CBT with eastern approaches to mental health. It is a treatment method more focused on treating the emotional aspects of BED. It has four main tenants of treatment, which are:Mindfulness, which teaches you to control your mind and your thoughts instead of letting them control you.
Distress tolerance, which teaches you to cope with emotional suffering in healthy ways.
Emotion regulation, which will teach you to validate your emotions, reduce negative thoughts, and increase positive thinking.
Interpersonal effectiveness, which teaches you to create beneficial, effective relationships to others that give you what you need emotionally.
 Interpersonal psychotherapy is a treatment methods specifically targeted to help you improve your interpersonal skills with your loved ones and analyze how these relationships are affected and contribute to your BED.If you feel your BED is triggered by how you interact or communicate with others or by unhealthy relationships, IPT will be particularly helpful.


You will work on how to approach social situations and how to relate to others, including friends, family, and coworkers., If you are suffering from binge eating disorder, look into finding a binge eating support group.The people in this group will help you learn additional ways to deal with your BED that you may not have come across yet.


These groups may also offer you invaluable support when you are going through a tough time. These people have all been there, which means they can empathize with you and help you get through because they have been there too.