 It’s important to give yourself time to process the negative feelings you are experiencing. If you are having a bad day at work, shut the door of your office and turn off the lights to give yourself a quiet space. Or if you’re having a rough day at school, go to a quiet space in the library or outside to a park near campus. Seek out a space that is quiet and isolated so you can process your emotions and release any stress or tension.Try to find a spot with no phones, computers, or co-workers or friends who can interrupt you., Once you have found a quiet space where you will not be interrupted, you can do a quick exercise to try to release any negative feelings or thoughts.Close your eyes and sit still for 30 seconds.
Focus on your breathing. Take deep inhales and exhales through your nose. Try to slow down your breathing so it is deep and long on each inhale and exhale. Do this for about a minute.
Continue to breathing slowly and deeply for two more minutes. Ask yourself three questions: “How is my body feeling? Tense? Painful?” “How am I feeling? Angry? Upset?” “What am I thinking about? All the events that lead to the bad day? Things that could improve my day?”
Take another minute to sit and breathe. Open your eyes once the five minutes are over.
 Being in a bad mood while trying to force yourself to cheer up can just make you more upset. So rather than fight your bad day, acknowledge that you are having a hard time so you can then accept it and process it., Reflect on the negative feelings you are experiencing and think about what could have triggered your bad day. Was it stress at work? Anxiety over a test? Frustration towards someone you know? Try to label the source of your bad day in three words or less. For example: “frustration with Lisa” or “stress from clients”.Studies have shown that the simple act of putting our feelings into words can dramatically reduce the effect of those feelings.Sometimes, bad days do not stem from one clear source or reason. So if you are struggling to identify one clear source for your rough time, do not force yourself to come up with an answer. Simply acknowledge that you are upset and then focus on actively trying to process your emotions.
 It may be tempting to keep your dark mood to yourself, especially in a busy communal environment like the office or the classroom. But it’s important to avoid keeping your emotions to yourself, especially if you cannot simply excuse yourself from the room or remove yourself from the situation.


Turn to your co workers or the people you work closely with and tell them, “Listen guys, for whatever reason, I’m in a sour mood today. I’m not sure why, but it’s nothing you have done. If I react emotionally to you, I apologize in advance.”If you are surrounded by classmates or friends, you can simply explain to them you are not feeling positive today, so you may have a temper or be sensitive to their comments.
You could also contact your partner or a close friend to share your bad day and get it off your chest. Be careful about ranting at your partner or friend. Only share the details of your day, your emotions towards the bad events, and then try to move on with the conversation.
 Once you have accepted your bad day and tried to identify the source of your anxiety or stress, think of your bad day in a larger context. Consider how this day will matter tomorrow or next week. Ask yourself:Will this day matter 5 days or 5 years from now?
What can I learn from this situation?
What small action or step can I take to start turning this day around?
Showing gratitude for all that you do have and putting your bad day into perspective can help to reduce your negative thoughts and feelings. Looking at the bad day as a learning opportunity is also a way to put a positive spin on your day.
Thinking about the actions you can do to turn your day around also shows you are trying to actively work against your negative feelings and improve your mindset.

