 As soon as you notice the iodine stain on your clothes, immediately bring the clothing item to the sink and flush it with cold water. Let the water stream onto the stain until the stained area is completely saturated.Flushing the garment with water helps prevent the stain from setting.;
, After you flush the clothing item with water, create a cleaning solution in a large bowl that comprises of four cups (950 ml) of cool water, one tablespoon (14.79 ml) of ammonia and ½ teaspoon (2.4 ml) of liquid laundry detergent.Make sure that the laundry detergent doesn’t contain chlorine bleach, as ammonia and chlorine breach create harmful fumes when mixed together.
 After you create the cleaning solution, drop in the garment and completely submerge the stained portion in the liquid. Let the fabric soak for about half an hour.If your item of clothing is non-washable, spot clean the stain instead of soaking the garment. To spot clean, dip a clean cloth in the cleaning solution and dab at the stain gently to remove it.
 After around half and hour, take the garment out of the bowl of cleaning solution. Wring the garment out to release excess liquid, then wash the garment in the washing machine using your normal settings.Check on the garment before drying. If the stain is completely removed, dry the clothing item in the dryer. If the stain is only partially removed, keep treating the garment instead of putting the item in the dryer.
 If the iodine stain is especially old or saturated, the ammonia and dishwashing solution may not have been strong enough to remove the stain. To create a stronger solution, combine one cup (240 ml) of cool water with 1 teaspoon (4.9 ml) of sodium thiosulfate in a small bowl., Dip a clean white cloth into the small bowl of sodium thiosulfate solution, then gently dab the spot with the cloth. Instead of rubbing, use soft sponging motions to help lift the stain.


You should notice that the stain lifts and transfers onto the white cloth.
 After you have lifted the stain, flush the stain again with cool water so that the cleaning solution is removed. Then launder the garment as usual.