 These are the two most essential supplies for the palm printing process. Get any kind of standard paper (8 ½ x 11), but it will work better with slightly thicker, more sturdy paper. For the ink, try to find some block printing ink. This kind of ink is typically available at any local craft or hobby store.Block printing ink can be a little pricey, but one small bottle will go a long way.
This kind of printing ink is also usually easier to get off your hands after the palm print is done.;
, This item can also be purchased at any hobby or craft store. Ink rollers are relatively inexpensive and can usually be found with the painting supplies. They are small tools with a plastic handle and an absorbent cloth or foam roller on the end.The ink roller is what you'll use to completely cover your hand in ink for the palm print.
 In order to make your palm print in a way that clearly shows all the details, you need to create a bit of a cushioned surface that your hand can press into when making the print. Find an old towel that you can fold up and put underneath the paper for the print.You could also use a stack of magazines – just anything to provide a little cushion underneath will work.
 Place a dot of ink onto a smooth, non-absorbent surface – like a magazine cover. Roll the ink over the surface until the roller is covered completely in the ink. Make sure you roll the ink out evenly so that it is distributed equally over the surface of the roller.This should give you enough ink on the roller to coat the entire palm.
 Try to get an even layer using as little ink as possible. Run the roller over the palm until it is all covered. Don't forget to do the fingers as well. The ink should be sticky and tacky.


Make sure every inch of the palm and fingers are coated with ink.
 Create a softer paper surface by placing the paper on top of a folded towel. This will allow the hand to sink into the paper, creating a more detailed palm print. Press the person's palm into the paper using firm, even pressure. Don't forget to press the fingers as well. Try to position the hand naturally, with the fingers slightly spread.Make sure you get the ink-covered palm on the paper within 30 seconds or so after coating it. Otherwise, the ink will start to dry and it won’t make as clear of a transfer of the palm on the paper.
When finished, lift the hand carefully. You may need to hold the paper down while doing this.
You can also make a soft surface under the print paper by placing a few magazines under the paper you plan to use.
Label the print with the person's name and the date the print was taken, as hand lines often change over time.
 Once you have finished making the palm print, you’ll need to clean the hand to get all the ink off. With most types of ink, simply spending a few minutes with some soap and water should do the trick.If you have a lot of trouble getting the ink off, you can try using alcohol-based products like rubbing alcohol, nail polish remover, or alcohol wipes. However, be quite careful and use the alcohol products sparingly as they can be damaging to your skin (if overused) and can also stain clothing.
 The head line is typically the middle line on a palm. It begins just above the thumb and curves downward through the center of the palm.A short head line indicates that you are a quick thinker who makes decisions without a lot of self-doubt.
A long, straight head line points towards an over-analytical person, while a long, curved head line usually indicates a creative thinker.
 The heart line is usually the uppermost major line on a palm. It usually runs from the pointer finger to the edge of the palm.A long, straight line typically indicates a person who is rational and analytical, yet always considerate of others.
A long, curved line usually points towards a passionate person driven by their desires.
 This line is typically the lowest major line on the palm. It usually begins near the head line and curves downward toward the wrist.A long life line usually indicates someone others depend on during difficult times.
A short life line means you are a person who needs to stay busy.

