 The next layer of prospects to add to your list should be composed of new customers who you think might be interested in buying. Start by inputting any members of your network who are a close match to your target customer. These can be people you've met at industry events or shows, or just people you've connected with on LinkedIn. Go over your own records and analyze your online network to identify matching prospects., LinkedIn is usually used for building and maintaining professional relationships. However, it can also be used for building up a targeted prospect list. If you're searching for individuals, you can look through your first-degree connections' pages and note the "people also viewed" and "people similar to" sections on the right side of the page. Scan through the results in each for people in your target industry or company.


You can also perform a company search using the search box at the top of the page. Narrow down your results to first-degree connections. You can then choose other details for your target company, including size and industry.
The results will be your first-degree contacts at these companies. You can then contact them to get contact information for the relevant decision-maker at the company., If your business has a website or blog, you are already building a targeted prospect list composed of your site's visitors. Post interesting, well-written, and shareable content to your site and social media accounts to gain followers and readers. Then, you can have visitors sign up to join your mailing list. At this stage, have them input their information so that you can add them to your prospect list.


Try using giveaways or contests to drive traffic to your site and increase the size of your mailing list.
Only ask for a name and email address for your mailing list. Asking for more information might drive prospects away.
You can also create multiple lists that are specific to certain interests or product categories. This will allow each list to be more focused and can allow for more targeted email campaigns., The above methods are not the only way to build targeted prospect lists. You can also purchase lists from online sellers, for example. Be careful using this method though, as there is no guarantee of the actual quality of these lists. You can also use more labor-intensive, manual methods of data collection, such as going through the Yellow Pages, company websites, or industry/trade directories to identify potential prospects. While this approach might take much longer, you can at least be assured of the quality of your information.