 Your skin gets moisture from topical moisturizers, but most of its water supply comes from internal consumption. Unfortunately, it only gets the water you ingest after all of your other internal organs do. Because of this, you should make sure you drink at least the recommended minimum of water each day. This is particularly essential when it comes to retaining epidermal moisture.While there are minimal formal studies supporting this assertion, most dermatologists argue that they’ve observed the positive effects of plentiful water consumption in their patients.Drinking plenty of water has numerous other health benefits, such as boosting vital organ function, flushing toxins, and inducing regular bowel movements.
 Recent studies have shown that a healthy, vitamin-rich diet has a significant impact on your skin’s health and appearance. Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids such as fish, walnuts, and beef, and those with antioxidants such as red wine, green tea, and tomatoes are particularly helpful for your complexion. Try to incorporate them into your diet as much as possible.Also limit your consumption of greasy and sugary foods, as these can exacerbate pre-existing oiliness and acne.
 If you’re a smoker, chances are that you already know how harmful this habit can be to your lungs and heart. You might not know, though, that smoking has a negative impact on your complexion. Studies have shown that smoking is linked to painful skin conditions such as psoriasis, complications in healing, and premature aging.You can wean yourself off of tobacco by using nicotine substitutions such as patches and e-cigarettes, but nicotine has nevertheless been linked to premature aging and delayed healing of wounds. So, if healthier skin is your objective, you should aim to eventually get off nicotine entirely.
 Many people know that insufficient sleep can lead to dark circles and bags under their eyes, but few people know how important a good sleep pattern is to overall skin health. During sleep, your body regenerates cells throughout the body, including the epidermal cells. By skipping this regenerative process, your complexion can become dehydrated and its pH level suppressed.Also be sure to use sheets with a high thread count. Low thread counts are rougher and produce more friction when rubbed against your skin, causing a higher likelihood of breakouts and wrinkles over time.
 Recent studies have shown that physical exercise can help preserve skin elasticity and complexion, as well as improve skin that is already sagging or aging.You'll also see improvements in mood, muscle tone, and cardiovascular health, so aim for 150 minutes per week of aerobic exercise and do some resistance training repetitions two days per week.
 Routine care and good-quality products should do wonders for your skin’s appearance and health, but it’s a healthy choice to see a dermatologist on an annual basis whether or not you’re having problems. At your appointment, the dermatologist can look for any signs of early skin cancers, diagnose any problems you’re having, prescribe an antibiotic or strong anti-acne medication, and assist you to figure out a better skincare and product regimen for the future.

