 You should analyze whether a marketing consultant is the right person to hire, or if you can find solutions elsewhere. The following are situations that many companies face where they may consider a marketing consultant.


A company who is looking to increase their social media presence can hire a social media consultant. You may be able to find social media experts in your own company who would be willing to take on social media account maintenance and interaction by dedicating an hour per day to do so. It is likely you can find a social media consultant who will cost less than a general marketing consultant because they are only dealing with 1 aspect of the business.
A company who is looking to break into a new field or sector should consider finding a marketing consultant with expertise in that field. Investing in a marketing consultant who is able to supply you with valuable industry specific knowledge and campaigns will increase the success of your marketing endeavors.
A company may consider whether they should hire a consultant or an employee. Add up the hours per month that you believe a marketing consultant will need to work, or evaluate it after you have seen their proposals. If the marketing tasks that you need done will be ongoing and the hours are more than 20 per week, you may be able to hire a part-time marketing employee and save money in the long-term. Many of the same tactics should be followed when hiring a marketing consultant as hiring a marketing employee.
A company should specify the marketing help they need. Asking for general marketing help is liable to cost you more money, because you are lacking direction for your business. Consider email blasts, social media, search engine marketing, pay per click marketing, web design, trade shows, branding, public relations, print marketing, content writing, TV/radio marketing and direct mail, among other types of marketing help you may need.
Small businesses may not be able to hire full time employees yet, but they may not have the time to do their own marketing. In this case, you can hire someone to set up a marketing plan and teach you to run some simple efforts. They can check in weekly, monthly or quarterly to make sure you are on track.;
, Contractors often have a retainer or an hourly rate that is more than you would pay an employee per hour. Before you ask for bids, identify how much money you have to spend and how much wiggle room there will be when you receive proposals.


Marketing consultants often go by the adage "You have to spend money to make money." A marketing consultant should be able to prove that you will earn their fee back with new customers or increased sales over a specified period of time.
Full service marketing consultants generally charge at least $75 to $150 per hour.

