 Your hair needs to be past shoulder-length for this to work. Start by parting your hair down the center, then making two braids, just behind your ears, and tying them off with elastics. Pull one braid up to the top of your head, pin it in place. Repeat on the other side with the other braid. You should end up with something that looks like a head band.


Be sure to tuck the ends of your braids under your braided "headband."
If you have very long hair, you may have to wrap the braid around to the side or back of your head.
 Pull your hair into a mid-high ponytail on the back of your head, and secure it with a hair tie. Gather a small section of hair from the ponytail, and braid it. Wrap the braid around the base of the ponytail to conceal the hair tie. Secure it with a bobby pin.Give your ponytail more body by spraying it with a texture spray.
 Part your hair down the center. Starting near your left temple and finishing at the nape of your neck, Dutch braid the left side of your hair. Repeat the process for the right. Pull the rest of your hair into a low ponytail at the nape of your neck, then twist it into a bun. Secure the bun with a hair tie and some bobby pins., Start by creating a side part above your left or right eyebrow. Pull your hair towards the opposite shoulder, and start making a loose braid. You can do a standard braid or a French braid. Tie the braid off with a hair tie.Here are some ideas on how you can style your braid further:


For a messy look, pull out a few strands around your temples, and gently loosen the braid with your fingers.
For a sleeker look, use bobby pins and/or hairspray to secure any loose strands.
For a boho look, try on a delicate flower crown—nothing too full or fancy.
For something more elegant, add a fancy hair clip to the bottom of your braid to hide the hair tie.
 All of these styles are quick and easy to do, and will go a great job of hiding your dirty, greasy hair. You may want to dust some dry shampoo onto your roots to further conceal any grease, however.

