 While croquet can be played on any lawn, the balls will travel faster and more smoothly over short grass. If possible, find a flat lawn without many slopes, patches of uneven ground, or other obstructions. This croquet setup is popular all around the world, and is used for tournaments in the U.K. and Commonwealth.;
, If you are playing with adults on a large, flat lawn, measure 14 meters (46 feet) using a tape measure.If your lawn is smaller, has high or uneven grass, or if you are playing with children, try 10m (33 ft), 7m (23 ft), or any measurement that fits.
 If you have extra stakes or flags, place one on each side of this line to demonstrate the boundary of the court. You may also use a stick, rock, or any other noticeable object. For a more precise boundary, tie a length of string between them.
 The croquet playing field is rectangular, with the long side 1.25 times as long as the short side. Starting from one boundary marker, walk at a right angle to the first line while measuring with the tape measure. Once you reach a distance 1.25 times as long as the short side, stop.


If you are using a full size garden croquet field, your field's measurements will be 14m x 17.5m. Other possible sizes include 10m x 12.5m (33ft x 41.25ft) or 7m x 8.75m (23ft x 28.75ft).
 As before, use a flag, stick or other object to mark the corner of this boundary. If you have a string, stretch it between this marker and the last one you put down.
 From the end of the long line, turn at a right angle and create another short side parallel to the first one. Place the fourth boundary marker to create the last corner. Stretch a string between this boundary marker and the two nearest markers. If the rectangle doesn't look even, you may move one of the boundary markers to make the sides parallel.
 Stretch a long length of string across opposite diagonal corners of the rectangle. Do the same between the other two corners. The point where the strings cross is the center of the field. Put down a stake or stick to mark this point. Do not use a hoop in this position.


Alternatively, use a tape measure to find and mark the center of one long side, and the center of one short side. Have two people walk in a straight line from these two points, into the field. The point where their paths cross is the center of the field.
 From any corner, walk along the short side of the field until you have walked across roughly 1/4 of the field's shorter length, counting your paces. Turn at a right angle and walk into the field the same number of paces.


You may use a tape measure instead if you would like to be more precise.
 It is important to remember how many paces you walked. If you used a tape measure, write down the distance measured instead, which should be 1/4 the length of the shorter side.
 Some croquet sets have one hoop (wicket) with a blue top to mark it as the first one; if your hoops are unmarked, use any one of them.Place the two prongs of the hoop firmly into the lawn so the hoop stays upright. The prongs should be placed parallel to the shorter sides, so you can look through the hoop if you stand on the shorter side.


Use a croquet mallet to tap the hoop into the ground if it won't stay up on its own.
 Place three more hoops using the same method, but starting at the remaining three corners. Walk the same number of paces (or measure the same distance of 1/4 the short side) as you did when you placed the first hoop. Every hoop should be placed with its opening facing the short sides.
 Ideally, the hoops should form four corners of a rectangle, with the center stake at its center. Move one or two hoops if necessary to achieve a better approximation of this situation. On many lawns with uneven ground, slopes, or vegetation, the setup will not be possible to achieve. Fortunately, the field doesn't need to be perfectly set up for a casual game.
 Stand at the center stake, then walk in a straight line toward one of the short sides (parallel to the long sides). Once you've walked the same number of paces or distance you noted down earlier (approximately 1/4 the length of a short side), place a hoop in the ground. Keep the opening facing the short sides of the field, as you did with the other hoops.
 Return to the center stake and measure an equal distance or number of paces in the other direction. Place a hoop here. The opening should be in a line with the last hoop you put down, and this line should be parallel to the longer sides of the field.
 Some croquet sets have a single hoop with a red mark on top. This is the last hoop in the sequence. Out of the last two hoops you placed, on either side of the center stake, it should be the one farthest from the starting hoop (the blue one, or the first one you put down). If you used the red hoop somewhere else, you may want to switch it with the hoop in this final position.

