 If you really want to start strong, use some boosters. On the pre-game screen, select the boosters you’d want to equip for the game.


You may have to shell some gold bars if you don’t have a particular booster you want to use.
The Column Blaster booster, or simply the rocket booster, can be a good weapon to use against Pet Snatchers.;
, Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Locate the pets. See if any of them will be at risk of getting taken by Pet Snatchers. Identify early on how to get these pets down.
 You won’t know how your board will look like after several moves. However, you have control over your first few moves. Plan them out properly to get the pets down early.
 If there’s no time limit on the level, take a good look at the whole board before each move. Don’t risk leaving any pet at the top of the columns.
 Get the blocks standing between the pets and the ground off the screen as soon as possible. Do this by matching the same-colored blocks underneath the pets. Remove any obstacles as necessary.


Use the items, like the keys and the bombs, on the board to make your work easier.
 Focus on getting the pets down as early as possible. This minimizes the risk of leaving any of them at the top of the columns.
 Attack the board evenly, taking out blocks from all columns as much as possible. Don’t focus on just one set of columns. If you do, you risk the screen going down faster, leaving some columns very tall.
 If for some reason you left a column or two very tall with only a few valid moves left, the board will shake. If you have pets at the top of these columns, you’re at risk of Pet Snatchers. Act quickly and save the pets; otherwise, your next move may be your last.
 If you have the rocket booster fueled up, use it. Take down the tall columns with pets on top. The rocket will fly over the whole column removing the blocks on it. The pets on the column will fall, safe from Pet Snatchers.
 Of course, you can’t forego the scoring requirement. Keep this at the back of your head. Get huge points by matching large groups of same-colored blocks. Otherwise, you may have saved the pets from Pet Snatchers, but you might still lose the level for not meeting the minimum score.