 Many martial arts studios and other athletic facilities will offer one free class, which is an excellent way to determine if a style feels right to you. The best styles, especially for beginners, are simply those that feel the most natural to perform., Sometimes all you need to discover your style is another set of eyes. A trainer, who has seen and worked with many styles, is invaluable if you plan on pushing your fighting further than a casual hobby.


A good trainer is one you feel comfortable with, but who still pushes you to improve and work harder.
If you're intimidated about working one-on-one, join a gym in your chosen discipline (boxing, MMA, karate, etc.). The group setting is a great place to start working with less pressure.
 The technique is the art of getting the most speed and power out of your body with the least effort. It requires hours of slower, concentrated practice punching, kicking, and dodging so that the motion is completely natural when you need it in a fight. Though sparring is crucial to develop a style, technical exercises are needed to make your style sing. Try out:


Speed-bag drills
Punching bag workouts
Shadow-boxing (acting out a fight, in full speed, by yourself).
Target practice (when a coach or friend holds up pads to hit).
 The type of workout will obviously change depending on the fighting discipline. However, fighting is always a full body sport. A strong physical base is needed to build your style upon; you'll never discover your style if you're too tired or weak to fight effectively. No matter how you're fighting, the following exercises are a great place to start:


3-4 days a week of cardio (running, biking, swimming, etc.)
Daily push-ups, pull-ups, and crunches.

Daily stretching for flexibility (Yoga and aerobics are good options)
Plyometrics and jump rope for agility
Interval training for strength and explosiveness.
 Your style should feel fluid and easy. This isn't to say that you shouldn't practice difficult moves. It means that your body knows itself best. If you struggle every day to get a long, high kick to land, then you're not necessarily a long-range kicker. But if you can hit a speed bag all day and dance in the ring for hours, then you've found a road worth traveling down.If you keep practicing, you'll find ways to make things natural. Remember that, in a fight, you only have a split-second to react. You will, of course, react with what your body finds easiest. Train that instinct to be the best it can be.

