 Open a new tab on your browser and go to the Hootsuite website. You will first need to create a Hootsuite account before you can continue.;
, The Signup button is the green colored button at the top right corner of the page.
 Hootsuite supports both free and paid plans. A free plan is suitable for personal use while paid plans are suitable for business or enterprise use. There are three options to choose from: Free, Pro, and Enterprise.


Free Plan—As the name suggests it, you will get the service for free. This plan has less features than paid plans, but you will still be able to autopost to Facebook. Clicking on this plan takes you to a screen where you need to fill in a few details. Enter your email address on the first text box, your full name in the second text box, your preferred password in the third text box, and lastly your location in the fourth text box. Then click on “Create account” below the fourth text box. After hitting the button, a message will pop up informing you that you have successfully created a Hootsuite account.
Pro Plan—The Pro plan is recommended for businesses. Hootsuite gives a 30-day free trial. When you click on this option, you will be taken to the screen for creating a pro account. Enter your email address, full name and password in the boxes under create your account. In the section for selecting your plan, choose between monthly plan or yearly plan. Then under the Billing section, enter your payment information. Finish by clicking on the green “Start my free trial” button at the bottom of the page.
Enterprise plan—This plan is recommended for large organizations and government. This supports more features than the above two. This plan is not available for signing up at the first visit. You will first need to request Hootsuite for a demo before proceeding. Click on it and fill your organization details on a form presented to you. Hootsuite will then organize and send you a demo and charges for this plan.
 At the top right of the page is a login link. This link is underlined. Click on it. Enter your email address on the first box (the email you used to create Hootsuite account) and the registered password in the second box. Click the login button below the boxes to access Hootsuite.
 To the left side of your Hootsuite account are three buttons: “Sign in with Twitter,” “Sign in with Facebook,” and “Sign in with Google+.” Click the second button (Sign in with Facebook). This button directs you to a page for authorizing Hootsuite. Provide your Facebook login details on this page, and enter your email address on the first text box and password on the second text box. Click the login button below the two text boxes, and Hootsuite will pop up two questions:


Allow Hootsuite to use your profile—The first pop-up is one asking you to allow Hootsuite to use your Facebook profile. Click “OK” to allow the request.
Select the group of people you would like Hootsuite to post to—The second pop-up has a drop-down menu. The menu is represented with an arrow pointing downward. Click on that arrow and select the group you would like to autopost to. Some of the groups under this drop-down menu include your friends, public, your friends’ friends. Friends means only your Facebook friends will be able to see your post. Public means anybody who visits your wall will be able to see your posts, and Friends’ Friends means the friends of your friends will also see the posts posted by Hootsuite. Click “OK” at the bottom of the pop-up page after selecting your group, and you will be taken to the Hootsuite management page/dashboard.
 There are a number of tabs on the Hootsuite dashboard. These tabs are found on the left side of the page and are arranged in a table format. Three tabs form a row.


Take your mouse and click on the Schedule tab. A text box for composing your post pops up immediately. Type your post on the text box. This is the message that will be autoposted to Facebook. A maximum of 2,000 characters are allowed in this text box.
 Click the Scheduling button below the text box for composing the message. This button is represented by a calendar icon. A calendar will show up after clicking the scheduling tab.


Select the date and time for posting the post on Facebook. Take your mouse and click on the day of the calendar when you want your post to be published, e.g., 22 June 2015. Now on the right side of the calendar, set the time for the post to be published. There is a drop-down menu for selecting the time (hour and minute). Click the drop-down menu and click the exact time you need. Choose PM or AM on the box that is found right in front of the time panel.
 Click the “Schedule” button at the bottom of the pop-up to save and schedule the post. Your post will automatically be published when the time and date you set comes. When you click on “Schedule post,” you are redirected to the Hootsuite dashboard screen.

