 In some cases you absolutely shouldn't remove your own stitches. If your stitches were inserted after a surgical procedure, or if the recommended healing time (usually 10-14 days) hasn't elapsed, removing them yourself can put you at greater risk for infection and may prevent your body from healing properly.Keep in mind that when you go to the doctor, adhesive strips are often placed on the skin after stitch removal to continue to facilitate the healing process. If you do it at home, you may not be getting the care you require.
If you want to double check whether it's OK to remove your stitches, give your doctor a call. He or she will let you know whether it's safe enough to do it yourself.
If your wound looks as if it's getting red or more sore, do not remove your stitches: go to your doctor. You may have an infection.
Keep in mind that in many cases, you can get your stitches removed without going through the regular doctor's appointment process. You might be able to walk right in for a quick stitch removal. Call your doctor and ask.;
, Use a sharp pair of surgical scissors if possible. Sharp nail scissors or nail clippers also work fine. Avoid using any type of blunt edge, and don't use a knife - it's too easy for knives to slip.
 Drop them in a pot of boiling water for a few minutes, let them thoroughly dry on a clean paper towel, then swab them thoroughly with a cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol. This will ensure the cutting tool and tweezers don't transfer bacteria to your body.
 There are a few other things you should have on hand. Gather sterile bandages and antibiotic ointment in case you need to treat an area that starts to bleed. You shouldn't need to use these supplies, since if your skin has properly healed, no bandage is necessary, but it's important to have them on hand just in case.
 Use soapy water, and dry yourself thoroughly with a clean towel. Use a rubbing alcohol-soaked cotton ball to further clean the area around the stitches. Be sure the area is completely clean before proceeding.
 You'll need to be able to see every stitch clearly to do the job properly. Don't attempt to remove your stitches in a place that's too dark, or you could hurt yourself.
 Use the pair of tweezers to gently lift the knot of the first stitch slightly above the skin.
 Holding the knot above your skin, use your other hand to wield your scissors and snip the suture next to the knot., Use the tweezers to continue grasping the knot and gently pull the stitch through your skin and out. You might feel a bit of pressure, but it should not be painful.


If the skin starts to bleed when you remove the stitch, your stitches are not ready to come out. Stop what you're doing and see a doctor to remove the remaining stitches.

Take care not to pull the knot through your skin. It will catch on your skin and cause bleeding to occur.
 Use the tweezers to lift the knots, then snip with the scissors. Pull the thread through and discard. Continue until all the stitches have been removed.
 Make sure there's no residue left around the area of the wound. If you'd like, you can place a sterile bandage to cover the area and allow it to continue to heal.
 If the area reopens, you're going to need more stitches. It's very important to see a doctor immediately if this happens. Bandaging the wound and trying to let it heal without new stitches won't be adequate.
 Skin regains its strength slowly — when you remove the stitches, it's only at about 10% of its normal strength. Don't overuse the body part where you had stitches.
 Ultraviolet light is damaging even to healthy tissue. Use sunscreen if your wound will be exposed to the sun or when using tanning beds.
