 Before a pitch, your hands should be comfortably at your belt or up near your mid-chest. Keep your eyes focused and your body relaxed.


Make sure to hold your pitching hand and wrist deep inside your glove. This hides your grip and the ball from the batter.
Standing with your feet shoulder width apart, make sure to keep the spikes of your pivot foot (pitching arm side foot) in front of the rubber and slightly open. Keep your free foot (glove side foot) next to (or slightly behind) your pivot foot.
Once you get the sign from your catcher, take a deep breath right before you throw your pitch.;
, Once up, your lift leg foot should hang loosely and straight down from your knee. Keep your posting leg straight and firmly planted to maintain balance.


Make sure your maximum knee height is somewhere between 60% and 70% of your height.
Do not allow your body to move forward until your lead leg knee reaches its maximum height and keep your posture upright.
Keep your head centered over both your body and your pivot foot for additional balance.
 Maintaining steady glove arm action will produce a steady throw and higher velocity.
 Keep your head directly over your stride leg and position your throwing elbow so that it lines up with your throwing shoulder. Make sure your wrist is straight and firm behind the ball.


Keep your fingers on the top of the ball and hold a flat back position when you release it.
Avoid undercutting the ball by trying to impart a side spin and don’t drag your hand upon releasing the ball.
 The perfect follow-through should finish with a flat back position., The most effective way to monitor and improve your pitching mechanics is through video footage because you can slow down and study the motion of your pitch frame-by-frame.Not even the most experienced instructor or coach can discern the distinct characteristics of a pitcher’s throwing motion with the naked eye.
Watch your video footage frequently and examine your pitch for faults that can be improved.

