 It is a great idea to research avenues and plan up to 6 month advance while you settle a lease or get your business license. However, you should be within about 1 month of your opening before getting your name out in the public, or else they may search for you and see that you are unavailable.


In some cases for small businesses that are already set up, you may consider re-branding your business. You should consult a professional graphic designer or web developer to make sure your materials are of professional quality. The investment will pay off in the long run.;
, Even if you are trying to market locally, most people look for local businesses online, using Google or other search engines. Have a website with details about your services, contact information and directions to your store.
 Mobile app provide a new and more interactive shopping experience and can be beneficial in growing a customer base and improve customer retention. With a good app, you can provide:


In-shop navigation. Beacons give you the possibility to track the in-store “journey” of the client, sending notifications with information regarding specific products within their reach. It can really help a local business engage with its customers in a non-invasive yet convincing way.
A loyalty card. Traditional loyalty cards are turning into a thing of the past. Adding yours to a mobile app can play a major part in increasing profits, while serving as an incentive to get clients to visit your store again, turning one-time visitors into returning customers.
Club card for exclusive privileges. To nurture most loyal clients, a club card allows for membership levels with different privileges. Such a feature is perfect to introduce a VIP dimension, for night clubs, yacht clubs or even movie theaters, etc.
Coupons. Coupons are powerful promotional tools to include in an acquisition and client retention strategy. Here again, a mobile app can be a successful way to deliver special offers, to make sure they never miss a deal.

