 Start by turning off your alarm and sleeping as late as you want, then go from there.


Make pancakes, French toast, eggs Benedict, or your favorite breakfast food that you don't have time to make before work or school.

Binge-watch a tv series.
Read the newspaper from front to back.
Re-read your favorite book or a book you've been meaning to read.
Get all your food delivered.
Play video games.;
, You can do a spa day at home or book a day at a nearby spa.


Take a bubble bath.

Give yourself a facial.
Give yourself a mani-pedi.
Get a massage.
Practice restorative yoga.

Deep condition your hair.
 You obviously can't become an expert in astrophysics in one day, but thing about little things you've always wanted to master, like makeup techniques or how to brew a perfect cup of coffee or pick a lock. Surprise your friends when you suddenly know how to do the worm.


Take a flying lesson.
Learn to breathe fire.
Learn how to quickly solve a Rubik's cube.
Teach yourself a new cooking technique or learn to bake something (like macarons) that will be your signature dish

Learn to code and make your own game or app.
Teach yourself to whistle with your fingers.
Perfect your cat eye.
Learn to throw a punch in case you ever need to defend yourself.
Pick something you've always wondered about (like why we have allergies or how airplanes do sky writing) and research it in-depth.
Learn to knit, crochet, or embroider.
Learn to mix cocktails or make one complicated drink (like a mojito or an Old Fashioned) to impress your friends.
 Using your free time to help others in need and give back to your community will leave you feeling accomplished and good about yourself.


Volunteer at a local pet shelter. They may have you walk and exercise dogs, cuddle with kitties, or make improvements to the shelter so the animals have a better experience.
Go to a nearby park or beach and clean up all the trash you can find.
Volunteer at a soup kitchen.
Volunteer to help at a nearby farm or animal sanctuary.

Write a wikiHow article and teach people all over the world how to do something you excel at.
 If you've got a half-finished project that's been collecting your dust in the corner of your room--maybe a partially knitted sweater or a model plane that's only half-way built--pick it back up and try to finish by the end of the day. Or if there's a project you've been wanting to tackle--refurbishing an old chair or turning an old pair of jeans into a bag--gather your materials and get to work!


Make a hanging planter or a vertical garden.

Make a quilt.

Build a table.

Sew a simple skirt.

Build a fire pit.
Make a No Sew Fleece Pillow
Make candles out of crayons.
Make a bowl out of an old record.
Learn to whittle wood.
Make origami.
 Make this day off one of your most memorable by facing a fear or engaging in an extreme sport.


Sign up for an improv comedy class.
Go tandem skydiving.
Go bungee jumping.
Learn parkour.
Go kayaking.

