 Tell your doctor that you have decided that you want to get off Adderall and why. Then work with your doctor to come up with a weaning plan that will suit your individual needs. For example, if your dependency is significant, then your weaning plan may be drawn out and your doctor may recommend therapy or an outpatient treatment program.Dependency is influenced by many factors, including the method of use (snorting, injecting, or swallowing a pill); length of time using the drug; amount taken each dose; family history of substance abuse; and mental health status.Your doctor can also recommend support groups, like Narcotics Anonymous (NA), where you may be able to find the support to help you stick to your weaning plan. These groups can also educate your friends and family members on how to provide you with the best support.
Your doctor may temporarily prescribe you antidepressants, or anti-anxiety or mood-stabilizing agents while you go through withdrawal. You may also need to temporarily use a sleep aid.It is essential that you work with your doctor to get off Adderall — do not attempt to adjust your dosage on your own.
 Though the experience of withdrawal will be different for everyone, usually the first week is when you will experience the most severe symptoms. As time goes on, the symptoms should lessen. The more dependent you are on Adderall, the more powerful and longer withdrawal may be. Symptoms may include the following:Insomnia
Change in appetite
Fatigue
Irritability
Depression
Mood swings
Anxiety
Tremors
Headache
Drug cravings
Trouble concentrating
Lack of motivation
Muscle aches
Seizures (see a doctor immediately)
Suicidal thoughts (contact your doctor immediately)

, Depending on the size of your dose and how long it takes to leave your blood stream, you may begin experiencing withdrawal symptoms between about six and 36 hours. You will likely experience fatigue, depression, and anxiety., The first week will likely be the hardest, as withdrawal symptoms are often the most intense during this time. You may experience vivid nightmares, irritability, and headaches in addition to fatigue, depression, and anxiety.

Try to stay distracted and busy during this time. Attend support groups, meetings, counseling sessions and family therapy if you are not in an inpatient facility.
Take any medications prescribed by your doctor exactly as instructed. Make sure you are eating well, getting enough sleep, and exercising to manage symptoms.
 Depending on your level of dependence, you may begin to feel normal as early as the second week of being off Adderall. You may experience an increase in appetite (as Adderall suppresses hunger), difficulty concentrating, and weight gain.Note that the weight gain is usually temporary, due to a combination of feeling fatigued and a return of your appetite. Your appetite should return to normal soon, and if you begin exercising, you should lose the extra weight.

