 Before you add your fillings or work on any folds, you should heat the tortilla slightly in the oven, on the stove, or in the microwave. A warm tortilla is less likely to crack than a cold or room temperature tortilla.To warm tortillas in an oven, first preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius). Wrap a stack of eight tortillas in aluminum foil and heat them in your preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
If warming a tortilla on the stove, turn one burner on high. Grab one tortilla with a pair of tongs and hold it over the burner for a few seconds, occasionally swapping sides. Remove once it softens and starts to turn brown.
To warm tortillas in the microwave, wrap a stack of eight in a clean, semi-damp paper towel or dish towel. Microwave the stack on full power for 30 to 45 seconds.;
, The filling should take up no more than one-fourth of the total area of the tortilla, if that. If you fill the tortilla with too much, it will likely burst open no matter how you fold it.









The placement of the filling will vary depending on how you plan to fold the tortilla, but you should always follow this principle no matter which fold you use.
Check the individual method instructions for more details concerning filling placement.
 Spoon the filling just below the center of the tortilla.Arrange it in a straight line and do not lump it into a single pile.


Make sure that you have plenty of extra room on the ends.For small tortillas, 1 inch (2.5 cm) will probably work. For larger tortillas, you may need to leave 2 inches (5 cm) on each end. If you fill the tortilla to the end, the contents will spill out as you fold it.
 Gently fold the bottom up and over the lower edge of the filling.









For a more secure fold, you should hold the tortilla up so that the filling slides down into the new fold you just created, making it tight. Do so carefully to prevent the filling from falling out.
 Fold one side of the tortilla in toward the center, followed by the other side. The two sides do not need to meet.









Note that you should fold into the center of the tortilla so that these two folded edges will fold to the same side as the folded bottom.
 Wrap the tortilla around the filling from the bottom up, covering your three previous seams in the process.









To prevent the fillings from falling out, you may need to gently place your fingers over the folded bottom edge at the point where it meets the filling, at least until that section has been covered by folded tortilla.
Keep rolling the tortilla up until the entire thing has been used.
 Your tortilla should be stable enough to enjoy as is. If desired, though, you could also secure the tortilla with toothpicks.
 The filling should be placed slightly off-center, just a little below the actual center of the tortilla.









The filling should be spread in a thick line and not in a large clump or pile.
Make sure that there is enough extra room at each end of the tortilla to prevent the filling from falling out. If you have a smaller tortilla, 1 inch (2.5 cm) might be enough. For larger tortillas, you may need up to 2 inches (5 cm) on each end.
 They should almost but not quite touch.









As you fold, some of the filling might slide down to the bottom of the tortilla or over the center mark. This is fine as long as none of the filling slides off the lower edge.
 Use your thumbs to bring up the bottom of the tortilla, wrapping it up and over the fillings as well as the lower portion of your folded sides. Continue rolling the tortilla up using this same general motion.









Make sure that each fold you make as you roll the tortilla up is as tight as possible. You should squeeze the roll back toward you a little each time to ensure a tight roll.
Continue rolling the tortilla all the way up like this until the entire shell has been used.
 At this point, you should be able to serve and enjoy the tortilla without any problems. You should even be able to cut it in half without the tortilla coming undone.


If it still seems a little loose to you, however, you could also place a few toothpicks in it to help keep the tortilla secure.










Note that this folding technique only works if you are working with sliced deli meats, flat greens, soft cheeses, chutneys, or thick spreads. It will not work with crumbly fillings like ground beef or shredded cheese.
 Wrap the tortilla up in a tight roll, working from bottom to top.









Gently fold the bottom up and over into a cylinder with a diameter of about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Continue rolling the rest of the tortilla over this initial cylinder until you reach the top edge.
If you have ever rolled up a jelly roll, the process is very similar.
 For this method, a good way to serve the tortilla is to cut it into thirds on the diagonal.


You could also create smaller appetizer-size portions by cutting the wrap on the diagonal into four to six pieces.
 Spread the filling down the center third of your tortilla in a straight line.









Mentally divide the round tortilla into equal thirds vertically. Spread the filling in a line down one line marking off one of the final thirds.
If you are working with a square tortilla, you will need to draw a line of filling down the diagonal of the shell, from one corner to its diagonal opposite.
Make sure that you leave at least 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) of space at each end so that the filling does not fall out as you fold the tortilla.
Note that this fold is not quite as secure as some others are, so it is generally best to use it for larger fillings like sliced deli meats and sauteed vegetables since these are less likely to spill out.
 Bring the side nearest the filling in toward the center. The edge of the side should extend just past the center of the tortilla.









Make sure that the filling is completely covered by this side of the wrap.
 Fold the other side of the wrap over the filling and the first side of the tortilla. Wrap this side around the previously folded edge and around, tucking it beneath the bottom of the tortilla to hold it in place.









Fold the tortilla as tightly as possible without breaking it. You can make the fold tighter by gently pushing the filling against the sealed fold you first created while folding over the second side.
 The tortilla should be ready to enjoy as is. You may want to secure the wrapped tortilla with toothpicks if it seems too loose, however.
 Spoon the filling over your tortilla so that it stops just short of the edge, roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) all the way around.









Note that this will work better with fairly solid fillings, like diced or sliced vegetables, spreads, sliced deli meat, fruit, or large chunks of meat or fish. Do not use this method for fillings that have watery sauces or small pieces that could slip out easily.
 Divide the tortilla into four quarters. Cut it down the vertical center once and the horizontal center once.









Do not fold the tortilla before doing this.
Make sure that you completely cut through the fillings, as well. Each wedge should be equal in size and shape, and the fillings should all be clearly separate.
 Wrap the tortilla around the filling from one rounded corner to the other.









The two rounded corners are the corners connected to one flat edge one on side and the rounded edge of the tortilla on the other side.
Imagine a diagonal line connecting the rounded corners. Fold one corner into the tortilla, gradually rolling it toward that other corner along the imaginary diagonal line. When done, you should have a cone-shaped tortilla with one closed point and one open end.
Alternatively, you could simply fold one of these rounded corners over so that it meets the other rounded corner. Press the edges together to seal them.
 The tortilla and its fillings should be ready to enjoy at this point, but you may wish to keep it secured with a toothpick if the tortilla shell seems loose.
 Mentally divide the tortilla in half. Spread the filling over one of these halves, stopping at the imaginary center line and leaving one half untouched.









Spoon the filling out over this half so that it stops short of the rounded edge by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
If working with a square tortilla shell, divide the shell in half diagonally rather than doing so crosswise or lengthwise.
Note that this is the method usually used for half-moon quesadillas., Bring the untouched half of the tortilla shell up and over so that it completely covers the filling. The two edges should overlap evenly.









If you press the edges together firmly, you might be able to help pinch them in place, especially if you gently moisten them with water before doing so or if you plan to bake, sauté, or fry the tortilla afterward.
 The filled tortilla should be ready to enjoy.


For quesadillas and other similar dishes, cut the folded tortilla into four wedges, with each cut starting at the center point along the folded edge and going outward toward the open edges.
The tortilla should not be bulky, but if it is, secure it with a toothpick before enjoying.

