 Listen to a wide range of different types from Whitechapel, to The Devil Wears Prada, to Parkway Drive. Do this so you find your influences and what type of metal you want to play.;
, This is what you do when forming the band. It might not all come together immediately and band members might leave and new ones may join before you really get started.
 Talk as much as you can in the beginning so you avoid problems down the road. Don't worry to much about your band name in the beginning. The name will come to you one day so don't worry.
 Invite all your friends, family, and anyone you know to like the page. If you do this before you have any music and build a solid audience. If you do this when you finally release a song you already have a group of people you know will listen to it.
 You need to start compiling songs for your future EP or album. I recommend to start out you should record and EP. It is shorter, only about 5 or 6 songs, and it will be done quicker than a full album. If you have the money the best thing you can possibly do is go to a legit studio. Don't try to record on your own in your basement unless you have some serious skills. This will make the quality of your music come out better and will make it sound professional.
 You should release one or two singles so people understand what type of music you are and get a sense for your abilities. After that don't release any more singles until your finish your EP and release them all together.
 Play shows while you are still in the studio recording, you don't need to wait until after. Take as many shows as you feel you can whether it's a big venue or a small one. Make sure you are able to bring a solid crowd out to your shows. This will make the promoter feel confident that you can produce money for him and he will offer you bigger shows.
 Interact with the crowd, talk between songs. Advertise your band and bring a ton of energy to the stage. Make the people feel what you are doing. And enjoy every minute of it. Make sure everyone in the band is moving, head banging, and having good stage presence.
, Have fun together and love every moment of it. Play metal is awesome so have fun with it.

