 You can lightly grease the pan with butter or cooking spray. You can also line it with parchment paper or foil, and then butter it., Sift the flour first to get rid of any lumps, then add the rest of the ingredients and mix them briskly with a fork. Once everything is evenly mixed together, set the bowl aside.
 Place the butter and sugar into an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Blend until the mixture is light and creamy.
 Keep mixing until the yolk breaks up and everything is evenly blended. There should be no streaks or swirls of egg yolk or egg white.
 Take the bowl out of the electric mixer, and fold the flour mixture in by hand using a spatula. Keep mixing until everything is evenly combined.
 Make sure that it is covering the entire pan, from edge to edge, in an even layer. Grease your hands with butter or cooking spray to prevent the dough from sticking to your fingers.
, Place the cream cheese and butter into the bowl of an electric mixer. Beat them together on medium speed for about 2 minutes, or until it is smooth., For a richer sauce, use heavy cream instead.
 If the sauce is too thick for you, add another tablespoon of milk or cream and beat again.
 Use a spatula to spread the sauce over the crust in a thick, even layer. If you'd like, you can leave a slight rim all around the crust to achieve that "pizza" look.
 Ideally, you should have at least 2 to 3 different types of fruit. Whatever you choose, make sure that it all amounts to 4 cups (800 grams) total. Here are some tasty combinations for you:


Bananas, kiwi, oranges, pineapple, and strawberries.
Bananas, blueberries, kiwi, peaches, pineapple, and strawberries.Blueberries, kiwi, strawberries, and drained, canned mandarin oranges.Bananas, blueberries, kiwi, oranges, peaches, pineapple, and star fruit., Small types of fruit, such as blackberries, blueberries, and raspberries do not need to be sliced. If you are using peaches, consider cutting them into thin wedges instead.
 You can arrange them randomly or artistically. For example, you could put the strawberries on the outside, followed by blueberries, kiwi, bananas, oranges, and pineapple. Finish off with more strawberries in the center.
 Press some apricot preserves through a sieve to remove any lumps. When you have enough to fill ¼ cup (80 grams), mix it with 1 tablespoon of water. Brush the mixture over the fruit., This will help the sauce set and "glue" the fruit to the pizza. When you are ready to serve the pizza, cut it into slices. Keep any leftovers in the fridge.,