 Having a vet examine your senior cat at least once a year is essential to maintaining its overall health. In addition, you should bring it to the vet as soon as you notice signs of hearing loss or ear infection.If your cat has a chronic medical condition, its vet might recommend more frequent visits.;
, Medications, such as some antibiotics and diuretics, can cause hearing loss in cats. If your cat is on any medications, ask the vet it they are related to its hearing loss.Ask, “Is it possible that one of my cat’s medications caused its hearing loss? Can you recommend an alternative medication with less significant side effects?”

, Hearing loss can be related to a variety of causes not directly related to age, like wax, infection, or mites. The vet might simply have to remove excess wax buildup in the outer ear and canal. To treat an infection or ear mite infestation, they will most likely prescribe an ointment or oral medication., An overactive thyroid gland, or hyperthyroidism, is common in middle-aged and senior cats and can cause ear, eye, kidney, and heart problems.The vet will check your cat’s neck for enlarged glands and administer a blood test. Treatment often includes a prescription medication to regulate hormone levels in the short term and, depending on your cat’s heart and kidney function, surgery or radioactive-iodine therapy.Signs of hyperthyroidism include weight loss despite increased appetite, increased thirst and urination, vomiting, diarrhea, and hyperactivity.
 Up to 85% of white cats with blue eyes are born deaf or hearing impaired in at least one ear. If your cat is white and has at least one blue eye, ask the vet if they suspect that its hearing loss is an inherited disorder.There is no treatment available for hereditary hearing loss, but you can take steps to make your cat more comfortable. Gently touch your cat if you need to wake it, clap or stomp to make vibrations, and turn lights on before entering a room to avoid startling your cat.
 Ask the vet if they think your cat might tolerate having hearing aids. While dogs usually do well with hearing aids, most cats don’t like having a foreign object in their ear. Most cats fitted for hearing aids end up scratching them out and losing the device, so vets generally recommend against them.