 If your eye is sore because you have dirt, metal, grit, or other foreign stuff in your eye, you may need to see a doctor. If you have an object embedded in your eye, see a doctor immediately. You can take the following steps to try to get rid of small particles, but if you don’t feel better immediately, get medical help.Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water.
Remove any contact lenses.
Use clean (preferably distilled) warm water or eyewash to flush your eye. You can use a special eye cup (bought at a drugstore or pharmacy) or a small drinking glass. A medicine dropper filled with clean, warm water may also help flush out small particles.
If you still have pain, redness, or irritation in your eye after you remove the foreign object, seek immediate medical attention.
 In addition to having foreign bodies lodged in your eye, there are also other symptoms that should prompt you to get immediate medical attention. These symptoms may be the signs of serious diseases or medical issues:Temporary blindness or blind spots that appear suddenly
Double vision or “halos” (bright circles that surround an object)
Blacking out
Sudden blurred vision with eye pain
Redness and swelling near the eyes

, Glaucoma is actually a group of eye diseases that can damage your optic nerves. Regular checkups with an eye doctor are the best way to prevent and detect glaucoma. However, if you have eye soreness with the following symptoms you should schedule a visit with your eye doctor as soon as possible:Trouble adjusting to changes in lighting, especially dark rooms
Trouble focusing on objects
Light sensitivity (squinting, blinking, irritation)
Red, crusty, or swollen eyes
Double, blurred, or distorted vision
Watery eyes that don't stop watering
Itchy, burning, or excessively dry eyes
Seeing “ghosts”, spots, or lines in your vision

, Pink eye, or conjunctivitis, can be highly contagious if it’s caused by a virus. While you can treat many cases of pink eye at home, if you develop certain symptoms, you should see an eye doctor or visit the emergency room immediately:Green or yellowish discharge or “crust”
High fever (over 102F), chills, shaking, pain, or loss of vision
Severe eye pain
Blurred or double vision or “halos”
If your pink eye symptoms don’t improve within two weeks, you should see a doctor even if the symptoms are mild.
 Even if you don’t have an eye emergency, you should definitely still see a doctor if your at-home eye care doesn’t relieve your pain. If your eye soreness is due to pink eye, you may need to let it run its course, but you should see a doctor if it’s not better after two weeks. If you have other symptoms and don’t feel better after a day or two of any at-home eye treatment, make an appointment with your physician or eye care specialist as soon as possible., Keep track of your symptoms, if you can, so that you can give your doctor as much information as possible. Thinking about the following questions can help your doctor give you the care you need:Have you had any problems with your vision, such as blurring, halos, blind spots, or trouble adjusting to light?
Are you experiencing pain? If so, when is it worst?
Do you get dizzy?
When did your symptoms start? Did they happen suddenly or gradually?
How often do you experience these symptoms? Is it all the time, or do they come and go?
When is the pain worse? Does anything make it better?

