 Before washing your horse, soak all brushes (including mane and tail brushes and combs) in warm water with a small amount of dishwashing detergent. Rinse well and let dry in the sun., Salt from sweat may dull the coat's color and irritate skin if the horse is not groomed properly.Brushing your horse removes dry skin and dead hairs while distributing oils throughout the coat.Use some elbow grease. Nothing replaces hard work. When you consistently care for your horse and tend to regular care, it shows., Frequent soapy baths can leave the coat dry and dull and strip the natural oils.While there's no "rule" to bathing frequency, know that a rinse can be useful for washing off sweat or dirt. Consider a bath before a show or if your horse is covered in mood.


Monitor dandruff as one way to gauge an appropriate bathing schedule. Dandruff can be an indicator that you are bathing your horse either too frequently or not frequently enough. Without frequent and thorough bathing, horses commonly develop dandruff buildup. Excessive bathing can strip the natural oils of the coat and also lead to dandruff. , When bathing your horse, rinse as many times as necessary until no soap runs off, as soap residue can lead to a dull coat. Any residue can affect the horse's skin or damage the naturally occurring oils., Good nutrition includes adequate protein and fatty acids, depending on your horse's activity level and medical needs. Grazing horses need appropriate nutrition as well. Talk to your equine nutritionist to provide you with professional advice., Supplementing can be a great way to add additional nutrition to your horse's diet when used as directed. Discuss any deficiencies with your veterinarian and create a supplement plan. Common ingredients in skin supplements include Vitamin A, B vitamins, Biotin, Methionine, Lysine, Zinc, Fatty acids, Vitamin E., A dull coat can stem from a deficiency in fatty acids such as Omega-3 and Omega-6 in your horse’s diet. Many people choose to add regular vegetable oil to the horse's diet. Use as directed.
 Worms can cause your horse to experience rough and dull coat, lethargy, extended belly, and slowed growth in young horses.Pay attention to any of these symptoms and talk to your veterinarian to ward off parasites.


Monitoring parasite eggs in the fecal count is the best way to detect parasites and worms. Your veterinarian can help you develop an effective deworming program to fit your horse's needs.Grazing horses experience less parasites than stabled horses due to less confined conditions. If you stable your horse, make sure clean conditions are maintained., If your horse's coat condition has changed, it may be due to problems with health that may require medical attention from your veterinarian.


A fungus infection may contribute to shedding matted or clumped hair. Some common symptoms of a fungus infection include weight loss, colic, diarrhea, and nasal drip.Some glandular conditions can cause the skin to become dry, resulting in a dull, brittle hair coat. Discuss any concerns you have with your veterinarian., Allergies are unpleasant for the horse and can contribute to problems with the horse's coat. Talk to your veterinarian about ways to treat your horse's allergies., Silicon enhances the look of the horse's coat. Carefully spray silicon everywhere except the saddle area. Coating the legs and tail will ensure that dirt will not stick.Additional products exist to enhance a coat's shine.
 A dryer sheet will collect any last-minute dust around the face. Carefully brush the dryer sheet throughout the face with your hand, being careful to not displace any hair. Do this right before entering the warm-up ring., Adding powder to the legs will help the legs stand out and can improve the overall appearance of the horse. Apply powder on show day.