 Choose a cleanser that is meant for sensitive skin. Harsh cleansers may irritate your skin and cause or intensify your existing acne. Avoid scrubbing or using exfoliating products or toners on the areas where you get body acne most often.Take a shower after you get sweaty to prevent your pores from getting clogged. Acne is more likely to develop if you have too much excess oil on your skin for a long period of time. Make sure that you take a shower after you workout or whenever you get too sweaty.Use your hands to wash your body. It may seem like a good idea to scrub your body if you have body acne, but it can make your acne worse. Using a sponge or a washcloth can also irritate your acne, so it is best to wash your body using your hands if you are prone to body acne.Try using an over-the-counter body wash specifically formulated for acne. Some examples include Neutrogena, Oxy, or Clean and Clear. Most products of this nature have a main ingredient such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid.;
, If you have oily hair, it is possible to develop pimples on your scalp if enough oil is allowed to collect there. Wash your hair every day if you have oily hair.Use a gentle shampoo so that your scalp does not become irritated from daily washing.


Steer clear of hair styling products that contain oil. Products like pomades, gels, and mousses may also cause acne to develop on your scalp., Moisturizing your skin is important, but some moisturizers can intensify your acne. Look for moisturizers and other body products that are labeled noncomedogenic. Also look for oil-free and nonacnegenic treatments. These types of products are less likely to irritate your skin or make your acne worse., It is important to protect your skin when you spend time in the sun, but some oil-based sunscreens may clog your pores. Choose a sunscreen that is labeled “oil-free” to help prevent acne breakouts and protect your skin from the sun.Make sure to apply 1-2 ounces of sunscreen at least 30 minutes before exposure to the sun and reapply every two hours., Some natural remedies may be effective in reducing body acne. The most effective natural treatment is tea tree oil, which has antibacterial properties. Products containing tea tree oil can be applied to the skin directly, as a topical treatment.