 Dial 2-1-1 from any landline or mobile phone to find out more information about how to get the help you need.Dialing this number is completely free and confidential.
Someone should be available to take your call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
This number should work from most landlines and mobile phones, but it may not work with all mobile phone carriers. It will not work if 2-1-1 is not available in your immediate area yet, either.
Multilingual access is typically available and can cover over 100 different languages.;
, If 2-1-1 does not work for you, you can still access the First Call for Help program through a separate phone number. You can find the correct number for your geographic area by searching the 2-1-1 online database.


Search the online 2-1-1 database here: http://www.211search.org/

Type in your zip code for best results. You can also search by city and/or state.
Hit the "View All" button after typing in your information. You should be given a list of the 2-1-1 services available in your area. Within each listing, you should find a link to the service's home page, community service search page, and alternative phone number.
Calling this alternative phone number should connect you to the same source of assistance as calling 2-1-1 would.
 Formally known as First Call for Help, 2-1-1 is a free service telephone number you can call when you need to be connected to resources that can help you with financial assistance, medical issues, or other social service matters.


Among other things, 2-1-1 should be able to connect you with agencies and organizations that provide senior citizen services,counseling, other mental health services, educational services, recreational services, rent or mortgage payment assistance, assistance with utilities, job training services, tax preparation services, child care services,substance abuse recovery assistance, services for people with disabilities, home meal delivery, shelter, health care, family services, support groups, flood and other natural disaster assistance,and emergency food services.
The United Way of Metropolitan Atlanta first began using 2-1-1 for this purpose in 1997, but by the year 2000, the national United Way and Federal Communications Commission dedicated the number for this purpose on a national level.
 When you call 2-1-1, you will connect to a trained resource and referral specialist who works with the United Way.


This specialist should know the full range of services available in your area.
Answer any question posed to you by the specialist and briefly describe your need. Provide as much accurate information as possible in order to be referred to the best possible source of assistance.
Typically, you will not be connected directly to resource. You'll be given the contact information for that resource, however, and should be provided with any additional information regarding how to get in touch with that resource and make use of it.

