 Whenever changing any piercing start by washing your hands. You don't want bacteria or infections getting into a piercing. Wash the area around your nose stud, whether you have a stud in or not. Also wash the nose stud itself.


It is really important to clean the piece of metal that you are sticking into your body. Germs on the stud could transfer straight to your nose, so make sure the stud is clean.
It's a good idea to use a saline solution or a mild antiseptic solution to make sure the area is really clean but you can use hydrogen peroxide or plain soap too. Either way, make sure that the cleaner is washed off and the stud is dry before inserting it.
 A corkscrew-style stud is a simple piece of wire with a decorative end that is twisted in a loose spiral towards the other end. It can be a little more difficult to insert than other types of nose studs because it is twisted in an unusual shape.


To insert it you will first need to find the hole in your nose. Push the end of the stud, the opposite end of the decorative end, in the hole making sure to be gentle and that the stud is going straight through to the other side of the hole.
When you're sure that the end of the stud is through to the other side (you can feel the inside of your nose to make sure that it is) slowly push a little bit more of the stud in while simultaneously twisting the stud so the spiral of wire flows into the hole.
The L-shaped nose stud is fully in when the decorative end of the stud is up against the outside of your nose.
 To make sure that you've put in your nose stud correctly, lift up your nostril a bit and look in the mirror. You should be able to see the end of the corkscrew stud inside your nose. The end should be positioned so that you are not able to feel it. If you can feel it poking the inside of your nose, readjust it's position.
 Taking the stud out of your nose is simple if you remember that inside your nose it is shaped like a spiral. Begin pulling it out, holding onto the decorative end, and allow the stud to twist naturally as it comes out. Its easiest if you have a loose grip on the decorative end and allow the stud to move naturally as it comes out. No need to force it, this will only end up hurting.


Like when you put the stud in, remember to have clean hands and a clean area around the nose stud!

