 If you work for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), or some other law enforcement agency, one of the first opportunities you have to spot smuggling is when a passenger checks in and goes through security. When you screen a passenger, you will look for warrants, plane tickets bought with cash, unusual travel patterns, criminal histories, or quick trips to places known for drugs or human trafficking (e.g., South America, the Caribbean, or West Africa).For example, you might become suspicious of a traveler who has traveled to a known drug haven multiple times in the past month. While this alone is not conclusive evidence of smuggling, it should raise red flags. Once these red flags have been raised, you should dig deeper.;
, At airports, you can always analyze a person's mannerisms to spot smuggling. When you watch someone interact with customs agents, ticket agents, airline employees, and other passengers, look for suspicious activity. For example, red flags might be raised if you see passengers who are sweating heavily, displaying a pulsing carotid artery (in their neck), or are acting really nervous around authorities.This tactic can be used whether you are a trained professional or a regular passerby.


For example, if you see an individual sweating profusely while waiting in line to go through customs, or if the person seems jittery or nervous before getting questioned, you may have spotted a smuggler.
In the case of smuggled humans, the person being smuggled may not be able to answer questions at checkpoints. The person may seem scared and will not know where he or she is going. The person may also have an inconsistent story and no sense of time., In the context of drugs, smugglers use various means to move product across borders. The smuggler may try to stuff it in dirty clothes, diaper bags, food products, or in anything else he or she thinks you will not want to search. One way to spot a smuggler is to look for products that are out of place.


For example, if a person is traveling alone but is carrying diapers, a baby bag, or baby food, you may want to ask questions.
In another example, you may have questions if a person is bringing back Indian or Mexican food products when that person visited Europe.
In the case of fake consumer goods, you may be able to spot these items by looking for poor workmanship, crooked labels, or misspelled words., Particularly in cases of drug smuggling, your nose can be a powerful tool to spot smuggling. Different types of drugs have distinct and sometimes pungent smells. While a smuggler will try to mask the smells, they can often permeate whatever it is the smuggler uses to hide them.


For example, a marijuana smuggler will often use peanut butter or coffee to try to mask the smell of the marijuana. However, the distinct smell of marijuana cannot always be masked completely.
 Human smuggling can be difficult at airports due to the amount of people in a small area. However, you might see signs of an individual being smuggled if a person looks distraught and not free to leave someone else's side. In addition, look for someone who seems depressed, anxious, fearful, or submissive. Smuggled humans may also lack the physical health you would expect a normal person to have. Look for people in poor physical health that have signs of abuse., If you are not a trained individual tasked with spotting smugglers and the activities conducted, never approach anyone you think may be a smuggler. Instead, contact your local law enforcement agency immediately. If it is an emergency, dial 911 and explain the situation. In addition, flag down a TSA agent or local police officer. Once you have gotten the agent's attention, listen to directions and let the person do their job.
 If you are a trained law enforcement agent, you will usually have the ability to question suspicious activity. If you see something that leads you to believe smuggling may be occurring, stop the person at an appropriate time and question certain activities. As a trained professional, you will know the appropriate time and manner. Generally, smugglers have discrepancies in travel plans or may give vague answers to your questions. In addition, the smuggler may have trouble answering the most basic questions (e.g., where is the smuggler coming from or how long has the smuggler been traveling).For example, if, when you ask a person about travel plans, the smuggler claims to have been somewhere that does not match flight information, or the smuggler cannot accurately describe the length of travel, you should become suspicious.
 Smugglers try to move as much product across the border as they can. To increase the amount of drugs or humans they can transport, they will often use specially modified vehicles to get the job done. You should look for vehicles at border crossings that look to be damaged or that have had a lot of work done to them. Look for panels that do not match and pieces that look like they have been pulled off.


For example, some smugglers will tear apart the bumpers of their vehicles and pack drugs in them. The smugglers will then put the car back together and and have someone drive across the border.Other smugglers make secret compartments that can fit humans. The smuggler will put humans in the compartments then try to travel across the border unnoticed.
 Drug smugglers will try to outsmart you and stay one step ahead. However, the smugglers often fall back on common practices that work. If you know what to look for, you might be able to spot smugglers trained to act in a certain way.


For example, most smugglers are men. However, that does not mean every one of them is.
Most drug smugglers will have a clean criminal record so as to not raise the attention of anyone looking into their background.
Most drug smugglers are lower income individuals with a need for the money.
A lot of drug smugglers will make multiple trips every year. This means you can look for individuals who pass international borders regularly., Many humans are brought across international borders against their will. If you are at a border crossing, you may see a car full of people, most of whom look distraught and scared. In addition, if you are not at a checkpoint, you may see individuals actually being held against their will. You might see someone holding individuals at gun point or threatening them in some other way.
 ICE is responsible for enforcing US borders across the country. If you saw suspicious activity while near the border and you believe smuggling might have taken place, you can call ICE or file a report on its website. Whether you call or file a report online, you will provide:Your personal information (unless you want the tip to be anonymous)
The location where you are reporting from
The suspected illegal activity taking place (e.g., human smuggling, drug smuggling, or gun smuggling)
The location of the criminal activity
Information about the possible smuggler

, CBP is also responsible for protecting US borders from illegal activity making its way into the US. If you see suspicious activity, apart from calling local law enforcement and ICE, you can also contact CBP. You may want to call CBP if you see airplanes flying low near the border or suspicious activity taking place on boats., If you are a border patrol agent tasked with protecting international borders, part of your job will include inspecting incoming people and vehicles to look for smugglers. However, you will not always be doing your job alone. Border patrol agents cover vast areas of land that are not always protected by checkpoints or fences. In order to protect these areas, you will utilize the help of high-tech cameras, sensors, helicopters, and drones. These tools will help you see anyone trying to sneak across the border with other humans or drugs.


At checkpoints there are dogs trained to sniff out drugs and humans. In addition, there are x-ray cameras that analyze the inside of vehicles. These cameras have the ability to see organic material in vehicles, which includes drugs and humans., Just like smugglers coming in through airports, smugglers crossing international borders on foot or in vehicles will often act suspiciously. If smugglers are carrying drugs, look for bulky or baggy jackets, or clothes that seem out of place for the weather. In addition, if smugglers are on foot, they will often have a backpack with them that is incredibly heavy. You can also look for individuals who are nervous and cannot answer simple questions you ask.


If you see this sort of activity, you may want to conduct a more in-depth search of the person or people involved.
If a person has a large quantity of some consumer good, it may be the person is smuggling that good so he or she can sell it. Look for individuals carrying a large quantity of consumer goods that are often counterfeited (e.g., purses, sports jerseys, or movies).
 In addition to spotting the smugglers in the act of smuggling, you can also spot smugglers by looking into their financial transactions. If you work for a bank or credit union, this might be particularly relevant. One thing to look for is multiple wire transfers made to a common beneficiary. These transactions will all be kept under $3,000, as that is the reporting threshold for a wire transfer.


In other words, as long as a wire transfer is kept below $3,000, the bank will not have to report it to the government. Smugglers know this and work around it by making multiple transfers.
The beneficiaries are often located in Northern Mexico or the Southwestern United States where a lot of the smuggling takes place. Look for money that is being sent to these areas., A smuggler has to deposit money into an account before he or she can send it to someone else. Therefore, you can spot smuggling activity sometimes based on the types of deposits an individual makes.


Look for unusual deposits that do not match the individual's expected activity. For example, if an individual works on a construction site and gets their paycheck directly deposited into their account, you should be suspicious if that person starts bringing in thousands of dollars in cash.
Also, look for the rapid turnover of funds, which may be indicative of smuggling activities. For example, you might flag someone that deposits thousands of dollars in cash and immediately wires the funds to someone else. It is the quick turnaround between the time of deposit and time of transfer that makes this suspicious., Smugglers usually work as part of a hierarchical business structure and send money to their bosses or superiors from time-to-time. These superiors will often have multiple people working beneath them who will send them money. Therefore, you can often spot smuggling activity by looking into where the money is being sent. In addition, the individuals sending money will often have little or no connection to the person they are sending money to.


When you question the individual sending the money, he or she will usually not know who is receiving the transfer or why the transfer is being made., Not all smugglers use cash. Sometimes individuals will use checks to deposit money in various accounts. Oftentimes, these checks will come from a single funnel account with the sole purpose of having money sent other places.


To spot these types of accounts and checks, look at the check to see if it has been pre-signed. For example, if an individual comes into your bank with a check that has been signed but that has no amount written in, you might get suspicious. You will be able to notice this if they fill out the rest of the check in front of you, or if there are two separate forms of handwriting on the check.