 You may wonder why would would need more than the image you are trying to fix, but chances are, you will want to replace the background.
,,, It's a good idea to rename it so that you know the difference.
, Do this by sliding the Red, Green, Blue bars.
 Continue doing this until the image starts to have more contrast. There is no 'secret answer' to it., These parts would be where there is no background showing and none of the flyaway hairs. Do this by:


Selecting the paintbrush tool (using a fairly large tool to start with)
Be sure that your foreground color is white
Start painting the main part of the image that you want masked out and progressively using a smaller brush, continue until it is almost done.
 Do this by clicking on Colors >> Levels.


The first one, the gradient from black to white, represents the gray tones in the image. Try moving the left control triangle to the center. This will lessen the amount of black and turn it to dark gray. The right triangle works the opposite way. The middle triangle allows you to fine tune the coloring.
Hopefully, the hair strands will become lighter as the background becomes darker.
 You will need to copy the details of the grayscale image you have been working with to the mask.


Select All (CTRL A)
Copy (CTRL C)
Activate the background layer
Right click in the layers dialog and "Add Layer Mask" (white).
 This is the white area next to the background layer. You will want to be sure you are on the correct layer.
, Click on the "Anchor" button. This icon is second from the left on the Layer toolbar in Gimp 2.6., This would be where you got the mask from. Its location is noted by a red circle in the screen shot. It has already been clicked. You can tell this by looking at the image.
 You might have one in mind or just experiment with something.

You will see that your image has completely disappeared. Don't be concerned. It is just hidden.;
, If you can't, you probably need to anchor your floating selection.


Process is being made but you can see some of the original background in the image. This indicates that some of the color adjustments weren't quite right from before.
, What you want to do is get the hair strands even darker. The aim is to get the hair strands even darker (i.e. more transparent). So I move the left control to the center. You can see the results in the preview immediately.