 Often, buyers will point to flaws in your home as a reason to negotiate the price down. You can try to prevent this by fixing your home up as best as you can before showing it to anybody.Look at the appliances that you are leaving with the home, such as refrigerators, stoves, etc. Are they old? Do they need to be replaced? The buyer might reduce the amount offered to account for having to replace these items.
If possible, you could replace them yourself. You might be able to get a good deal on new appliances. You should shop around and look for special offers.;
, You want to be confident in the amount that you are asking for your home. You should get an appraisal done. You can find an appraiser by looking in your phone book or by using the “Find an Appraiser” search at the Appraisal Institute website.If your housing market is hot right now, then you should feel comfortable pricing a little above the appraisal amount.
However, if your market is cooler, then you can price a little under the appraisal., A motivated seller is more likely to lower their price in order to sell the home. If you let buyers know that you are motivated, then you are giving them important information. They know that they can be more aggressive trying to get the price lowered because you are anxious to sell.


Try to play it cool. If a buyer or agent asks why you are selling, come up with something neutral, like “We’re looking to buy a bigger home.”Don’t say, “My husband has a new job across the country and we leave in three weeks.” That type of explanation signals that you are anxious to sell.
 At the same time that you hide your real motivations, you should try to discover the buyer’s.If they are eager to move, then you can be more aggressive with your price.
 One technique buyers use to negotiate is to make an offer and then claim a third party needs to review the house or the deal before signing the agreement. This third party then tries to negotiate down the price.This tactic works because the seller is excited at the prospect of making a sale. When the third party starts complaining about the price, the seller is so emotionally invested in making the sale come off that they start lowering the price so that the buyer doesn’t walk away.
You can avoid this tactic by making sure that all relevant parties are present before you begin negotiating.
Before you begin throwing numbers around, ask if there is anyone else who needs to see the house or needs to be involved in the negotiation. Wait until they are present to negotiate.
 Some buyers might throw out a number just to catch you off guard.This technique is used to try and figure out how motivated you are to sell your home. If this happens, then don’t show any emotion.


You could say, “I’ll consider any offer in writing” and leave it at that.
 The best way to make negotiations go smoothly is to have a fair starting price.Look at your appraisal or market research and price accordingly.


A fair price should warrant a fair counter-offer. If the counter-offer is ridiculously low, then look to see what reasoning is offered for such a low price.
It is usually better to walk away from someone who makes a very low initial offer than to argue with them that your home is worth more than they are offering.
 After stating your price, sit back and wait for a response. Fight the instinct to fill the silence by immediately justifying your price or immediately lowering it.The longer you are silent, the more uncomfortable the buyer and his or her agent will be. They will probably try to fill the void by immediately justifying their counteroffer.
 As you negotiate, try not to get sidetracked on minor issues such as how old the refrigerator is. You might not think the refrigerator is old because you replaced it last year. Remember that there is no reason to get into an argument about the refrigerator when big issues (like price) remain to be negotiated.


Once you focus on the main issues, then the details can be resolved much easier.Always try to maintain a “big picture” focus. Don’t get sidetracked.
 The purchase price is only one part of a purchase and sale agreement. Remember to negotiate the rest of the transaction. Keep track of who agrees to pay for what, because it impacts how much you will make on the sale. For example, someone will have to pay for the following:


title insurance
title search
survey
inspection
taxes
recording fees and other closing costs

, You might hold the upper-hand in negotiations. For example, you might uncover that the buyer is very motivated to buy. You use this information to your advantage to get the highest price possible. However, it is important to make sure that each side leaves the bargaining a little bit happy. This means compromising even if you don’t have to.


Nobody wants to feel that they have been taken advantage of. If you try to win every little point with the buyer, then he or she might get turned off and walk away from the deal.Make concessions on things that are relatively cheap but important to the buyer. For example, the buyer probably wants a home inspection done. You could volunteer to pay for the inspection.
 You might end up using a standard, printed purchase and sale agreement. However, you should have a lawyer look it over before signing so that you can make sure that the agreement is in your best interest.A real estate lawyer can also help you understand the tax consequences of your sale.
To find a real estate lawyer, see Select a Real Estate Attorney for a Closing.
 Some people don’t stop negotiating, even after you think you have reached a deal. They constantly raise issues and try to nibble the price down a little lower. You can avoid this situation by thoroughly documenting the sale.In particular, be sure to spell out in your purchase and sale agreement what fixtures are coming with the property and what repairs (if any) you are making. If you aren’t making repairs, then state that explicitly.
Tell the buyer to put their complaints in writing. Any written request to alter the purchaser and sale agreement can be treated as a counteroffer, which you don’t have to accept.

