 Gossip Girl is, naturally, all about gossip- while sometimes it may be actually harmful, in small amounts it's innocent, fun and very juicy; not to mention it's one of the main ways to popularity. Make your life worthy to be gossiped about; that includes doing some crazy things once in a while (but not so crazy you're looked down at) and making a reputation as a glamour girl. If your popularity, however, is falling, win back the hearts you were once popular among- by throwing the party of the year, getting the hottest guy in the school or getting on the cover of a magazine; anything, as long as it's glamorous and it gains the admiration of people around you.;
, Less than perfect looks are not accepted, as the way you look can make you or break you in a Gossip Girl-like world.


Take good care of yourself. Brand name skin lotions, shampoos, makeup products and other stuff are very often mentioned in the Gossip Girl books. In matters of products used for grooming, buy the best you can afford (well, actually that applies pretty much to everything...). Have a morning beauty routine: take a shower, wash and style your hair, paint your nails, apply makeup. When you afford, go to beauty salons and spas and have professionals take care of your skin, nails and hair; it's very relaxing and you get better results.
Get the style. Trendy clothes, straight hair, polished look- that's the predominant look in the books. Read fashion magazines and go on style.com to find out about the latest trends. Don't follow trends like crazy, though; having your own style is very appreciated. Just buying a few items in style at the moment will save you from bankruptcy and losing your fashion identity.
Buy fine, high quality, well-tailored clothes. They don't have to be designer (although a few designer clothes would be more than welcome), but they must be stylish, well-made and somewhat expensive. In matters of clothes, go for a sexy, sleek, high-end chic style. Buy some awesome shoes too. Own at least a designer it bag, if you afford.
 As fellow Upper East Siders, the Gossip Girl characters have impeccable manners; they don't want to risk being seen in public doing something that would go off as rude, gross, offensive, impolite or socially unacceptable in any way.



Never fart, burp, or cuss in public.
When arguing to someone, don't shout and be elegant in dealing with that person.
Don't be annoying, and especially not on purpose.
Be respectful to everyone.
Learn to apologize and thank people.
When going to an event, respect the dress code, if there's one.
Don't drink too much at a party; drunk people are just lame.
 Have fun, party 'till you drop, meet new people, flirt and dance. Be the center of attention for at least one night. You will be remembered as the girl who entertained everyone at the party and you'll start being invited to more and more events.
 You don't want to be like little J, getting grounded for everything she does wrong. Earn their trust and get allowance from them for partying, consuming alcoholic beverages (don't overdo it and get drunk though, and do not be underage for drinking alcohol) and shopping for everything you want. You never hear of Blair's or Serena's parents getting them grounded for doing these things.
 A gorgeous, privileged teenage girl would have no reasons to be insecure, and since you are aiming for her kind of lifestyle, you'll need loads of confidence to make it. Every time you feel down, do something you enjoy, like shopping or relaxing at a spa, for example. Find things you like about yourself and enhance them.
 For Blair, it was Audrey Hepburn; you can choose her, or any other fabulous personality you admire. It has to be someone that lives/has lived the way you want to live, so that it's easier to follow. For example, if your dream job is acting, choose an actress as a role model. It doesn't have to be a real person; it can be a character too, even a character from Gossip Girl!

, In the world of people like Blair and Serena, getting excellent grades and being involved in extracurricular activities and charity is very important, as these are bonus points in getting into the college of your dreams and having a rewarding job and reputation later in life.
 Nobody wants to hang out with a boring, grouchy person. Entertain people, be talkative (but not the annoying, unstoppable, chatterbox-like type of talkative), make jokes and compliment people. Be energetic and have brilliant initiatives and ideas. You'll attract everyone around you.
 People will look up to you for ideas of where to hang out, what to wear and what social events to attend. Know all the latest gossip about everyone around you; the juicier, the better.
 Someone who shies away from attention will never be popular. Don't regard attention as a bad thing; instead, learn to use it to your own advantage. Don't be too much of an attention-seeker, though, as it's purely pathetic.
 Both Blair and Serena are boy magnets. Learn to flirt and present yourself over as attractive to guys. There are different types of seductive; pick the type that is the closest to your personality and enhances your best features. You can be the mysterious, ladylike siren like Blair, the gorgeous, exuberant diva like Serena and so on.
 Generally, a clique is formed of a leader, her best friend (optional) and a few other weaker, more less confident, loyal sidekicks. These insecure, less socially skilled girls often need a stronger friend to rely on, as it's difficult for them to stand out and be popular on their own. They still have to be somewhat cool and fashionable (forming a clique of losers is unacceptable), but not too much so they can be seen as potential rivals. However, getting such a clique is often seen as social manipulation, and you may consider the other option: forming a group of strong, confident girls you are not bored by. This is a more satisfying option for the less bossy, but be aware that such groups often fall apart because the girls fight more than in a hierarchy-based clique, where you can silence other girls with a look.
 Don't always say what you think; if everybody told the truth right the way it is, our lives would be way more boring. Besides, sometimes a little innocent lie or a "spiced up" story is more interesting than the truth, right?

, Gossip Girl characters have a good public image without being completely innocent and "clean". The secret is keeping your naughty side for an exclusive group of people (only your friends and close ones); if you act in a way that can be considered promiscuous with everybody around, rumors will be spread and your reputation can go down.
 No one wants to be around someone who is embarrassing to look at. So tighten up those tummies and hush those thunder-thighs, you want to turn heads with your smoking hot bod. (Dress in your comfort zone when it comes to showing skin to look effortless. Gossip girls never look like they're trying too hard.)

