 Gravel is a light grey block that falls when nothing is under it. You can find it in large quantities underwater, on beaches, on village pathways, and occasionally in caves. If you're not near any of these features, just dig underground until you come across it. However, be cautious when digging straight down.;
, About 1 in 10 gravel blocks drop a piece of flint instead of gravel when destroyed.Using a shovel will let you dig through gravel much faster, and if enchanted with Fortune, it will increase the chances of getting flint.A shovel requires one material of your choice (wood planks, cobblestone, iron ingot, gold ingot, or diamond) and two sticks, plus a crafting table. On the computer edition, place these in a vertical column with the material on top.
 Iron is fairly common underground and in caves, so you shouldn't have to dig deep to find it. It looks like stone with flecks of beige. You must use a stone pickaxe or better to mine it.
 You can't use iron ore until you separate the iron from the stone. Here's how to do it:


Build a furnace out of eight cobblestone using a crafting table. (In the computer edition, fill every square except the center.)
Use the furnace to open a smelting interface.
Place the iron ore in the top slot.
Place coal, wood, or other flammable items in the lower fuel slot. (This will be destroyed.)
Wait for the smelting to finish.
Get the iron ingot from the results slot on the right.
 If you are playing Minecraft on the computer or on a console with advanced crafting enabled, just place an iron ingot and piece of flint anywhere in the crafting grid.Drag flint and steel from the results box to your inventory.


If you are playing Minecraft 1.7.1 or earlier, you need to place the flint exactly one square below and one square to the right of the iron ingot., On devices with simple crafting systems, just select the Flint and Steel recipe from the crafting screen.


On Minecraft Pocket edition, flint and steel is only available in version 0.4.0 and later.You can only light fires in 0.7.0 and later.All console versions have flint and steel.
 Before you start lighting things on fire, learn how to stop it from burning down your base:Fire can spread to any empty block above a flammable surface. The furthest it can jump is one square down, one square to the side, or four squares up.
Solid barriers will not stop the fire from spreading.
Water will extinguish fire.
 Place the flint and steel in one of your quick slots and select it. You can now use the item the same way you would an equipped pickaxe or other tool. Using the item on a flammable object (such as wood or grass) will start a fire. Using it on a non-flammable object (such as stone) may start a short-lived fire. Here are a few ways to use a fire:


Temporary lighting when you're low on torches
Clearing a forest for a large building project
Lighting enemies on fire — they're flammable too! Creepers will explode, and most other mobs will slowly take damage.
 You might find TNT guarding a desert temple, or you can make it yourself by filling the crafting area with alternating gunpowder and sand. Lighting it with flint and steel gives you about four seconds to run before it explodes.To give yourself more time, light a flammable block near the TNT and let it spread to ignite the TNT indirectly.

