 Notice what he is wearing, how he behaves, what he drinks, and what he does in the club. For example, is he there to have fun with his friends, or does he just want to pick up potential romantic partners? This can tell you a lot, and help if you approach him. You might study him and realize that he’s there with a significant other, so you will need to move on to someone else.
 If you see the guy at the bar, go to the bar and buy something to drink. If he turns, make eye contact before looking away. You can even look him up and down while he’s watching and then make eye contact and smile, if you’re feeling adventurous. You can also:Offer to buy him a drink. This is a fairly classic method of flirtation.
Be friendly. If you're being openly friendly with a strange guy, he may very well take this as flirtation. Smile at him and even offer a compliment. You can say something like, "Hey, I love your shirt.", Many men will be flattered if you try to engage them in conversation.Get him to talk about himself, his opinions, and interests. Most of us like to talk about ourselves. If you’re really at a loss, ask about his tattoos (if he has any showing) or if he has any that aren’t. You can also use the following questions:Try a compliment. You could say something like, "You look athletic. Do you play sports?" You could also try something like, "That's a great shirt. Where did you get it?"
If you're both waiting at the bar, comment on this to strike up conversation. For example, say something like, "Can you believe how crowded it is?" After he responds, introduce yourself.
Ask about him when starting a conversation. Find something you can observe about him and ask about it as a way to talk. For example, "Excuse me, but what kind of beer are you drinking?"

, Once you have a guy hooked in conversation, make sure to send signals you're interested. Nod and smile to show you're listening. Maintain eye contact as he talks.Pay as much attention to listening as you do to talking. If you appear interested in someone and what they're saying, this can appear flirtatious.
Appear engaged. Talk in an animated voice, sit up straight, and smile on occasion.
 If you notice the guy flirting back a bit, you have successfully gotten his attention. If he responds to the eye contact and flirting, you have gotten him to notice you! You might want to continue flirting and talking, or take it to the dance floor. Now that he’s noticed you, it’s up to you where you want to take the night from here.

