 This is a step you want to get reasonably accurate early on.


Go to a pharmacy, department store, salon, or similar business with a make-up counter.
Consult with the clerk and/or palette samples to get a sense of what color the skin around the problem lip(s) is--and identify the names of the make-up colors you will need.
Make sure what you choose won't inadvertently offset your skin tone while you are trying to help the appearance of your lips.;
, Make sure you have a good assortment of colors, or buy more if necessary.


You will need a make up applicator, relatively "muted" or darker colors and/or a concealer in your make-up kit. Most of these products can be found in a pharmacy or supermarket. If you have trouble finding them, try consulting a salon.
Purples, browns, bronzes and similar are colors you might also consider.
You can use a make-up brush to apply these colors in the area just above the top lip or just below the bottom lip to blend them more with your natural skin.
 You will need an applicator for this. You can either apply the colors or concealer around the lip-line.









Select a concealer that closely matches the skin tone around your mouth.
Apply the concealer to the top edge of your top lip and the bottom edge of your bottom lip--approximately a millimeter away from the lip.
Use a sponge applicator wand (or a cotton swab or your fingers if you do not have the wand) to blend the concealer into your skin using an up and down motion so that the edges of your lips appear to naturally blend into the tone of your skin above or below your lip.
If the resulting line is uneven, smooth it out by dragging the tip of the applicator sponge across the line of concealer parallel to the edge of your lips.
 This can be done in conjunction with the make-up and concealer steps, or by itself.








Avoid the brighter colors in the lipstick selection, they will only make lips appear larger.
Find darker colors that will work with your skin tone. Consider asking a salon consultant.
This can work if there is one lip that needs more attention over another. For instance, if only the upper lip needs to look thinner--use a darker color on the upper lip while you use something slightly brighter to draw attention to the lower lip (or vice-versa).
 If make-up hasn't worked or is not an option for you, then you might need to consider other options.


If make-up is not an option for you to begin with, then more health-care/medical approach may be something you should keep in mind.
If the make-up is not working, you can try other colors near the shades you have been trying to see if there is an improvement before you pursue other methods.
Consult with a salon or medical professional before proceeding with a more extensive make-up or medical procedure.

