 This is particularly important to do if your baby has presented with thrush symptoms. Any instrument that comes into contact with your baby’s mouth and your nipple should be sterilized. You can do this by bringing water to a boil and placing the instruments inside for five minutes after every use.The instruments you should sterilize include:


The teething ring, pacifiers, and the teat of the feeding bottle.;
, After you have boiled the instruments listed above, place them in a container that you can seal off from bacteria. Boil this container often.
 Because the breast pump comes into contact with your breasts, it is important to sterilize it. Use bleach to do this.


You should also consider boiling any of the detachable parts of the breast pump so that they are also sterile.
 Use clean, warm water to do this. Allow your nipples to air dry once you have washed them. It is important to make sure that your nipples are dry so that they do not provide a habitat for yeast.You should also try to expose your breasts to the sun for a few minutes each day, as the vitamin D is thought fight the thrush.
 By washing your clothes in hot water, you kill the yeast that is responsible for killing the thrush.


You should also change the nursing pads that you use against your breast while breastfeeding. Washing these pads or blankets often ensures that they do not provide an environment for fungus to grow.
 Washing your hands can help to prevent the transfer of yeast from you to other people and things that you come into contact with. Always wash your hands before and after changing diapers and breastfeeding.


Use regular soap rather than a strong anti-bacterial soap. Anti-bacterial soap also kills normal bacteria that can actually help to prevent yeast from growing.
 Use paper towels rather hand towels, as hand towels are more prone to getting dirty and housing bacteria.
 Check your baby’s toenails, fingernails, and around your baby’s groin and diaper area. You should also check to make sure that the area under your breasts and arms do not show signs of a yeast infection.Wash your baby’s hands frequently. Do not allow your child to put dirty things into his mouth.

