 Even though total immersion into a culture is the best way to learn a language, many exchange programs require you to take classes in German while you are there. If your school does not have a German program, you may need to seek out a German tutor.;
, Exchange programs are not for everyone; they require open-mindedness, flexibility, positivity and the spirit of adventure. Make sure you consider the ramifications of being isolated away from friends and family before you speak with your family about an exchange.
 If you have thought long and hard about what it would mean to you, and how it will help you to achieve future goals, your parents are likely to understand. Most exchange students are minors so you will need your parents' approval.


Begin planning 1 to 2 years in advance. This will give you plenty of time to learn German, get enough funds or scholarships to pay for the trip and communicate with your host company.
 The teacher may be able to facilitate an exchange with friends and families in Germany. If not, there may be companies that the teacher would recommend highly.
 Some good places to start are the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange, at usagermanyscholarship.org Two Worlds, at Twoworldsunited.com, ASSE, at asse.com, Rotary Youth Exchange, at https://www.rotary.org/en/youth-exchanges, and the German Academic Exchange Service, at daad.org.


Understand that you may not have a choice in where you are placed. Some companies or organizations only have contracts with certain schools and families. You should be open to living almost anywhere in Germany.
Some of these exchange program companies are for-profit. This means they will require extra money from you in order to facilitate the exchange and you will pay them for their services. They may require a deposit and regular payments before departure.
 The Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange and a few other programs provide scholarships to help cover the costs of housing, schooling, food and more when you are abroad. Download the forms, write an essay and submit it in time.
 Germany currently runs on the Euro, which is evaluated over the dollar. This means that it is slightly more expensive to live in Germany than it is to live in the United States, and perhaps much more expensive, depending upon where you will live.
 It is a great idea to practice your German by writing letters or emails to your host family and get to know them before you go. If other students are also going to be spending a year nearby in Germany, you may want to start communicating with them as well.
 The best way is to use a newer laptop computer or tablet. You can use the built-in web cam and microphone to use Skype or Google Hangout, so that you can see and speak with everyone on a regular basis.
 Some programs require transcripts that show you have a 2.75 GPA or higher. You will need high grades in German, and you may be required to take conversation or written tests in German.
 Living away from your family and friends during your formative years will be very hard. Rest assured that most exchange students find themselves adapting and not wanting to leave at the end of their stay.
 The best way to ensure that your parents understand all the changes you are going through, is to invite them to see what you have seen. Either ask them to stay in your home stay village or travel through Germany and/or Europe.

