 A small peg shelf can be made with only a handful of basic components. To make a simple mounted shelf, you’ll need a 2’x3’ wooden panel board (around ½ inch thick), a 8’x6”x1” board, a power drill with 1” hole saw attachment, a few 1” wooden dowels, 1” tube straps, multiple ½” screws, four 4” screws, four wall anchors and a package of washers. You’ll also need a straight edge and a sheet of fine-grit sandpaper, as well as a pencil for marking your measurements.The measurements given in this tutorial will refer to peg shelves made with the specifications given here.
Home improvement stores will sometimes cut wood for you at no additional charge. If you’re unsure of yourself or don’t want to bother with all the measuring and sawing, ask an associate to do it for you.;
, Plot where you want the peg holes to be placed on your shelf. The number, configuration and spacing of the pegs is mostly up to you, though it will be easiest to work in a simple row-and-column pattern. Measure out where each peg will be placed, using a straight edge and a level to confirm that the points are lined up precisely. Trace a pencil line to mark each row and column until you have a grid of intersecting lines.For a simple peg configuration, draw your vertical lines at 4 inches, 12 inches and 20 inches along the 2’ side. Then, mark your horizontal lines at 4 inches, 13.5 inches, 22 ¾ inches and 32 inches down the 3’ side of the board. Make a dot at each intersection.It may help to draw out an initial design for your peg holes on a piece of paper.
 Lay the panel board down on a flat, steady surface. A drill press is ideal; otherwise, place the board on a woodworking desk or outdoor work surface. Take your power drill and attach the 1” hole saw bit (a spade bit will also do the trick). You’ll be using this to drill the holes for the pegs. Drill halfway into the board at each intersection of the grid. Then, flip the board over and finish drilling through from the other side to ensure that each hole is precise and even.You'll achieve the best results using a drill press, which will guarantee that each hole is consistent. If you don’t have access to a drill press, stick with the power drill and hole saw and try to drill the holes at as close to a 90 degree angle as possible., Run a sheet of sandpaper over the outside and along the inner edges of each drill hole. This will remove tiny splinters and wood chips left behind as a result of drilling and clean up the general presentation of the holes. Blow away any dust that has collected around the holes.Use a fine-grit sandpaper to get a smooth, rounded finish.
Raw edges left around the holes could cause cuts or scrapes.
 Take a 1” wooden dowel and use your hand saw to cut it into pieces that are each 7” long. These will serve as the actual pegs for the shelf. Sawing will leave one end sharp and uneven, so be sure to sand down the rough edges when you’re done.Make your cuts precise so that each peg is uniform.
You may have to go through a few dowels in order to fashion enough pegs to fill every hole on the board.
 Grab your 8’x6”1” board. Use your pencil to mark multiple lengths of 12” to 20”, or customize the shelves to your own preferred dimensions. Saw the board into sections at whatever intervals you choose to create small shelves that can be fitted over the pegs for more versatile storage. Sand the sawed edges of each shelf.Cut as many shelves as you want. These can be traded out, repositioned or removed at any time and will be useful for supporting items that can’t be hung from the pegs.
 To complete the removable shelves, you’ll need to have a way to hold them in place. Open up a couple packages of tube straps—each shelf will need 4 straps to secure it. Make sure you align the tube straps the same distance apart that the peg holes on your board are arranged. Use the ½” screws to attach the tube straps to the shelves.If you’re building the standard 2’x3’ shelf outlined here, space the tube straps 8” apart in two columns for the shorter 12” shelves. For the longer 20” shelves, the tube straps should be about 16” apart.
Once the tube straps are in place, the shelves can be slid directly on or off the pegs at any position on the board.
 Lay your panel board flat. Measure 2”—2.5" in from each corner and mark the spot with your pencil. Drill a screw hole through the board in each corner. This is where the shelf board will be mounted to the wall.It's important for these holes to be even. If they're not, the finished shelf will be lopsided.
Let the ends of the board hang off the edges of a table to prevent drilling into your work surface.
 Line up the panel board in the exact spot you want to hang your shelf. Fit the end of the drill through the holes you already made in the corner to make sure they match up and drill into the wall about 4” deep.


Take care to measure these holes precisely so that the shelf hangs evenly.
Mounting the shelf directly to the wall will offer the most stability. However, if you don’t want to drill holes in your wall, you could also drill shallow holes in the back of the panel board and suspend the shelf from detachable wall hooks., Insert a cylindrical wall anchor into the holes you drilled in the wall. Tap it firmly into place using a hammer, the handle of a screwdriver or some other blunt tool. To mount the shelf, you’ll screw it into the wall anchors, which will make sure that it doesn’t budge.Wall anchors contain threaded grooves designed for screws to fit into. They’ll give the screw something to hold onto once it’s drilled in.Try not to damage the holes you drilled into the wall as you guide the wall anchors in.
 Fit a 4” screw into each hole you drilled in the corners of the panel board. The head of the screw should be flush with the face of the board. Stack washers onto the wall end of the screw until they’re even with the thread. Position the tips of the screws in the openings of the wall anchors, then use your drill to drive them down one by one. It’s as easy as that!Slip the same number of washers onto each screw. The stack of washers will create a little space between the wall and the back of the board so that the pegs will stay in place better once they’re inserted.
Jostle the shelf lightly to test whether it’s been firmly mounted. A wobbly shelf may be the result of misaligned screw holes, a loose wall anchor or insufficient screwing.

