 In narrative therapy, active listening serves two purposes: it makes the client feel understood and respected, and it equips you to help them build and interpret their stories.By listening closely and reflectively to what a client tells you, you can point out gaps, subtext, or inconsistencies that suggest there is more to a story or that leave room for the client to construct a different, more favorable narrative for themselves.
 Good questions can generate productive conversation, uncover new “plot points” in a client’s narrative, and help the client question their own biases and assumptions about themselves. One effective technique for asking questions is to externalize a client’s problems, qualities, and goals. This helps the client view their problem as something separate from themselves. It also helps them see their positive traits as tools at their disposal for solving problems.For instance, you might ask, “How did ‘Anger’ play into this event?” or “Can you tell me about a time you used ‘Courage’?”
Encourage clients to come up with their own names for their problems. For instance, a client might want to refer to their depression as “the Rain Cloud” because they imagine it as a cloud that follows them around. Naming problems gives people a sense of separation from and control over them.
 If you notice that a client has a story that contributes to a negative self-image or poor self-esteem, challenge that story. Look for gaps in the narrative or events that contradict the client’s current beliefs. Work with the client to create an alternate storyline that emphasizes their positive traits and problem-solving skills.Re-authoring is a powerful tool because it doesn’t involve making up a story out of thin air. Rather, it involves constructing a new, more positive narrative from a client’s own experiences and memories.
 People tend to place a disproportionate amount of focus on events that affirm what they already believe about themselves. A client may have plenty of experiences that contradict a negative narrative, but if these experiences don’t match up to their self-image, they may ignore them.Draw attention to inconsistencies and use those as a starting point for re-authoring a client’s story.


For instance, if a client sees herself as “weak” but shares a story of a time she stood up to an abusive parent, point out that this episode actually constitutes a display of strength.
 Narrative therapy seeks to empower clients to revise their own stories and find their own solutions. Your job as the therapist is to guide a client’s development, not to interpret events for them or tell them what they should do. Ask insightful questions and help the client clarify their own thoughts, but keep the conversation open-ended so they can come to their own conclusions.