 To stay positive and maintain your happiness no matter what, it is important to recognize your value and learn to appreciate yourself. Having self-worth means that you do not base your value on what other people think of you, the job or title you have, or any other external factor. If you have self-worth, then you will see yourself as a valuable person no matter what.Try making a list of all of the things that you value about yourself that have nothing to do with your relationships with other people, jobs, or other external factors. For example, you might include in this list that you are creative, honest, and compassionate. You might also include things like your interests or skills, such as knowing how to play the guitar, being an avid reader, or enjoying fishing.
Leave out items that have to do with external factors, such as how much money you make, things other people have praised you for, or items you own.
 No matter what, you are a unique person with much to offer the world. Everyone has flaws, but by accentuating the positive aspects of your personality, you can begin to eliminate negative thoughts about yourself.


A good starting point for being at ease with yourself is to not try to please everyone. Many people think that they have to “fake” their way through life because others won’t like them if they don’t seem successful. But playing that kind of role can leave you deeply unhappy. Focus on being the best version of yourself that you can be while surrounding yourself with people who care about your well-being.Surround yourself with people who care about you. Remember that if people try to pressure you into doing something that you don’t want to do, they don’t have your best interests at heart. Developing a close-knit and caring social circle is a great way to be at ease with who you are.
 If you rely on short-term events or material goods as sources of pleasure, you may feel depressed over the long term. That is because you’ll get used to each short-term pleasure and your mind will need more and more stimulation over time to stay happy. Inject a sense of variety and spontaneity into your day-to-day life so you can avoid feeling like you’re stuck in a rut.


Try surprising your spouse or partner with a weekend getaway, or expand your skillset so that you can take on new tasks at work., Any time something good happens to you, remember to savor the moment as much as possible. Never take anything positive for granted. Be grateful for little moments of joy in your daily life.Try stopping for 10-15 seconds to think about a happy event. Remember to focus on why the event makes you happy and what kinds of pleasure you derive from it. Making this activity part of your daily routine can help you cultivate a positive attitude, which will have positive effects on your health in the long term., Many people ruminate too much on their mistakes or other bad situations while forgetting good things that they have done or that have happened to them. This is understandable because the human brain is hardwired to look for threats. But excessive negative thinking can be bad for your health.


When you have negative thoughts, try stopping to write them down. Doing so can help you put the thoughts in better perspective. For instance, thinking that you constantly forget to do something may look silly once you’ve committed it to paper. By subjecting negative thoughts to analysis rather than dwelling on them, you’ll find it easier to develop a positive outlook., Helping other people regularly can improve your mood. Whether it’s spending quality time with friends who are going through a rough patch, volunteering at a charity event, or donating money to charity, helping people will also help you feel good about yourself., Don’t take anything for granted. Show gratitude as much as possible, whether to your spouse, partner, parents, children, or friends. Make sure they know how happy you are to know them. If they know you appreciate them, they will appreciate you even more, which can only improve your self-esteem and mood.