 The best part of any kung fu movie (other than the extensive use of different martial arts, real and/or made-up) is the complete underlying theme of the story. Whether it be a comedy or tragedy, a farce or a totally serious epic drama, please make sure that the story sticks to it. We don't want a story for revenge being left unfinished because we have the protagonist running off to learn to be the very best, unless of course both story arcs can either be nested or one arc truly ends before another starts.;
, Now that the main story has a foundation, the true writing process can begin. Now if you are not all that creative, then please let your weird friends get first swing at it. Write, edit, re-write, re-edit, repeat as necessary. Some food for thought: "A good inventor knows that he's created something perfect, not when he can't put anything more on, but when he can't take anything away."

, Be aware of all of your resources. Don't plan on thin air. If you want green screen, then please make sure you can get a green wall of some sort that is uniform green and the software that can do it. The thing that stings worst is backfire.
 When casting characters, a few skills to look for are:


Able to speak out of synch
Prior training in martial arts
Any training as an actor
The ability to "go over the top" (Eccentric)

, Props are what characters hold and use, like swords, combs, and chairs. Toys for props are o.k., however unless you are making a futuristic setting, stay away from colorful plastic toys. Costumes should be with the time and culture, no jeans in feudal China. Make up in filming is totally optional. Cosmetics can help the faces of actors really stand out on cameras.
 Obviously first you need a camera, however be sure that the camera is in capable and trained hands. A microphone that is compatible with the camera along with a boom mic rig (improvised or otherwise) will be invaluable for sound quality. Tripods are a big plus. Lighting is just as important as sound, but any lamp that can cover a large area with a solid light will work.
 Quiet on the set. When filming make sure there is a uniform light (i.e.: Sunny Noon with no clouds, spot lights). Never try to film on uneven land if there is no tripod or true substitute, things will go wrong.Don't be afraid to have multiple takes of the same scene, unless you still use actual tape film. Quiet on the set.
 Here is where the movie is transformed from simple clips into the final piece of work. All clips must be cut into the best way possible then assembled into the correct order.
 Now all that is left is to put it into a tangible video format and enjoy the fruits of labor however they seem fit.

