 Before determining how much RAM you should purchase, it will be helpful to know how much RAM you already have installed in your computer. You can quickly check your installed RAM, regardless of what operating system you are using.


Windows - Press ⊞ Win+Pause to open your System Properties window. Your installed RAM will be listed in the System section.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "About This Mac". Your installed RAM will be displayed in the Memory entry.;
, There are several factors that will dictate how much RAM your system can support, including your operating system and motherboard limits:If you are using Windows, a 32-bit version can support up to 4 GB, while a 64-bit version can support up to 128 GB. You can check what version of Windows you have by pressing ⊞ Win+Pause and looking for the "System type" entry.
Even if your computer supports up to 128 GB, there's a good chance that your motherboard doesn't support that much. You'll need to check the documentation for your motherboard or run an online system scanner (Crucial.com has a good one) to see how much memory your motherboard supports.
Mac users will need to check their documentation to see how much their computer support as it varies significantly from model to model. If you don't have the documentation anymore, you can look up the specs of your model on the Apple support site.
See this guide for more details on determining the maximum amount of RAM your computer supports.
 RAM, actually short for SDRAM, has gone through several revisions over the years. The standard these days is DDR3 RAM, but if you are upgrading an older computer, you may need DDR2 or even DDR. If this is the case, you will likely want to consider upgrading the entire computer, as older types of RAM are getting increasingly expensive.


You can determine what type your computer uses by referring to the documentation or running a tool like CPU-Z, a freeware utility that analyzes your system.
DDR3 is the standard as of this writing, but DDR4 will be available soon for high-end enthusiast PCs.
 RAM comes in a variety of different speeds. If there are multiple speeds installed, your entire system will clock down to the lowest speed present. This can actually hurt your performance, even if you are adding RAM.The clock speed of RAM is measured in megahertz (MHz). Motherboards typically support a range of clock speeds.
If you use CPU-Z to check your memory clock speed, you will need to multiply the displayed MHz value by two, since CPU-Z doesn't display the memory multiplier.
All installed RAM should be the same speed for the best performance.
 Nearly all RAM should be installed in pairs. The total value of each module should be within the limits of your motherboard. For example, if you are installing 8 GB of RAM, you'll need to install either two 4 GB modules or four 2 GB modules. If your motherboard has an 8 GB limit, it likely won't support a single 8 GB memory module.


RAM often comes packaged in pairs to make purchasing easier.
 Most desktop computers use DIMM RAM, while most laptops use SO-DIMM, which is smaller. The notable exception is many iMacs, which also use SO-DIMM. Other than form-factor, most of the other specifications discussed in this section apply to both desktop and laptop memory.
 Unplug the power cable. If you need to move the computer to access it easier, remove all the cables from the back. Place the desktop on its side somewhere that gives you easy access. Lay it down with the ports on the back closest to to the table.
 Some cases have thumbscrews for easy opening, while older cases typically require a Phillips head screwdriver. Slide the panel off or pull it open after removing the screws.


Make sure to remove the panel that allows access to the motherboard. You can determine which panel to remove by looking for the I/O ports on the back of the computer. These ports include monitor, Ethernet, speaker, USB, and more. They are connected to the motherboard, so remove the panel on the opposite side.
 Anytime you work inside a computer, you risk emitting an electrostatic discharge that could damage your components. You can reduce this risk by wearing an anti-static wriststrap, or by grounding yourself before working in the computer. Touching a metal water tap will ground you.
 If you are replacing RAM, pop out the old modules by pressing down on the latches on each end of the module. The RAM module should pop out of the slot, allowing you to lift it directly out.
 Many motherboards have four slots for RAM, but pairs are typically not installed directly next to each other. For example, the slots may be laid out as A1, B1, A2, B2 and you would install your first pair on A1 and B1. Refer to your motherboard documentation to ensure that you know which slots to use.


If you don't have your documentation handy, you can often tell which slots are pairs by looking at the coloring. They may be labeled on the edge, which each label etched onto the motherboard. These labels may be small, so you may have to look closely.
 Push each module directly into the slot, ensuring that the notches at the bottom line up. Apply even pressure directly to the top of the module until it is inserted and the latches snap into place on each side. Do not force the modules in or you may break them.


Nearly all RAM is installed in pairs. Most computers will have difficulty with a single RAM stick.
 With the RAM installed, close up your computer and screw the case panel back into place. Plug all of the cables back in.
 Turn on your computer and allow it to boot into your operating system. You may be prompted to continue due to your new RAM installation.


If your computer runs into a serious error at this point, the RAM may be improperly installed, or there may be an errors with one of your new modules. See this guide for instructions on testing your RAM modules.
 Open your computer's system information to verify that the RAM was properly installed and is being used. Double-check that the amount is being displayed correctly.


Windows - Open the System Properties window by pressing ⊞ Win+Pause. Verify your installed RAM in the System section.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "About This Mac". Verify your installed RAM in the Memory entry.
 To ensure that you don't cause any damage, remove the battery as well (if possible). Make sure to unplug the laptop from the power adapter.
 Most laptops allow you to swap out RAM through a panel on the bottom of the laptop. You will need a small Phillips screwdriver to access this panel. The panel is often marked by a small image of a RAM module.


You may have to remove multiple panels in order to access the RAM.
 Anytime you work inside a computer, you risk emitting an electrostatic discharge that could damage your components. You can reduce this risk by wearing an anti-static wriststrap, or by grounding yourself before working in the laptop. Touching a metal water tap will ground you.
 Most laptops only have one or two slots for memory modules. You may need to remove your existing RAM if you intend to upgrade. You can remove the ram by detaching the latches on each side, which will pop the RAM up at a 45 degree angle. This allows you to pull the module straight out.
 Insert at a 45 degree angle and then push down to secure. Make sure that the notches line up. If you try to install the RAM upside down, it will not fit. Do not try to force the ram into its slot.


Not all laptops need pairs of RAM modules. Check your laptop's documentation for details/







, Once you have installed your new RAM, close up and secure the RAM access panel.
 Turn on your computer and allow it to boot into your operating system. You may be prompted to continue due to your new RAM installation.


If your computer runs into a serious error at this point, the RAM may be improperly installed, or there may be an errors with one of your new modules. See this guide for instructions on testing your RAM modules.
 Open your computer's system information to verify that the RAM was properly installed and is being used. Double-check that the amount is being displayed correctly.


Windows - Open the System Properties window by pressing ⊞ Win+Pause. Verify your installed RAM in the System section.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "About This Mac". Verify your installed RAM in the Memory entry.

