 To make the lollipop dippers, you’ll need a round lollipop mold with 12 holes. Use nonstick vegetable oil spray to grease the mold compartments so you can easily remove the lollipops after they’ve hardened.You can usually find candy and lollipop molds at the craft store.
If you prefer, you can choose a novelty-shape for your mold, such as stars or hearts.
You don’t necessarily have to have a lollipop mold. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and grease it with nonstick spray. When you’ve made the candy for the lollipops, use a spoon to pour it onto the parchment paper in circles.
You can use regular vegetable oil in place of the spray to grease the mold.
 Add 1 ½ cups (300 g) of granulated sugar, 7 tablespoons (150 g) of golden syrup, ½ teaspoon (2 g) of cream of tartar, and 6 ounces (175 ml) of water to a large saucepan. Place the pan on the stove over medium heat until the sugar dissolves, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.You can usually find golden syrup in the baking aisle of the grocery store. However, in some parts of the world, you may find it in the international foods section.
It’s best to use a deep saucepan so you don’t have to worry about the hot candy mixture boiling over as you cook it.
Make sure to stir the mixture regularly as the mixture’s heating so the sugar crystals don’t stick to the pan.
 Once the sugar has dissolved, add a clip-on candy thermometer to the side of the pan. Continue to heat the mixture until it comes to a boil, which should take another 5 to 7 minutes.While you don’t have to stir the mixture as frequently as when the sugar was dissolving, mix it periodically to ensure that it’s heating evenly.
 After the mixture has come to boil, keep heating it over medium heat. Watch the candy thermometer, and cook it until it reaches 309 degrees Fahrenheit (154 degrees Celsius) or the hard-crack candy stage.The mixture will be extremely hot so be sure to handle it carefully.
 As soon as the lollipop mixture reaches the proper temperature, take the pan off the heat. Add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of orange or lemon extract and a small amount of gel food color in your choice of color, and stir well until the ingredients are completely blended.You can substitute another fruit flavoring or extract, such as raspberry flavoring or lime extract, for the lemon or orange.
 Once the mixture is flavored and colored, carefully pour it into the greased lollipop mold. Place a lollipop stick in each compartment so the pops will have a handle.You can usually find lollipop sticks at the craft store.
Be very careful when you’re pouring the candy mixture. It will be extremely hot, so it may burn your skin if you accidentally get it on yourself.
If you’re not using a mold for the lollipops, allow the mixture to cool for approximately 5 minutes so it thickens and is easier to pour into a circle with a spoon.
 After you’ve filled the mold, allow the lollipops to sit for 10 to 15 until they harden and cool completely. When they’re set, gently bend the mold to remove the lollipops. Give one a lick and dip it in your sherbet powder to enjoy.Store any unused lollipops in individual cellophane bags.

