 Be sure all farm workers who will work with anhydrous ammonia are familiar with these procedures and refer any questions to your farm equipment dealer.


U.S. federal law requires anyone working with anhydrous ammonia to be at least 16 years of age.
 To protect yourself, wear a heavy-duty, long-sleeved shirt and long pants and/or coveralls, along with rubber gloves with an extended cuff that can be turned down to catch any of the liquid ammonia if it runs down your arms when they're raised. Cover your face with either chemical-proof goggles or a full-face respirator.


Regular glasses are not a substitute for goggles, but if you wear normally wear contact lenses, wear your glasses under your goggles instead of your contacts when working with anhydrous ammonia. That way, should any ammonia seep into your eyes, you can flush them with water; contact lenses will trap the ammonia and damage your eyes before you can remove them.
 Many states require that a 5-gallon (19-liter) tank of water be kept near nurse and applicator tanks of anhydrous ammonia to flush the eyes and wash the skin if either comes in contact with the ammonia. It's also a good idea to have a second such water tank on the tractor itself, and handlers should also carry an 8-ounce (237-milliliter) water bottle on their person at all times while around anhydrous ammonia. Water in tanks should be changed daily to ensure its cleanliness.


The water is necessary because anhydrous ammonia has a strong affinity for water. In liquid form, it will first freeze the skin, then cause rapid dehydration and severe chemical burns as it pulls moisture out of the body.
 The nurse tank should be parked close to the source tank, on level ground and downwind of the source tank, away from obstacles. Block the wheels of the wagon carrying the nurse tank and set the towing vehicle's parking brake. Inspect the filler hose couplings and connectors for dirt or damage before connecting the hoses, and carry the hose by the valve body or coupling, not the flow control wheel. Always turn the flow control wheel by hand, to avoid damaging its fitting and causing a leak.


If transferring ammonia between tanks with a compressor, keep the pressure in the receiving tank lower than that of the source tank to avoid backflow. As noted previously, the receiving tank should be filled no more than 85 percent full.
 The hose between the nurse or applicator tank and the applicator tool bar should have a breakaway coupler kept in good working condition to cut off the ammonia flow if the applicator separates from the tank. When unclogging applicator tubes, stand upwind from the tubes wearing your protective clothing and use a long piece of heavy-gauge wire to remove the debris.


If the coupler separates, vent off the pressure in the lines attached to the tank and applicator with the bleeder valves before reconnecting. You may also want to bleed the lines before unclogging the applicator tubes to prevent the ammonia from rushing out through the opened holes.

