 Having a deadline (especially one set by someone else) increases task completion and reduces procrastination.If you have a pre-set deadline, remind yourself why you need to keep that deadline. Identify consequences of not meeting the deadline. Write the deadline on your calendar and circle it.
If you do not have a predetermined deadline you can set one for yourself. Identify how long you need to complete the task. Be reasonable and allow yourself plenty of time in order to reduce unnecessary stress.
Set a deadline for each small part of the project you have identified. This way you will be able to keep yourself on track as you go along. For example if you need to complete a research paper by next month, you might set a weekly deadline in order to complete certain portions of the project (such as conducting research and creating an outline).
If you find yourself distracted or procrastinating, look at your calendar and remind yourself of your deadline. You can think or say something to yourself like, "If I continue to procrastinate I might not meet my deadline. I need to focus on my goal.";
, Having step by step instructions can help people achieve more and complete assignments or projects.If you learn to break down huge tasks into smaller steps over the course of days, weeks, or even months, it can reduce the stress you feel about the project.


Focus on completing small sections at a time. Taking small steps consistently adds up. If you were to write 10,000 words in one day, this is a major achievement, but you wouldn't be able to keep it up. However, you could write just 200 words a day and get more done. This takes almost no time, and over the course of a year would add up to 73,000 words.
Simply write down everything you need to do to finish the project. For example, maybe it is a school project and you need to: research the topic, write the essay, make a PowerPoint presentation, write a speech and practice your speech. Each of these items may require a separate to-do list. Be as comprehensive as possible.
 One of the most important aspects of success and completing projects is prioritization. We need to prioritize our tasks if we want to be efficient and complete them.


After you’ve made a to-do list, take the most important or time-limited part of the project, and do that first. Focus on one thing at a time. For example, you would need to research a topic before you began writing a speech about the topic.
Perhaps you do not need to focus on certain tasks at the moment. For example, maybe you want to program a game, but you've lost interest in it. Don't force yourself to do something that has greater negative outcomes (boredom, time wasted, etc.) than positive outcomes (in this case, computer skills and possibly money). Always focus on what you have to do first such as work or school obligations rather than personal projects.
 Many people find that scheduling their activities makes them much more likely to carry them out. Take each item on your to-do list and allow yourself a reasonable time to complete it.


Keep a calendar and make sure you identify what needs to be done each day in order to eventually meet your goal. If you don’t complete everything you needed to each day, don’t be hard on yourself, simply add it to the next day.

