 Avoid losing your temper. You may feel angry at the child for exhibiting this behavior to the sibling, but it is still very essential to stay calm. Lashing out will only make things worse, not better. It is also important to listen actively and stay calm. If you are so furious that you are about to overreact, take a deep breath, or even take a break from the situation as needed and then revisit it later.

If you need to take a break from the situation, separate the siblings immediately. Send them into different rooms while you take some time to calm down, so that they don't end up getting into another conflict. It's likely that emotions will still be running high.;
, The word bullying has differing meanings, so the best way to go is to refrain from using that term until you've found out more about the situation from both parties; your bullying child and the sibling. Analyze the severity of the situation and think over whether it is bullying in the first place. For example, insulting one another playfully is not bullying, but hitting someone in the face is always a form of bullying and should be quickly dealt with.

Take note if the child intentionally made fun of something that the sibling was sensitive about. If your son is worried about not doing well in school and your daughter starts loudly talking about a low grade that he recently got on a test, this would be a form of bullying.
Be sure to recognize bullying that is specific towards something the child cannot help. For example, if your younger daughter is autistic and is sensitive to noise, your older daughter continuously making loud sounds while her younger sister is in earshot would be a form of bullying.
 Sometimes, it can be difficult to tell whether the child was intending to hurt the sibling, or was simply giving them a friendly tease. If your son calls his twin sister an "idiot", for example, see if your daughter reacts by laughing or by getting upset - some siblings tease each other by calling each other names. If you did not witness the sibling's reaction, ask them how they felt about what their sibling said to them., There are two sides to every story, so it's important to listen to both your child and their sibling. It's best to discuss the situation with your children separately, as having them both share their stories in the same vicinity may cause another fight, especially if one child accuses another of lying. Send the children to their rooms, or to different rooms if they share a bedroom, and talk to them one-on-one about what occurred. There may have been a preceding incident that caused the bullying - maybe the sibling called your bullying child a name for knocking glue onto their art project.

Listen to your children thoroughly, and be sure to stay calm as the bullying child explains their side of the story. Avoid swearing or yelling, and interrupt only if it's absolutely necessary - for example, if the child starts going on an unrelated tangent to try and change the subject.
 If your child is fairly young, they may not understand the fact that they did something that isn't okay, and you may have to explain to them that calling someone a name is wrong. If they are old enough to know that bullying is wrong, avoid scolding them about "acting your age" or "knowing better". Instead, make sure to calmly explain to them that their behavior is childish and that they need to treat people better than that, especially their siblings.

Avoid saying something like, "You don't know how much time you have with your sibling!" These statements tend to be largely ineffective and will just upset your child.
 After you've had a discussion with both children about what happened, bring the children together and have them discuss what happened. Mediate the conversation so it doesn't delve into another fight, and make sure that the bullying child apologizes for what happened. If the sibling did something wrong, such as taking things from the child without asking for permission, be sure that the sibling apologizes, too., Regardless of whether or not this is the first time your child has bullied their sibling, they will need to understand there are consequences to their actions and that what they did isn't okay. The consequences should depend on the age of the child - a younger child might just need to sit in time-out for a while, while it may be better to take away an older child's phone and computer for a few days. Make sure the punishment for their actions isn't too severe, however; grounding your child for over two weeks is overdoing it, and after a certain amount of time, the meaning of the punishment will be lost.