 You may not always feel like it, but you are actually in control of the situation. Adversaries are good at making us feel bad. Approaching them with the right attitude will help you keep them from affecting you.


Focus your thoughts on positive things and people in your life.
Make the decision not to allow your enemy to get to you with his negative words and actions.
Remember that your time and energy are better spent on positive and productive things—not responding to negative adversaries.
Decide where you want to be in life and pursue that path with confidence.;
, Staying calm and collected is your best strategy for managing difficult situations and people.


Ignore any comments or behavior enemies use to taunt you or provoke a reaction from you.
Come up with some go-to thoughts for the times when your enemy gets to you: “When they bring me down, I will start thinking about last year’s trip to Hawaii…”

, Your enemy may continuously try to bring you down with negative comments. Your job is to keep those comments from affecting you.


Don’t take his comments to heart.
Think of positive thoughts, places, experiences, or people.
Be the master of your own happiness—you decide who to avoid and who to listen to.
 It may be impossible to avoid your enemy completely, but it’s worth investing some effort to avoid meeting him if you can.


Avoid places where you commonly meet or cross paths of an enemy who’s a coworker or classmate.
Delete social media connections to him, if you have any.
Don’t engage in conversation if you cannot avoid him completely—acknowledge his presence, but ignore any attempt at engagement.
 If you cannot avoid your enemy, you can at least make the decision not to engage with him, or minimize that engagement.


Don’t listen to what he says to you.
Try not to react to his taunts and negative words, even when it’s difficult.
Do not, under any circumstances, get pulled into an argument or fight with him.
Walk away if you must—being cornered by your enemy can lead to engagement.

