 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “myTifi” on the search field and tap the Search button.
 Locate the correct app and download it by tapping the “Install” button beside the app. It’s free.
 The myTifi app cannot turn your TV on. It has to be turned on using its standard TV remote; this is a limitation. Press the “ON” button on your TV remote while pointing it on your TV.


Be sure to check if your TV model is supported. Refer to the myTifi manual for the list of supported TVs.
 Connect your Smart TV and your iPad to the same Wi-Fi network or access point. This needs to be done so that the app can see your TV.
 Locate the app on your iPad. It has a picture of a TV with a Wi-Fi signal on its screen. Tap the app to launch it.
 Upon launch of myTifi, it will do an auto-detect of all Smart TVs within the same Wi-Fi network. Let the app finish the search.
 Once myTifi detects and links to your TV, your TV will seek your confirmation to allow the device and the app to interface with it. A confirmation window will appear on your TV.


Use your TV’s remote to click on the “Allow” button. This will allow myTifi to control your TV. This is only done once during the first time the two devices connect.
 Once the connection is approved from the TV, tap the “Continue” button on myTifi. The app will show a confirmation message as well, indicating that the TV with its IP address has been successfully linked.


Now, myTifi can act as a remote control for your TV.
 From myTifi, tap the “Standard” button on the bottom menu. The app will show you a standard TV remote layout, quite similar to physical TV remotes.
 On the middle of the screen is an Information icon. Tap this to enter the Standard control settings. Tap the “Select remote layout” button on the middle of the screen.


A list of all supported TV remote models will be listed. Scroll through the list and tap the one you want to use. It’s better to use the exact model of your actual TV remote to ensure proper functions.
 If you’ve selected the exact model of your actual TV remote, the layout on your screen will most likely be the same as your physical TV remote.


The remote layout will most likely be split to allow proper spacing on your screen. Identify where the key buttons are.
 The buttons on myTifi’s remote function exactly the same as your physical TV remote. You just have to use your iPad by tapping on the buttons instead of pressing them.


You don’t need to point your iPad to your TV for it to work. The signals for the buttons you tap will be sent over the Wi-Fi network and will be read by the TV from here, and not from the infrared receiver. You can even use the myTifi remote even if you’re not within the vicinity of your TV, as long as the iPad is in the same network as the TV.
 From myTifi, tap the “Smart” button on the bottom menu. The app will show you a sequence of numbered boxes. Each number represents the corresponding channel on your TV.


What makes this remote smart is the allowed customization for each of the channels on your TV. Each box can be customized by properly tagging the channel name and channel logo, making the whole remote user friendly and intuitive. With proper effort, the Smart layout will display all your channel logos instead of the numbered boxes.
 To input a channel data to a button, tap and hold the numbered box corresponding to the channel. A channel form will appear where you can populate the channel name.


The app will use this channel name and look for similarly named channel logos online. It will then list the results. Browse through the provided channel logos and tap the one you want to use for your button. Use the one closest to the actual logo of the channel.
 Repeat Step 2 for all numbered boxes for all the channels on your TV. Use the left and right arrows at the bottom of the screen to move through sets of channels in case you have more than 50.
 Unlike the Standard remote, channel surfing is a lot easier and more convenient with the Smart remote. No need to move up or down the channel buttons or to memorize the channel number for your favorite channels. All you have to do is tap the button from the Smart layout and your TV will immediately go to the channel you’ve selected.


For example, HBO is on channel 34. All you have to do is tap the HBO box or logo and your TV will go to HBO. You don’t even need to know that HBO is on channel 34.

