 If you put foundation over dry, flaky or overly oily skin, it’s going to wind up looking cakey. Always cleanse your face before putting on makeup, and exfoliate your skin one to two times a week to keep skin smooth and clear. Finally, be sure to use a moisturizer before your makeup so your skin is properly hydrated.It’s a good idea to apply a primer before foundation too. Not only does it provide a base for your makeup to stick to so it lasts all day, a primer can fill in pores, fine lines, and wrinkles so your foundation goes on more smoothly.;
, When you’re trying to find the right foundation shade at the store, you probably just swipe it on the back of your hand to test it. But the skin on your hand usually isn’t the same shade as your face, so you wind up buying foundation that’s too dark. Instead, test the foundation along your jawline to make sure it matches both your face and neck.Be sure to test the foundation in natural light to be certain that it’s the right shade for you.
Even if you’re confident that your foundation matches both your face and neck, it’s a good idea to blend a little over your jawline and onto your neck so you don’t wind up with a line between the two.
 While it may be easier to put your foundation on with your fingers, it can actually leave you with a cakey, streaky finish. Instead, dot the foundation on your face with clean fingers and use a foundation brush or egg-shaped sponge to blend it in. You’ll get an airbrushed effect if you press and buff the makeup in with your tool of choice.Avoid flat foundation brushes that look like paint brushes -- they can provide a streaky finish too. Instead, look for a dense, full brush that will blend the foundation more effectively.
If you’re using a sponge, wet it first under the sink. Wring out the excess moisture so it’s just damp, and then use it to blend the foundation. That will keep the sponge from soaking up too much makeup.
 You may think that you using a super light concealer will brighten up your undereye area. However, using a shade that’s two to three shades lighter than your foundation will only highlight the area and give you reverse raccoon eyes. Instead, opt for a concealer that’s only one shade lighter than your foundation under the eyes for subtle brightening.It's usually best to blend in under eye concealer with a clean finger rather than a brush or sponge. The warmth from your finger helps the concealer melt more easily into your skin so it's less likely to crease.
 If you use a concealer that's lighter than your foundation on acne, scars, age spots, and other discolorations, you'll only wind up drawing attention to the areas you're trying to conceal. Instead, apply a concealer that matches your foundation exactly so they blend seamlessly together.For blending concealer in on the face, a brush or sponge typically works best. They help the product melt into the skin without removing too much of the pigment so your dark spots remain hidden.
 Using too much setting powder can give you a cakey look that highlights pores, fine lines, and wrinkles. To set your foundation, only dust powder over the areas where you tend to get shiny or oily. For most people, that is the T-zone, or forehead, nose, and chin. You may also want to apply a light layer to your cheeks.If your skin is dry, you may want to skip powder completely.
It can be very easy to apply too much pressed powder or powder foundation.To keep your powder from looking too heavy, opt for a loose, translucent formula that won’t add any color or coverage.
 Bronzer and contour products can add warmth and definition to your face. If you use too much, though, you’ll wind up looking muddy. To keep it on natural, use a small amount on a small, fluffy brush and apply it softly along your forehead and temples, beneath your cheekbones, and along your jaw on each side of your face in a “3” or “E” shape for subtle definition.Blend your bronzer or contour product well so you don’t wind up with stark stripes on your face.
 If you place your blush too low on your cheeks, you’ll wind up looking harsh and dragging your face down. Start at the apple of your cheek, and blend it back along your cheekbone toward your hairline.Start with a small amount of blush, and only add more if you need more color. Be sure to blend well too, so it melts into the skin for a natural look.
An angled blush brush is helpful for getting the right placement of your blush.
 Dark, fully drawn on eyebrows never look quite right. To avoid looking too harsh, use a product that is the same color or a shade lighter than your brows. Instead of drawing your brow on in one line, use a series of small strokes for a soft, natural look.Using a powder to fill in your brows usually offers the softest, most natural look.
When you’re finished applying your brow product, brush through them with a clean brow brush or spoolie to blend the color.
 If you want to keep your eyeshadow from fading and creasing, starting with a shadow primer is a must. Dot a small amount of the primer on your lids, and gently blend it in with your finger before applying any eyeshadow.If you don't have an eyeshadow primer, you can substitute concealer. Use it just as you would a primer.
 Getting the perfect wing on the end of your eyeliner can seem like mission impossible if you try to freehand it. Instead, place a piece of invisible tape or hold a small piece of paper at a 45 degree angle at the corner of your eye so you can just trace your flick along the edge for a flawless cat eye every time.If you're using tape, place it on the back of your hand and pull it off a couple of times before placing it at the corner of your eye. That will remove some of the adhesive, so the tape doesn't pull at the delicate skin around your eye when you remove it.
 Curled lashes can open up your eyes and make them appear larger. However, it’s important to curl your lashes with a lash curler before you put on your mascara. If your lashes are wet when you curl them, you can create a kink in them or even pull some lashes out.If you’re not comfortable using a lash curler at all, you can curl your lashes without one. In that case, apply your mascara first and then push your lashes back to create a curl. Hold them in place for several seconds to lock the curl in.
 Whether you want to apply a lipstick, stain, or gloss, the color won't look right if your lips are dry and flaky. Use a lip scrub to gently remove dead skin from your lips, and apply a moisturizing lip balm before your lip color so it looks smooth and flawless.You can purchase a lip scrub or mix up your own with household ingredients. Combine 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 ml) of olive oil with 1 teaspoon (4 g) of sugar, and rub it over your lips to exfoliate. Wipe it away with a damp washcloth.
It's particularly important to scrub and moisturize your lips before applying a matte lipstick. Matte lip colors are extremely drying, so they emphasize every crack and flake.
 A lip liner can add definition to your lips and keep your lipstick from bleeding. However, even if your liner is a similar shade to your lipstick, applying it only along the edge of your mouth can often make it stand out. To avoid creating a dark ring around your mouth, fill in your lips with the liner after lining the edge.If you can’t find a lip liner that is similar in color to your lipstick shade, use a nude liner that matches your natural lip color.
 Sleeping in your makeup is one of the worst things that you can do for your skin. It can cause breakouts, fine lines, and wrinkles, and leave your complexion looking dull. Always wash your makeup off at the end of the day with a good cleanser to keep your skin healthy.If you’re wearing waterproof eye makeup or heavy foundation, it’s best to incorporate a specific makeup remover into your skincare routine before you wash your face.
Keep makeup remover wipes on your nightstand. That way, if you’re too tired to stand over the sink and wash off your makeup at the end of the day, you can quickly wipe it off and get to bed.
 The bathroom usually has a large mirror, so it probably seems like the ideal spot to put on and store your makeup. However, the heat and humidity -- not to mention germs -- in the bathroom can cause your makeup to spoil more quickly. Instead, store it in a cool, dry room of the house, such as the bedroom., It can be a pain to keep your makeup brushes clean, but using dirty brushes can lead to dirt, oil, and bacteria being spread over your face each time you use them. You should deep clean with brush shampoo or another cleanser once a week, and use a daily brush cleaner to spot clean your brushes before each use.You can purchase brush shampoo and daily brush cleaner at beauty supply stores. However, you can also make your own.

