 Practice focusing on the positive in your life by keeping a gratitude journal. Keeping your eyes peeled for the blessings in your life helps you better appreciate all you are, and all you have been given.For example, you could decide to look for five things in your life every day, or every week, for which you are thankful and appreciative. This might include your gratitude for a particular relationship, nature, or even something small like a conversation with your neighbor.
There are numerous smartphone apps you can download where you can record your thoughts. They may also have reminders that can help you turn this into a daily habit.
An entry in a gratitude journal might look like: “Today I am grateful for the beautiful sunrise, my coworker bringing donuts, listening to my daughter laugh with her friends, my wife’s sense of humor, and getting to the gym.”
Consider downloading a gratitude journal app that can remind you to record all the things for which you are thankful.
 Don’t look to material things to help you appreciate yourself. Make an effort to avoid purchasing an item that you think will help you feel better about yourself — most of the time, things cannot make us happier long-term. Look for fulfillment within yourself and having meaningful relationships with others instead.Being content with all that you already have helps gets you out of a competitive, if-only-I-had-this mindset that prevents you from appreciating who you are at the present moment. Try telling yourself, “This new thing will not make me better. I already am enough and have enough.”
It’s okay to pamper yourself, but try pampering yourself with experiences rather than items. For example, take a vacation instead of buying something expensive that costs the same amount., Often people are much harder than themselves than they would ever be on someone else — try to treat yourself with the same compassion you would show a friend. If you catch yourself thinking something negative about yourself, stop and consider if you would ever say those things to a loved one. Self-compassion includes your self-talk as well as tending to physical, mental, and emotional self-care.Don’t call yourself names or beat yourself up for mistakes. If you catch yourself doing so or engaging in any other forms of negative self-talk, stop an re-evaluate. For example, “No, I’m not stupid for forgetting about that meeting. I had a busy morning and was rushing around.”
Instead of beating yourself up, figure out something you could do to do better next time. For example, if you missed your meeting because you were rushing around that morning, you could say, “I’ll start waking up 15 minutes earlier so I am less rushed in the morning. I’ll also put reminders in my phone as soon as I know about an event.”

, Being mindful and present helps you stay out of judgment of yourself and others. Staying present or mindful means staying focused on your breathing, the sounds and sights and smells around you, and observing thoughts without judgement. The result of this practice reduces brain chatter, which will help reduce any negative self-talk you may have.Staying present helps you stay peaceful. Instead of focusing on all the things you need to do (or haven’t done), you focus on the moment and your breath. Everything else that isn’t connected to the moment (your feelings, your to-do list, your worries) can be exhaled out with your breath.This takes practice, so don't become too frustrated if you don't get the hang of it right away. Stick with it!

