 94 Seconds is currently only available on iOS and Android devices. Use your mobile device’s app store to download the game.
 Type in “94 Seconds” (without the quotes) on the search field., Locate the correct app and download it by clicking on the Install button, and giving the permissions the app requires. It’s totally free., Look for the app icon on your mobile device home screen or app drawer. The app is labelled 94s, with the app icon bearing the letter A with a timer in the background. Tap on it to launch it., Tap the big green “Play” button in the middle of the screen to start. There’s no setup or configuration required. You just tap “Play,” and go., Upon initial loading of the new game, you will be counted down from 3. Prepare yourself. The timer for 94 seconds is displayed at the top. There’s no pausing the game, so dedicate the next 94 seconds solely to the game., The category will be listed in the box. Categories vary and are random. The word you put in should match the category requested. Otherwise, you will get no score.

The game’s set of categories include: School Subjects, Flowers, Rooms and Spaces of a House, Beach Items, Zodiac Signs, Kitchen Utensils, Currencies, Greek and Roman Gods, Weather Phenomena, Jewellery, Combat Sports, Ball Games, Cosmetic Items, Herbs and Spices, and Planets and Constellations.
 The starting letter is given beside the category box. The word you put in should start with this letter., Four Jokers are provided for each game. They are helpers or lifelines for the game. Use them wisely by tapping on the icons below the category box., The total number of answers you've submitted is displayed under the Answers section., Use the keypad provided to enter your answer. The word you put in should match the category and start with the given letter. Tap the Validate button to submit your answer.

Points are given depending on your answer. Easy answers get 1 point; difficult answers get 2 points; and no answer or wrong answer get nil.
You don’t necessary need to get the spelling correct. The game can determine what you’re trying to input, as long as your spelling is almost the same as the correct one.
 Bonus points are awarded for getting good answers in a row, starting from 5 in a row up to 70 in a row. The longer you go, the higher the bonus points will be., At the end of 94 seconds, all the words you've entered will be displayed, together with their corresponding points. The total score is displayed at the bottom., Some statistics are also collected during the game. The number of answers, average time per answer, chain bonus, and combo points are displayed on the right side., Tap the “Next” button right beside your total score to go back to the main screen., From the main screen, tap the big blue “Challenges” button to enter the Challenges mode.,, Tap the plus button on the upper right corner of the screen. Tap the appropriate button for Facebook, Twitter, or Google+ where your friend can be found. The app will then connect to the selected social networking app, and you can select your friend from there.

Your friend should have the 94 Seconds game app installed to play.
 If you want to do a rematch with a friend whom you've played with before, tap the “Defy” button on the challenge. A new challenge will be created, and your friend will be invited to play.

You don’t need to play the game at the same time. Both your results and scores will only be tallied once both of you complete the same challenge.
 Refer to Part 2 (Playing the Game Solo). Playing the game is exactly the same., Both of your scores will be displayed, and the winner will be highlighted. If your friend hasn't completed the challenge yet, “Waiting” will be displayed as the status.