 It is sometimes easier to start with the bedrooms or living room because they are usually easier and you will feel like you are making headway quicker. Save the kitchen for last. You might decide some rooms can be ignored by shutting (and locking) the door to them. Put the dirty dishes in a sink full of sudsy water. You will get back to them when finishing up.;
, Go around the room cleaning with your tools. Use the plastic paint scraper for getting up hard gunky spots. With surfaces like the stove, or counters that are very dirty, you will want to use the saturation technique. Saturate the area with plenty of cleaning liquid and let soak a minute or two. Then start cleaning. Use paint scraper where needed. Use your "Magic sponge" for spots and finger prints on walls and around doors. Use an old toothbrush for cleaning tight corners like cleaning the gunk around sink fixtures.
 Repeat if necessary. Wipe down fixtures.Clean mirrors and glass with soft cloth and window cleaner. Polish away streaks. Don't use too much spray. Clean toilet with toilet cleaner and toilet brush. Wipe it off and around with a moistened paper towel or wet wipes if you have some handy. Wet wipes can be used to clean around the nooks and crannies of your bathroom floor. You can wipe down your entire floor with a cloth on your hands and knees if your bathroom is small, otherwise use a sweeper-mop.
 You might want to put any other clutter in another trash bag for sorting through later. You will want to stay in the room you are cleaning until you are finished to save time.
 Use your mop or flat mop to sweep and mop at the same time. Use your spray cleaner on the floor to keep the flat mop moist. You might want to test a small section first to make sure what you're using won't damage the floor. Use extra cleaner if the floor is very dirty. Sweep-mop debris in a pile. You can pick up the debris with your shop vac or you can sweep mop debris into a dustpan and throw into a trash can. (*Wood floors need special care--just sweep with a dust mop and clean the floor according to professional instructions on a day when you have more time.)

