 The environment you have provided for your gecko can influence your gecko's appetite. If the temperature is too hot or too cold, your gecko may not eat. Try to correct the temperature in the gecko's enclosure.Geckos are cold blooded and cannot regulate their own body temperature. You will have to provide both cool and hot areas in the enclosure to keep your gecko healthy and eating properly.
The hottest spot in your gecko's enclosure should be between 90 and 93 degrees Fahrenheit.
Your gecko needs to cool off as well. Provide an area in the enclosure that is around 74 degrees Fahrenheit.
During the winter months and cooler temperatures, it is normal for your gecko to have a reduced appetite.;
, If your gecko is feeling too stressed out, it may not eat. Many factors can cause your gecko stress, try to make your gecko's enclosure and life as stress free as you can.Transferring your gecko to a new environment may have caused it stress. If your gecko has stopped eating after a move, it should regain its appetite after becoming accustomed to its new home.
Other geckos in the enclosure may be bullying the one who is not eating. Bullied geckos may have scratches on it or will be herded around the enclosure by the bully. Separation is the only way to prevent this.
 It can be difficult to actually catch your gecko while it is eating, which may give the impression that it is not eating. There are two main methods to make sure that your gecko is eating, without actually seeing it eat.Weigh your gecko. In an average adult gecko, fluctuations of around a gram or two in weight are normal. If it starts continuously loosing weight however, this is good evidence that it is not eating enough.
When cleaning the cage, look for signs of defecation. If your gecko is regularly having bowel movements, this is a good indication that your gecko is eating.
 Geckos can be picky eaters and they definitely have foods that are better suited to their diets than others. Try feeding your gecko some of the following foods to stimulate its appetite:Safe insects include crickets, mealworms, waxworms, silkworms and dubia roaches.
Make sure the insects you offer aren't too large as this can cause injury to your gecko. If the insect is larger than the space between the gecko's eyes, it's too large.
Use live insects as food. The motion can attract the attention of your gecko.
Try feeding your gecko later in the day as this can mimic their hunting routine in the wild.

