 Bipolar disorder cannot be treated with therapy alone; medications will also be required. The primary type of medications used to treat bipolar disorder are mood stabilizers which help to treat and prevent manic and depressive episodes. People with long-term bipolar will often need to stay on mood stabilizing medication for many years after their last manic or depressive episode to live a healthy life. This is known as maintenance therapy. The most common mood stabilizers prescribed for people with bipolar disorder include:



Valproate and quetiapine These are both anticonvulsant medications which are often prescribed for the treatment of epilepsy. In bipolar sufferers, these medications help to prevent the excessive brain activity that causes manic or depressive episodes.Lithium: Lithium is one of the oldest and most effective drugs used in the treatment of bipolar disorder. Lithium works as an antipsychotic, preventing the manic phase of bipolar disorder by stabilizing the mood. Lithium has also been found to reduce the rate of suicide sixfold., To correctly treat and prevent the manic phase of bipolar disorder, mood stabilizing drugs may be combined with neuroleptics (antipsychotic drugs), over a short-term or long-term period. These drugs may include a combination of the following:



Quetiapine: This drug is used in the phase of mania when a person feels that they do not need to sleep, is hyperactive and overly talkative and prone to unrealistic ideas.Olanzapine: This is a fast-acting drug that helps to stop " racing thoughts".

Risperidone: This drug is used to treat bipolar symptoms specifically related to mania, including irritability, hyperactivity, impulsiveness, inflated self-esteem, decreased need for sleep, along with other psychotic symptoms.

Lamotrigine: This drug is used for the long-term medical treatment of bipolar disorder. Its exact action is not known, but its effectiveness is linked to the way in which it blocks sodium channels in the brain.
 In some cases, you will be prescribed antidepressant medication in addition to mood stabilizers, for a short period.


However, in 10 to 20% of cases, antidepressants can cause a shift from a depressive to a manic or hypomanic state. Therefore your condition will need to be monitored closely while you are taking the medication.
Medications that are commonly prescribed for the treatment of bipolar depression include Prozac (fluoxetine), Wellbutrin (bupropion), and Zoloft (sertraline). However, Seroquel and Symbyax are the only antidepressant drugs that are FDA approved for the treatment of acute depression in bipolar sufferers.

