 Epilepsy often occurs in young age. In German shepherds, typically the first seizure happens and the signs of epilepsy show from under one year of age to four years old.However, in some cases, the dog may be as old as six before presenting., Either before or after the seizures, your dog might show signs of distress. This might cause him to be vocal or whine. Your dog might also show signs of fear before or after a seizure., You should be aware that the abnormal electrical behavior in the brain can cause your German shepherd to behave strangely before, during, and after a seizure. This behavior can include being aggressive and attempting to bite in a dog that is otherwise sweet-tempered., The main symptom for canine epilepsy is seizures. German shepherds can have different types of seizures associated with their epilepsy. These are:


Focal seizures: Typified by highly localised bizarre behavior, such as repeatedly irrational rubbing of one part of the body in a compulsive way, or 'fly-catching' behavior where the dog snaps at invisible objects in the air. This are also known as partial seizures.Generalized seizures: These affect the whole body. The dog is unconscious and unaware of what's happening to him or around him. The dog is unable to stand and collapses to one side. The body goes rigid, the limbs often paddle, and the mouth may chomp. Typically this lasts for 30 seconds to three minutes, after which the dog recovers and regains consciousness.Status epilepticus: This is where the dog enters a seizure but does not wake up, and the seizure continues indefinitely. It is essential to seek veterinary attention as brain damage can occur during status epilepticus., If you are unfamiliar with seizures, you might not realize that your dog is having a seizure. Look for the following behavior in your dog:Confusion or disorientation
Aimless walking
Blindness
Increased thirst or appetite
Falling down onto his side
Becoming stiff
Salivating profusely
Urinating and defecating randomly

, Seizures often occur in cluster or groups, within a 24 hours period. German shepherds with epilepsy are prone to groups of seizures spaced apart. How frequent these groups are depends on the individual. For example, a dog with mild epilepsy may have one seizure every six months, whilst a severely affected individual may have groups of seizures every couple of weeks.


After the first seizure contact your vet, who can medicate your pet to make another seizure the same day less likely.

