 Get your heart rate up for at least a few minutes every day. The healthy benefits of exercise cannot be understated. Exercise boosts neuroplasticity and provides an immediate reduction in stress hormones. Further, memory-sapping health maladies, such as diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, are less likely to develop in active individuals.Favor aerobic exercises that get your blood pumping, like swimming or jogging
Games like basketball, which require hand-eye coordination and engage your motor skills, are great, as they give your brain a work out along with your body.
If you can, exercise first thing in the morning. Not only will this help you wake your brain up, it will jumpstart learning for the rest of the day.
Even a walk around the block or a couple dozen jumping jacks can give your mind a body a quick jolt of focus and energy., You may be getting “enough” sleep, but in order to maximize your brain’s potential, you probably need more. Almost all adults require 7.5 to 9 hours of sleep in order to enjoy full mental strength during the day. Your memory, ability to learn new things, and even creativity can’t reach their full potential if your brain and body aren’t fully rested.Quality of sleep matters immensely as well. To help fall asleep and stay asleep throughout the night, get on a regular sleeping schedule. Try to get to bed and get up around the same time everyday. Keep this schedule on the weekends too!
Help yourself wind down by avoiding screens of any type for the hour before you go to bed. Try reading instead!

, Certain dietary habits can help keep your brain functioning at full speed, and even diminish the risk of developing dementia. In particular, make sure omega-3 is consistently present in your diet. These fatty acids are most commonly found in cold water fish like salmon and tuna. They are also in flaxseeds, walnuts, spinach, and soybeans.Make fruits and veggies are greater portion of your overall diet. This will help cut back on other foods that are more likely to cause mental and physical sluggishness.
 Green tea contains loads of antioxidants that help rid your body of brain cell-damaging free radicals. Red wine, on the other hand, can help increase blood flow to the brain and can reduce the risk of developing Alzheimer’s. Alternatively, grape and cranberry juice offer these same benefits.Keep alcohol consumption around 1 glass per day. While alcohol in moderation may actually contribute to improved mental capacity, too much alcohol kills brain cells.
 All carbs provide energy that your brain can use. Simple carbs, such as those in foods made with sugar or refined grain will give your body a short energy boost and a dramatic crash. Instead, go for foods that include complex carbs. These include whole wheat bread, brown rice, oatmeal, cereal with lots of fiber, lentils, and beans.

