 In any group environment, there are factors that encourage cohesion and indicate member status.A major indication of a weeaboo in your midst is the use of broken and incomplete Japanese in casual conversation, often in emphatic or overly dramatic ways. Using Japanese ungrammatically can be culturally insensitive, hinder communication, and create difficulty should you choose to learn the language in the future.Some expressions appropriated by the weeaboo community include:



Kawaii (かわいい)
English statement + desu (です)

Variation: English + Japanese adjective + desu (です). For example: "I passed that exam so you know I'm kakkoii desu."


Suffixes like -kun (－くん) and -chan (－ちゃん)

Baka (ばか)

Sugoi (すごい)

Chibi (ちび)

Ne! (ね);
, There are many positives to joining a group or subculture, but in-group bias isn't one.The automatic assumption that Japanese products are superior to others can be self isolatingand/or a mild form of delusion.Self-inquiry is a good way of diffusing weeaboo tendencies. If you can't identify the reason why something is better, chances are your preference is a matter of taste. Some questions to ask yourself:


Why do I like this Japanese product?
What is different between the Japanese product and a similar, non-Japanese product?
What makes the Japanese product better than a similar, non-Japanese product?

, Dress code and other social conventions telegraph group membership to others.There are socially appropriate places for you express your interest by wearing the same costume as your favorite character, like at an anime convention. Choosing daily clothing styled after anime characters is, in many cases, the hallmark of a weeaboo.


A single accessory or article of clothing from your costume can add flair to your daily outfit without appearing socially inaccessible to others.
 You can meet new friends and boost your creative capacity through role-playing specific characters and fantastical scenarios,but don't let this come at the cost of your own development. Pretending to be something you are not, even if you are emulating something you admire, can lead to a mismatch between your outer self and inner feelings and cause potentially extreme consequences.Accept that your personality changes as a function of growth, as do preferences and beliefs. Even if you consider yourself a die-hard fan, respecting the potential for future change influences more moderate (and less weeaboo-like) behavior.
Occasionally put aside instant gratification, including anime, manga, costume making, and online activities. Reevaluate personal goals and your place in your community.Are you happy with where you're at? Ignoring these in favor of Japanese cultural pursuits is considered evidence of a weeaboo.

