 This may seem too simple or too direct, but it may actually be the most important step to take. Ask her how she feels about what needs to change about your relationship together. Simply by asking, you'll indicate that you care about what she's thinking and that you're ready and willing to put effort into your marriage.Be specific with your questions, and ask for specific answers.
Start with something like, "I know it's been rough lately. What can I do to prove how much this relationship still means to me?"
Listen carefully to her response and take her perspective seriously, even if it angers or saddens you at first.
Know that speaking honestly with one another will likely be the first step in getting your relationship back on track.;
, When you got married, you commit to spending your lives together. You also both married the person you wanted to spend your life with. If you’ve become a different person than the one your wife married (or vice versa), these changes may need to be addressed.For instance, there could simply have been tangible changes. If you have become less active or are eating unhealthily and your body reflects that, work to get back in shape.
If you’ve become more stressed (from work or whatever else) – and maybe harder to be around – acknowledge that this likely a reason that distance may have developed between the two of you.
Schedule specific time to work on whatever you might need to change. If it's simply spending more time with you wife, commit to spending certain blocks of time together each week and take these commitments seriously.
If you frequently find yourself yelling or having fits of anger or other emotional surges, see a therapist soon.
 While living a more physically active lifestyle and making yourself available are steps you can take on your own, more significant adjustments of your behavior may require professional help. If you're struggling with addiction or cannot control your emotions, get help. See a doctor or therapist to help identify specific issues that you may be struggling, and follow their advice on steps you can take to address these issues.If you're suffering from addiction of any sort - to alcohol, drugs, the internet, or anything else - see a medical professional as soon as possible.
Recognize that physical abuse of any type is not only illegal, it is a sign that you need professional help.
In short, address any and all problems that are external to your relationship so that they do not continue to have a negative effect on your marriage.
Tell your wife about the effort your putting in to address serious issues. Not only will she be happy to hear it, you'll motivate yourself to take your own efforts seriously.
 Though it sounds a bit selfish on the first read, maintaining a healthy consistency in the rest of your life - including doing the things that you enjoy - indicates that you’re confident that your marriage can be saved. Don't neglect being available to your wife, but take care of yourself be doing things you enjoy to make sure you stay in a healthy frame of mind.By indicating you’re able to go on with your own life, you’re also indicating that you’re capable of a mature and level-headed conversation.
Don’t play to her sympathy or try to guilt her by acting dramatically or emphasizing how much it hurts to be without her – it’s immature, and it won’t work in the long term.
 Most importantly, if you have children together, it is entirely inappropriate to speak poorly about your wife to them. This will have negative effects on everyone involved, especially your children, and will certainly not help improve your relationship with you wife.If you do have kids, simply tell them that both you and your wife love them and that everything will work out.
Take a similar approach with shared friends. Simply articulate that you hope to work things out, and that you love and respect your wife.
If you do get back together, your relationship will only be complicated by anything negative you’ve said about your wife.
If you’re still in love with her, act like it!

, Remember that your marriage didn’t happen all of the sudden. Neither will winning your wife back. Focus on the process of identifying specific issues with your relationship, addressing them one at a time, and re-establishing a healthy bond with your wife. Understand that this will likely take time.Do not overreact to tumultuous periods. A rough conversation, a night apart, even a string of cold-shoulders does not mean your marriage is doomed.
Rough patches do indicate the need for some improved communication – but that may be enough to rekindle your marriage!

