 The formal business format will give your letter a level of professionalism. Write the letter on a computer using a word processing program and use easy to read font in 12 pt type. The formal business letter format has a specific heading at the top of the letter, which is:First paragraph:

Your Name
Contract number, if any
Your Address, including City, State/Province, Zip Code/Postal Code


Date you composed the letter
Second paragraph:

Contract Company Name
Company Address, including City, State/Province, Zip Code/Postal Code



, Begin by addressing the receipt: “Dear ”. Then, state your intention to cancel right away so the receipt knows exactly what you are requesting in your letter.For example:

Dear Sisqo Party Supplies,
I am writing to confirm that as of next Monday , I will no longer need the services provided by Sisqo Party Supplies.
 Though you may be cancelling the contract, you still want to maintain a professional, friendly tone. This means noting that you are cancelling the contract for a specific reason and that you want to part on good terms. You may need the contractor’s services another time, so you want to maintain the business relationship for the future.For example, you may write:

I have been happy with our prior business transactions and I would like for us to part on good terms. I have decided to go with another party supply service due to their competitive rates and longer operating hours.
 If there are any outstanding payments for the services provided by the contract company, you should include payment in the form of a check with the letter. You should also note the exact amount of the check. If there is a fee for cancelling the contract, you should include payment for the fee, as well.For example, you may write:

Please find enclosed a check for the final payment of our contract: $351.45.
 You should also request that the receipt respond via mail to confirm the contract has been cancelled. Make sure you also note the expiry date of the contract and that the letter is a notice for non-renewal of the contract.For example, you may write:

My contract with Sisqo Party Supplies expires MM/DD/YYYY. Please use this letter as my notice not to renew the contract for the upcoming calendar year.
 You should always end contract cancellation letters on a friendly note, as you want to ensure you can contact the contract company at another date if you need their services again. Make sure you also sign the letter by hand.The final contract cancellation letter may appear as:

Dear Sisqo Party Supplies,
I am writing to confirm that as of next Monday , I will no longer need the services provided by Sisqo Party Supplies. I have been happy with our prior business transactions and would like for us to part on good terms. I have decided to go with another party supply service due to their competitive rates and longer operating hours.
Please find enclosed a check for the final payment of our contract: $351.45. My contract with Sisqo Party Supplies expires MM/DD/YYYY. You may use this letter as my notice not to renew the contract for the upcoming calendar year. Feel free to contact me via mail or phone if you have any more questions or concerns about my cancellation.
Best Wishes,
Jane Doe



, You should make a copy of the letter before you send it for your records. You can then mail the letter by certified mail, as this will ensure the receipt has stamped proof of the date and time the letter was sent.Make sure you send only copies of any receipts or documents with the letter. Keep any original receipts or documents for your records.

