


Such emails often have topics that are tailored to gain your curiosity. For example, it may indicate that it has a joke about a well-known figure or that action is required on your part.
These emails typically come from people or businesses that you do not know.
Such emails may identify the sender as having a common name, such as Joe.
Such emails occasionally use the names of well-known institutions, such as major banks or retailers. Keep in mind that your bank or any other legitimate business won't ask for personal information through an email.;
,


Spamming software looks for simple email addresses first.
Consider opening a new email account that has a more complicated name than your current account. For example, if your current name is Joe@yahoo.com, switch it to something that has a combination of numbers and letters that is more complicated.



Various Internet sites offer email accounts that are free to users.
Creating an alternate email account will allow you to only see your business and/or main email account for trusted purposes.
Many websites require you to submit an email address to use their services. Some of them then advertise their products or send other unwanted emails after receiving it, so it is best to use an alternate address for that purpose.
If you eventually get too many unsolicited emails, you can simply abandon or close the alternate account.



This is a tool that automatically helps identify and limit spam.
Some email providers automatically filter spam emails to a spam folder.
If your email provider does not have a spam filter, search for 1 on the Internet.



Posting your email address on forums, websites or anything else on the Internet allows spamming software to retrieve it for future use.
For example, put "Joe at Yahoo dot com" instead of Joe@yahoo.com. Your intended reader will still learn your email address without spamming software retrieving it.



Read the subject line and determine if it is worthwhile to open the email. For example, an urgent email forwarded from a manager at your place of employment that asks you to forward it to your group is acceptable, while a joke email from your cousin would unnecessarily expose any listed email addresses to potential slammers.



Make sure you are comfortable with the usage of your email address that is specified in such documents.
Make sure that your email address will not be sold to third parties.

