 Once your inspector has finished going through the house, they'll produce a written report of their findings. Have the inspector talk about the report with you and explain each of the items they've listed.Seldom will a home inspection come out completely clean with no damages or potential problems at all. Talk with the home inspector about prioritizing any problems that have been found.
 In the worst case scenario, the inspector uncovers a significant problem that directly impacts your ability to move into the house after buying it.This is more likely to be the case if you're buying a home that has been unoccupied for a significant period of time, or if you're buying a foreclosed or abandoned house.
Even if the house is being sold "as is," you still may be able to get a credit for some major structural repairs, such as to the foundation.
 Even if your home inspector provided a cost estimate in the inspection report, you still may want to get your own. An estimate from a specialist may differ greatly from what the inspector told you.Having more than one estimate also gives you a range of prices, so you can bargain with the seller better.
If your budget is tight, look for licensed repairmen and general contractors who are willing to provide a free estimate.
 If there are repairs that must be made before you move into the house, you can either ask the seller to complete those repairs or deduct the cost of repairs from the price of the house.Typically the seller has already seen the inspection report, so they'll have an expectation of what you might ask.
Start with your lowest offer – usually that the seller pays for all repairs listed in the report, no matter how minor. The seller then gives you a counter-offer. Go back and forth from there until you come to an agreement.
 When you're negotiating to get the seller to pay for repairs, you don't necessarily want them to know what your plans are for the property. How you feel about something could affect the amount the seller is willing to pay.For example, suppose the inspection revealed there are repairs that need to be made to the heating and air-conditioning system in the home. However, you plan on replacing that system with a more energy efficient model. Revealing to the seller that you plan on replacing the system anyway is a sure way to ensure they won't pay for even a portion of the repairs to the old system.

