 According to several studies, the majority of people diagnosed with a sinus headache had undiagnosed migraines.Fortunately, there are several symptoms that may help distinguish sinus headaches from migraines. For example:Migraines usually worsen with noise or bright light
Migraines are accompanied by nausea and vomiting
Migraine pain can be felt anywhere in your head and into your neckMigraines won't have thick, nasal discharge or loss of smell

, The primary cause of a sinus headache is inflammation of the mucus membranes lining your sinuses. The inflammation prevents your sinuses from secreting mucus. This causes pressure to build up and causes pain. Sinus inflammation can be caused by any infection, allergies, infections of the upper teeth, or, rarely, tumors (benign or malignant).Symptoms of sinus headaches include:Pressure and tenderness behind the forehead, cheeks, or around the eyes
Pain that worsens with bending forward
Pain in the upper teeth
Pain that is more intense first thing in the morning
Pain that ranges from mild to severe and can be unilateral (on one side) or bilateral (on both sides)

, Several factors can make you more prone to getting sinus headaches. These factors may include:A history of allergies or asthma
Persistent colds, also known as upper respiratory infections
Ear infections
Enlarged tonsils or adenoids
Nasal polyps
Nasal deformities, such as a deviated septum
Cleft palate
Weakened immune system
Prior sinus surgery
Climbing or flying to high altitudes
Traveling in an airplane while you have an upper respiratory infection
Tooth abscess or infection
Frequent swimming or diving

, If your headaches happen more than 15 days a month, or you frequently use nonprescription pain medication, you should see your doctor. You should also consider seeing your doctor if the pain medication doesn't help a severe headache or the headaches interfere with daily life (for example, you often miss school or work because of headaches).Get emergency medical help if you have a sinus headache and the following symptoms:Sudden and severe headache that lasts or increases in intensity over 24 hours.
A sudden severe headache that is described as “the worst ever,” even if you are prone to headaches.
Chronic or severe headache that commences after age 50.
Fever, stiff neck, nausea, and vomiting (these symptoms may be suspicious for meningitis, a life-threatening bacterial infection).
Memory loss, confusion, loss of balance, change in speech or vision, or loss of strength in or numbness or tingling in any one of your limbs (these symptoms may be suspicious for a stroke).
Several headaches in one eye, accompanied by redness of the eye (these symptoms may be suspicious for acute angle closure glaucoma).
A new or change in headache pattern.
If you have experienced recent head trauma.
 Your doctor will take a complete medical history and perform a physical exam to diagnose a sinus headache. During the exam, your doctor will touch your face to look for tenderness or swelling. Your nose will be checked for signs of inflammation, congestion, or nasal discharge. Your doctor may also order imaging studies such as X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. If your physician thinks allergies may be contributing to your symptoms, you may be referred to an allergist for more testing.Occasionally, a referral to an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) specialist is needed. The ENT will use a fiber optic scope to visualize the sinuses and make a diagnosis.