 This addition only works if you’re cooking a package of ramen on the stove. Once the noodles are almost done cooking, crack a raw egg into the middle of the saucepan.


For egg-drop soup, slowly stir the raw egg into the noodles. The egg will cook into tiny pieces and incorporate into the noodles.
If you like whole eggs, don’t stir the noodles. Instead, cover the saucepan with a lid and let the egg cook for about thirty seconds to a minute., There are a variety of condiments that can be added to instant noodles to improve the flavor. These condiments can be added before or after cooking the ramen. Use these condiments in addition to the seasoning packet or as a replacement for the seasoning packet. For example:


Add a tablespoon of miso paste to your ramen to give it a smooth, meaty broth.
To make a spicy Asian-inspired ramen, stir in 1 teaspoon of Korean chili seasoning, 1 teaspoon of soy sauce, 1 teaspoon of rice vinegar, ½ teaspoon sesame oil, and ½ teaspoon honey.Add half a tablespoon of peanut butter to your ramen and stir it vigorously to create a Thai-inspired noodle dish., There are many vegetables that can be added to your noodles. Vegetables that cook quickly can be added just before serving the noodles. Other vegetables that cook more slowly will need to blanched in advance.


Vegetables that cook quickly include baby spinach, thinly-sliced cabbage, and baby bok choySlow-cooking vegetables include broccoli, carrots, and peas.
Any frozen vegetables need to be thawed in advance.
 Once the ramen is ready to serve, place a square of American cheese onto the surface of the soup. The cheese will melt into the broth and create a smooth, cheesy sauce. If you want a thick, mac-and-cheese broth for your noodles, add two to three slices of American cheese.After the cheese melts, stir it well to incorporate it into the broth.
 The seasoning packets in instant noodle dishes are usually a combination of powdered bouillon, sodium, and freeze-dried herbs. If you’re concerned about the levels of sodium in your ramen or if you prefer the taste of homemade broth, you can replace the seasoning packet with vegetable or meat broth.


Instead of boiling 2 ½ cups (600 mililiters) of water, boil the same amount of broth to cook the noodles.
You can make your own vegetable, beef, or chicken broth at home or buy some from your grocery store.

