 Although a highlighter may be the first thing you reach for when taking notes in a book, it may not be the most effective option. There are two drawbacks with a highlighter: first, you may be tempted to highlight way too much text, and second, you can’t take notes or do other types of annotations with a highlighter. Try using a pencil, pen, or (the best choice) fine-tipped colored markers instead of (or maybe in addition to) your usual highlighter.


One important benefit of using pencil is the ability to erase! Use pencil if you are prone to making mistakes or if you'd like to be able to remove your notations later.;
, Rather than underlining an entire passage, aim to underline only the topic sentence of that paragraph. Not only will this make it more efficient for you to return to your notes, but taking the time to identify the topic sentence of a passage is an excellent way to learn and solidify what you know.
 Whenever you are trying to work through a text, it may be tempting to think that almost everything is important. One common mistake is for readers to highlight or underline very large volumes of text. Resist this urge, as it will only make it more difficult for you to return to your notes. Instead, underline only that which is most important, such as keywords, or crucial quotes., In order to make it easy for you to look back over your notes and gain quick understanding, you may want to use some kind of color-coding system. For example, you could use orange to indicate any new vocabulary words; blue to indicate a specific theme for an essay you are writing; and green to identify places where you have questions., An important aspect of reading is expanding your vocabulary. Anytime you encounter a word that you’re not familiar with, circle it (perhaps using a specific color pen), and find out what it means. You may even want to write down a brief definition in the margin., Another way to limit the volume of notations you make in your book is to avoid marking things that you already know. Even if it is central to the overall point that the author is making, if you encounter a concept or idea that you already have a firm grasp on, don’t bother marking it.