 When muscles are exercised they pull on the bones they are attached to. This pulling action builds bone tissue, so weight-bearing exercises build stronger, denser bones.Building bone mass before age 30 is beneficial later in life when bones are breaking down. Weight-bearing exercise throughout your life helps to maintain bone density.
Unlike aerobic exercise, weight bearing exercise does not need to be done all at once to be beneficial. Doing 10 minutes of weight bearing exercise three times a day is equally as beneficial as a half-hour workout.
The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons recommend activities like brisk walking, hiking, aerobics, tennis, dancing, and weight training to help build and maintain bone mass., Jumping as high as you can isn’t just for kids! It may be good for increasing bone density. A recent study of premenopausal women showed that jumping just ten times per day, twice a day, can help increase bone mineral density and stave off bone thinning.Stand barefoot on a solid floor. Jump as high as you can. Take a short break (30 seconds) between each jump.
You could also try jumping jacks, or using a trampoline.
Stay consistent. You have to jump every day, over a significant period of time, to see the benefits.
Jumping is not recommended for people who already have osteoporosis, as this could lead to falls or bone breakage. It would also not be recommended for people with hip or leg problems or certain other medical conditions—check with your doctor if you aren't sure if you should be jumping.
 Your muscles help keep your bones in place, and strengthening them will help you build and maintain bone density.Weight training, elastic exercise bands, and exercises that use your own body weight like pushups are excellent for strengthening.
Yoga and Pilates can also improve strength and flexibility. However, people who already have osteoporosis should not do certain positions, as it may increase the risk of bone fracture or breakage.
If you’re concerned about your risk factors, consult with your doctor or a physical therapist to see what exercises will be best for you.
 You probably already know that smoking is extremely unhealthy. But did you know that smoking is associated with a higher risk of developing osteoporosis?Smoking interferes with your body's ability to use minerals and nutrients.In fact, smoking is directly linked to lower bone density.If you smoke, quitting quickly decreases your risk for many diseases.The longer you smoke, the higher your risk is of low bone density and fractures.
Secondhand smoke exposure during youth and early adulthood may increase your risk of developing low bone mass later.Smoking also reduces the production of estrogen in women, which can also lead to weaker bones.
 Even if bone loss has already begun, your doctor may prescribe medications to slow down the process.Your doctor may also look at your vitamin and mineral intake and blood levels to help you determine your needs.


Estrogens and progestins help maintain bone density in both men and women. The aging process decreases the amount of these hormones your body produces. Hormone supplements including estrogen products may reduce your risk of developing osteoporosis.
Medications that can help treat or prevent osteoporosis include ibandronate (Boniva), alendronate (Fosamax), risedronate sodium (Actonel), and zoledronic acid (Reclast).