 These include the likes of the travel giants Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz.
In addition, there are activity and location specific travel brochures that one may request free of charge. Please access these highly informative guides through the Internet by simply typing into your favorite search engine the words, Adventure Travel Destinations, or other similar phrase terms. These free guides will help you in all facets of your research efforts towards making your own Adrenaline Adventure Trip itinerary.;
, There are many popular hot spots for adventure travel. These are some of the most popular possibilities:

Colorado - California - Nevada- Hawaii - Florida - Canada - all US States - the Caribbean Islands - Mexico - Isla Mujeres, Mexico, Cozumel, Mexico - Costa Rica - Brazil - Bolivia - Peru - Cozumel- Jamaica - Puerto Rico - Europe - Australia - Africa - Asia - to name a few.
 Okay, so just about anywhere and everywhere you will find some of the best adventure travel on the planet. It will entirely depend on your choice of adventure in the previous step. You will in all likelihood want to make a list,with four equal columns, following this chart method>

1st column: All adventure activities of interest.
2nd column: Destinations where you can partake in that adventure.
3rd column: Name of Travel Provider that sells this adventure.
4th column: Approximate Cost.
 Take into consideration the time of year or if your activity is seasonal.



Scuba Diving. Shipwreck Diving. Cave Diving.
Bungee Jumping
Treasure Hunting: Land or by Sea
Archaeological Digs
Astronomy Trips: Seeking new areas of space or spotting time sensitive planetary movements, including comets and asteroids. While this is one of the safest Adrenaline Trips, it still makes our list due to having the opportunity to discover the unknown!
Sky Diving: Parachuting
Para-sailing
Hang-Gliding
Mountain Climbing: Rock Climbing. Ice Climbing.
Adrenaline Sports: Plan a ski trip that has slopes and runs that will challenge you. Learn Ski Jumping. Ski Ballet. Ski Aerials. Big Mountain Skiing . The same list could be make for surfing and big wave riding! Plan your next vacation to a destination known to have these sports.
Others: There are so many adventures! You are only limited by your imagination, Some people combine two or three adventures together, depending on time constraints and budget.
 An adventure of this kind will best be sought by having a buddy or two along. Show them this article and see if you can peak their interest!, The whole reason they are considered "high thrills", is due to the inherent or at least "perceived danger." Don't take chances. Learn the ropes!, Take photos and share with all. These are memories to cherish for a lifetime.