 A classic flower will be made up of only one shade, but if you're feeling adventurous, combine a few together. For each flower, you'll need 3 or 4 sheets of tissue paper.









When you've chosen your tissue paper, place them together, lined up in a pile.
 How much you should cut will depend on the size of the flower you want to make. As a general rule of thumb, cut a strip twice as big as the flower you want to create.









If you're making several flowers, experiment with different sizes. Just cut strips that are of various widths and it will automatically create smaller and bigger flowers.
 Go down the strip cutting little snips into the tissue paper at even intervals. If you want teeny petals, make the snips close together; if you want larger petals, make them farther apart.









Leave an inch or so of tissue paper untouched at one end of the strip. This will be the part of the flower that you work with and use as your base, so you don't want it shredded.
The strip should still include every layer of tissue paper that you started with. No need to cut one sheet at a time.
 Wrap a piece of masking tape around the loop once it's formed. This will be the bud of your flower and will give the flower something to structure itself around.









If you don't want a masking tape bud, you can either color the masking tape or cover it with more tissue paper. You could also try leaving the floral wire exposed. With enough petals, it may blend right in.
 Roll and roll and roll until you come to the other side of the strip and it's all wrapped up. Then, take another piece of masking tape and wrap it around the base of the paper, securing it in place. Do this to as many layers as you want of paper.









Once the tape is on, fluff your "petals" to give them a more flowery look. Spread them out and squish them a little to get them to sprawl out like a carnation.
 Floral tape is green and will look more like a stem. Then you can take the end of the tape and attach it to anything, whether it's a card or the end of a pen.









If your flower still seems like it's missing something, try wrapping a ribbon around the base. This also provides you another way to attach the flower to something without using the tape. A ribbon is much more delicate and will emphasize the cuteness of your flower.

