 You want to make sure you find a solid breeder. Know how to identify a good breeder before you agree to purchase a puppy.


Good breeders want to meet with potential buyers before making a sale. This is because responsible and ethical dog breeders want to make sure their puppies go to good homes. If a breeder asks a lot of questions, don't be alarmed. This is a positive thing. It means the breeder cares about the health and safety of her puppies.A good breeder will also be respectful of you and allow you to ask questions. The breeder you buy from should have no reservations about allowing you to meet and interact with both the mother and the father of the puppies.A good breeder should be able to provide you with health certificates for all the puppies in a litter. These certificates will assure you your puppy is not prone to any breed-specific health concerns., Once you know how to recognize the markings of a quality breeder, you can begin your search.


The internet is a wonderful resource to find breeders. The AKC has a website that allows you to search for breeders by breed and locations.The Siberian Husky Club of America also has a breeder referral list on their website.It's not always possible to find a refutable breeder within a reasonable distance. You might have to make a few overnight trips to meet with a breeder, so be prepared for that if you're committed to getting a Siberian Husky.
 Once you've selected a breeder, contact them and inquire about meeting the puppies.


Choose a breeder who has a current or upcoming litter. Many breeders only breed their dogs once every 2 to 3 years, so you want to pick someone who has puppies available now or will soon.Be prepared to answer questions about who lives in your family, whether all your family members want the puppy, and whether the puppy will be properly confined at your home. Good breeders do not sell puppies to anyone.
If you have any questions about the breed, the breeder is a good person to ask. She should be able to clear up any questions you have.See when you can come by the meet the puppies. Remember, you will probably not leave with a puppy on the same day you meet the litter. Good breeders will want you to take time to think about your decision.

