 Washing your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water for 15-20 seconds can help prevent CMV, especially after changing diapers or touching saliva, urine, or nasal secretions from a young child.To wash your hands properly, use soap and lather for at least 10 seconds. Be sure to scrub the backs of your hands as well as your palms. Get under the fingernails and between the fingers.


Encourage your children to practice hand washing, too. Instruct them in the proper method.;
, Instead of picking a bit of stray food out of your teeth, for instance, use a toothpick or swish some water around in your mouth.


Use a tissue to blow your nose. Wash your hands afterward.
Always wash your hands before flossing.
 Blood transfusions and transplanted organs can lead to CMV infection.While there is sometimes no alternative, consult your doctor to help you find potential alternatives to blood transfusions and organ transplants if you are concerned about CMV.


Using and sharing dirty needles could also cause a CMV infection. If you are addicted to intravenous drugs (or any other kind of drugs), seek help from a qualified substance abuse counselor.
If cleaning up a surface that has blood on it, wear disposable gloves.Cover the blood drops with paper towel and allow them to soak the blood. Pour a 10% bleach solution around the edges of the blood. Continue pouring the solution toward the center of the blood, then dispose of the paper towel. Wipe up any remaining blood, then spray the area once more with bleach and wipe it away with paper towels. Place all the paper towels and disposable gloves you used in the trash.
Sterilize items that have come in contact with blood in rubbing alcohol or boiling water.
 For instance, avoid cutting yourself, and apply first aid immediately if you do. Continue to take medication as prescribed and to follow any other instructions from your doctor. If you develop any CMV symptoms (see below), seek immediate medical attention.

Maintain excellent hygiene and avoid contact with recently used bedding or other materials which may contain bodily fluids.