 You must have a forced air system in order to install a whole house model. Most people choose room purifiers because you can transport them from room to room or other locations.


If you have a forced air heating system, you should look for a model that can be installed within this heating system. If you buy a room air purifier, allergens will circulate through the air by the forced air heating and cooling system, so you will find it is harder to clean the air room by room.;
, Air purification units that emit ozone have been found to put you at risk for other respiratory health concerns.
 Look for an air purifier that can purify an area larger than this number.
 If the machine does not say it contains a HEPA filter, then it is not designed to remove extremely fine allergens from the air.
 It is recommended that HEPA filters are replaced at least once per year, which should be calculated into the total cost of the air purifier. Newer models, that may be more expensive up front, may save you money in the long run.
 The best air filtration models test the dirtiness of the filter, instead of suggesting you replace the filter after a certain amount of time.
 If you are unsure what the air quality is in your home and your allergies are extremely sensitive, this can tell you when it's time to clean the house and remove dander from your cat, in addition to using an air purifier.
 Places like achooallergy.com and allergybuyersclub.com advertise models that are well known for removing cat dander. Compare these models based on features and price.
 Looking on Amazon.com, Costco.com, Overstock.com or Buy.com may yield a discounted price on the air purifier of your choice.
 Run it at least 4 hours per day to reduce pet dander in your home. Replace the filter frequently, as recommended by the manufacturer.
 This will reduce the amount of dander in the room, so that you can place a room air purifier in specific locations where it will do the most good. Doctors recommend that you bar cats from bedrooms immediately to reduce dander where people sleep.

