 There may be times that your kids come to you with concerns about their safety because of something they’ve seen through the media or heard from a friend. You can help your kids feel safe by listening to their concerns and answering their questions. This will show them that you care about how they feel and their safety.


Remove any distractions and give them your undivided attention when they want to talk about safety issues. For instance, turn the TV off if your son says he’s scared to go to the park.
Listen to what they are saying as well as how they are saying it. For example, do they say everything’s okay but their voice is wavering and shaky? Things might not be okay.
Answer their questions instead of dismissing their concerns. For instance, instead of saying, “Oh, don’t worry about that,” try saying, “That is something to think about. We can handle it in a lot of ways.”
Make sure you are not giving dismissive nonverbal cues while you talk, such as smiling or laughing when they voice their concerns. Instead, nod, make eye contact, and keep a straight face.
 Kids are quite perceptive and can often tell when you aren’t being exactly straightforward with them. In situations of safety, feeling that you’re hiding something from them may cause them to feel even more afraid.For example, if your kids ask if there might be a terrorist attack in your community, you might say, “Yes, that’s possible, but very unlikely. We have several things in place to stop that from happening and to help us stay safe and recover if it does.”
Or, for instance, if they ask about human trafficking, you could say, “That does happen more than we’d like and it is scary. Let’s talk about how we can stay safe and how we can help others stay safe, too.”
Keep in mind that what you tell your children and how you say it will depend on their age. You wouldn't talk about a possible terrorist attack with a young child in the same way you would discuss it with a teenager.
 The world can be dramatic enough for kids without adding on any embellishments of our own. When you talk with your kids about things that are going on or that they have heard about, stick to the facts of the situation and avoid speculations or dramatizing. Discuss it when you are in a calm emotional state, as children can easily pick up on your mood.For instance, you might say, “They think a bomb may be there. That’s why they’re investigating and helping people evacuate just in case.”
Or for example, you could try something like, “The news did report that a man dressed like a clown robbed a store. But, no, that doesn’t mean that there are killer clowns roaming our city.”

, This can be an important part of communicating with your kids because adults sometimes forget that there is a difference between being safe and feeling safe. You may know that you have ways to keep your kids safe, but you should still check in with your kids to see how they feel.For instance, you may be safe from a storm in your home, but you may feel afraid because of the sound of thunder.
Feeling safe can also mean the difference between kids confidently following a safety plan or hesitating out of fear.
Ask your kids, “How do you feel about our safety plan? What things worry you? Do you think we need to do anything to be safer?”

