 Having an internal locus of control is ideal because it will help you to feel like you can do something to change the things that you don’t like about your life, such as those things that seem unfair. Try making a list of everything in your life that you do have control over, including little things like what to eat for dinner, what to wear, and how to spend your free time. This may help you to start realizing that you have more control than you think. Some other things you can do to improve your internal locus of control include:Building your confidence.

Developing your resilience.

Setting goals for yourself.

Improving your problem solving skills.
 Before you send a nasty email to the co-worker who just received a promotion by throwing you under the bus, take a moment to think rationally about the situation. If someone cut you off in traffic, think carefully before chasing them down in your Chevy Malibu. Breathe deeply and wait a few minutes – or days – before you react.
 If your situation involves another person, it’s important that you have a direct and private conversation with them to address your grievances. For example, if your best friend slept with your husband it is important that you discuss the issue with each of them privately. If your neighbor is throwing raging parties every weekend and you are livid about how unfair this situation is, you need to talk to her directly., Sometimes life’s lemons grow out of our own actions and behaviors. If you are a contributing cause to your own misfortune, it’s important to change your behavior so that life doesn’t continue to seem unfair. For example, if you lost a friend because she could no longer handle your incessant gossiping, try to stop your gossip. If you got fired because you were repeatedly late for work, make sure that being on time becomes a priority in your life., Sometimes taking the action of having a conversation with someone you trust can help you deal with life being unfair. Everyone experiences unfairness at some point in life, and your friend, family, member, or co-worker might have a similar story to share or advice for how to proceed. The empathy and compassion from of a trusted confidant will help you gain perspective on the situation.
 Getting support from others who are dealing with similar situations can be an important part of dealing with life’s unfair circumstances. For example, if you have been diagnosed with a chronic or terminal illness, try finding a support group in your city for people suffering from the same disease. If you lost a child, seek out group support for parents dealing with the death of a child., Seeking help from a mental health professional such as a psychologist or counselor can help you deal with unfair situations. In most cases, your health insurance will cover at least part of the cost of mental health services. It is especially important to seek help if you are the victim of mental, physical, or sexual abuse or rape, if you are dealing with addiction, or if you are suffering from depression or mood swings. A counselor can help you look at things objectively and come up with strategies to deal with your particular situation.To find a counselor, first call your insurance company and find out what providers are covered by your insurance.
Call at least three counselors who accept your insurance and ask if they are accepting new patients and what types of counseling they specialize in such as cognitive behavioral therapy or grief counseling.
Set up an initial appointment with a counselor who fits your needs. If it doesn’t seem like a great fit after the first few visits, give someone else a try.

