 No matter what sport you choose, you need to have a regular exercise routine. This could be going to your gym or just working out from home. Create a balanced workout routine and make sure you stick to working out a few days a week. Don't rush into anything extreme especially if you haven't been working out lately or regularly. This would make you much more likely to strain yourself and get injured. Take it slow at first and slowly start to increase intensity when you can handle it.


Train to build stamina. If you don't have good stamina, it will be hard to have the endurance to play a full game in any sport.





;
, Problems in all aspects of your life including home, school and work can really bring you down. When you're down, your performance in everything can take a major hit. If you do have problems that are upsetting, you need to find a way to handle them. It is important that you keep your stress levels low and keep your mood stable.
 If you like watching baseball, go out for the Little League team; football, go out for the county team; etc.
 This will help you remember the techniques and rules better.
 For example, get a bat, baseball, and glove for baseball, or a football and kicking tee for football, etc.


Turn up with the correct equipment, organization is a valuable trait of a team member.
 If you're trying out for a team, make sure you know all of the rules and know how to play the game. Research the sport through any means such as books, the internet or through friends whom are familiar with the sport itself. Depending on the sport, you should try to master some of the skills which will be important for try-outs. For example if you are a good offensive Soccer player, you may want to make sure that you know how to play in defence in case you are needed in that position.


Learn the rules and regulations of that sport. There are a ton of people who will be willing to teach you the new sport, but have a good attitude or they'll give up on you!







, They'll keep you on track and be your support system when you're sore and don't want to get up, but you have to do the same for them, too!


If you have the opportunity and money, go to a camp. They'll teach you a lot of vital skills for the sport.
 If the coach knows you are responsible, hard-working and trustworthy then they will be much more willing to give you a spot on the team. Try to show these attributes at all times to develop you as a person on the team; however, don't ever believe that being trustworthy alone will get you a guaranteed place on the team. You need to be good at the sport itself too.


Coaches look for people who are teachable. Be willing to learn new things.
Talk to current team members so you can get advice to how to be a better player.
 Make sure you know who you're going up against and how good they are. Find their weakness and use it against them.
 Don't sign up at the last minute., Tardiness is almost always going to get you turned away. No coach wants to deal with someone who gives the impression that they don't care about the team or whether they make it or not.
 Use common sense and be appropriate. You don't want to be uncomfortable when playing., The tryouts will not be as easy as you think.
 Don't act like a show-off––chances are you'll just look foolish in front of people that have played years longer than you.
 Cheer and pump up the other players. The coach will want people that support each other, even if they aren't the best on the team.
 If you miss the free throw, as long as it doesn't hold everyone else up, try again. This will show the coach you're not a quitter.
 If not, don't be a sore loser. Thank the coach, tell the others that made it, "Congratulations," and walk out with your head held up high, knowing that you did your best.
 If its running then you can run every day; this will build stamina and speed. Always be positive.

