 Nit eggs are covered in a sticky substance which binds them to human hair follicles. Vinegar has been found to contain chemicals that dissolve this substance, preventing nits from maintaining their grip on human hair.








While kneeling in front of a bathtub, place your head under the faucet. Turn on the warm water and thoroughly dampen your hair. Then, turn off the water and, while still kneeling, pour a large amount of vinegar over your head. Make sure that all strands are coated with the liquid. Then use warm water to rinse your hair.
Alternatively, fill a sink with 1:1 parts of water and vinegar. Submerge your hair in the sink entirely, either by dipping your head forward or dipping it backward into the solution.
Detangle with a leave-in conditioner and normal brush. Try to get your hair entirely detangled, so that combing with a nit brush is easy and painless.
 If you are the one affected by lice, then you will need the help of another person. They'll need a metal nit comb — a fine-toothed and rigid comb that is better at removing nits than a plastic comb. You should be able to buy a nit comb at most pharmacies for under $10. They can use a magnifying lens if possible to search for hard-to-see nits.









A large number of nits could have been rinsed out of your hair during the vinegar application. However, there will likely still be eggs clinging to the dampened strands. Working with one small section of hair at a time — about the width of the nit comb — your helper should carefully comb through your entire head.
 Once the comb has run-through a section of hair, the comb should be cleaned off in a shallow bowl filled with water and dish soap. Then, wipe it dry using facial tissue or paper towel, being sure to remove any lice or nits that have clung to the comb.
 Once your helper has finished with a particular portion of hair, he should pin it flat to the side of your head to minimize the chance of re-infestation.
 You may want to wash your hair one more time after a complete comb-through. Even if all the nits and live lice have been removed by this point, a final wash may help you to feel cleaner. Consider using the head lice shampoo again to ensure complete removal of all living nits and their eggs.









Once your hair is dry, examine it carefully for signs of lice or nits. If you can see any of these creatures, start the removal process over from the beginning.
 Put the soapy nit bowl in the dishwasher or leave it full of just-boiled water for 10 minutes with a lid on it. You can also stand hairbrushes, hairclips, etc., in a container with just-boiled water, along with the louse comb but try to remove all hair and eggs from them first.









Heat over 129°F (54 °C) will kill lice and nits after five to 10 minutes.
Alternatively, combine two cups of just-boiled water with one cup of ammonia. Soak the nit comb in the ammonia water for 15 minutes, and then clean the comb with an old toothbrush.
Each family member should have his own comb.

