 Tap the app’s icon in your app drawer or home screen to open it.
 After opening the Foursquare app on your device, you will be prompted to use one of the three options for logging into your account.


Tap on the “Log in” button then input your email address, or phone number, and password in the required fields.
If you’re using the latest version of Foursquare (8.0), you can use the Explore feature even without logging in.
 Tap on the menu tab at the top left corner of your device screen. Choose the “Explore” option from the drop-down menu list.


Type the name of the location you want to check out in the search box and tap on “Nearby.” If you want to find a place of a particular category, such as food, restaurant, hotel, etc., tap on the tab of its category from the drop-down menu.
Check the search results. You should see the list of different nearby places matching your keywords. You can also compare the popularity of each location by checking the rating next to the location name.
 Tap the location name of the place you want to check out. The profile page of the location will appear.


Check the address, visitor statistics, problems, opening and closing hours, and the contact address of the location on its profile page.
To view visitor reviews on this location, scroll down your device screen. Read the comments on the location page left by other people.
 Tap on the direction key, or compass icon, at the top of the screen to find your current location, and get suggestions from Foursquare about the best nearby places matching your current location.


Check the suggested location pages to find more detail information and tips regarding the places. Tap on the the location to browse its profile page.
 You can search the history of check-ins made by your friends or friends of friends on Foursquare.

Tap the “Check-in” icon in the top right corner of your device screen. Then tap the user icon with a “+” sign to select a friend from your friends list on Foursquare. You’ll then be able to view their Foursquare check-ins.

