 To expand your closet to its potential, think about what you usually wear and ask yourself these questions:


Do I have a wide variety of colors? What other colors do I need?
Is my closet almost only one color? Do I have clothes in fashion?
Do I have clothes in fashion is one of the most important questions to ask yourself.;
, If you don't have either one of those stores nearby, go to a store you think is the most popular maybe by looking at the type of TV commercials there are on TV.
 Also, having a wide variety of colors gives you a very likely chance of not being labeled as things because of your clothing. BUT, be sure to get different 'types' of clothing too. Not just t-shirts but long sleeve t-shirts (if you're comfortable in them) and blouses. mixing things up are good for your reputation.
 If you have nice clothes but not hair, it ruins everything you've worked for. Try keeping your hair simple 'looking'. By this, not too long. Having your hair down to your butt is not cute.

Keep your length either to your shoulders or right below the shoulders. If you would rather wear your hair down most of the time, try layering your hair, putting highlights in it, or getting bangs.






Be sure to have the highlights natural colored in order to look like your hair was sun kissed.






If you like wearing your hair up in a ponytail, and only a ponytail, either get very little layering or no layering at all. Otherwise, you won't be able to put ALL your hair in a ponytail.






Also, if you prefer wearing your hair up, be sure to not wear the same headband all the time or be sure to wear a headband sometimes if you like wearing your hair without a headband. Finally, DO NOT put hair extensions in your hair. Especially colored ones.
 If you have any blemishes, you will be needing to take care of your body a little bit better., Nails are important too. In this day and age, neon colors are very popular as nail colors. Especially for the finger nails. For the toes,wear whatever color you chose to wear. Just don't get a french pedicure.
, Not so shy because soon enough, people will be wanting to talk to you, and you'll scare them away with your shyness. Be nice to everyone. Don't swear as it is vulgar and rude. .
,