 Before calibrating the bindings to match the DIN setting (release force setting), you’ll need to adjust the length and pressure of the bindings to match the boot size.


Not every binding is the same, even within the Alpine class. The front of the bindings will have a millimeter counter on the front which you will need to match with the number of the boot’s sole length. The length of the sole is usually printed in millimeters somewhere on the heel of your boot. Some newer bindings have a locking feature that allows you to release and adjust the binding without having to use a screwdriver.
When adjusting bindings you should always consult a professional technician and a DIN chart at your local ski shop. ;
, When you lock the boot into the binding, you’ll need to check the midsole and the forward pressure system.


Check to make sure the middle of the boot matches the middle of the ski.
Then, locate the pressure indicator on the back binding. The indicator, found on the heel piece, needs to be in the middle of the adjustment zone. Move the heel binding a few millimeters until you’re in the correct position. , The DIN number (so-called because the standard was established by the Deutsches Institut für Normung) determines how much force is necessary to release the boot from the binding. For most adult skiers who are beginners or intermediate, the DIN setting will be between 2-7. Adult intermediate to expert level skiers will be between 3-12.


The DIN number depends on several factors including the skier’s weight, height, age, boot length, and skier ability. Use a DIN calculator to figure out the DIN.
You should not attempt to adjust your DIN setting or make major adjustments to your bindings without the help of a certified technician. Improper adjustments can lead to a serious injury, like a torn ACL or worse. Adjusting your DIN setting can also void your warranty. Calculating your DIN setting is hard to do without a chart. So it’s best to refer to an online calculator and a ski professional. The DIN setting will factor your age, weight, ability, height, and boot sole length to give you an approximate number.
 With a screwdriver, rotate the screw located at the front of the ski binding until the number next to it matches your DIN number.


The toe piece of your bindings will have an area that displays several numbers, usually on the top. Turning the screw will move the indicator allowing you to match it with the correct DIN number.
The DIN number is an indication of your release force setting. This setting determines the strength of the release trigger when you fall. Having the proper setting is extremely important, which is why you shouldn’t attempt to do this unless you are a professional. If your boot releases too early or too late you will seriously injure yourself.
 Make sure you’ve slid the back end of the ski binding up so that it is snug against the heel of the ski boot. The pressure indicator should be in the proper position.


Turn the screw located on the rear ski binding until the skier’s DIN number aligns with the indicator.
 Grab a ski pole and put on your ski boots. Position the boots in the bindings toe-first, using your heel to lock the binding in place.


Make sure your brakes are in proper position. When the binding is open, the rear brake will be parallel to the ski; it will snap to a 45-degree angle when it’s closed. Use the ski pole to push down on the brake to unlock the binding. You should feel some resistance when trying to release your bindings. You can then use the foot you just released to step down on the other binding to release.
Adjust the fit if necessary. If you're having difficulty opening the binding with a ski pole, you might want to try a lower DIN. Be careful, though; set the DIN too low, and you’ll pop out of your bindings and injure yourself on the slopes. Set it too high and your boot won’t release at all.
See a professional. Even if you think you’ve got your bindings adjusted correctly, check your work with a professional. Certified technicians will be able to help you achieve an ideal fit.

