 Inducing labor – using physical means or oxytocin medicines to start the labor process – is becoming very common, though it’s best saved for when it’s safer to deliver the baby than have the baby stay in the uterus. If you’re considering inducing labor, talk to your OB/GYN and prepare yourself for a hospital stay. Labor is most commonly induced because:Pregnancy has lasted longer than 42 weeks.
The mother is experiencing a health issue like high blood pressure, bleeding during pregnancy, heart disease, gestational diabetes, or a condition called preeclampsia.
The baby is in distress, or is at risk of not getting enough oxygen or nutrition from the placenta.
The mother’s water broke 24-48 hours ago but labor hasn’t started yet.
There’s an infection present in or around the placenta or amniotic sac.
 A natural way to boost your oxytocin level to start labor is with nipple stimulation. You can use a mechanical breast pump, or gently squeeze and touch your nipples yourself., When all else fails, you can be given a medicine called Pitocin® – a form of oxytocin – at the hospital. You’ll get it intravenously, through an IV needle into your vein, or as a shot in your arm. This strong form of oxytocin starts contractions or makes them much stronger.If you’re given Pitocin®, you’ll remain in the hospital until the baby is born so you can be monitored.
Getting oxytocin for labor can sometimes make contractions too strong, and hard to manage without pain medications.Rarely, medical oxytocin can cause more serious problems – let your doctor know right away if you develop confusion, headache, drowsiness, or seizures after you get this medicine.
 Breastfeeding has many positive effects for your new baby, but it also increases your oxytocin level. This helps alleviate stress and promotes feelings of bonding with your baby.If you cannot breastfeed, consider using nipple stimulation with a mechanical pump every time you give your baby formula. You may still get the hormonal benefits of breastfeeding.

