 Many groups of attackers have a known leader. Try to draw this person into a one-on-one fight or attack him first. If he's down, the rest of the group is likely to be immobilized.;
, Try to avoid being caught in a triangle between multiple attackers. This situation almost certainly means you will lose, and fast.
 Even if you're fighting one of them at a time, you should know where the other opponents are and be ready to approach them as soon as you need to. Don't just blindly fight without observing your surroundings, or you'll quickly be outwitted.
 Keeping your opponents in a line (e.g., by backing away from them) can allow you to attack one person without being exposed to attack by others.
 Drawing a weapon may end the fight before it begins; it's also a way to equalize things when numbers are not on your side, or if the other side is also armed. If you are not highly skilled, know that your weapon may end up being turned against you, leading to death or serious injury.
 Don't threaten or give away your intentions once you have committed to fighting. If you've committed to fighting, you have to follow through or find a safe way to escape.
 Throwing a chair at one opponent, for example, while turning around to fight another opponent, can help you get the job done.
 Once you are planted in a location, it is easier to surround you. Take many small, quick steps with your feet to stay agile and to keep moving around in small increments.
 It is nearly impossible to defend from multiple angles; you need to be the first to act.
 You need to reduce your opponents' numerical advantage by any means necessary. Target weak spots such as the temples, groin, knees, and solar plexus. Even the nose can be useful because it will blind and disorient your opponents for a short time. And, if you know how to use pressure points, make sure you use them to your full advantage.
 There is no shame in using your teeth, knees and or nails at any time. Pride will cost you your life. Don't be afraid to kick your opponent in the crotch, to pull his hair if it's longer, or to scratch his eyes.
 Once one or more opponents have their hands on you, you are in deep trouble and will be unable to defend yourself.
 This is less likely going to be a fight you are going to win, and will more likely be a fight you are going to have to escape. If they're are no near by escape routes, then follow these fighting techniques.

