 It’s a key component in any relationship, but when you’re in college, there are so many opportunities to meet new people. Your girlfriend should know what she can trust you, and you should be able to trust her in return. Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts to building trust, so you need to put in the time. Being consistently considerate, supportive, loyal, and affectionate is the best way to get your girlfriend to trust you.It will be easier to trust one another if you establish a commitment from the start. Make sure you both know exactly what you expect from one another.
 Between classes, work, extracurricular activities, and friends, college students have a lot of demands on their schedule, but in order for your relationship to thrive, you have to make an effort to see your girlfriend on a regular basis. Even committing to seeing each other only two or three times a week can make a big difference into making your relationship work.If you’re very busy, get creative about finding time to spend with your girlfriend. For example, if you’re both swamped with midterms, study together. You can take turns quizzing each other or meet up to have a late night snack.
 While it's natural to want to spend all your time with someone that you care about, healthy relationships allow for both parties to grow as people. Allow her to cultivate interests that are separate from yours, while you do the same.While she's doing her own thing, it's still important to be supportive. For example, if she takes up a new hobby that you don't participate in, such as the intramural volleyball team, show up for games and events to cheer her on.
 College is a transitional period for many people, and that can make it difficult to keep a relationship going. If you’re serious about your girlfriend, you should have an honest conversation with her about what’s going to happen down the road and where you both expect the relationship to go. For example, if she’s planning to go to graduate school in New York after college and you’re moving to Seattle for medical school, you may decide that you don’t want to get too invested.