 In some places, it's necessary to acquire a license to handle, own, and carry a firearm, while in other places the restrictions are much more lenient.Specific regulations vary widely. In the US, rifles or shotguns may be purchased by anyone over the age of 18, and handguns by anyone over the age of 21, provided they meet the following federal regulations:


The buyer must be a current citizen of the United States or a permanent resident (green card holder).
The buyer must not be under indictment for a crime punishable by a year in prison, or to have been previously convicted of a crime with a similar punishment.
The buyer must not have a current restraining filed by an intimate partner or child, and the buyer must not have been convicted of domestic violence.
The buyer must not be a fugitive, or a user of controlled substances.
The buyer must not be committed currently to a mental institution.;
, State and municipal laws are generally more specific and restricted than federal laws, making it essential that you consult the local guidelines to learn about what you do and do not need to do to make a gun purchase legal.


In the US, no federal license is required to own a gun. Likewise, most states do not require licenses for gun ownership, but most states require a license to carry a weapon concealed on your person, or displayed prominently. Learn about the specific laws in place in each state by clicking here.Few states will require waiting periods, before which you must pay for the firearm fully and submit the necessary paperwork, then wait for a period of a few weeks before being permitted to take your new gun home with you.
In some states, regulations are also in place to check up on safety precautions, ensuring that you also purchase gun locks, own safes, and practice gun safety before you're allowed to purchase a gun legally., In the US, gun retailers need to have a Federal Firearm License (FFL) to sell firearms legally. Every seller of firearms should be willing to provide proof of license, if asked.


Much has been made of the "gun show loophole," through which guns are supposedly sold without the necessary regulations at gun shows, under the table. While sometimes private sellers (meaning non-FFL licensed citizens) are sometimes allowed to sell guns and antiques at gun shows, make your purchase from a licensed FFL dealer and you won't have anything to worry about. Ask about the retailer's licensing status and make sure you fill out the proper paperwork and receive a bill of sale.
However you choose to purchase a gun, make sure every gun you purchase has a registered serial number and a bill of sale.
 When you're buying a gun from a licensed retailer, you'll have to provide more than a handshake and money. Identification and confirmation of the above Federal guidelines regarding firearms will need to be provided. This process will vary from country to country.


In the United States, you'll need to furnish a photo ID and fill out Form 4473. This is used to confirm your status as a citizen who is qualified to own a firearm in the United States. These forms are kept on file at gun stores, to make records easily available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (BATFE), if necessary. If and when a gun store closes, these forms become the property of BATFE.
From this information, licensed retailers perform background checks, in the event that you're trying to purchase a handgun. Background checks are performed through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), and are required any time you want to purchase a handgun.
Background checks and waiting periods aren't one in the same. In some places, the background check will come back immediately, while in others it may take up to three or four days if the system is bogged down. Eventually, the response should come back "approved," "disapproved," or will come back with a "delay," which means that more investigation is required. This will all need to happen before a waiting period takes effect.
 In some places, it's legal to buy used guns from an individual in the same state, who will not require you to submit to a background check before making the sale, or declare the sale. It is, however, illegal for private sellers to sell to individuals who don’t fit the federal requirements for gun ownership, so know that the lack of oversight in no way excuses you from Federal regulations. Owning a gun will still be illegal if you buy it privately and don’t meet the regulations.


If you purchase a gun privately, you need to document the sale yourself by procuring a bill of sale from the county clerk’s office in your area, and it’s probably a good idea to register the firearm locally. This will ensure that there’s a traceable record of the purchase.
If your locality does not require that your gun be registered, you are not required to do so by federal law. Be sure to check your local and state laws about private party gun sales prior to purchasing a gun from an individual. If you are purchasing via online sale, especially if the gun is from another state, you will probably need to get an FFL dealer involved in the transaction to ensure the sale is legal.
 Guns purchased either new or used need to be stored properly, both to maintain the life of the firearm and to ensure the safety of you and your family. Guns should be stored unloaded, in locked gun cases, and preferably with trigger-locks in place over the triggers.


Most new guns should come with cases, especially handguns which will come with lock-boxes for easy storage. If not, though, you'll need to purchase a case in addition to purchasing the gun. Hard-plastic cases and soft cloth cases are both good for protecting your firearm.
If you've got a big collection of firearms, consider storing them in a gun safe. Some high-end models are temperature-controlled, helping to maintain the life of antiques and keep them safe.

