 There is an overwhelming range of skin products available, which makes it difficult to choose the right one for the job. To get rid of eye bags, look for topical products that contain Vitamin K, Vitamins C, D and E, retinol and caffeine.Add these products to your daily skin care routine and stick to it religiously.
Always moisturize the skin under your eyes before applying makeup.
Freshly hydrated skin helps the products go on more easily and look better on your skin once in place.
 Makeup is only a short term solution to eye bags, but sometimes you need a quick fix and makeup provides the fastest results. Choose a concealer that matches your skin tone or, if you have dark circles along with your bags, you can go one shade lighter. Pat the concealer gently beneath your eyes, starting at the corners and working your way out to the edge of your eye, using your fingertip or a cotton ball.


Avoid rubbing the concealer into your skin, since you want the concealer to sit on your skin’s surface for visible results.
Highlighter and brightening primer are also effective makeup products for getting rid of eye bags., Tannin, a natural substance found in tea, can help reduce the look of discoloration caused by eye bags.Dampen two tea bags with cold water and place them over your eyes for 10-15 minutes. Get in a horizontal position for the easiest application experience.


Skip the decaf and choose a tea that is caffeinated for best results.
Add this to your morning routine, since the most effective strategy is daily application.
 Place two spoons in the freezer overnight. When you wake up the next morning, apply the frozen spoons to your eye bags for about 30-45 seconds. Keep your eyes closed and make sure you apply the spoons with the scooped side facing the ceiling.


The cold temperature will reduce swelling and puffiness underneath your eyes.Add this to your morning routine, since the most effective strategy is daily application.
 Use cool water to wet a clean, soft washcloth. Get into an upright sitting position and apply the washcloth to the eye area using gentle pressure. Keep the cool compress in place for a few minutes.