 Research studies show that the optimal time to post on Instagram is on Wednesday at about 5 pm.If you want to get more likes, you need to post when people are looking at their phones. That means you usually need to avoid working hours, between 8 and 5 pm, and post who people are still awake and looking at their phones. So, evenings and early mornings are the best times to post to Instagram.


Don't clump up too many pictures at once. If you've got three or four great ones, don't put them all up in a series, or you'll get fewer likes. Unless they specifically go together, wait and space out your posts.
Make sure you are posting at the right time for your target audience. If a big part of your audience come from overseas then they could be living in a different timezone.
 Pictures need to have context. Captions are an opportunity to add a little joke to your post, or give people some other way of reading into it. Use captions ironically so you can give people multiple ways to appreciate your picture.


Most people use captions for their hashtags. This is important, but it's also good to include regular captions as well. Throw some emojis and some text in there as well.
Use a caption ironically. If you take a really pretty picture of a sunset in your neighborhood, that's ok, but if it's captioned with, "Too bad my neighborhood smells like dead fish tonight."

, Hashtags give you a great opportunity to get your pictures out to people who aren't your followers. When people search hashtags for particular themes, your picture will come up. Use a variety of accurate hashtags and trending hashtags to hook your pictures to as many different search terms as possible.Some of the most popular hashtags include: cute, love, smile, swag, popular, instagood, photooftheday, instamood, picoftheday, and nofilter.
Use accurate hashtags. If you take a selfie, hashtag it #selfie. If you take a picture of your bff, hashtag it #bff. Don't overthink it.
Geotag your pictures as well. If your picture is tied to a particular place, set your Instagram so that it can tag your location. This lets other people in your area find local pictures to like.
Studies show that using 11 hashtags is the optimum number. You can use too many, which can turn off a lot of users and make your page look desperate, but it's good to use enough that a variety of people will be able to see it.
Find relevant and popular hashtags using sites and apps like TagsForLikes.
 When you use hashtags, you'll get some strangers liking your pictures. When you do, follow them back. If someone expresses an interest in your pictures and your profile, it's good to reach out and connect. Comment on one of their pictures or like a few in return. It only takes a minute or two and it helps to get a new follower.


It's good to show that you're a real person, and not just a follower-gathering machine. Reach out and make a little comment, even if it's just, "Thanks!"

, Click on popular hashtags and browse around the pictures you find. Even a relatively straightforward hashtag, like #hamburger will have lots and lots of different kinds of pictures. What seem to be the best? Which ones would you be most willing to like? Learn from the best.


Click on the activity button to see what your followers are up to. What kinds of pictures are people liking? What seems to be popular?

, Just like you can use some for-pay apps to get followers, you can use some apps to get likes as well. They all work differently, some with varying degrees of success, but you can do little tasks to get "coins" to earn yourself some extra likes from bot accounts. Check out the following like-apps:


GetLikes
MagicLiker
LikePotion

