 Your hair will swing down towards the ground. If your hair is very smooth, you may want to spray it with some dry shampoo or texturizing spray. This will help the braid last longer.;
, Divide the hair at the nap of your neck into three sections. Cross the left section over the middle one. Next, cross the right section over the middle one. This will eventually turn into a French braid.








If you want a Dutch braid, cross the left and right sections under the middle section., Add a little bit of hair to the left section. Cross the now thicker left section over the middle section. Add a little bit of hair to the right section, then cross it over the middle section.








If you want a Dutch braid, cross the left and right sections under the middle section.
 Continue gathering strands from your hairline and adding them to the left and right sections before crossing them over (or under for a Dutch braid) the middle section. You will be braiding down the back of your head towards the top of your head.
 Tie the braid off with a hair tie that matches your hair color. If you want the braid to appear fuller, gently tug on the outer edges to fluff it up.Some people find it easier to gather the top section of their hair into a loose bun or ponytail first, then braiding up to that section., Your hair will fall back down your back. Now is the time to decide what kind of bun you want. The sections below will teach you how to do different types of buns.
 Wrap a hair tie around your wrist so that it is ready to use. Pull all of your hair into a high ponytail, including the hair that you tied off earlier., Make sure that you ponytail is level with the tops of your ears/end of the French braid. Hold it with the hand that has the hair tie on it. Use your free hand to pull the hair tie off your wrist and onto your ponytail. Give the hair tie a twist.Don't let go of the hair tie just yet!








, As you twist it, it should naturally start wrapping around the base of your ponytail. If it doesn't, you should do so now.
 Depending on how this your hair is, you may need to do this once or twice.
 You can leave you bun messy as it is, or smooth down any strands that are sticking out for a neater touch. Give your braid a light missing of hairspray for extra hold. If you want the braid to appear fuller, gently tug on the outer edges to fluff it up.
 Bend forward once again, and use a hairbrush to gather all of your hair into a high ponytail. Try to make it as smooth as possible. Have a hair tie around your wrist, ready to go., Make sure that your ponytail is level with the tips of your ears. Hold it with the hand that has the hair tie on it. Use you other hand to slide the hair tie off and wrap it two or three times around your ponytail.
 If you can't find a bun doughnut, you can make your own by cutting the toes off of a sock, then rolling the sock into a doughnut shape.









Use a bun doughnut or sock that matches you hair color.
 Push your hair down so that it comes out of the top of the bun, like a fountain or palm tree. Spread the strands around so that they are covering the doughnut evenly.
 Using the edge of your finger, gently tuck the ends of you hair under the doughnut. Sweep your finger around the base of the ponytail (under the doughnut), hiding the strands further from view.
 Get some bobby pins that match your hair color. Use them to pin the edges of your bun to your head so that it stays secure.
 Smooth down any stray strands and set them with hairspray or gel. Give your bun and braid a final misting of hairspray to set the style.

