 The types of beginner classes available will vary widely among gyms. Talk to instructors at your gym to find out where you should start if you decide you want to train in krav maga as a self-defense art.Some gyms don't have specific introductory classes that are required, but the instructors will be able to point you toward the best class for you given your fitness level and background.
Keep in mind that since krav maga is reality-based, not a competitive martial art in the sense that disciplines such as karate are, your background in other martial arts forms isn't really relevant to krav maga training. In krav maga, everybody starts at the same level.
 Like other martial arts disciplines, krav maga has a system of belt and class levels through which you can progress as you study. While belts aren't worn in class as they are in other disciplines, an understanding of the system can help you evaluate your progress.In most cases, you can expect to stay in the beginner level, equivalent to a yellow belt, as you train for four to six months. This time frame is based on two to three days of training, so if you're only taking a weekly class you can expect it to take longer.
You will have to take a grueling test to advance to the next level. If you pass the test, you will move into a higher level class already in progress.
After moving out of the initial yellow belt beginner level, expect a year or more of training before you're able to advance to the next level.
 In your first classes, you will learn fighting stances, basic striking techniques and defenses. You also will learn basic safety skills, such as how to fall correctly and how to get back up again safely.The first classes will involve direct combat with your instructor and other students, so expect to be intensely challenged. Keep in mind that any self-defense discipline is about being calm and in control in a stressful situation.
Basic krav maga also teaches you to have a heightened level of awareness and avoid situations in which you could be unsafe or possibly be ambushed.
 At most krav maga gyms, you must start at the lowest, P1 level. There typically is no set program of skills you must learn before you can advance. Rather, your instructor will let you know when they think you are ready to proceed to the next level.You can stay at the P1 level as long as you want and still get a good workout as well as learning useful self-defense skills, or you can decide you want to advance.
At more advanced levels, you can learn how to use weapons, disarm attackers, and fend off multiple attackers.
Keep your own goals and interests in mind at all times. You don't have to advance to the next level if you don't want to, or if you feel you're not ready.

