 Remember that when to enroll in this type of coverage depends entirely on your individual situation. If you have the financial stability to put away money each year on your own, that might be the right choice for you. If you qualify as a low-income citizen, you may be able to count on financial assistance from Medicaid and Medicare programs. If you have a family history of cognitive diseases like Alzheimer’s, you may need more nursing home coverage.


Since long-term care insurance can be quite expensive, you should decide if you can afford beginning coverage now, or if you need to wait until a later date when you have saved some additional money (but when your premiums may be higher). When thinking about your finances, it is typically true that if the insurance premiums are less than 10% of your gross income, it is a premium you should be able to afford.
If you need help deciding about these choices, there are several organizations that can help you discuss options, like the Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs), the Aging and Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs), and the State Medical Assistance Office., For most LTCI providers, you’ll simply need to fill out an application form that provides your personal information, along with some information about your medical history. In most cases, you will not need to submit to a physical examination or provide any kind of blood work or urine sample.Some providers may require a face-to-face interview, but not all of them.
If your long term insurance provider finds out that you didn’t not notify them about a certain health condition, they may refuse payment for that condition.
 Once you enroll in nursing home insurance, you’ll need to pay your monthly premiums. In most cases, this money will be paid directly to the insurance company. You may be able to work out quarterly payments, depending on the insurance provider’s payment options.Remember that the initial premiums must be paid out of your own pocket. However, starting early will help control how medical care inflation affects you over time. Typically, medical care costs increase 4% each year, so starting early can help curb how that increase impacts your own finances.

