 Choose a sock that still has plenty of elasticity or "stretch" to it. If you choose an old sock that is too loose, the ring might not hold later on. Make sure that the sock is clean, but not one that you will wear again. You will be cutting this sock.
 You will end up with a tube that has an opening at both ends.
 Take the cut part of the sock, and fold the first inch (2.54 centimeters) or so inward. Keep rolling and the sock like this until you get to the other end. You should end up with a sock doughnut.
 Try to make the ponytail right on top of your head. Secure it with a hair tie.









If you need help getting your ponytail so high bend forward so that the top of your head is pointing towards the ground. Your hair will be hanging straight down. Pull your hair together and wrap a hair tie around it. Straighten yourself back up.
 Try not to make your hair too wet, or it will not be able to dry overnight.You do not need to spray the hair on the top of your head.









Try adding a little bit of hairspray or styling cream into your hair. It may help the wave last longer the next day., Pull the sock ring up to the top of your ponytail, leaving just a little room between the sock ring and your head.









You need this extra space so that you can feed the ends of your hair through the ring in a later step.
 Spread the hair coming out through the top of the sock ring all the way around the ring. Bring sections of your hair over the sock ring before tucking them securely under the sock.


Make sure that the hair is spread out evenly so that the waves will be even later on.
All the ends need to be tucked under the sock before you can press on.
 Hold the sock with two hands, and roll it in a downward motion. As you roll, your hair will feed through the hole, upward, and around the sock. Use your fingers to help guide the hairs around the sock.
 As you roll, keep your ponytail straight up so that the hair remains taut.









You should not need to pin the bun in place. It will usually be secure enough on its own thanks to the elasticity of the sock.
Consider slipping another sock or bun wrap over your sock bun. This will keep the hair in place while you sleep. If you use another sock, make sure that you slide it all the way onto the bun, so that the sock doesn't flop around., Carefully unroll your hair the next morning and take out the sock ring. Make sure that you don't pull too hard, or you may stretch out the waves. Pull out the hair tie and let your hair fall down naturally. If your hair is not quite the way you like it, you can style it further with mousse and hairsprays as needed to form a wave and get it to hold. If your waves are too tight, try running your fingers through them, or brushing them gently. This will help soften the wave.








