 STOPP is a handy acronym to help you remember to keep your calm in a situation. It has five easy steps:Stop your immediate reaction. “Automatic thoughts” are habits of thinking that we’ve become accustomed to over our lives, but they’re often damaging. Stop what you’re doing and wait to react for a moment.

Take a breath. Use the deep breathing techniques in this article to take a few deep, calming breaths. You’ll think better afterward.

Observe what’s happening. Ask yourself what you’re thinking, what you’re focusing on, what you’re reacting to, and what sensations you’re experiencing in your body.

Pull back from the situation. Look at the bigger picture. Are your thoughts fact-based, or opinion? Is there another way to look at the situation? How do your reactions affect others? How would I want others to react here? How important is this, really?

Practice what works. Consider what the consequences of your actions are, for you and for others. What’s the best way to handle this? Choose what will be most helpful.
 One common distortion in our thinking habits is personalization, where we make ourselves responsible for things that are not our responsibility. This can lead to us feeling angry and upset, because we can’t control others’ actions. We can, however, control our responses.


For example, imagine that a coworker who often has anger issues yells at you for something. This is understandably upsetting. It’s not appropriate behavior. Now you have a choice: you can react automatically, or you can stop and think about what might really be going on.
An automatic reaction might be “Joe must really be angry with me. What did I do? I hate this!” While understandable, this reaction doesn’t really help you calm down.
A more helpful reaction could look like this: “Joe yelled me. That sucked, but I’m not the only person he yells at, and he flies off the handle pretty easily. He could be responding to something else in his life. Or he could just be an angry person. I don’t think I did anything wrong in this situation. His yelling isn’t fair, but it isn’t my problem.” These statements acknowledge that you feel upset, but focus on a way to avoid obsessing over it.
Note that watching out for personalization is not the same as accepting abuse. It would be perfectly appropriate to talk with your boss about Joe’s angry behavior. However, by reminding yourself that you can’t control others’ actions and they’re often not about you, you can learn to calm down more quickly.
 A sure-fire way to get the blood boiling is to talk about topics you feel strongly about with someone who feels equally strongly on the opposite side. If you feel able to have a productive discussion with someone, that’s fine. If the conversation feels like it’s two opposing monologues, try diverting the topic to something less incendiary.It can feel uncomfortable to suggest a change of topic, but the relief from the stress and tension is well worth the momentary awkwardness. Don’t be afraid to take charge and say something like, “You know, it looks like we may have to agree to disagree on this subject. How about we talk about that basketball game last night?”If the other person continues to talk about what’s upsetting you, excuse yourself from the conversation. You can use an “I” statement to avoid sounding blaming: “I’m feeling a little overwhelmed by this topic. You all can continue to discuss it, but I’m going to need to step away.”
If you truly can’t leave the situation, you can mentally retreat from the conversation. Visualize yourself in somewhere peaceful. This should only be used as a last resort, because it will usually become obvious that you aren’t really listening. That could offend or upset the other person., Exposure to too much negativity can actually cause problems in how you think, learn, and remember information.Constant exposure to negativity will encourage your brain to make a habit of negative thinking.While it’s common to have complaining sessions at work or school, be careful that these don’t become too frequent, or you might find yourself more upset than you expected.The problem is particularly bad if someone is complaining to you about something that also makes you feel wronged. You may become as upset as if the injury happened to you. However, you may not have any avenues to rectify the wrong, which can leave you upset and frustrated.
Like any other emotions, complaining and negativity are also contagious. Even 30 minutes of a stressor such as listening to someone complain can elevate your cortisol levels, a stress hormone that makes it harder to think calmlyTry to think about situations productively instead. It’s normal to feel frustrated when situations go badly. A momentary venting of feelings can be helpful. However, it’s more helpful in the long run to think about what you can change in a given situation to make it work better next time than it is to focus on how badly things already went wrong.

