 Some schools may have classroom spelling bees then move those competitors to the school spelling bee. If you win the school spelling bee you will be moved onto the regional bee and then so on. The winner of that bee will be announced on February 1st.;
, The requirements are listed below, however your school will have the requirements and check before having you compete.
 Try to memorize the tougher words in the dictionary. Those words are more likely to be asked than easy words, such as versatile. Also, many schools hand out a paper with words that will be asked in the next stage of your competition. Study these for the most part as they will guide you through the first stages of the competition.
 They can be found by searching "scripps spelling bee list". Look up the words you don't know.
 Try the "Spell It!" word list. It is an excellent site for studying. It includes spelling tips, origins, and definitions.
 Try studying for two hours a day, every day.
 Avoid loud colors and sloppy clothing. Black, white, and/or grey are safe colors.
 Keep jewellery subtle, such as small stud pearls or gold studs. Pull back your hair from your face into a braid or a low bun.
 The spelling bee isn't really very dressy until the finals. Always wear black loafers. Just nicely brush your hair back, and you are set. Don't go to crazy on the tie.
 It can be hard to find comfortable dress shoes and clothes, but you don't want to be distracted by a pinching shoe.
 It seems like you are clapping for yourself, which is inappropriate.
 Ask questions as needed.
, It's okay to be excited, though!

, Be proud of how far you went. Just to make it to the Bee is amazing!

, It can be tempting, but also tends to cause lowered performance during bee week.
 Go to sleep at 8:00 P.M and wake up 3 hours before it starts. This gives you time to study, eat, and get ready.
 Try to include a whole grain, a fruit, protein, calcium, and a vegetable. This is brain food. The fruit includes anti-oxidants, which will help your brain to function. Avoid sugar.
 This is a vacation.

