 You must change your name with the Social Security Administration. You can bring the appropriate identification with you to a local Social Security office, or you can mail certified copies of your documents for processing.You can get an “Application for a Social Security Card” from the SSA website or at your local SSA office.
You will need to provide documentation of your name change (e.g., your court order, marriage certificate, or divorce decree). This document must identify you by both your previous and your new name.
You must also provide evidence of your age, such as a passport, birth certificate, or adoption decree.
You must provide evidence of your identity. This evidence must be current and unexpired. You can use a driver’s license, a passport, or a US State-issued non-driver identity card. The SSA may accept medical or school records for young children., You must change your name on your Texas driver’s license within 30 days of your name change. You must apply in person for a replacement driver’s license, and you must bring proper identification with you.If your name change is due to marriage, bring your original marriage license, divorce decree, or spouse’s death certificate. Texas does not accept same-sex marriage licenses or divorce decrees as evidence.
If your name change is due to court order, bring a certified copy of the court order changing your name.
Documentation must either be the originals or certified copies.
If your original document is not in English, you must provide a certified translation into English along with the original. A certified translation must be signed and dated by the translator and contain a statement that it is a true and accurate translation.
 If your name has been legally changed, you are required to apply for a new passport. You will not be able to use a passport with a different name to travel.If it has been less than one year since you applied for a passport, you will not have to pay additional fees. Complete and submit Form DS-5504, along with your current passport, your certified name change document, and a new passport photo. You can find this form online, or print it out from the US State Department’s website.If it has been more than one year since you applied for a passport and you can use Form DS-82, you can submit that form with your current passport, your certified name change document, and a new passport photo, along with applicable fees.

You can use Form DS-82 if you meet certain conditions, including being able to submit your most recent passport, your passport was issued less than 15 years ago, and you were at least 16 when your passport was issued.If it has been more than one year since you applied for a passport and you cannot use Form DS-82, you must apply in person for a new passport. Bring photo ID, a certified copy of your name change document, evidence of your US citizenship, and a completed Form DS-11., Institutions such as banks, credit card lenders, car financers, etc., will not get automatic notification of your name change. You must contact each institution and provide the documentation they require.A short list of places to consider changing your name includes:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Loans, leases, and mortgages
Car title or house deed
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes

, Introduce yourself with your new name. Use it to sign checks and other documents. Change your social media profiles and email addresses. Enjoy your new name!

