 This means you need classical education, ballet. Ballet is a difficult and kind of superior art form. It helps you to strengthen your body, develop your clarity in movement and build strong technique. But you don't want to be a ballet dancer,so...;
, After, there are many different art forms that may help supplement you. Martial arts, as strange as it seems, can offer you a lot; Aikido helps a lot in finding your center and developing your sense of spiral in movement, kung fu is strong and helps you develop stamina, capoeira provides you ways to develop acrobatic movements. Contemporary dance hops so much from these martial arts, that one could build a strong body and a fluent contemporary vocabulary just by doing yoga or kung fu or tai chi.
 Contemporary dancer means taking contemporary classes. Limon, release, flying low, or the more "academic" ones, graham and Cunningham. Improvisation is a necessity. Contemporary dance has to do with your personality and how you develop it, how you express it, how you expose it. So you may feel good by taking ballet classes and a contemporary - release classes. Or you may feel good by doing kung fu classes and release classes. Or you may be taking yoga classes, contemporary classes and improvisation. You have to dive and feel what suits you more, what speaks to your heart. Observe dance performances and try to find what seems familiar to you. By this guideline you choose how to build your contemporary dancer.
 Stretch a lot, eat well, keep your self healthy and strong. Dance is a hard core sport.
 Pilates, yoga, any type of bodywork that helps you and suits you better, just do it. A strong body means less possibilities for injury and a long long term "career" in dance.
 No reason for eating disorders.
 Please never forget this. Isadora Duncan appeared at times where dance meant ballet. She danced bare foot, just enjoying music and feeling free. She is considered to be one of the pioneers of modern dance.If you want to be a contemporary dancer, this means you seek movement within its essence, beyond form and structure. Picasso drew strange people and images, unrealistic and beyond beauty as we generally understand it . But when we see Guernica, we just feel, as if all the pain has been nourished within this painting and its' black and white "beasts" that fill the canvas.
 Your soul is your drawing "hand". All that you learn are your colors. The issue is what you visualize to draw on your canvas, what you wish to speak of, as you move.
 The best? PARTS, Seeds, the Place, and there are always others.
 To become a dance artist, a mover who "flies" on ground his or her soul to share it with our big big and sometimes small small, beautiful and some times ugly, fair and some times unfair..... our shared world.

