 Depending on the version of the game you’re playing, you can acquire bows in different ways:


The Legend of Zelda – Can be acquired during Levels 1 and 5 of the second quest.
A Link to the Past – Found inside the first dungeon in the Eastern Palace
Link’s Awakening – Sold at Mabe’s Village Shop in Koholint island for 980 Rupees
Ocarina of Time – Acquired inside the Forest Temple level
Majora's Mask – Acquired inside the Woodfall Temple level after killing a boss called Dinolfos
Four Swords – Randomly found on item podiums all throughout the game
The Wind Waker – Acquired inside the Tower of the Gods after killing a boss called Darknut
Four Swords Adventures – Randomly found on item podiums all throughout the game
The Minish Cap – Can be found inside Castor Wilds swamp southwest of Hyrule
Twilight Princess – Found inside the Goron Mines level on the Death Mountain
Phantom Hourglass – Acquired inside the Temple of Courage on Molida Island
Spirit Tracks – Found inside the fourth dungeon of the Fire Temple level
Skyward Sword – Can be acquired from inside the Sandship after killing an enemy called Scervo
A Link Between Worlds – Can be rented for 80 Rupees or bought for 800 Rupees from Ravio’s Shop found inside Link’s own house;
, Arrows can be found anywhere inside the game. You can get free arrows by killing low-level enemies like Moblins, cutting grasses along the Overworld, or breaking jars inside houses and dungeons.


You can also buy arrows for 1 Rupee a piece from any shop, in any town, in any version of the game.
 Press the “Pause” button on your game controller to open the game menu. Using the directional arrow keys, look for the bow from your item list and press the “Action” button on your controller where you want to assign the bow to equip it. Press the “Pause’ button once more to go back to the game.


You only need to equip bows. Arrows are automatically consumed once you equip and use the bow.
 Press and hold down the “Action” button on your controller and use the directional arrow keys to direct your bow to where you want to shoot arrows at. Note that “aiming” only applies to 3-D versions of the game, namely:


Ocarina of Time
Majora's Mask
The Wind Waker
Twilight Princess
Phantom Hourglass
Spirit Tracks
Skyward Sword
For the rest of the remaining versions (2-D), the only aiming you can or need to do is to face the direction where you’re going to shoot arrows.
 Release the “Action” button once you’ve found your target and watch the arrow fly across the screen. Repeat the steps above as many times as you want to fire arrows.


Once you’ve run out of arrows, find or buy some to replenish your stock.

