 Nutrition is the foundation of a dog's health, so a quality dog food is important. The first thing you should look for in your dog's food is that it says "complete and balanced" on the label, which means it passed certain regulations to meet your dog's nutritional needs. Also, look for a food with meat, grains, fruits, and vegetables. Your dog is not a strict carnivore, and the other foods in your dog's kibble or wet food provide vitamins and minerals it needs.In addition, make sure you are buying food that's appropriate for your dog's size and age. Buy puppy food for puppies and adult food for adults. Similarly, buying "large breed" or "small breed" food when appropriate is important.
Check for high quality ingredients. "Meat meal" is actually not a poor quality ingredient, as long as it comes from a good source. You can always contact the food company if you're concerned about the source of your dog's food.
If you still don't know what to choose, ask for a recommendation from your vet.;
, Just like you, your dog needs plenty of exercise to stay healthy. Daily walks are one way to help your dog get exercise. However, you can also do things like throw a ball in the backyard for your dog to fetch. Older dogs might enjoy some gentle water exercise. Basically, anything that gets your dog (safely) moving will help your dog get the exercise it needs., Parasites, such as heartworms, tapeworms, fleas, mosquitoes, and ticks, can all lead to health problems for your dog. It's best to prevent these parasites if you can, rather than trying to treat them after your dog gets them.Consider getting prevention treatments from your vet, such as heartworm medication and flea pills.If you want to limit your dog's intake of these types of medications, you can medicate for certain things (like ticks) only when your dog is in an area where they're prevalent, such as when you go on vacation.
Some people use essential oils to help repel parasites, though you must be careful with essential oils. Lemon eucalyptus, for example, can be used in a collar specifically designed to hold essential oils, and it can help repel mosquitoes., You may not think about your dog's dental health as often as you should. However, your dog's teeth need care, too, and if neglected, they can affect the overall health of your dog. Fortunately, working on your dog's teeth is easier than it sounds.You can buy toothbrushes and toothpaste made specifically for your dog at the pet store. While brushing is the best option, various types of dog chews can also be effective. Daily bully sticks, raw bones, or dental chews are all good ways to reduce the bacteria on your dog's teeth.
 One way to keep track of your dog's health is to keep a journal. Make notes in it, such as when your dog seems to have allergies or reactions to certain foods or treatments. Doing so will help you see patterns with your dog, so that you can better treat it in the future.You should also note things like if your dog is drinking more water or has a change in appetite. Coat and behavioral changes are good to note, as well.
For example, over time you may notice that your dog has cracked ears or paws in the winter, due to the dryness in your house. A simple solution would be to use a humidifier and apply dog-friendly oil or lotion as needed.

