 Take time to look at the weather forecast and decide what you need to wear today. Preventing frostbite is all about being as prepared as possible. If you're going to be outside all day, whether you're hiking or standing in line for concert tickets, frostbite is a real possibility.;
, Winter weather can be very unpredictable. While you might be well-equipped for a the afternoon high, you should also think ahead about the night's low, just in case you get delayed.
 Exposure to wet snow and cold winds increases the chance that you could end up with frostbite.
 People who spend a lot of time outside have developed a sort of system for dressing for winter weather. No matter how warm your winter coat is, it's not going to be as effective as an outfit composed of more than one layer. A good winter weather getup includes the following basics:

, This is a type of synthetic fabric that keeps your skin from staying damp.
 Wool is a good choice. Never wear cotton, since it doesn't dry fast enough and doesn't provide good insulation.
 Your winter coat, a rain jacket, or a combination of the two should be on top to protect you from the elements.
 Make sure there’s not an area where cold air is hitting your skin. The place where your pants and shirt meet, your wrists, ankles and neck are all susceptible to frostbite. Even those these aren't the most common places to get frostbite, you should take every precaution just in case.
,,, These are the parts that most often end up frost-bitten. They're the outer parts of your body that don't benefit from your warm layers. That means you have to take extra care to clothe these parts of your body properly so they stay as warm as possible.
, You might want to get a ski mask.
, If you anticipate getting wet, wear waterproof boots.
 Children are more susceptible to frostbite, since they're not as aware when of the warning signs. A child might lose a mitten and end up with numb fingers without giving it a moment's notice. Bring your children inside often, especially in very cold temperatures, to make sure they stay safe.
 Frostbite can start to occur very quickly at low temperatures or when there are high winds or precipitation. If the weather conditions change, it's important to seek shelter as soon as possible.
 Wet clothing against the skin increases the risk of frostbite. Keep clothes dry, especially socks and gloves or mittens. Bring extras or go inside to dry them off if they become wet.
 This is especially important when you’re in very cold temperatures.Look at your skin, press it to feel how firm it is, and wiggle your fingers and toes. Early signs of frostbite include:, It involves painful sensations and red skin that responds normally to pressure.
, See if there's numbness and white or grayish-yellow skin that feels waxy and unusually firm. Dizziness, confusion and fever may also be present.
 If you have any of the early signs of frostbite, go inside and start getting warm. Take off wet clothes and change into dry ones or use a warm blanket to warm up. Have a warm drink like tea, hot chocolate or just warm water to start bringing your body temperature back up.
 The affected area will be susceptible to further damage if you go outside. Don't risk it just because you want to get back to skiing or hiking.
, Fill a bowl or pot with warm water and completely submerge the affected area. Do not use hot water, as it will heat the skin too quickly and damage the tissue. Soak the area for 30 to 40 minutes.
 The person with frostbite may not be able to sense the temperature accurately.
 As the tissue begins to warm, it's common to feel severe pain.
 Handling the tissue roughly could result in a lot of damage Warm water should be the only warming mechanism you use to restore the body part to the correct temperature. Avoid doing the following:

,,, Frostnip may be treatable at home without need for further assistance, but anything beyond that could cause long-term damage. If you experience these symptoms, it’s important to get medical attention:,,,,,