 Be sure that you are fit enough to take on exercise. As with any new form of exercise, sport, or physical exertion in your life, you should be sure of your fitness level. If you have any concerns, visit your doctor. Ballet requires a lot of stretching to make you flexible, so if you have any problems with muscle seizure, etc., you should speak with a professional and the dance school before starting.;
, Many ballet dance schools cater for adult dancers, from beginners, to refreshers, to advanced. It isn't a good idea to barge in on a child's class; you will feel klutzy in comparison to the natural flexibility and grace of children. Speak with the teachers beforehand about your level of dance knowledge to find the right class for your needs. Most dance schools will have at least one adult beginner class available and if not, encourage them to consider it! Note that adult dance classes are often held at night as well as during the day, to help those who work daytime.
 You won't need a tutu to begin with but a good leotard, exercise tights, a crossover cardigan are all suitable starter items. If you buy these at dance shops, however, be aware that you will be outlying a fair bit! Usually these items are of quality make, so they should last you. And you can always start with gym gear or just a t-shirt and sweat pants if you like - there is no need to splurge until you're sure this is right for you.


Most dance teachers will understand if you don't feel comfortable wearing only a leotard and tights. If you talk to the teacher about this, they are likely to let you wear a skirt or gym clothes. The main thing is that the clothes allow the teacher to check your technique and don't hinder your movements.
 Ballet wouldn't be ballet without the shoes, and this is one item you shouldn't skimp on. Buy quality leather or canvas ballet shoes. It is very important to ask the dance school first as to their preferred shoe options. And do not purchase pointe shoes - they are for the professional, advanced dancer and it may well be that you never get to that stage. Be prepared to also buy the ballet ribbons that tie on the shoes separately and sew them on yourself. This isn't hard to do - just get the ribbon lengths accurate and use a simple stitch to sew them into the shoe lining. Ask the store or your dance school if you're not sure what to do.
 Ballet classes usually begin with a warm-up at the barre and some stretching. As the lessons proceed, you will get to learn a range of different steps, jumps, slides, dance moves etc. If your school encourages performance, you may even get to the point of rehearsing for an end-of-year performance or such.
 Keep it up. At first you might find coordination hard to grasp, as well as stretching and getting sequences right. It takes a lot of practice initially, so if you can practice at home, do so. Remember that the more you do, the better shape your body will be in and the long-term flexibility benefits of ballet are excellent.
 Feedback on your progress is important and allows you to pinpoint the areas that need further work and concentration.

