 One of the best ways to get an individual voter out to the polls is through a personal appeal. A personal appeal is a home visit or a phone call to a specific person. Completing multiple personal appeals, where the same person visits or calls more than once, is so effective because it creates a disruption in nonvoter’s normal routine, allowing them to break the habit of nonvoting.In this sense, a personal appeal means an appeal to a specific person and not people in general. So you’re targeting Mary Jane Watson (a specific person), and not Spider Man’s love interests (a general group of people).
Don't overdo it. You don't want to turn yourself into a pest.
 Another great way to increase turnout is by making a plan to vote, or walking through the steps the person will take in order to vote. In the past, it was common for campaigns to ask a potential voter whether or not they intended to vote. And that was it. There were no follow up questions. But the best practice for increasing turnout is to ask the potential voter how they plan on casting their ballot. That way, the voter can better imagine any obstacles to voting that might arise You should ask a series of questions, for example:Are they voting in person, or absentee?
If they’re voting in person, do they know where the polling place is? Do they have transportation to the polls?
If they’re voting absentee, have they requested a ballot? Do they know when the deadline is?

, A subtle but effective way of encouraging an irregular voter is by slightly altering your vocabulary when you ask questions. For reasons that are unclear, people’s internal identity is only loosely connected to their actions—until they’re reminded of the discrepancy between the two. Use that to your advantage by emphasizing the identity of being a voter rather than the act of voting.For example, instead of: “Mr. Smith, are you planning on voting this cycle?” Say, “Mr. Smith, how important is it to you to be a voter in 2016?”

, It took a long time for campaign professionals to realize saying turnout on Election was has going to be high rather than low was a more effective strategy for stimulating turnout. Although it’s easier to influence a low turnout election and the votes are needed more, the fact is this: No one wants to go to a party that’s dead and no one wants to be on a losing team. An effective appeal would look something like: “We are expecting a record turnout this Election Day. The other side knows how close we are to victory, so they’re pulling out all the stops. We need every single one of you to get out to the polls and make a commitment to bring someone with you.”

, This is a more controversial strategy, but it works. Who votes and who doesn’t is a matter of public record (there’s no record of how they vote, just that they voted), so you can use it to your advantage.First, target an irregular voter that’s registered to your party or in a heavily partisan area. Then, send a mailer to their house correlating their record of nonvoting to a disastrous outcome.
For example, “Clara, you only voted once in the last four elections. In 2012, a year you sat out, Mephistopheles was elected to represent HD-2. Since then, it’s all come crashing down. Clara, are you going to let the world burn again in 2016? Please do the right thing.”

