 Consider purchasing a pair of professional barber’s scissors for daily maintenance and trimming flyaway hairs. Invest in a quality beard trimmer for shaping and to trim consistent lengths. For the sake of convenience, consider buying a rechargeable cordless model.


Keep a pair of sharp tweezers on hand to pluck out ingrown hairs.
A fine-toothed comb can be helpful when grooming a mustache.;
, The conditioner softens the hair, making it easier to trim. Allow the hair to fully dry before you begin trimming. Never trim a wet beard or mustache.









Wet hair appears longer, so once it dries you may find you’ve trimmed too much off., Boar bristle brushes will help distribute natural oils properly. Then use the brush against the grain of your beard to make the hairs stand up. This makes trimming easier and allows you to easily spot inconsistencies in length.









If you have a particularly coarse beard, conditioning may not soften the hairs enough for trimming. Apply beard oil if you need to soften it further.
After applying beard oil, always comb through with a beard brush to properly distribute the oil.
 Start off with a bigger guard, especially if you aren’t familiar with your trimmer yet. This will keep you from accidentally trimming it too short. Start near your ear on one side and work your way down to the chin. Then repeat on the other side, checking frequently to make sure both sides are balanced.









Your trimmer should come with instructions and a trimming guide, so refer to these for details about your specific model and its guards.
After using the trimmer, look for any stray hairs that you missed and take care of them with your scissors.
 The hairs that fall down over your lip are the ones you need to trim off. Begin in the middle of your mustache and trim your way to one side of your mouth, then the other. You can use a trimmer or scissors for your mustache, but unless you have a very steady hand, opt for scissors.Scissors offer more control because they can only trim few hairs at a time.
Check to make sure both sides of your mustache are evenly trimmed and look balanced.
 The lines on your cheeks and the neck line will probably need daily maintenance. You can use a beard trimmer with the guide removed to keep the lines well-defined, but be very careful if you do. Most people just use a regular razor for this part.









Use warm water and a sharp razor to shave along the grain. Only go over these areas once with your razor.

