 You're more likely to find a Russian or Ukrainian woman if you go to the places where she is most likely to be. There are some obvious places to find these women, but there are some other less-known locations to find them as well. Here's where you can begin your search:


Obviously, go to Russia or Ukraine. There will be plenty of Russian and/or Ukrainian women there.
Other countries that were formerly in the Soviet Union, such as Latvia, Estonia, or Belarus.
Places in America with large immigrant communities, especially the New York and New Jersey area.
Almost any major city has a sizable Russian population if you know where to look. Check out the Russian restaurants and clubs in your area. For example, if you're in New York City, Brighton Beach will be full of beautiful Russian women. Most cities have their own Facebook page for events for the Russian community. Ask to join.
Check out online dating websites. If you really want to meet a Russian or Ukrainian woman, look at the profiles of beautiful women online. Most women have lots of Russian pride and will say so in their profiles. Look out for common Russian or Ukrainian names like Katya, Masha, Irina, Tanya, Olga, or Sasha.;
, If you're at a Russian and Ukrainian friendly location but aren't sure if the girl you have eyes on is a true Russian or Ukrainian, there are some tricks to being able to tell what country the girl hails from. Of course, there is no fool-proof way to spot a Russian woman because they are as diverse as any other women on the planet. Still, there are a few things to increase their chances of being Russian or Ukrainian:


See if they are overdressed. If they are wearing leather pants, high heels, sparkly tops, and chunky earrings to a casual event like a happy hour or even a coffee shop, they may be Russian or Ukrainian, because these women take pride in looking their best under any circumstances.
See if they have high heels. These women just love wearing high heels to show off their great legs.
See if they've taken time to groom their hair and put on a healthy amount of makeup.
One type of Russian or Ukrainian woman is tall, blonde, slender, with blue eyes and beautiful cheekbones.
However, keep in mind that many Russian women in America are Jewish immigrants, and have a different look. They have black hair and brown eyes and are just as beautiful as the more common conception of Russian women.
If she doesn't smile every chance she gets. Russian women are kind, generous, and have a fantastic sense of humor. However, they will be less likely to have an open face and to smile and say "How are you?" to any stranger who passes by. You have to earn their trust first.
 In most cases, if you're chatting up a Ukrainian or Russian girl, she will let you know where she's from within the first five minutes. These women are proud of who they are and will find a way to say, "Hey, I'm Russian," no matter what subject you're discussing. However, if your lady doesn't bring it up, here are a few hints that she may be from the Mother Country:


If she asks you what your New Year's plans are even though it's only August.
If she talks about how much she loves her family, especially her grandmother, who may live with her parents.
If she prefers vodka over tequila, whisky, or another hard alcohol. This may be a stereotype, but many Russian and Ukrainian women really do prefer vodka over other types of hard liquor.
If she does not drink. Russian and Ukrainian women may have had alcoholics in their family. Typically a male relative.
If she casually mentions that her dad is the most amazing man in the world.
If she has a background in gymnastics, dance, or mentions that she plays the piano like a pro.
If soccer or hockey is her family's spectator sport of choice.
If talks about something having a "soul."
If she rolls at her eyes, complains and/or shakes her head at something Americans do.
 Russian and Ukrainian women like their men to have confidence. Many of them have a healthy self-confidence and don't want to waste their time trying to tell their man how great he is. When you meet the woman, you should already be confident in who you are and what you do. Now, it's matter of letting her know you're a confident person. Here's how:


Use the body language of a confident person. Make eye contact instead of looking at the floor, stand tall instead of slouching, and use your arms to gesture instead of folding them.
Show that you're confident in your appearance. To show a woman you care about how you look, wear well-fitting and clean clothes, and take the time to groom yourself by showering and washing your hair. Russian women may like a little facial scruff, but make sure it looks purposeful, and not like you just forgot to shave.
Be positive about your life. Talk about how much you love your friends, your family, and your job. There's no need to lie if you're not happy with all aspects of your life, but you should focus on talking about the things you love and leave the rest for later. This will make the woman see that you love who you are and she'll be more likely to love you, too.
 Russian women want real men who can take care of themselves and are useful around the house. They want a man who knows what's going on because Russian women know what's going on and don't want to waste their time educating anyone. Here are some ways to show that you're capable:


Have a career that you love. Your profession says a lot about you, and your work should say that you can get things done, be a leader, and manage your time well.
Have useful skills. You should know how to fix your car, fix things around the house.
If you take her out to eat, you should know what to order. If you're out for a drink, you should know the best cocktail on the menu.
You don't have to pay for everything, but make it clear that you are not a freeloader.
 People who say Russians are gruff or have no sense of humor are completely wrong. Russians simply have a different kind of sense of humor that relies more on sarcasm, anecdotes, wordplay, and cheekiness. Here's how to make a Russian girl laugh:


Tell a funny story that makes you the hapless protagonist. Don't take it too far and make yourself look incapable, though.
Make witty observations about the world around you. Mention something about the difference between New Jersey and New York, for example.
Learn the art of quick banter. Be sharp, and learn to handle a quick back-and-forth conversation with your lady. You have to think on your feet.
Learn not to take things literally. Russians love saying the opposite of what they mean (irony), and you should be able to recognize when your lady's tone is not sincere. If you don't catch on, you may look simple.
 Once your Slavic sweetie is wowed by your confidence, capability, and sense of humor, you can open up to her a little bit to show that you have a sensitive side. Choose the right time to reveal your deeper emotions. Here's how to do it:


Mention how much you love the elders in your family. If you tell her how much you love your grandmother (your Babushka), and how you call her every single day, she will be brought to tears.
Talk about your siblings, and how protective you are over them. This will show that you can help her take charge of your household.
If you have a pet cat or dog, talk about how much you love them in a non-embarrassing way. Show her pictures if she's interested.
 Basically, it's complicated. The Ukraine was a part of the Soviet Union until 1991. Before the collapse of the Soviet Union, all people under its power were considered to be Russian, whether they wanted to be or not. But Ukraine is a separate country with its own customs, language, and culture. The fastest way to annoy a Russian or Ukrainian woman is to not understand this difference. Here's what you need to know:


If you're in Russia, the native women there will consider themselves Russian. If you're in Ukraine, the native women there today will consider themselves Ukrainian for the most part. Unless their heritage is Russian. Due to the recent hostilities between pro-Russian separatists on one side and Ukrainian Army and Special forces on the other side - majority of Ukrainians no longer see Russia as a "brother nation".
If you're in America, many Ukrainian immigrants from the capital city of Kiev will actually consider themselves Russian because the country was still considered to be a part of the USSR when they lived there and because they grew up speaking the Russian language. Before 1991, Russian was the language spoken in schools, used in newspapers, and in every day life in Kiev, but now, Ukrainian is used in schools, advertisements, and some television shows, though many city people still speak Russian at home.
Don't tease the women from Ukraine who consider themselves Russian by saying, "What, are you ashamed of being from Ukraine?" Again---it's complicated. Just don't even go there.
 Russian and Ukrainian languages with their own alphabet and unique way of speech. These women will be truly impressed if you have learned their native languages in school, on your own, or through a study abroad program. They will also be impressed if you show an interest in learning the language. Here's what to do:


Before you approach her, learn a few key phrases. Don't use them right away because that will just look corny, but using Russian phrases when the time is right will impress her. Here are a few words to say in Russian:

"Kak dela?" simply means, "What's up?"
"Krasavitsa" means "a beauty." "Ti krasavitsa" means, "you are a beauty."
"Dasvedaniya" means "goodbye" and "paka" is a more casual way of saying goodbye.
"Prekrasno" means "amazing."
"Ya tebya lyublu" means "I love you."
"Ochen priyatno" is what you should say after you meet her family. It roughly means "Nice to meet you."


Ask your lady to speak Russian to you if she wants to. Don't be annoying about it---many Russian women are sick of everyone asking them to speak their language.
If you are serious about dating a Russian or Ukrainian woman, you should try to learn her native language as much as you can. It will show a respect for her culture and will allow you to really understand her family.
 If you don't already love Russian and Ukrainian food or don't know what it is, it's important to know and love a few key foods so you and your lady can cook together and so you can fit in at her family's dinner table. Here are a few basics:


Russians love dill and sour cream and can find a way to sneak it into most dishes, such as mashed potatoes. They don't go light on the salt, either.
Borsch is a traditional beet-based soup that should be served hot with a healthy dose of sour cream.
Pickled vegetables, such as tomatoes, pickles, and sauerkraut are key staples in a Russian household.
Russians love their meats, from cold cuts, such as salami or ham, to Beef Stroganoff. They also don't say no to salmon.
If you're dating a true Russian or Ukrainian woman, being a vegetarian is a near impossibility.
Russians love salads with a healthy dose of mayo. One of their favorites is called Salad Olivier (originally french), which is a mix of mayo, ham, peas, and other vegetables.
Blini, which is a thin crepe, are excellent with caviar, some honey and sugar, or---you guessed it---sour cream.
Learn to love black bread.
 In order to understand the workings of your new lady's mind, you'll have to have a sense of the quirks and traditions that make her culture unique. Knowing about these in advance will earn you lots of bonus points. Here are a few of them:


Don't hug, hand anything over, or do anything important in a doorway. It's a threshold that is meant only to be crossed.
Before you leave for a journey, you must sit down for a minute to reflect on the trip ahead.
If you accidentally step on her foot, she has to step on yours, or you will get in a fight.
Don't use gestures to show something bad, such as touching your own body to show where your friend was hurt. This is bad luck.
Don't ever wish her a happy birthday before her actually birthday because---believe it or not---it's bad luck.
 Even if you don't know a lot about Russian films, literature, or artists, you should at least show a respect for the achievements of her people instead of seeing them as stereotypes. After all, she may not be the most well-read person in the world, but a few key insights will impress her:


Without being too nerdy, tell her that your favourite writers are Pushkin, Turgenev, Chekhov, Dostoevsky, and Tolstoy.
Know that Battleship Potemkin is an amazing film.
Know who Yuri Gagarin, Gorbachev, and Peter the Great are, just to name a few figures.
Don't make dumb jokes about her culture, like asking her if her dad is in the Russian mob or wanting to know if she knows any Ukrainian mail-order brides. This will show that you only see her culture as a stereotype.
 Russian and Ukrainian women are quick to tell when you're being phony, but letting the woman know that there are many things you like about her in a sincere way can take your conversation to the next level. Here's what you do:


Make a few observations about things you like about her personality. If she tells you about a struggle she had, say, "You must be a very strong person," or if she has a great sense of humor, mention it.
Once you're comfortable, move on to compliment her features, such as her nice eyes or her scintillating laugh.
Compliment by teasing. If she tells you she loves to read, say that she's the cutest nerd you've ever met. Don't hurt her feelings, but show that you can joke around.
 Russian and Ukrainian women are used to being fetishized and if you make them think that you only like them because they are exotic, or known to be beautiful, they will quickly be turned off. Here's what you should do:


Show an interest in her life by asking about her passions outside of your culture. Talk about her hobbies, her friends, or her job.
Try not to ask too many questions about Russia or Ukraine right away unless she is open about it.
Don't tell her that your last three girlfriends were Russian, or that she reminds you exactly of some Russian girl you know---this will not make her feel special.
 If you've hit it off with your new lady, it's time to take your meeting to the next level. To ask out a Russian woman, you have to be a true gentleman and show that you're worth dating. Here's how:


Be direct. Russian women are forward and will appreciate if you can ask them out with confidence.
Be a gentleman. Take her coat, buy her a drink, and hold a door for her. Do gentlemanly things to show that you will be a great date.
When the time for the date comes, look your best and bring flowers. And don't be surprised if your girl is a little bit late---maintaining her good looks is hard work!

