 If you and your boyfriend's mom get into a disagreement, it's best to let him talk to her on your behalf. He knows his mom best, and can rally her to see things your way. Let him know what the problem is and see if he can speak to his mom on your behalf.

You might say, "I don't think your mom likes me. Can you try to talk to her for me? Maybe arrange for all of us to hang out so she can get to know me better?"

, If you happen to bump heads with the missus, come right out and address the issue head on. This will protect you from having to tiptoe around trying to dodge the problem later. Use your best judgment, but aim to be forthright and respectful.For example, his mom makes a rude comment. You might say, “I couldn’t help but feel tension from you earlier. Did I say or do something wrong?”
If it’s clear she doesn’t like you, you might say, “I get the sense you don’t really like me, which hurts because I really care about your son. I hope we can be civil for his benefit.”

, The worst thing you can do is act like you know more than his mom. If she’s talking, give her your full attention, even if what’s she’s saying is hurtful or difficult to hear. Try not to interrupt until she has gotten her message across.


Lots of people have misunderstandings because they listen to respond instead of listening to understand. Really think about what your boyfriend’s mom is saying. Is she really trying to hurt you, or is she just looking after the welfare of her son?, Even when the two of you agree, you can improve the interaction and earn her respect by showing deference. This means acknowledging that no matter how much you may know, she is older and wiser than you. Plus, she probably knows her son better, too.Show that she knows best by asking for her advice on how to handle a problem. You might say, “You know him better than I do. I think he’s keeping something from me, but I don’t know how to get through to him. What do you think I should do?”

, If your date's mom is extremely controlling or disrespectful to you, you may just have to stand up for yourself. This may mean setting a boundary about how you expect to be treated or calling her out for rude behavior.

For example, you might say, "I can't help it you don't like me, Mrs. Rhodes, but I expect to be treated with respect just as I do you. Please don't call me names anymore. My name is Brittany."

