 If you want to get your cockatiels healthy for breeding, a good diet is vital. Most cockatiels thrive on a healthy commercial birdseed.


You should go for bird seeds over pellets, as seeds tend to be more nutritious. Choose a brand with a good reputation and one that minimizes use of additives, pesticides, and preservatives.Watch fat content. Cockatiels are prone to fatty liver disease, so look for brands of birdseed with a fairly low concentration of fat. If you're planning on breeding, it's not a bad idea to talk over feeding options with your vet. He or she may be able to recommend the best birdseed to get your birds healthy enough to breed.In general, birdseed made from sprouted seeds tend to be healthier, especially for breeding pairs. Sprouted seeds tend to have a lower concentration of fat.Cockatiels need 1.5 to 2 tablespoons of birdseed each day.;
, Seeds should only be about 10% of a cockatiel's diet.In addition to birdseed, soft foods are great for cockatiels you intend to breed. Moist whole wheat bread, hardboiled eggs mashed with their shells, high protein baby food and cereal, cooked rice, cooked beans, peas, and oatmeal can all be great additions for breeding cockatiels' diets. Female cockatiels especially need extra calcium when breeding. Eggshells are an excellent source of calcium.Different types of table foods should comprise about 20 to 30% of your cockatiel's diet, so keep portions small. Portions of fruit and veggies will make up the rest of your bird's diet., Supplement your bird's diet with a variety of fresh produce. Birds tend to enjoy apples, oranges, and bananas. Green veggies, like dandelion leaves and celery, are particularly healthy for cockatiels., Most cockatiels, whether breeding or not, need a healthy dietary supplement in addition to regular seed and foods. Spirulina, Bene-Bac, Echinacea and Prozyme should be sprinkled over a bird's fresh food. Talk to your vet before adding supplements, however. You want to make sure you're getting a quality brand and using the appropriate doses.


Cuttle bones and mineral blocks are chews designed for cockatiels that you can purchase at a pet store. These provide additional calcium to your cockatiels. When breeding, calcium is vital to female cockatiels as it's used in egg production., As calcium is so important, do not feed your bird any foods that could adversely affect the body's ability to absorb calcium. Sunflower seeds and spinach can both potentially affect calcium absorption. While not every bird will be affected in the same way, it might be better to err on the side of caution and go with other options for seeds and greens.