 Dogs love to play with stuffed toys. Keep them engaged by choosing one with a squeaky center that squeals whenever they chomp down on it. Or, give the owner a break from all the noise and pick a simple plush, silent toy. Or, make them both happy and get both types: one for daytime, one for nighttime.Dog toys are made from a variety of materials, some of which stand up to constant chewing and tugging much longer than others.
Stuffed toys may last the shortest. For a longer-lasting gift, go with toys made of rope, rubber, or EVA foam (ethylene vinyl acetate).;
, Some dogs love every treat or toy tossed their way, while others can be pretty picky about what they find tasty or fun. Either way, consider signing the owner up for a subscription service that will deliver a new batch of different toys and snacks to sample every month or quarter. Such services include:


Barkbox
Petbox
Pawpack

, If the owner is attaching the leash directly to the dog’s collar, give them both a break by treating them to a harness to use instead. These slip over the dog’s head and fit around their shoulders, with another tie that goes over their chest, behind their front legs, and then clips into place on the other side to secure it to the dog. These are great because:They eliminate the risk of choking when the dog pulls too hard on the leash. Choking is obviously stressful, which can make training and walking more difficult.
The leash can be attached to their chest instead. This way you can redirect their attention toward you when needed with a gentle, stress-free tug.
Some designs also allow you to clip the leash to its back in case your dog has very short legs, which might cause them to trip over the leash when its attached to their chest.
 New dog owners have lots of different things to buy when bringing home a new dog, and so they may opt for the cheapest option when it comes to the dog’s bed. If so, treat the dog to a higher-end model, since bargain-basement beds are more likely to wear out and grow less comfortable, especially for older dogs with joint issues. Higher-end brands include:Big Barker
Big Shrimpy
Bowsers
PLAY (Pet Lifestyles and You), Depending on the climate and the season, the dog may need to suit up before braving the outdoors. Stock their wardrobe with sweaters, jackets, and waterproof raincoats to keep them warm and dry in the cold, snow, and rain. Buy a pack of rubber booties to keep their paws dry, too, while protecting them from rock salt at the same time, which can sting them pretty bad.In hotter climates or seasons, springing for a free session at the dog groomers could be an excellent alternative if the dog’s fur grows continually instead of shedding on its own. Such breeds include poodles, shih tzus, and terriers.
Reflective jackets are a great idea if the dog goes for lots of walks at night, regardless of the season, especially if their coloring is black or very dark. 