 To build a deep emotional bond with another person, it’s important to understand and accept your own emotions. It can be tempting and easy to brush off an emotion, or to deny yourself from experiencing a powerful emotion. However, you should take the time to process an emotion, and use reason to understand the experience.Be emotionally honest with yourself and try to understand how you emotionally respond to different situations.
When you’re feeling emotional, ask yourself, “What emotion am I feeling right now?” Name it: say, for example, “This is anger that I’m feeling. I’m feeling angry because I don’t think my boyfriend is listening to me right now.”
Reasoning through your own emotional experiences can help you avoid emotional suppression and help you better understand another person’s emotions.
 Learn to observe the emotions that he chooses to display on the surface. Once you’ve built a safe and comfortable space for communicating, you should both become more confident in sharing your emotions. This means you’ll both emote positively and negatively, so it’s important to for you both to respond openly to both ends of your emotional ranges.Don’t be threatened if he’s had a bad day and is visibly angry or upset. Try not to take it personally, but do your best to be someone he can vent to or give him space to decompress if he needs it.
Try to help the other understand your surface level emotions better. Say, “Hey, when I get home from work I’m usually pretty cranky, and I’m really sorry in advance if I seem short,” or “Babe, Wednesdays are my long days at school, and I just want to let you know that when I get out of my last class a big hug would go a long way.”

, As you get to know your boyfriend better, cultivate your own sense of empathy so you can anticipate his emotional needs. Listen to your boyfriend attentively, and hear the things he doesn't say as much as the things he does. It’s difficult and takes time, but learn to recognize how your boyfriend emotes. If he freaks out about something, learn to see how it connects to a deeper emotion. For example, maybe he seems hypersensitive about having his own space and gets upset when you rearrange his stuff. Don’t jump to the conclusion that he must be hiding something, but try to see things from his perspective.
Does he have siblings? Maybe he never had his own space when he was younger having his own room, apartment, or other personal space is important to his sense of individuality.
Try to look beyond the surface and see how his actions express deeper emotions, then try to convey to him that you understand and support his emotional life. Say, “I totally get that you need your space. Gosh, you grew up with two brothers, and you’re all only a couple years apart in age. You must not have had much space of your own, so it’s important to me that you’re comfortable now.”

, Every relationship has ups and downs, and we all lose touch with our partners sometimes. When you and your boyfriend find yourselves going through a patch of emotional distance, try to resolve it as soon as you can. Try not to force him to talk if he doesn’t want to, but do your best to reestablish an emotional bond before too much time passes.If you’re fighting, don’t use emotional disconnection as a weapon. If you feel that he is disengaging emotionally as a fighting tool, call him out on it. Tell him that you respect his need to have his own space, but that you’d like to set a time in the next couple days to talk about how you’re both feeling.
Say, “I know that we’re not on the best terms right now, but I’d like us to make time to talk about how we’re both feeling. I care about how you’re feeling, and really hope you care about my feelings. Let’s try to talk this out so we can understand this situation and each other’s reactions a little better.”Check in a day or two after you have resolved an argument. For example, you might say something like, “I know we talked about this, but I just wanted to make sure that everything was settled and you don't have any residual feelings about _____.”

, Try not to confuse emotional intimacy with physical intimacy, and don’t let sex be the only way you translate your emotions into actions. Find more interesting ways to show how you feel other than just being physical.Do nice things for each other as often as possible.


For example, you might make a special dinner for each other on a Saturday night, start a hobby together, or spend one evening giving each other back massages. Learn and do the little things that bring you both joy.
Let physical intimacy complement and express your emotional lives, rather than have your emotions be dependent on sex.
Talk openly about your sex life, about ways to keep things interesting, and make sure to set time aside to be physically intimate, while not letting it control your relationship., In addition to doing special things together, try to have fun together as often as possible. Find out what you both enjoy doing, and pursue those activities together.


If you both enjoy going to the movies, make a weekly or bi-weekly movie date. Or stay in and rent or stream a movie. Take some time to talk about your tastes in movies.
If you have fun doing different things, take turns doing those activities. If you love ice skating but your partner can't skate, go on a skating trip and try to teach him. Then, the next week, do something that they think is fun and try to learn more about it.
 Try to make the most of the time you spend together. When you're hanging out with one another, do your best to include meaningful conversations about your emotions and any concerns you might be feeling on that particular day.


Try to schedule time on neutral ground, or at places away from your respective homes or the home you might share. This is as simple as going for a walk or grabbing a coffee.
It's great to do work or other necessary tasks when you're together, but try to dedicate a significant amount of time every week to focus on your partner. Keep a regular date night, go on daily walks, or play board games. Do activities that don't require too much concentration, so you can incorporate a quality conversation. Try to take pleasure in learning more about each other every time you spend time together.

