 If you have had a bird for awhile, you should know what its feces usually looks like on the bottom of its cage. If the consistency changes and becomes more liquid, then your bird probably has diarrhea.You need to differentiate between the urine and the feces in your bird's droppings. If the droppings have no solid feces in them, then your bird is may have diarrhea.You should be changing the paper at the bottom of your bird's cage at least once a week, so take that time to notice what its droppings usually look like. Understanding what healthy droppings look like can help you to figure out when your bird is sick.;
, Cockatiels can be very good at hiding the signs of illness. However, you may be able to spot the signs if you know what to look for. Look for changes in their behavior, such as:Not preening their feathers
Lethargy
Lack of usual vocalizations
A reluctance to eat
General uneasiness

, Diarrhea is typically a symptoms of a specific disease, such as salmonella. If your cockatiel has diarrhea, then you should look for other signs of physical illness as well. This can help you assess whether your bird is sick. Some signs of illness to look out for include:Vomiting
Regurgitation
Discharge from the nostrils or eyes
Ruffled and unkempt feathers
Blood in the stool, which appears black

, In some cases, cockatiels can get into things that they shouldn't when they are allowed out of their cages. If you have let your cockatiel explore your home unsupervised, look for areas that are disturbed and assess whether any items in that area could be harmful to your bird. Some possible hazards and toxins include:Toxic foods, such as chocolate, caffeinated drinks, and alcohol
Human medications
Toxic metals, such as lead or zinc
Pest control products, such as rat poison
Toxic plants, such as lily, poinsettia, elephant ear, and others

, Even if your cockatiel is not showing any signs of illness, it should be looked at a veterinarian regularly. Preventative care can catch illnesses that are hard to spot, such as diarrhea-causing illnesses, and can extend the life of your pet.You should have your cockatiel looked at by a veterinarian annually.
 If you have spotted physical or behavioral signs of illness in your bird, then you should have it looked at by a veterinarian. A veterinarian will be able to assess the bird's overall health and diagnose any specific problems through a variety of medical tests.

Tests commonly used on cockatiels include blood analysis and X-rays.Common causes of diarrhea that your veterinarian will be looking for include: bacterial infections, viral infections, fungal infections, toxins, changes in diet, and blockages in the intestinal tract., Depending on your bird's underlying illness, your veterinarian may suggest a variety of treatment options. These may include changes to its diet, giving it medication, or changes to its lifestyle or environment.For a serious bacterial, viral, or fungal infections, you veterinarian is likely to prescribe medication to give to your bird. This is typically an antibiotic or anti-fungal medication.
Your veterinarian may also suggest temporary or long-term changes to your cockatiel's diet. This can include changing the seed you feed the bird or eliminating fruits and vegetables temporarily in order to firm up your bird's droppings.
In cases of a severe intestinal blockage, the veterinarian may suggest surgery to remove the obstruction.
 As you are treating your bird at home, you should continue to assess its condition. Don't assume that your veterinarian's treatment suggestions will automatically clear up your bird's illness. Watch for continued diarrhea and other related symptoms and talk to the veterinarian if the symptoms continue or get worse.If your cockatiel's condition does not improve with treatment, don't hesitate to take your bird back to its veterinarian. It is important for its health to get any illness treated effectively.

