 In order to be hygienic at the pool, you first need to make sure the pool is hygienic. Visit your public pool to check the pool inspection results and check the pool's clarity. You can also check the chlorine levels in the pool by bringing your own test kit.


You can also check all other safety measures while you are at the pool.;
, When you are going to the pool, you should make sure that you and your family are clean before you get there. This will ensure that you do not spread any germs when you get into the pool. Have every person in your family shower, wash your hair, and rinse really well.


There should be signs posted at your pool for others to do the same. Look for these posted around the locker room or shower area of the pool., Take a shower in the locker room or immediately when you get home. Get the chlorinated water off of your body. You'll also take off other impurities, bacteria, and dead skin cells that can be present even in the cleanest of public pools., Do not substitute workout shorts or other athletic gear for a swimsuit. Wearing a real swimsuit is the best way to show respect to other swimmers. It's also unhygienic to get into a swimming pool in anything other than a designated swimsuit., It will protect your hair from drying out and getting discolored from the chlorine and other chemicals in the pool. It will also keep you from releasing oils, dandruff, and skin particles from your hair and scalp into the pool water., If you go swimming when you're thirsty, you might be inclined to (even subconsciously) take a few gulps of pool water, which could contain bacteria and make you ill., There are some situations when you should stay out of the pool. If you or anyone in your family has diarrhea, stay out of the pool. This can spread diseases through germs or through fecal matter residue that may be left on the body.


There is also a chance of an accident in the pool if you are suffering from diarrhea., You can also spread germs in the pool if you have an open wound. The residue from the open wound, either pus or blood, may leak into the pool from your wound. Make sure you check the members of your family for open wounds and keep them out of the pool if they have one.Wrapping the wound up will not prevent this from happening. The bandage will get wet and get into the pool, so keep your family out if they have any wound.

