 For instance, you might hear a comment like, “That black fellow, James, was walking around.” Framing the conversation with references like this serves to indicate that (in the opinion of the speaker) there is something odd or strange about the person just because their race is different. This is a racist way of speaking and thinking.


This might also take the form of an implied or explicit surprise that racial minorities have achieved something. A backhanded compliment like, “You’re well-read for a Hispanic,” is, at the very least, a sign of ignorance, and probably a sign of racism.
 Some racists assume that others of their race will share their racist views, and tell jokes that mock, stereotype, or criticize people of a different race.


Typically, when someone expresses disgust or outrage at racial jokes, the offending party will often insist that the person who does not find the jokes funny needs to “relax” or should “learn to take a joke.”, There are many examples of this. For instance, many believe that President Obama only got into Harvard because of affirmative action policies, rather than because of his innate intelligence and ability. This perspective is — intentionally or unintentionally — based in racism.
 . .” followed by a blatantly racist comment. People who make these comments are aware that they sound racist because they are racist. Recognize qualifying statements and racist rhetoric for what they are: ignorant racism.
 When presented with the idea that a white person has certain advantages over others based solely on their race (such as the assumption that any failings or flaws will not be attributed to your race), a racist person may fail to take responsibility or acknowledge those benefits. The person may feel threatened and become defensive, insisting they do not benefit from racism.Being privileged by your race does not mean you haven't experienced discrimination in other ways. Intersectionality acknowledges that a person may enjoy some privileges based on being white and that they can also experience discrimination based on their gender, class, sexual orientation, disabilities, etc.
Acknowledging white privilege doesn't mean a person hasn't suffered hardships or worked hard for what they have accomplished.
Denying the existence of white privilege or that white people are given certain advantages limits progress and cooperation when trying to eradicate racism.If the suggestion of white privilege causes someone to become angry and talk about all the ways they have struggled, this is a subtle form of racism.

