 Watch series 1, 2, 3 and the 2016 christmas special "The Abominable Bride". If possible, also watch the pilot. In this way, you'll become knowledgeable about the whole story.;
, They are so worth it, and you will pick up the little things you have missed in the series. In addition to that, you sometimes see references others might not get, and in some ways you might even be able to predict some things happening. And you can quote, associate and sound smart about it at the same time.
 Listen to the soundtrack.
 Feel comfortable throwing in random references, inside jokes, quotes and memorable moments into your conversations. It shouldn't be too much, but funny quips, statements and how certain scenes affected you should work.
 You can create a Google Alerts or search every day. It might seem like you're stalking the actors, but who cares? Another way is Instagram, follow some popular as well as the official accounts, and you probably won't miss news.
 Seek out some Sherlock fans to converse with. Just a warning, tumblr is incredibly crazy. But also incredibly funny.


Talk with the fans. Make friends with the people who share the same passion. They'll know what you're talking about.
 You could also get posters, print out fanart you like, or even draw something yourself.
 The really hard fans cry most of the time there's news, maybe you don't want to get into it that deep.
 The only downside about Sherlock. The dreaded wait. Meanwhile, it's a good reason to rewatch a healthy amount of the previous seasons. Heck, you could even get the mug with "Without Sherlock there's not happiness" printed on it. It's a good mantra.
 Try to dress in the Sherlock style.


Try to find the signature coat, the scarf, maybe some accessories in the apartment.
Even a shirt with 'I am Sherlocked' on it is a proud testament of your fandom.
 If others say you're obsessed, good. It's a compliment. Ignore their insults or counter them. Nerd life is better.


Even get the Moriarty/Sherlock Theme ringtone if you have to, or Irene Adler's text alert noise. Stayin' alive is a good thing to start with, people who haven't seen the show won'T get it's a reference, but fans will.

