 If you are going to store your collard greens in the freezer, you should wash them thoroughly before storage. Soak the leaves in a bowl or sink full of water or wash in running water. Make sure all grit and dirt is removed from the leaves before proceeding.Collard greens that are stored in the freezer are cooked slightly and will have a softer consistency when defrosted. This would make washing once defrosted impossible.
 Separate the stems from the leaves. This will allow you to cut the stems into smaller pieces that will cook faster. Cut the leaf portion into whatever shape you want. Many people like to cut them into strips.You could keep the collard green leaves whole but that would make them hard to handle when blanching and packaging them for the freezer.
 Put the greens, stems and leaves, into boiling water for three minutes.The goal is to cook the greens slightly, while keeping their bright green color and not cooking them completely.After the two minutes of cooking, put the greens straight into an ice water bath for a minute or two. This will stop the cooking immediately.
Blanching the vegetables will stop enzyme action that can cause decay. This causes loss of color and flavor.Blanching also cleans the surface of the greens really well, assuring that all dirt and organisms are removed.
 Dry off any excess moisture and then put the blanched leaves into an air-tight container. This could be a plastic container or a freezer bag, whatever you have on hand.Write the date on the package so you can track how long you have it. Then place the container into your freezer.

The more air you can get out of the packaging, the better.
 Collard greens that are stored in the freezer can be used for a long time. They usually stay good for between 10 and 12 months, after which they should be thrown out.

Collard greens that have been defrosted and then refrozen several times will stay fresh for less time. This usually happens due to a faulty freezer. One sign that your collard greens may have undergone this freezing and defrosting is excessive freezer burn. However, all foods that are frozen for long enough will develop freezer burn eventually.