 At this point, your child or teen may already be emotionally distant. Perhaps you have nagged him to often in the past, that he feels he can no longer expect emotional support from you. It’s not yet too late to mend those broken bridges. You are his only set of parents, after all. You just need to try harder in reaching out to your child.


One rule you can follow is to count the praises and encouragement you give your child as well as the criticisms. The positive should always outnumber the negative. It may be difficult and would need a significant amount of your self-control, but let petty mistakes slide once in a while.
 Consistently nagging your child could cause him to shut you off, so that your disciplining and advice will only be tuned out. Get them to listen to you again by holding back the negative comments and by being more encouraging.


Make time spent together happier by planning fun bonding activities you can do as a family. Teenagers may complain and appear bored or annoyed, but deep down they really appreciate these moments together.
 One possible reason to your child’s lack of motivation is the pressure of meeting goals they don’t feel confident enough to achieve.


It’s the “Why try in the first place, when I know I’ll fail” mindset that prevents them from exerting effort in their responsibilities. Remove this pressure by letting them know that you don’t care too much about the results.
There’s merit in constantly reminding them that what you value more is their effort in these tasks.
 Help bring back their confidence in themselves by assigning them tasks that you know they could easily accomplish. Let them rediscover that they are capable of creating their own successes. This can also help them arrive to a bigger goal by doing only one simple task at a time, without being overwhelmed.


For example, if you’re teaching a child who is a little late in learning how to read, do not go straight to teaching them words. Begin with the alphabet even though they could already recognize all of them. Don’t forget to praise if they answer correctly.
Or if you’re child needs help being encouraged to be more socially active, don’t force them to signing up to large classes or activities at once. Large groups can be overwhelming to shy teens. Instead, encourage new interactions with a few individuals at a time. Introduce them to a friend’s daughter or son that you know is friendly and share common interests with your child, or plan a visit to your sister or brother’s family, let them get to know their cousins.

