 Technology is very helpful when it comes to staying in contact with your grandchildren. Grandparents can use FaceTime, Skype, and other video chat programs to not only talk to their grandkids, but see them, as well. Many of these services are free and are easy to use.


FaceTime is exclusive to Apple products, like iPhones and Macs. To use FaceTime, you have to have the other person’s email address or phone number. Skype allows you to speak with others through your computer or phone. Many of these features work through WiFi.;
, Texting is an easy and convenient way to keep in touch with your grandkids throughout the day. Like email, texts are messages that will pop up directly on a phone or other handheld device. You can also send pictures and videos this way, which allows you to stay in each other’s lives.


If you have difficulty seeing the screen or using your fingers to type, you can use voice-to-text features that can make texting easier. , Sites like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter allow you to keep in touch with your grandchildren, even internationally. These social media sites enable you to post pictures, share funny quotes with each other, and interact with each other. They are quite simple to activate and are user-friendly., If you would love to play chess with your grandchild, but live too far away to do it in person, you can play each other online. A variety of different websites allow you to choose the person with whom you play against. Thousands of games are also available, so you can select a game that is age- and skill-appropriate for you and your grandchild., Although you may think it’s obvious that you want to see your grandkids, your children may not know this. Be clear, but respectful, about the type of relationship you want to have with your grandkids, as well as your kids. Talk about how often you’d like to see them, babysit, and have one-on-one time.


Make sure you remain respectful when asking for time with your grandkids. At the end of the day, they are your children’s kids, not yours, and they have the ultimate say. The nicer you are, the higher the chances are that you’ll get to see them as often as you’d like.You might say, “I know you guys are moving soon, and I’m really worried about staying in touch with the kids. Is it okay if we start weekly Skype sessions so that I can see them more often?”

, You may have called the shots with your children while you were raising them, but you’ll have to back off when it comes to your grandchildren. This is especially the case if you aren’t exactly close with your children and their spouses. If they feel like you’ve crossed the lines with their children, you will most likely lose time with them., Of course spending time with grandparents is great, but you also want to make sure you let your children and your grandchildren know what you bring to the table. You want to play up your strengths so that your children have even more of a reason to let their grandkids spend time with you. When they see you bring a great amount to the relationship, they’ll feel good in their choice to allow them to see you.


For instance, if you enjoy painting or playing music, you can offer to do these things with them.Initiate the conversation by saying something like “I know little Johnny was always interested in the piano. Since I’m such a skilled player, I thought it would be nice to give him lessons. Is that okay?”

, It is first and foremost important to develop a strong foundational relationship with your grandkids early on in their lives. Do your best to physically be there with your grandchildren as they go through developmental milestones and celebrate birthdays and graduations. The more time they are able to talk to you and spend with you, the more comfortable they will be, which will make them more willing to maintain strong communication as they age., Send snail mail, or a letter, to your grandkids, particularly if you’re having problems being able to see them. Keeping this type of correspondence allows them to see what you are up to, even if you’re not getting a response. Hopefully their parents will allow them to see your letters, so you’ll need to make sure to keep things light and age-appropriate, particularly if there is resistance in seeing them.


Since you can expect that your kids will screen the letters, especially if they are keeping your grandchildren from you, avoid writing anything you don’t want your children to see and anything that could put them in a bad light. Instead, tell your grandkids how much you love them, talk about what is going on in your life, and ask what they have been up to., With decades in between you, even reaching out consistently can fall flat if you don't have a plan in which to truly engage your grandchildren. Everyone, young and old, enjoys talking about themselves, but kids are more likely to engage when you are talking about their interests. Zero in on a few topics you know each of your grandchildren enjoy discussing and use these as a starting place in your interactions.For example, if you have a grandchild who's addicted to Pokemon, you might ask them about any new games or shows they have watched. If you have a bookworm grandchild, it might be fun to read the same book as them depending on their age range. Then, during your Skype calls, you can talk about what's happening in the story.
Other ways to maintain the connection might be to send special gifts that have meaning to your grandchildren, such as buying a Harry Potter t-shirt for your grandchild or the new season of their favorite TV show. It may also help your conversations if you get involved with their lives. Ask about their friends (remembering names will give your extra points) and their daily activities when you talk to them.
 We live in a world where most of the younger generation connect visually more than through words. With the use of printed photos, you can reflect on memories with your grandkids.

Make a photo book of all the memorable pictures you had taken with your grandchildren from the day they were born up until the age they are now. Give this book to them so they can feel connected to you at any time, no matter how far away you are from each other.
Sit down with them and show them old pictures of you when you were near their age and tell them stories about those fun and interesting moments in time. This may help them feel like they can relate to you.
 Contact your grandkids’ parents consistently to offer your help. Parents will often jump at the chance to have a night out without the kids, so they may be delighted to have you babysit for them. Even if you are declined once or twice, keep asking, and you may get a chance.Say to your daughter, for instance, “It’s been such a long time since the two of you have been on a date. Why don’t I keep the kids for a weekend and you guys plan a nice getaway?”

, Instead of fighting against your grandkids’ parents if there are issues, try to fix the problems. Offer to undergo counseling, workshops, or therapy sessions. Putting in this extra work may get you to the place you want to be with your family.Approach the subject with something like “Look I know we have always had our differences, but I really want to be a part of my grandkids’ lives. Why don’t we attend family therapy and see if we can work out a solution to some of our problems?”

