 Even if you aren’t busy, make it seem like you are. You want your crush to think that everyone is wanting a piece of your time because they will be jealous that you aren’t spending that time with them.If you don’t talk directly to your crush, announce your plans to the group. Say, “I’m happy I got to come out with you guys today because the rest of my weekend is packed. I’ve got a party tomorrow night, and then I’m going to the beach on Sunday.”

, You can’t show them attention when you’re with others or focused on doing something awesome. While you may be tempted to text a pic or comment to show how cool and busy you are, it’s better to wait until you’ve gotten home to share.If you get a text from your crush while you’re out, wait to answer it, even if they ask what you’re doing. If you keep them wondering, they’re more likely to get jealous of those who are getting your attention.
 When you’re with your friends, you accomplish two goals for making your crush jealous: you’re spending time with people who aren’t your crush, and you show how much fun you are to be around. When your crush realizes that you aren’t waiting around for them to like you, they’re more likely to want you more., New activities will help you spend more time with other people, will give you more plans, and will show that you have lots of options for how you spend your time. Plus, you’ll be so busy that you won’t have as much time to think about your crush.Join a club.
Try out for a team.
Try community theater.
Volunteer at a local animal shelter.
 Use your social media accounts like Snapchat, Instagram, and Facebook to show off your amazing life. You can accomplish this by only posting your finest moments. If you’re feeling down, call a friend instead of posting about it. When your crush checks out your stories, you want your life to look fabulous.Even if you’re spending time alone, make it look like you’re really busy doing amazing stuff.
Post pics with friends and family.
Choose moments when you’re out doing something rather than posting selfies.

