 Find a big, open place and start running around like crazy. Your Stamina skill should be raising as fast as you're running.



Places to go: The docks, Vespucci Beach and the region around it, the bike course.
This will increase your running speed and you'll be able to traverse faster on ladders.;
, Search for a big, rather uninhabited place and get out your rusty old standard pistol. Give it a go; shoot around a little bit and your Shooting skill should be raising as fast as your bullets fly.


That isn't enough for you? - Mark down an Ammu-Nation with a shooting range and add the extra challenge you need.

Places to go: Ammu-Nation with shooting range, the bike course, the docks.
This leads to your aim being more secure, your accuracy and range also increase. This is independent from the Accuracy stat seen in the weapon menu.
 The first of the three hardest skills to master - you have fight. But you'll have to go on the street and attack a big batch of pedestrians, just for a single bar. Rather than doing this and risking your life, search for big, open places, jump into a session with your friends and have a nice brawl!


Also, there are many free time activities such as arm wrestling or you could take a bike tour.

Places to go: The docks, the bike course, Vespucci Beach (at nighttime, there will be fewer people).
This will increase the damage dealt by unarmed melee attacks and increase the chance that a melee attack with a weapon instantly kills another player.
 This is a very easy skill that can be mastered very fast. Get some space around your character, get something heavy and activate stealth mode. Lay the heavy object onto the left thumbstick or the key you're walking to the left with and enjoy the show.


The only thing you have to be careful about is the traffic. The drivers will not stop if they see you creeping up on your car. If you get run over and stand back up, you won't be sneaking anymore.

Places to go: The bike course, Vespucci beach; and pretty much any 15 ft wide area.
This will decrease the noise you make when sneaking and when shooting weapons with suppressors.
 Flying is the second one of the three hardest skills to master. Go to McKenzie Airfield and grab yourself a plane - after making sure you didn't trigger a Gang Attack. The only thing left to do is to activate Passive Mode and fly around until your character has mastered the skill.



Places to go: McKenzie Airfield; any other place you can obtain a plane at.
This will lead to you flying more steady in general and air turbulence will no longer affect you as bad as they do at the beginning.
 This is the second easiest skill present. Get yourself a car or any other vehicle you want and start cruising around Los Santos. A good strategy is to just take the most complicated route through and around the city until your character has mastered the skill.


This will increase the maximum speed your character can drive independently from the Max Speed stat of a vehicle. Also, this will increase the traction and how your character reacts to commands when airborne in a car.
 This is the hardest and most nerve-racking skill of all of them - but not impossible. Get to the docks and find a place high enough to do the special dive animation; there's a good spot with a ladder nearby.Jump into water with special animation
Stay underwater until there are about 0.05 in (1 millimeter) oxygen left in your character's lungs and get up
Swim to the ladder and climb it up - rapidly tap your sprint/run button while doing so.
Restart the list here.
Most likely, it'll take you about 1 hour to get from 0% to a 100% if you do this continuously.
This will grant you about ten times as much time underwater. If you actually run out of oxygen underwater, you'll die slower. You'll be able to ride bikes longer on high-speed without your character seemingly getting a stroke. At last you'll be able to swim and dive faster.

