 The most common symptom of a patient with acoustic neuroma is progressive, one-sided hearing loss. Most of the time you will not be able to hear sharp sounds; however, dull sounds will remain intact. The actual cause of this ailment is unknown but three theories may likely explain how hearing loss in acoustic neuroma occurs:Compression on the vestibulocochlear nerve. The vestibular nerve is for maintenance of balance and is the one in which the acoustic neuroma develops whereas the cochlear or hearing nerve is for hearing. The compression of the acoustic neuroma onto the hearing nerve is theorized to cause slowly progressive hearing loss.Blockage of the internal auditory artery. Blockade of the internal auditory artery (which supplies the inner ear where the eighth cranial nerve is located), would cause damage to the inner ear structures including the eighth nerve and may cause hearing loss.

Biochemical changes in the fluids of the inner ear. This explanation remains a theory. Research has yet to show how biochemical changes in the inner ear fluids would lead to hearing loss.;
, Tinnitus, or a ringing in the affected ear, may accompany hearing loss. Tinnitus is usually high-pitched in character and is caused by the same mechanism that causes hearing loss in cases of acoustic neuroma.Whenever you sit in a peaceful place or while trying to sleep, it may appear as an irritating ringing or buzzing sound. Everyone experiences this, but most do not suffer tinnitus as consistently as those with acoustic neuroma.
 Due to acoustic neuroma, you may experience frequent headaches unrelated to any other "normal" cause, like dehydration or stress. This occurs as a consequence of compressing and irritating the neural, blood vessel, and dural components of the inner ear canal and/or the petrous bony dura.


Headaches may occur over the frontal area or the back of the head (the occipital lobe), and may occur long before hearing loss is present.
Headaches occur in 20% of those with 1 centimeter (0.4 in)-to-3 centimeter (1.2 in)-size tumors and in 43% of those with >3 centimeter (1.2 in)-size tumors., Vertigo is the feeling that the world is moving around you. You may often feel dizzy and may experience a fall occasionally because it seems as if the world is spinning. This is due to the acoustic neuroma interfering with the circulation of fluid in the internal ear canals and interruption of the transmission of balance impulses to the brain.


The internal ear has a system of canals and sacs with sensory cells in them. Circulation of fluid in this system helps the body to maintain balance.
Vertigo occurs in 27% of cases of acoustic neuroma. , Dizziness occurs in 48% of acoustic neuroma cases.This sometimes leads to a difficulty in maintaining balance, too. It is caused by compression or destruction of the vestibular nerve or compression on the lateral side of the cerebellum or cerebral peduncles (when the acoustic neuroma tumor is so big it compresses brain areas beyond the inner ear area).


The function of balance is a function of the cerebellum and the vestibular nerve. If the cerebellum is affected, an intentional tremor and gait ataxia can occur.An intentional tremor is a slow tremor of the hands and feet that occurs at the end of an intentional movement such as a tremor upon touching one’s nose.
Gait ataxia is an abnormal an uncoordinated movement of muscles on walking., This symptom occurs if the facial (or VII) cranial nerve is compressed by the enlarging acoustic neuroma tumor. This occurs where the facial nerve enters the internal ear canal. However, facial numbness only occurs in 10% of cases of acoustic neuroma.


Further compression of the trigeminal nerve would lead to the paralysis (partial or complete) of the muscle for chewing and eating (mastication). This symptom occurs in 33% to 71% of cases of acoustic neuroma that experience initial facial paralysis., This is a build up of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling. This is a late event that occurs when the enlarging acoustic neuroma has compressed and blocked the fourth ventricle of the brain.


Accompanying hydrocephalus are headaches, nausea and vomiting, and changes in the mental status of the patient. It is a very serious condition that requires immediate treatment.
 An acoustic neuroma (or vestibular Schwamoma or vestibular neuroma) is a noncancerous or benign tumor which originates from the vestibular (balance) nerves found in the internal auditory canal, behind the inner ear. Because of its location, it often leads to hearing and balance problems. Acoustic neuromata are rare affecting approximately between 1 in 75,000 and 1 in 100,000 individuals per year.This kind of tumor grows at approximately 1 mm to 3 mm per year till they fill up the whole internal auditory canal. These tumors can grow beyond 20 mm and may compress the brain stem if untreated, causing problems in the cerebellum, and blocking the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid through the spaces within the brain and spinal cord. Such tumor growth can span 20 years from the time the tumor begins to grow.
 95% of cases occur sporadically, meaning there is no known cause. The last 5% are believed to be due in part to neurofibromatosis II disease.If you believe you are suffering from this type of neuroma, talk to your doctor for more information regarding possible causes and treatment.


That being said, one study found that mobile cellphone use “of at least 10 years’ duration” led to an increased risk of developing acoustic neuroma. This is believed to be due to increased radiofrequency exposure.
 One of the main symptoms of Morton’s neuroma are episodes of recurring pain occurring at two attacks per week and then none for quite a long time (about a year).These recurring pains in your toes are due to the stimulation of the affected nerve, usually upon weight-bearing.


Pain spreads from the ball to the digits or toes of the foot. Pain attacks can last from minutes to months, with long periods of time in between without symptoms. During these episodes, the area of the neuroma is painful to touch. The affected areas will likely be the web between the second and third toes, or between the third and fourth toes. Pain is recurrent and worsened by prolonged walking, running, squatting, standing fully on one’s toes, and wearing tight, high-heeled shoes. If the neuroma is of sufficient size, the pain will present during normal walking, too., With Morton's neuromata, there is often tingling, burning, or a sensation of numbness on the affected area, sometimes accompanied by an aching or shooting type of pain stemming from the area as well.


The shooting-type of pain, the tingling, burning, or numbness sensations are all symptoms of the affected nerve.
Tingling-and-burning sensations are akin to the “pins-and-needles” sensation at the origin of the neuroma.
 With this type of neuroma, there is often the sensation that there is something inside the ball of the foot. You'll find yourself removing your shoe and massing the affected foot, wondering how and why the pain started. This, too, is a sensation that can come and go, disappearing for long periods of time

, Morton’s neuroma, which occurs at the base of the third and fourth toes, is also called intermetatarsal or interdigital neuroma.This name describes its location at the ball of the foot between the metatarsal bones (the bones from the toes to the midfoot area).


Approximately five females to one male have Morton’s neuroma, and usually among patients of ages 15 years to 50 years old., Knowing the causes of Morton’s neuroma will help you know if you have it and if you should take further action. In short, Morton’s neuroma develops because of chronic nerve compression, trauma (accidental injury to the nerve), stress, and irritation, especially with excessive or too much toe dorsiflexion (raising the toes upwards), wearing tightly fitting, high-heeled shoes, and excessive or too much plantar flexion (putting the foot downwards.


The usual nerve affected is the interdigital nerve. In one study, Morton’s neuroma is due to the disruption or destruction of nerves and arteries that arise from the overgrowth of connective tissue (or scarring) over the area of injury.Another theory of causation of Morton’s neuroma is disruption of nerves due to a blockade or scarring of arteries supplying these nerves leading to ischemia or loss of oxygen to these nerves., This kind of tumor may result in the increased production of the sympathomimetic hormones. These hormones are responsible for an increase in blood pressure.However, because high blood pressure is so common, consult your doctor prior to forming any conclusions.


Ganglioneuroma may produce certain chemicals and hormones, causing a variety of different symptoms, especially compared to other types of neuromata.
 A ganglioneuroma may sometimes result in the increased production of male hormones. This will result in the unexplained increase of hair all over the body.


If you experience this symptom, contact your doctor immediately. Whether it's a ganglioneuroma or not, hirsutism and general increased hair growth are conditions that requires medical treatment.
 Sometime ganglioneuroma may result in hormones which increase the blood supply to the skin. This will in turn lead to the increased sweating in the body. Whether you are prone to excessive sweating or not, you may experience even more excessive sweating if you're suffering from a ganglioneuroma.
 This tumor may be present in the part of the chest which may put pressure on the windpipe. This may cause difficulty in breathing, making you feel like you're getting choked.

Chest pain. Sometime this tumor may press on the some other organ in the chest area like covering of the lungs. This will irritate the nerve passing through those parts. It will result in pain.
 This tumor may press an important organ in the abdomen. It may also irritate the sensory nerves in the area. This will result in a feeling of pain in the abdomen.

Bloating. Bloating is the feeling of fullness in the stomach or the feeling that your stomach is full of gas. This is due to the hyper-secretion of acid in the stomach, which may be due to it being stimulated by the neuroma.
 Take note of pain and feeling of loss of strength in your arms and legs. This is due to the compression of the spinal cord by the tumor, where the tumor may press on the spinal cord and damage a part of it.

Spine deformity. Sometime the spine damage due the pressure exerted by the tumor on the spine may be so great that it results in the deformation of the spine.
 This is the kind of tumor of the nerves present outside the brain and the spinal cord, affecting the peripheral nervous system. These are very rare hormone-releasing tumors which may occur in any part of the body.Symptoms of ganglioneuroma depend upon the part of body where these tumors are located and what hormones are released. Ganglioneuroma differ from tumor to tumor. They can arise in a variety of locations, affect a variety of hormones, or not affect your hormones at all.
 If you touch the area and apply pressure, you'll likely feel a very sharp pain springing from where the neuroma originates. Sometime due to hyperactivity of the nerve cells there may be pain even without any pressure.


After trauma to the nerve it grows to fill gap but sometime it will grow in disorderly way. It may create a growth of nerve which will fire in every direction resulting in intense pain.
 Sometimes you may experience pain so severe that that symptom itself has symptoms. It seems ceaseless and makes you physically and emotional exhausted. It's easy to get stressed out, which exacerbates the pain to boot.


Though the neuroma itself won't go away, in this case it is wise to take up a more stress-free routine. Consider implementing meditation, yoga, or deep breathing exercises into your daily routine. And, as always, consult your doctor. Chronic pain and fatigue deserves immediate treatment.
 With this type of neuroma, there is an area of raised sensitivity which may result in pain. It develops due to the physical injury to a nerve. The most common cause of this neuroma is surgery, but it may also be caused by cuts and damage done to the nerve by needles.

