 As the name suggests, to do the tabletop twist pose you need to start out in tabletop pose. Pay particular attention to your alignment, because if your alignment is off you won't be twisting correctly and may increase your risk of injury.Make sure your hips are square and parallel with the floor. Your knees should be directly under your hips and your wrists should be directly under your shoulders.
Check your shoulders, also, to make sure they aren't crunched. Your shoulders should be rolled back with your shoulder blades tucked in alongside your spine.
 On an exhale, twist from the waist to extend your left arm straight across the floor to your side. Check to make sure that your hips remain square and parallel to the floor., If you are able to come to the full completed pose, your left arm will be flat on the floor parallel to your knees, and your left shoulder will be resting on the floor. Maintain your weight distribution and take care not to lean on this shoulder or crunch your neck.You can stay in this position for 3 or 4 breaths, breathing deeply into the twist. Lean back gently to open the inside of your resting shoulder blade and feel a good stretch.
 Once you inhale back to center, take a few minutes to reconnect with your breath and alignment at center. On an exhale, do the same twisting motion on the other side.Remain in the twist for 3 or 4 breaths, breathing deeply. You also might think about how the twist feels differently on this side than it did on the other side, and whether it's easier or harder.
 You can further challenge your entire core as well as opening up your spine while twisting in a balancing tabletop. Instead of reaching your arm straight out in front of you, twist from the waist and reach under.The arm you are reaching should be diagonal, but will still be parallel to the floor. Focus on twisting your spine to keep the arm up.
Avoid moving your hips when twisting. You want to twist from the waist with your hips remaining flat and parallel to the floor.

