  Downsizing is a part of many people’s retirement plan.  However, leaving the family home may also require leaving behind a community and connections that are important to you.  Picking the right time to leave your family home is a personal decision.  For some, the change happens when both partners in a marriage are still alive and want to spend time together in a different place.  For others, the death of a spouse prompts the decision to move.  When you decide that the time has come to look for new housing in retirement, consider not only your budget, but also your lifestyle, the proximity to your family and the status of your health.,  If you are in good health, you can choose to live independently.  However, you must accept that changes in your health are an unavoidable part of aging.  Your health status can change gradually, or you may experience a sudden decline in health.  If you have enough money, you can stay in your home and arrange for professional caretakers to help you.  If not, you may have to arrange to either live with a family member or move to a facility where you will be cared for.,  Retirees have many different kinds of housing options.  Each has its own advantages and shortcomings.  Choose your living arrangement based on your needs, lifestyle and family circumstances.Staying in your family home is one option to consider.  If it’s not too big for you to manage, it might be the best place for you because you are already connected to the community.  To make this work, you may need to make plans to get help with home maintenance.  Also, down the road you may need to arrange for home health care.

If you stay in your home and have significant equity in that home, you may be able to get a reverse mortgage. This loan pays you for the equity in the home. It is only available to those over the age of 62.Moving to a townhouse or condominium community is an option if you don’t want to have to worry about property maintenance.  You can choose a mixed-age location or a 55-and-older community, depending on your preferences.

 Retirement communities are independent living quarters where you are provided with amenities such as chef-prepared dining, inside and outside property maintenance and a 24-hour nursing staff.
  When you were younger, you may have dreamed of retiring in a tropical paradise.  However, actually doing this may isolate you from people you really need in retirement.  Think about the effect of detaching from your community connections and family ties on a permanent basis.  This is an even bigger consideration if you are single.  If you can afford it, consider purchasing a vacation home where you can live for part of the year.  This way, you can have the best of both worlds.
  Where you end up in retirement will depend largely on your net worth and your monthly income.  Retirement communities, townhouses and vacation homes are expensive.  So are in-home personal care and skilled nursing services.  If you haven’t already done so, create a monthly budget.  Begin to plan for the long-term and think about how you are going to support yourself physically and financially as you age.  Enlist the help of you children and other family members in making these decisions.