 To crochet you simply need a crochet hook and yarn. You can find both of these items at your local craft store or online. The best type of yarn to use when you are first starting out is 100 percent acrylic yarn in worsted weight. The best hook to use when you are first starting out is an aluminum crochet hook in size H (five millimeters). If you are an expert at crocheting, then use the supplies you already own.
 Hold the hook in your right hand and wrap the yarn around your left index finger, placing the yarn over your finger and then looping it around your finger in a clockwise manner. When the yarn reaches the top of your finger again (where you began to wrap it) place it over the loop. Then, place the existing yarn on your finger over that piece of yarn and pull that piece of yarn upwards, pulling it through to form a loop.









Hold your hook in your right hand (even if you are a lefty) and place your thumb and index finger on the flattened part of your crochet hook.
 Insert the hook through the loop, and then take the loose end of your yarn and pull on it, until the loop is pulled tightly around the crochet hook.
 Holding the hook in your right hand, take the yarn and place it over your left index finger. Then, take your thumb and middle finger and place them on the knot of the yarn that is around your hook. Hold that knot to secure it as you crochet. Then, move your crochet hook under then over the yarn in your left hand. Catch the yarn on the hook and pull the yarn through. This creates your first chain.
 In a simple crochet pattern you will create twenty one chains. Continue to repeat the previous step, placing your crochet hook under and then over your yarn. Then, catch the yarn on the hook and pull it through. Do this until you have created 21 chains.









It is important in crocheting that you keep count of your chains. You want your crochet to be even, and if you loose count it may be difficult to continue to crochet the next chains and to keep them the same length.
 After you have created your first set of chains, take your hook and insert it in the second chain next to the hook. Your hook will be at the end of your chains, so don't place it in the chain directly next to it. Insert it into the chain one away from it. Place the head of the hook through the chain, Then, place your working yarn over your hook, and pull the yarn through to form a loop.









This step is called the single crochet. It is helpful to remember this terminology because as you continue to crochet, it will be easier for you to follow the directions. The chains are the first loops that you create, and then from there you will continue to create single crochets until you have your final crochet pattern.
 At this point you should have two loops on your hook. Now, place the yarn over the hook (yarn over), and pull the yarn through both loops. Then, move onto the next chain and do the exact same thing. Stick the head of the hook through the chain, yarn over, and pull it through the chain. Then yarn over and pull the yarn through both loops.









You will do this step until there are a total of 20 single crochets, meaning you have looped your yarn through 20 of the chains.
 Repeat the previous steps until you've completed the entire row of chains. Now, create the next set of chains by placing the working yarn over the hook and pulling it through the loop around your hook. Then, turn your work and skip the first chain. Place the hook through the second chain. Yarn over and pull it through both loops. Continue to do this until you have worked your way down your chains.
 You will do 20 single crochets for each row and then 20 rows. Repeat these steps -- placing the hook through your chain, pulling the yarn through the two loops, continuing down the chain, turning your work and starting again on the next set of chains -- until you have completed 20 rows.


If you mess up, that's okay! Simply, take your hook out of your yarn and begin to pull your yarn to unravel it, until you've reached your mistake. Then, stick your hook back through your yarn and continue to crochet.
If this is your first time crocheting and your work looks like a mess, don't stress. Crocheting is an art that takes practice, so continue to practice until you get the hang of it.

