 Even if you have enough room for a dog to move around at a normal pace, that doesn't mean that there is enough room for a dog with a lot of energy. For instance, a wild terrier that loves to run around may tear up your small apartment with no yard pretty quick. When considering breeds, take their general energy level and how that would function in your home into consideration.Many medium-sized dogs have a ton of energy and thus should have more room to run around and play. For example, an Australian cattle dog has a lot of energy and will do well with room to play and run around., There are some dog breeds that do best when allowed to roam around outside or when they are taken out into nature. For instance, herding dogs, such as cattle dogs and collies, thrive when given a lot of time outdoors running and playing. If your living situation does not allow for this, then maybe you should choose a different breed.If you love to do outdoor activities but you live in a small apartment, then you will need to find a breed that is capable of all the activities you want to do but that will function well in a small home. A medium-sized dog with moderate energy, such as a beagle, may be a good fit for you., Some landlords limit the kinds of dogs you can have in their buildings, even if they allow dogs in general. This limitation usually says that so called "aggressive" breeds are not allowed. This rule likely restricts pit bulls and pit bull mixes, Rottweilers, German shepherds, and Doberman Pinschers from residing in the building.


If your landlord is serious about breed restrictions then you may need to prove your dog's lineage before it's allowed to reside in your home. This is especially true if it looks like it could be partially a restricted breed.
Even if you own your home, having a certain breed of dog could impact your costs. Having a so-called "aggressive" breed could increase your homeowners insurance rates, or even may you uninsurable.Check with your insurance company to see if they have any restrictions associated with dog breeds.
 Make a list of all of your considerations and what breeds might work for you, given your parameters. This may take some research on your part to figure out what dog breeds have what characteristics. Once you have a list of breeds that you think will be suitable for your living situation, then you can start the search for your specific dog.


Try looking at online lists of dog breeds and their characteristics to narrow down your choices.When you find a potential dog, make sure that it meets all of your necessary criteria. If it doesn't, keep looking instead of getting a dog that will be uncomfortable in its new home.

