 In this guide I will be saying light green, dark green and black even if you didn't chose those colors to avoid any confusion and make it easier to understand. The colors I will use for this part are 3 shades of the same color: green. I have here light green, dark green, and black but you can use any color you want.
The following list is a list of color sets you can use if you are not very experienced in choosing colors yourself. Of course there are lot more combinations, so if you want to use different colors go ahead and use it.


light green, green, dark green
yellow, green, dark green
yellow, orange, dark orange
orange, brown, black
yellow, orange, brown
light orange, orange, brown
dark orange, dark red, black
orange, red, black
pink, red, black
dark pink, purple, black
light blue, blue, purple
blue, dark blue, black
aqua blue, blue, dark blue
bluish green, aqua blue, blue
white, grey, black

, These parts of your umbrella will be the lightest because here will the light be reflected, so decide where your light is coming from, in my case the left, and draw an arc to that side of the space between the lines. Don't make the arcs too big nor too small.
 Make sure that the bottom middle of your arc is the lightest and the left side is light while the very top of the space is very dark and the right side near the line is darker than the left.
 Don't color in too dark, make sure to leave some of that light green to be seen too.
 This effect will really bring out the other colors, but like with dark green avoid too much of it because too much could and will make your umbrella look worse than before. If you like dark colors like black it is completely OK to put more dark in there, it all depends on you.
 The lines going 'vertically' should be dark while the lines going the other direction should be light. Don't use an eraser here because you will probably end up erasing something you don't want to, just go over the lines with green and keep it in mind that it does not matter if some of the grey is still visible.
 Erase the ground line and now your umbrella is finished, but if you want to add some special effects to it, then just keep reading.
Draw a water puddle right where the umbrella's left side touches the ground. Make it whatever shape and size you want and color in the sides a little bit darker than the middle. You can also make the reflection of the umbrella against the water. For that, just take light or dark green and draw the same thing you see in the picture below.
 Great umbrella! Put it somewhere you can see or stick it in your art book.

