 It is preferred that you have 24 people, as this imitates the Games in the novel but if you have 12, it'll work too.


No more than 24. 24 = 2 per district.
No less than 12. 12 = 1 per district.
It's more fun to have an even number of people, as then no one will represent a district alone.
Do the draw-the-card-out-of-the-hat technique or put the District number on the invitation.;
, Design it, then print out the invitations. Add the date, time, place and clarify what your guests will need to bring with them. Also let them know the District number assigned to the guest.
 Find or buy backpacks (look in your local charity, thrift or bargain store for cheap ones). Add the following items to each backpack:


One bottle without any water, so they'll have to fill it at the Cornucopia
Snacks like fruit, candies (lollies) and anything else you have
A jump rope to help climb trees
A poncho, in case it starts to rain
A fake knife, in case they don't grab one at the Cornucopia.
 Select a suitable area to hold the Games, such as your backyard or a very large room with hiding areas (you'll need to create the hiding areas, especially if played indoors). Arrange the following items at this point:


Put fake weapons out. For example, weapons such as Nerf guns, fake swords, fake bow and arrows, fake throwing knives, fake crossbows and anything else you'd like to add. All weapons must be safe for play and fake.
Add a water bucket or water to the Cornucopia
Add the backpacks
Mark the area where you want the contestants to stand at the start with chalk, spray paint, or stepping stones.



After three hits to the arm or leg you are dead.
One hit to the head and you're dead.
2 hits to the stomach you're dead.
1 hit with a bow and arrow you are automatically dead.
 They, or another person, could also commentate the Games, so that everyone knows how the Games are proceeding. If possible, use a microphone if playing in the backyard or over a large area. Things will get noisy.
 They can continue to watch the action until the Games are over.


An alternative is to provide something else for them to do if they don't wish to watch the Games anymore, such as a DVD or video game. Hopefully most people will want to keep watching what is happening, especially if you've organized someone to keep commentating.
 Have a table set up with a cake (if it's a birthday event), cookies, chips and other foods for after the Games. Your guests will likely be hungry and thirsty, so don't neglect this important part of the party.


If it's a birthday party, you could open your gifts at this more restful stage of the party.
 Base these on the Hunger Games theme as much as possible, including small merchandise such as stickers or books and bits and pieces that are Hunger Games related, such as a fake weapon, a Mockingjay brooch, and so on.
 Put their coats and anything else to one side so that they're ready to play. If someone needs a glass of water now, offer them a drink.
 As soon as your guests arrive take them to the Training Center and explain the rules.
 Now it's time to be in the Hunger Games! May the odds be ever in your favor!


Follow the rules. Have a parent or older sibling observe the play and keep a note of everything happening. This person should also be responsible for asking players to leave once they're no longer in the game.
 The person left standing receives the prize of your choosing. Once done, have everyone return to the party for a feast and some quiet time.

