 This will cleanse your hair of any silicones – ingredients in some hair products that are not water soluble (see the Warnings section below). You do not have to buy a new shampoo for this step, just use something lying around the house. Sulfate containing and sulfate free shampoos will both work to remove most silicones.But to be safe, it's best to use a sulfate containing shampoo for your last wash.



;
, Most shampoos contain harsh, drying sulfates that are extremely damaging for curly hair (ammonium laureth sulfate, ammonium lauryl sulfate, sodium laureth sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate, etc.). These common detergents found in shampoos make curly hair frizzy and uncooperative.Conditioner can be used sufficiently to clean the hair in a much more gentle manner. If you cannot let go of shampoo, use a more gentle shampoo that contains mild cleansers (i.e. cocamidopropyl betaine or coco betaine).







"You'd never dream of washing a good sweater with detergent. Yet most shampoos contain harsh detergents (sodium lauryl sulfate or laureth sulfate) that one also finds in dish washing liquid. They're great for pots and pans because they cut grease so effectively. Your hair, on the other hand, needs to retain some natural oils, which protect your hair and scalp. Stripping them away deprives the hair of necessary moisture and amino acids and makes it look dry and dull." - Lorraine Massey
To the bottom is an image of a shampoo and a bottle of dish detergent. Above, the same sulfate is circled in their ingredients list.
 You will probably want a conditioner for washing your scalp, a thick moisturizing conditioner to moisturize the length of your hair, and a conditioner to leave in during the day. You can use the same conditioner or different ones. You will also want any serums, gels, or mousses, but keep in mind these all need to be free of silicones. (You may also want a sulfate free shampoo if you spend a lot of time in chlorine.) For more information about getting the right ingredients check out the tips section or read How to Determine if a Hair Product is Curly Girl Approved.
 This will get rid of any damage or split ends. If you don't want to visit a hair salon you can always trim your own, of course.





