 Like the Facebook website, you can copy and paste text, website URLs or images into the Facebook app on your iOS mobile device. You can also use these instructions to copy and paste text, links or images from Facebook and into other apps.


When you copy and paste text into Facebook, you won't be able to keep the original formatting and font. Copying someone's Facebook post will not copy the Likes and comments—just the text.
If you want to share an article on Facebook, copy the article's URL from your browser's address bar.;
, The process for copying content on mobile devices depends on what you're copying.


To copy text, press and hold the selected text to bring up the text selector. You'll see a blue box highlighting text with little, blue circles on the outlines of that box. Move those blue circles to adjust which text is highlighted. When satisfied, tap "Copy." Holding and selecting editable text (e.g. from your Notes) will show a magnification loupe allowing you to more easily select the text you desire. Upon releasing your finger, you'll see options to either "Select" or "Select All"—the former selecting highlighted text and the latter selecting all text. Once you indicate which text you wish to select, the "Copy" option will appear. Tap that.
To copy a link, press and hold the selected link, then select "Copy link address" from the menu that appears. To copy an address from your address bar, tap it to highlight the whole thing and then select "Copy" from the menu.
To copy an image, you'll need to copy the image's address instead of the image itself. Press and hold on an image and select "Open image" to open the image in a new tab. Copy the address for the direct address to the image.
 You can paste anywhere you can type, including status updates, messages, and comments. Tap the text field to place your cursor. You may also paste content you've copied from Facebook in any editable text field.
 Tapping "Paste" will paste the copied content to the text field.

