 Pour the oil into a large skillet with high sides and bring it to temperature over medium-high heat. Wait a minute or two until the oil becomes glossier and smoother, but do not allow it to start smoking.


Even though this method is made in a slow cooker, you will still brown the pork beforehand. Doing so will give the meat a richer, deeper flavor. It is, however, technically optional, so if you are really short on time, you can skip this part and go straight to the slow cooker portion of the instructions.
 Add the pork to the hot oil in bite-size cubes. Stir-fry using a heat-resistant spatula until brown on all sides.


Drain the excess fat off into the sink and rinse it down the drain.
For this method, it is better to use boneless pieces of pork instead of pork bones and ribs. Even though pork bones are more traditional for nilagang baboy, lean cubes of boneless pork meat are preferred for the slow cooker method. Pork legs and fillets tend to be leaner and make good choices.
To make the pieces juicier and more tender, you can pound the meat with a meat mallet or rolling pin until the muscle fiber begins to loosen.
 Place the browned pork cubes into your slow cooker along with the onion, garlic, ginger, fish sauce, potatoes, and broth. Add in the salt and pepper, as well. Stir gently to mix.


If desired, you could spray the inside of the slow cooker with nonstick cooking spray or line it with a specially created slow cooker liner. Taking either one of these steps before adding the ingredients can make the clean-up process easier later on.
Note that you really should use broth for this version instead of water. Since you are not using pork bones, the liquid will not receive much flavor from the pork itself. As such, using a pre-made pork broth will give the soup a richer taste.
If you do not have pork broth on hand, you could use vegetable broth, chicken broth, or beef broth, as well.
 Cover the slow cooker and cook the soup until the pork becomes tender.


You could also cook the soup on Low for 7 to 8 hours.
Do not stir the soup as it cooks. Opening the slow cooker releases too much steam and could prolong the overall cooking time.
 When the soup is nearly ready, add these last three ingredients and stir to combine. Cover the slow cooker again and allow the dish to continue cooking on Low power for the remainder of the time.


The green beans should be sliced into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces and the scallions, or green onions, should be chopped into 1-inch pieces. The bok choy should also be shredded or roughly chopped.
 As soon as the dish finishes cooking, you should turn the heat off and spoon the soup into individual serving bowls. Enjoy while still fresh and steaming hot.


To serve this meal in a more traditional way, enjoy the nilagang baboy with a separate side of hot, cooked white rice or jasmine rice.

