 To begin, prepare your wonton-wrapping work space. You'll need just four things - a bowl of filling, a bowl of warm water, a set of store-bought wonton wrappers, and a clean, flat area (like a cutting board) to work on.


Wontons can have a wide variety of fillings - the exact type of filling you use is up to you. One very common type of filling is made from ground pork and minced shrimp held together with flour or cornstarch.Spices and herbs like garlic and green onions are often added to this filling.;
, Ensure your hands are clean, then dip a finger in your warm water and use it to moisten the edges of the wrapper. This helps the wonton hold together and stay shut during the cooking process.



Place about a teaspoon of filling (or less) in the very center of the wrapper. Fold the wrapper in half to make a rectangular shape. Press gently to force out any air that's trapped under the fold - you don't want any air bubbles in your wonton. This is because any air that's trapped within the wonton will naturally expand as it's heated during cooking, potentially rupturing the wonton.
Don't over-stuff your wonton - this can keep it from cooking thoroughly. A good rule of thumb is that you've over-stuffed your wonton if you can't fold it in half a second time at this point in the process.
 Next, you'll want to fold the wonton back over itself in the direction of the filling. In other words, take the two corners of the rectangle formed by the wrapper that are on the same edge as the ball of filling and fold them over each other to make a circular or crescent-shaped dumpling. Then, dip your finger in the warm water, wet one of the edges you just folded over the other, and re-fold it, pinching to seal the edges together.
 Congratulations - you've just wrapped your first wonton. With practice, this skill will become second-nature. Use the rest of your filling and wrappers to make more wontons in the same way as you formed the first. Cook by boiling, deep-frying, or pan-frying. Alternatively, refrigerate immediately.

