 The most direct way to find someone on Instagram is to use the built-in search function, which works just like a search engine for Instagram. Launch Instagram and bring up the Explore tab by clicking the icon at the bottom of the screen that looks like a compass (it should be second from the left.)


Here, you should see a search bar with a small magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen. Tap this to open the search bar and get started.;
, Another way to access Instagram's search function is via the Profile tab. Click the icon in the bottom right corner of the screen that looks like either the outline of a person or an ID card (depending on which version of Instagram you have) to get to the Profile tab. Here, you'll see a search bar at the top of the screen that works exactly like the one on the Explore tab.
 When you've found the search bar on either the Explore tab or the Profile tab, click it and type in your search query. If you're looking for a specific person, this should be his or her username or real name.


If, on the other hand, you're looking for someone you don't already know, you can just type in a keyword of your choice and Instagram will attempt to find users with that word in their name or user information.
Finally, you can also select the "Tags" option at the top of the screen and type in a search query to find posts that have been hashtagged with the same terms. For example, a "Tags" search for "hip hop" will find thousands of posts that have been labeled with the tag "#hiphop" or something similar. This is a good way to find users with similar interests as you.
 Once you enter your search terms, you should get a list of users (or posts) that match your terms. Find the person you're looking for in this list, then click on this person's name to view his or her profile. At the top of the profile, you should see a "+ Follow" button if you're not already following the user — click this button to add the user to the circle of people you follow.


Note that users with privacy controls on their profile may require manual approval of each "follow" request. In this case, you'll have to wait until the user approves you before receiving posts and updates from the user on your feed.

