 If someone has been slandering you, you might be understandably furious. Before you go looking for revenge, though, consider their motivations. Many people who spread rumors do so because they’re either envious of you or angry at you for something. Often, the best response is to keep your head high and ignore them.If someone is saying things about you that obviously aren’t true, let your actions speak for you. Don’t get defensive or argue. Most people will be able to see that the rumors are false.
If one person tries to assassinate your character, it indicates a problem with them. If many people are saying bad things about you, though, the problem may be on your end.
 Actions speak louder than words, especially when you are trying to fix a bad reputation. Put extra effort into your work, school, and relationships. When people already think poorly of you, it takes extra evidence to change their minds, so be prepared to over-deliver for a while.For instance, if you have a reputation for being a lazy student, you could change people’s perception of you by participating in class discussions every day.
 If you aren’t happy with your current identity, reinvent yourself. Think about what kind of person you want to become, and then make small changes that will help you get there. If you develop any feelings of shame or guilt, be sure to address those first; you’ll need to have a positive opinion of yourself before you can convince others to. Improving yourself takes time and effort, but it can help you leave a negative reputation behind you.Stay true to yourself. It’s normal and healthy to change as a person over time, but don’t try to become someone you aren’t.
See a professional for help if you have consistent low self-esteem for a prolonged period of time.
 Your reputation is made up of lots of individual factors, such as your reliability, helpfulness, and personal presentation. It takes time to improve all these areas of your life, so don’t expect your reputation to change overnight. Be patient and persistent, even when it seems like your efforts aren’t paying off.