 One of the biggest pitfalls of students who take a class as pass/fail is to exert minimal effort, since it’s not being taken as a traditional class for a letter grade. In most schools, a failing grade in a pass/fail class will show up on your transcript and tank your GPA. Take the class just as seriously as you would any other. While an “A” and a “C” carry the same weight in a pass/fail class, an “F” is always an “F.”;
, The syllabus has all the information you’ll need to know before starting the class. Read through it and highlight important dates, rules, etc. A typical class syllabus will include some combination of the following:


Course description
Professor’s contact information and office hours
Units or topics of study
Materials needed
Homework assignments
Dates of tests, quizzes, projects, etc.
Grading policy
General classroom policies and expectations
Suggestions for success

, Preparation includes any physical items needed for class (i.e. notebook, laptop, textbook, writing utensil, etc.), as well as having your homework or assigned reading completed. Come to class on time and with all the necessary preparations to ensure you will be as successful as possible.
 Taking notes engages you during class and helps to document the information covered so that you can study it later. There are lots of different note-taking strategies that work well for different people. Try out different styles of note-taking and see which one works best to help you learn and summarize the material from class.No matter the strategy used, all effective class notes should have the following in common:


Be well organized
Distinguish main points from details
Include examples
Allow for self-testing
Use abbreviations to help write quickly

, Class participation shows your professor that you’re interested and willing to put in the effort to understanding the material on a deeper level. It also helps you to pay attention in the class and not let your mind wander off. In many classes, class participation is factored into your final grade. , If you’re confused or need clarification, ask your professor for help- that’s what he or she is there for! Take advantage of your professor’s office hours, which will allow you one-one-one time to ask questions, review material, and catch up if you're feeling behind.
 Every assignment, from a simple homework, to a written paper, to a complex project, is designed to deepen your understanding of the material. Put effort into every assignment, whether it counts toward your grade or not. Handing in an assignment late frequently results in a loss of points, or at the very least will put you behind in the class. Ask for an extension on an assignment only in an absolute emergency.
 Find a study routine that works for you and stick with it. Study habits are very personal and one person's approach may not work for you. Try out different methods of studying; use the strategies that help you and forget the ones that don’t.Some popular study tips include:


Establish a set time each week to study for your class.
Find a quiet place to study with few distractions.
Use notecards to help learn important terms, dates, formulas, ideas, etc.
Review general concepts first, then focus on the details.
Quiz yourself on the information, or have a partner quiz you to see in which areas you are strongest and which need improvement.
Study with a classmate or study group that is serious about learning the material.
Don’t cram. It’s better to study a little information more frequently than to try to review a lot of information all at once.
 Closely monitor your grades on all submitted assignments to make sure you’re staying within the passing range. Don't aim to achieve the minimum grade for passing the class. One poor test performance can send your “C-” grade to an “F,” ruining your chances at passing.