 It should be clear of all oils and dirt and is one that is appropriate for the style of beer to be poured (more on that in the 3rd section). If it was cleaned with chemicals, hold it up to the light to look for dirt and fuzz – glasses are best cleaned in hot water.There are glasses for virtually every style of beer; in lieu of a specialized glass, use a standard pint beer glass (16 oz. or 475 ml). Any smaller and it may not hold enough beer.
 Do this by running beer for a few seconds into another container. If you’re dealing with pulls at a bar, just run a tiny bit into the drain before getting started – your beer-connoisseur customers will appreciate it.


This will also give you a chance to see if the keg is running out, saving you from dirtying a glass and wasting time.
 You want the same angle under the tap as you would if you were pouring from a bottle or can. At this angle, the beer will hit the halfway up the glass, which is ideal.


Don’t touch the tap to the glass. Bacteria and germs can fester onto the end of any tap, making the glass contaminated if the two touch. If the beer isn’t for you, follow proper etiquette just to be safe.
 Some pulls will need to practically yanked, while others just need a nudge. Get it to a consistent stream and keep it there.


Keep aiming for halfway up the glass until the stream hits beer organically. If head isn't forming, keep it on the side of the glass to allow for more air to produce foam.
 Beer that is poured directly into the glass will not produce head; beer that is poured against the side the entire time will produce too much. To get into that sweet spot where the head is just the right size, start leveling the glass about halfway through the pour.


If head is forming prematurely (as some beers do), move to pouring directly down the center of the glass.
Fill it full! It's perfect when it seems like the head almost wants to spill over the side of the glass, but is kept in line by surface tension (technically lots of little bits of surface tension).
 But do take a sniff – when the head is in its full form is when the aromas are the strongest. It's at this point that you can smell the natural flavors of each beer and how they differ.

