 If you grow herbs in your backyard or on your balcony, they can sometimes be difficult to tell apart. Many herbs look similar, especially in the early stages. To fix this issue, simply stick a a thin wooden poll in the end of a wine cork. Use a marker or pen to write the name of the herb on the side of the cork. Stick it in the soil near the herb to remind yourself which herbs are which., Using a sharp knife, hollow out the center of a wine cork. Stop about three quarters down the length of the cork. Add potting soil to the hole you’ve created and insert a small plant. Succulents work well and will likely last the longest since they’re relatively easy to maintain. Small planters are a cute decoration for tiny plants in your home.If you want, you can glue a magnet to the back and stick your cute planter on your refrigerator to add some fresh greenery to your kitchen.
 If you have dressers or drawers with older, beat up knobs, you can replace the knobs with wine corks. First, remove the old knobs by opening the drawers. Unscrew the screws attaching the knobs to the drawers. Pick up matching screws at a local hardware or craft store. Insert new screws into the holes in each draw. Then, screw your wine corks onto the screws pointing out of the front of the drawers. You'll be left with a somewhat quirky set of knobs for your cabinets or drawers.This also works well with champagne corks.
 If you have a lot of high heels, wine corks can make great heel stops. To start, cut the cork in half. From there, use a power drill and a drill bit as big as the heels on your shoes to drill a hole into each half of the cork. Leave a small space at the bottom of the cork. Then, fit each heel into the hole, wiggling the heels as necessary to widen the holes to accommodate your heels., If you have cheese knives with unwieldy handles, replace the handles with wine corks. Use a mallet of carefully crack off the existing handle, leaving a small and thin bit of the handle in place. From there, make a slit at the end of the wine cork. Fit the cork into the bit of the handle still sticking out of the cheese knife.
 Wine corks are perfect to use for cat toys since they are light enough for your cat to bat around. Use small scissors to create a hole on the circular, flat end of a wine cork about 1 inch deep. Squirt a small amount of glue into the hole and insert a feather or pipe cleaner into the hole. Allow the glue to dry before giving this fun new toy to your cat.