 Do local governments have the power to do what you want them to do? Gather any facts you want to present, including citations.


Read the local news. Keep current on issues facing your community.
Review the minutes from recent meetings to find out what actions have recently been taken relating to your concerns.;
, Check at your city's website if they have one.
 While there is often a period for public comment on any topic, councils generally cannot act on anything unless it is on the agenda.


Understand what is being done. Is your council studying and planning, or is it voting on an issue? What will the vote decide?
Read any supporting documents for the agenda item which concerns you. Plans, reports, drafts of ordinances, proposals, and many other documents may be available. Understand what is being proposed and what action may be taken.



Be aware of any time limits on comments (typically 2 or 3 minutes), and practice your comments out loud a few times to make sure you can say what you want in the allotted time.
Make notes. You could read from a paper, but be aware that you may sound flat and make little eye contact. You could also make a note card of points and speak from that.
Be prepared to be nervous. Even if you plan and practice well, you may still feel pressure when you are at the podium, with the timer running and the council looking at you. Pre-write your notes if you need to.
 If you're not sure what the procedure is, arrive a little early and ask.


At some council meetings, you may also speak simply by lining up to do so during the comment period. It is usually best to submit a card if you know in advance you plan to speak.



Dress appropriately. You need not dress overly formally, but dress more as you might for an office than for the beach. If you are affiliated with a group, and especially if other group members will be present, consider wearing a uniform, t-shirt, or other insignia.
Listen to others' comments on the issue(s) of concern,
Listen to anyone giving a presentation on the issue(s) of concern. Sometimes city staff, engineers, architects, or other direct stakeholders make presentations to explain what is being proposed. Listen carefully.
 If you are confident enough to make changes at this point, it can save scarce time to say that you agree or disagree with previous speaker(s), and would like to add something. It can also help your comments to be on point with what is really at issue.


The simplest adjustment to make is to strike out and omit any part which is no longer relevant or correct.
 Thank whichever person called you, putting their title (mayor, council member) before their last name.
 If you are a member of a group but are speaking for yourself, say so.
 This is the most important part, and the reason you came. Briefly explain your reasoning or describe evidence.


It's ok to be nervous, and to refer to your notes. Do your best to speak clearly, to make eye contact, and to sound human.



Conclude when your time is up, whether you have completed your thoughts or not. It's generally all right to finish your sentence or say thank you after the timer goes off, but don't keep going any longer than that.
 If you have additional remarks or supporting materials, or if you can't attend, write it down. Many city councils have an email address, and most should have a city clerk or other staff member present, who can collect printed material for the record. Ask before the meeting if you're not sure what to do with such matter.


If you are submitting photos, graphs, or other supporting material along with your comment, mention it during your comment.
It's best to submit written materials before a meeting, especially if the council will be making a decision on a matter the same day.

