 Many essential oils are potentially dangerous to children or fetuses. They can also cause harm to people with a heart, kidney, autoimmune, or lung condition (including asthma), or people at risk of thrombosis.Talk to a doctor to find out more about your situation and how it relates to specific essential oils.



Infused oils are much less concentrated than essential oils. They are typically safe in these situations, though looking up the specific herb or plant is recommended.;
, Essential oils are highly concentrated. When applied directly to skin, they can cause rashes, difficulty breathing, or even anaphylactic shock. Instead, pick a safe carrier oil to dilute the effect. You may use any vegetable oil as a carrier oil, though you may find some more pleasant on your skin than others.


Sweet almond oil, avocado oil, and grapeseed oil are popular options. Olive oil also works well, but some people dislike the smell or thick texture.
You can use a cream as a carrier oil. A basic moisturizing cold cream is best, without too many additives.
 Your bottle of essential oil may come with instructions that recommend a certain dilution. When in doubt, go with a 2% dilution, which works out to about 12 drops of essential oil in 30 mL of carrier oil.


If the person using the oil is a child or elderly person, make a 1% dilution instead (6 drops in 30 mL carrier oil)., Essential oils are much safer when diluted. There are still a few safety instructions to learn before you apply them:If you feel any itching or pain, wipe the oil off with a carrier oil or butter, not water.
Some citrus essential oils can cause sun sensitivity. Avoid direct sunlight and tanning beds while wearing them, or you could get a painful rash.
Essential oils are flammable. Do not use them near naked flames.
Some essential oils are toxic to pets (for example, tea tree oil is toxic to cats). Let the oil on your hands dry completely before touching an animal.
 If you haven't used a particular essential oil before, a patch test will tell you whether or not your skin is too sensitive for that oil. Place one or two drops of the diluted oil on the inside of your wrist. If you are sensitive to that oil, your skin will usually turn red, itchy, or painful within a couple hours, though some aromatherapists and allergists recommend testing for 24 hours.If you notice one of these symptoms, wipe the area with a carrier oil and avoid that type of oil.


Other symptoms are much rarer, but require immediate treatment. Any changes in heart rate, breathing, or the mouth or throat require immediate use of an EpiPen or a visit to the hospital.
Once you know you are not sensitive, you do not need to repeat the patch test each time. You can develop allergies over time, however, so a new patch test may be a good idea if you haven't used that oil recently.
 Washing your skin opens up your pores and leaves you feeling fresh. Many people enjoy using essential oil after their morning or evening wash for this reason.


Moisturiser is not necessary when applying essential oils, but you may apply it sparingly if desired.
 Put a small amount of the diluted oil on your fingers and rub it gently over the area you want to treat. Any oil treatment works well to treat dry skin, and the smell of an essential oil can boost your mood. While other uses are not always well-studied, many people use essential oils to treat acne and muscle pain.


There are dozens of common essential oils, each with different smell and sometimes a different effect on your body. If you don't enjoy one, you may prefer one made with plants from a different family. Remember to repeat the patch test for each new type.
 Never put essential oil next to your eyes, nose or mouth. Careful application elsewhere on your face can work, but start with a small dab to see if it causes your eyes to sting or water.
 It's best to use the essential oil only when needed, to reduce the chance of causing irritation. Try putting on essential oil about three times a week. Increase the frequency only if your skin remains dry and you don't notice any rashes or itchiness.
 Lavender and other calming scents feel wonderful in a hot bath. After the bath is filled, drop about three to four drops of the essential oil into the water and mix it in.


If you have sensitive skin, mix the drops with a little shampoo or a carrier oil first before adding it.
 Eucalyptus and mint essential oils are common treatments for stuffy noses and other symptoms of flu and cold. Wave the open bottle under your nose for a minute; there's no need to inhale. You may also dilute the oil to 1 or 2% with a carrier oil and place a small dab above your upper lip, avoiding the nostrils.


There is not enough scientific evidence to state whether this is effective treatment., There's some evidence that certain essential oils, notably eucalyptus oil, can repel ticks or other insects.This is usually less effective than the strongest commercial product, but may be less toxic as well.

