 This is where patients stay until they wake up, and even a few hours after that to ensure that the initial recovery from surgery is going well. There is supervision from nurses in the recovery room, and your surgeon may come in to check on you to ensure that you are doing well following the procedure.


After a few hours in the recovery room, you will be transferred to a hospital bed where you will be spending anywhere from one to five nights.
It depends upon the type of joint replacement surgery you had (which joint was operated on), as well as the severity and degree of repairs needed.
Your doctor will inform you of how many nights you need to stay in hospital, and she, or he, will check in on you daily, in addition to the rest of your healthcare team (nurses, physiotherapists, etc).;
, Your doctor will prescribe these and the nurses will administer them. You will most likely be receiving pain medications orally (in pill form), and the dose will continually decrease as your body heals following surgery.


Keep your surgeon and the nurses looking after you informed about how well the pain medication is working for you.
If the dosage prescribed by your doctor is insufficient to control the pain, let the staff know so that they can offer you additional strategies for pain control.
 In the initial stages following surgery, the movements suggested by your physiotherapist will be small and minimal. The goal in the initial stages is to keep the circulation flowing to the affected joint (the one that was operated on), while not moving too much so as not to disrupt the alignment of the joint or interfere with joint healing in any way.


The extent of the physiotherapy exercises will increase in the weeks following surgery, after initial healing has taken place.
While in hospital, you can expect to see a physiotherapist one or two times per day.



The risk of blood clots following surgery is heightened due to your relative immobility during the initial recovery phase as well as the surgical site is in proximity to the veins.
 After receiving joint replacement surgery, some people (particularly elderly patients) go on to spend a few days to a few weeks in what is called an "intermediate care facility" or "rehabilitation facility." This is a place where they can receive additional care that is not at the level of a hospital, but that is much more helpful than trying to cope alone at home.


If you have people who can help you in the initial recovery stages at home, an intermediate care facility may not be needed.
Also, if your surgery was more minor and will not interfere with your ability to function day-to-day around the home, you may be able to manage returning home immediately after you leave the hospital.
These decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis in conjunction with the expertise of your healthcare team.
 This is one of the mainstays of treatment following surgery, and will be a key factor playing into how well you recover (better adherence with physiotherapy correlates with a better recovery).


You may also receive a mobility aid, such as a walker, a wheelchair, or crutches, depending upon the type of surgery you have had. If it is surgery involving your shoulder joint, you will likely be given a sling.
 For instance, they may be able to give you a hand with cleaning, shopping, and other errands during the first couple weeks following surgery. They may also be able to help by driving you places, if the joint you received surgery on prevents you from being able to drive on your own.


In more severe cases, you may also need help with bathing, dressing, cooking, and with other day-to-day tasks.
You may be comfortable asking a family member to help you with these things.
Alternatively, you can hire nursing support, either for a few hours per day or as a 24 hour live-in support, to help you in the initial stages as you recover from your surgery.
You can also ask family and friends to help move furniture so that your home is set up in a way that poses the least hassle to you for ambulation.
If possible, you may ask that things be arranged so that you can stay on one floor of the house (as opposed to having to climb stairs, if this is a challenge for you following joint replacement surgery). Check with your surgeon if you are restricted from using stairs and for how long.
You may also need assistance getting in and out of the car, or changing positions in general, if you are severely set back following surgery. Your surgeon can provide advice on this if it is an issue for you.
 Another option, if you cannot do certain physical aspects of your job after surgery, is to ask your boss about giving you alternate duties at the workplace.


If you need to take time off work to recover, look into employee insurance and any other benefits you may have to help cover healthcare costs.
 You will most likely be returning to your surgeon approximately 14 days after surgery to have the staples removed - staples are what tend to be used these days to hold the edges of your wound together after surgery. At this time, your surgeon can also provide his or her opinion on your wound healing to date.


You can use an ice pack for 10 to 15 minutes as needed to help with pain and/or swelling around your incision.
Avoid using creams, lotions, or ointments over the incision as these may interfere with proper healing.
Your surgeon will have instructed you about the dose and type of pain medication you are advised to take to control any pain at the incision point and in the joint itself following your joint replacement surgery.
Contact your doctor if you notice unusual redness and heat around your incision (this may be a sign of infection), if there is any drainage from the wound, or if the pain is progressively getting worse rather than better.
 After that, you can expect to receive annual check-up to assess your implant and to ensure that it is still functioning well. In order to set yourself up for optimum recovery and the best health moving forwards, it is key that you attend all follow-up visits. You can also bring up any additional concerns or questions with your doctor at this time.
 If you remain sedentary after a joint replacement surgery, or do minimal activity, your chances of developing a strong and optimally mobile new joint are much smaller than if you adhere to the physical activity recommendations.


While it is important to be physically active, it is also wise to avoid hazardous activities that could potentially re-injure your joint. Practice caution and moderation as you recover.
Physical activity recommendations may include a gradual return to walking, followed by more complex activities like climbing the stairs (for joint replacement surgeries that are severe enough to have set you back in your basic day-to-day functioning).
For more minor joint replacement surgeries, and/or for younger individuals who normally play sports, your return to physical activity will include recommendations as to how to get back into your sport of interest in the safest way possible (often starting with non-contact drills and proceeding to more intense play once your joint is fully recovered).

