 The 60s decade was a time of major social and cultural change, and the trends of the 1960s reflected that. People were embracing a bohemian lifestyle and the Hippie Movement was born.


To get the look that the hippies created, start thinking about theatrical costumes, recycled clothing, ethnic fashions, Indian prints, bright colors and mismatched patterns.
Check out your nearest resale shop to look for vintage clothes and other items that you can repurpose, just like hippies did.
 Paisley prints and psychedelic prints are also great choices.You can’t go wrong by pairing those two elements together.


Jeans came in all colors of the rainbow, so don’t shy away from the bolder colors you find. Jeans often featured embroidery and appliqued designs so keep an eye out for those details or add them yourself if you’re crafty.Look for blouses with long and flowy "bubble" sleeves. Gauzy fabrics work great, too.
Wear a simple chiffon baby-doll dress with spaghetti-straps for a feminine look.
 Hippies frequently went barefoot, but sandals and flip-flops were also popular. If you have boots or clogs, those will also work perfectly.
 You could have fun with fresh flowers, but fake ones will work. Daisies were especially popular and they were often worn instead of jewelry. Weave the flowers flowers into your hair and secure them with bobby pins. Try a simple braid adorned with flowers or weave them into a wreath to wear on your head like a crown.
 Thrift stores will be gold mines for these items. Stacked silver bangles, woven leather bracelets, and hooped earrings are good choices, too.
 There was a wide variety of hairstyles in the 1960s, the most iconic being the very long, natural looking style that the hippies wore.Part it down the middle and allow it to hang loose and free.


If you don’t have long hair, check out wigs at your local costume shop. The beehive hairstyle was also very stylish.
 The hippies usually went for a natural look and wore very little makeup. They did use face paint, however, especially for special events and festivals. Paint images of daisies, rainbows, and peace signs on your cheeks or forehead. Add some face glitter for a little sparkle.


For those that did wear makeup, it was variable. However a pale mouth, large false eye lashes and exaggerated eye makeup will be instantly recognizable.
For real life references of 60s makeup and hairstyles, look up pictures of icons like Twiggy, Brigitte Bardot, Janis Joplin, Edie Sedgewick, Jane Birkin and Marianne Faithfull.

