 Select smaller wineglasses for white wine and larger glasses for red wine. Generally, more full-bodied wines work best in slightly larger glasses while lighter, fruitier wines can do well in smaller glasses. The reason that white wine glasses need to be smaller is that white wine should not warm up too much before it is consumed. As for the size of red wine glasses, the more generous, the better, to allow for a third fill and the rest of the glass permitting aeration.


Select a balloon shaped wineglass to allow the wine to promote better flavor and to allow the wine to develop its full bouquet. Wine needs room to breathe and a tapered shape is the best for releasing the aroma.
For still wine, have a fine, plain and colorless glass. If the glass is chunky, has designs or color, you won't be able to appreciate the appearance of the wine inside.Wine expert Joanna Simon recommends that a glass should be able to fit a quarter bottle of wine to about a third to half of the glass.;
, This shape helps keep the bubbles intact for longer and ensure the best flavor and aroma while drinking the sparkling wine.


Avoid using the Champagne saucer or coupe for champagne; it causes both bubbles and bouquet to disappear instantly., This is more finished look and feels pleasant to the mouth touch.
, Wineglasses just for tasting wine at a wine tasting party don't need to be as pretty or expensive. Indeed, since you will often need many and some are liable to be broken by guests, prefer cheaper ones for such occasions. Smaller tasting glasses are optimal, particularly if many wines will be served at one time and over the course of the evening. They are easier to clean and you can fit more in front of each guest on the table. Also, tasting pours tend to be smaller so that each wine can make it around to each guest and each guest can drink more wines without getting too tipsy. A small pour in a very large glass can get lost and be hard to assess how much has been consumed.
 While colored glass and decorations may make the glass pretty to look at, it detracts from the appreciation of the wine inside, particularly for wine tastings.
 The experience as a whole when drinking wine matters, including the glass.


While you can find good deals on stemware on the internet through various companies, it is best to see the glasses firsthand to really appreciate their clarity, size and how they feel in your hand.
 This will save you time and effort.


Wineglasses made from glass can be washed in the dishwasher and provide easy care. For non-greasy glasses, wash them on the shortest cycle without detergent. For dirtier glasses, use a little detergent but no rinsing aid. Open the door at the end of the cycle to let the glasses air dry without humidity.For hand-washing, use hot water and a minimum of detergent.
If you do choose crystal glasses, expect them to require a bit more care and as they are delicate and can only washed by hand.

