 Most students don't require a state of the art device, but something that runs fast enough and has a decent amount of storage space. Graphics and sound probably won't be a top priority unless you're planning on playing games on the computer.


Laptop screen. Screen size varies from person to person. Having 12-inch laptop portability is generally a good choice. However, from the perspective of video games, a 14-inch laptop is more appropriate.
CPU. The CPU is the core of the notebook computer, which determines the overall performance of the laptop. As far as possible, select a high-performance CPU. If you are just chatting on the Internet, data processing, you can try a high-performance CPU; If you are likely to play games, then weigh the balance issues between the CPU and graphics performance.
Memory. Computer systems run almost all programs are on the memory, so selecting more memory for good computer performance is helpful.
Graphics. If you like to play games, then you need good graphics and a high-performance CPU.
Hard disk. A mainstream laptop hard drive can be 250GB to 500GB. The specific amount of hard drive space can be selected according to your specific needs.;
, Productivity software will be a must. Many universities offer software at reduced prices to their students. This will often be cheaper than purchasing the same software with a new computer. If your budget is limited, you can use free open source applications.
 While none of the following are endorsements for any brand, the following suggestions have been made by readers:


If you like the business style laptop, ThinkPad is a good choice.
If you like fashion, Apple and Sony will meet your needs.
If you are looking for value for money, then you can choose Acer.


Each laptop brand has a relatively good product, but always read the reviews from existing users of the ones you're interested in.
, When you have found the right one, purchase it.
 University students are often a popular target for thieves. You may be able to find insurance with a provider on campus.
 Once you have your laptop, be sure to take good care of it. Replacing or fixing a laptop is an expensive task!