 The nutritional adequacy statement will be located on the side or back of the product in small print. The presence of this statement means that the product meets standards approved by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO). The statement will also claim which life stages the cat food is appropriate for like “maintenance,” “all life stages,” “growth,” or “gestation.” Look for these statements:“Cat Food is formulated to meet the nutritional levels established by the AAFCO Cat Food Nutrient Profiles for all life stages.”
“Animal feeding tests using AAFCO procedures substantiate that Cat Food provides complete and balanced nutrition for gestation.”
"CatFood provides complete and balanced nutrition for maintenance and is comparable to a product which has been substantiated using AAFCO feeding tests.” This statement is used for “family products”; products that are comparable (not identical) to ones that have been tested on animals.;
, Products that are labeled as “Chicken for Cats” or “Beef Cat Food” must contain at least 95 percent of the named meat (chicken or beef in this case), not including added water. The meat in the label should also be the first ingredient listed in the ingredient list. Products that are labeled as “Chicken Dinner for Cats,” “Salmon Entrée (Platter, Formula, or Nuggets) for Cats” are only required to contain 25 percent of the named meat. Products that contain the word “with” in the label are only required to contain 3 percent of the named meat, for example, “Cat Food with Salmon” or “Cat Food with Beef.”If a product contains two meats in the product name, like “Salmon and Tuna Cat Food,” the first meat in the name must make up a higher quantity, and the meats together must make up 95 percent (in this case) of the product.
 Products labeled as “gourmet,” “premium,” “ultra premium” or “super premium” are not required to have any higher quality ingredients than balanced or complete products. They are also not held to a higher nutritional standard than other balanced or complete products.Products labeled as “natural” only mean that they do not have any artificial colors, flavors, or preservatives; however, many cat food products do not contain these any way.
The label “organic” refers to the circumstances under which animals were raised and plants were grown. For example, to be considered organic, the meat used in the product must come from animals living in an environment mimicking their natural habitat and behaviors, fed 100 percent organic feed, and free of hormones and antibiotics.“Grain-free” does not necessarily mean low in carbohydrates. Many of these diets use peas, potatoes, or other starches in place of grain.The term “Holistic” does not currently have a generally accepted definition in the pet food industry, and does not represent any certain benefit to your cat.