 Lay 20 paper cases into a cupcake tray or spray with non-stick greasing spray if no cases are available. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit or 190 degrees Celsius.
 In a large bowl, use an electric or hand blender to cream the sugar, butter, and vanilla extract until light and fluffy. Set aside., In a separate medium-sized bowl, combine the cake flour, baking powder, and salt. Use a wooden spoon to mix., Pour the bowl of dry ingredients into with the butter mixture. On slow speed, blend in circular motions to properly combine the batter. Add the milk. Blend again until there are no more flour streaks and the batter is glossy., Using an ice cream scoop, scoop the cupcake batter into each case of the cupcake tray. Provide each case with the exact same amount.

Avoid adding too much batter in one case or your cupcakes will overflow. At the same, don't add too little batter or your cupcakes have a high chance of burning.
 Place the cupcake tray in the oven for baking. Have it bake until the cupcakes rise and the sides turn slightly brown. It will usually take about 15-20 minutes., Remove the cupcakes carefully from the oven using oven mitts. Have the cupcakes cool on top of the oven or on a wire rack. Have them cool for about 5-7 minutes., Split the frosting into two equal amounts. Place the two amounts into two medium-sized bowls., Add 7 drops of pink food coloring to the first bowl. Mix the color in using a fork, until the frosting turns a light pink., Add 5 drops of light blue food coloring to the second bowl. Use a different fork to mix the color, to avoid combining the pink frosting with the blue.., Place the pink frosting on one side of the frosting pipe and the light blue on the other side, making it equal by half and half. That way, when you frost the cupcakes, the colors won't combine together and spoil the cotton candy look., An absolute must to finish off your cupcakes is adding the cotton candy. Grab enough cotton candy to decorate the cupcakes, but not too much to cover the frosting. Continue to frost and add cotton candy on all of the cupcakes. Serve.,