 A hero will usually be someone who excels in certain areas of their life. You will learn about this person through the media rather than personal observation.
 What are your strengths? What do you do well? These are the characteristics that you want to nourish and hold on to but not necessarily the ones you would want to look for in a role model. Ponder your strengths and develop an image of who you are and who you want to be.
 These are the things you do not like or want to change about yourself and are important in determining how you wish to change.
 Do you want to live in a certain way? Achieve something in particular? Become a certain kind of person? Make a list of the things you want to achieve, both as a person and in your life.
 As you start to consider how you can choose a role model, try to develop faith in yourself as a person. The goal of choosing a role model is to motivate you to become a better person. You must have confidence in yourself and your abilities to become whoever you wish to be.
 This can include someone who has raised a lot of money for charity, saved lots of lives, helped people in need or discovered the cure for a disease. Find someone who has good characteristics that you don't have (yet!).
 Don't expect any role model to be perfect; they may make mistakes. For example, you can choose a role model for their achievements without emulating their personal life.


This is very important when choosing a celebrity role model, especially for kids, because many celebrities may not lead personal lives that you want yourself or your kids to emulate.
 If you want to be a famous author, your role model could be someone who has been successful at writing. If you have always wanted to be a nurse, your role model could be someone at your local hospital who is dedicated to their job and someone who you look up to for their achievements.
 It is important to learn about both the successes and failures of your role model. Sometimes learning about the failures of your role model can actually encourage and motivate you more than learning about their successes. By learning about their failures you realize that they, like you, are only human and will make mistakes. The important thing is to learn from them and keep working to improve yourself.


For example, even famous scientists such as Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein struggled and failed many times in their lives but they kept working hard to achieve and eventually they were successful. By learning about their struggles you can motivate yourself to keep working hard even when nothing seems to be working., Many celebrities do not live personal lives that should be modeled and emulated. You should make sure to examine how these personal faults affect them and their career. Know that many celebrities can get away with things without many consequences due to their fame and/or money. Recognizing these faults can help you avoid developing bad habits by following your role models.
 Everyone makes mistakes, including those you have chosen as your role models. Your role models are simply there as a guide for you and not someone to imitate exactly. Do not follow them blindly.
 While it is good to emulate a role model, it is also important to retain your individuality. Do not lose yourself in the attempt to follow the example of your role model. Adopt the characteristics you would like most to improve about yourself while keeping the rest of you as you are.


Be yourself and feel confident in what you do. Don't copy what others are doing, stand out. If people copy it just proves that they're insecure and not original unlike you!

