 As adults, termites and ants can be easily confused.That said, the larvae of the two species are very different. If you’re uncertain if you have termites or ants, try to inspect the larvae if you can find them.


Termite larvae look like a smaller version of the adult worker and nymph termites; they have a separate segmented head, legs, and antennae.Ant larvae look like grubs. They have no legs or eyes, nor do they appear to have a separate, segmented head. They are also covered in tiny hairs., Like termite larvae, psocids (also known as booklice) are small and white. That said, booklice only grow between 1/16 and 1/8 of an inch long (between 1.6 and 3.2 mm). They do not feed on wood; rather, they eat the fungus that grows on wood, books, and other starchy objects in moist environments.If you do not have any damage to the wood or other signs of termites, you may have found psocids instead of termite larvae. To be sure, take a few insects in to your local pest control.
Places where psocids are found include books, newspapers, moldy foods and grains, old wallpaper, cardboard boxes, and other paper products. In comparison, termites are often found in walls, wood piles, stumps, crawl spaces, and other wooden areas.
 Termites are not the only insect to feed on wood. Powderpost beetles look distinctively different than termites. They have darker, harder bodies, and some may be covered with fine hairs. Powderpost larvae are white and C-shaped. They have tiny spines along their back.The best way to know if you have powderpost beetles or termites is to hire an exterminator. They may be able to identify the pest based on the pattern of damage they leave behind.
 Maggots are another type of larva, but they grow into flies instead of termites. Like termites, they are white with soft bodies. That said, unlike termite larvae, maggots do not have a distinct head or if they do, it is not visible. They may have legs, but the rest of their body is shaped like a tube.Maggots are often found in rotting material, such as old food or decaying plants.

