 Ask an employee for help if you are not sure what to choose. Do not use chemicals from other sources. The chemicals sold at the pool supply store are at a specific concentration intended for pools.


Sodium thiosulfate is probably the most common chlorine neutralizer, but requires care when handling.
Hydrogen peroxide is often the cheapest option, and breaks down into harmless substances. However, this is much less effective if your pool's pH is below 7.0., Never add chemicals to a pool while swimmers are using it. If other people have access to the pool, put up clear warning signs.
 Many pool chemicals can cause injury if they come into contact with lungs, eyes, or skin. Review this safety checklist before you continue:Read the product label carefully for safe handling instructions. Follow all recommendations for safety equipment, and review emergency protocols.
Store pool chemicals in a well-ventilated storage area, away from sunlight, heat, and moisture. Do not store acids and chlorine near each other. Do not store dry chemicals next to or underneath liquids.
Only have one chemical container open at a time. Close the container and return it to storage before opening another.
 Always follow product instructions to determine how to add it to the pool, and how much to use. Many chemicals are available in different forms and in different concentrations, so a general guide cannot cover every option.



Generally, when adding sodium thiosulfate, allow for about 0.5 ounces (15mL) per 1,000 gallons (3,800L) water.If you're treating a public pool, go with a more accurate measurement. 2.6 ounces (77mL) sodium thiosulfate will lower chlorine by 1 ppm in 10,000 gallons (37,900L) of water.A pool store employee or an online pool chlorine lowering calculator can help you with this formula.
 Adding too much of the neutralizer can cause major problems: your chlorine can drop to zero, and the unused neutralizer will remain in the pool to destroy the next batch of chlorine as well. Use ⅓ or ½ as much as you calculated.
 Give the pool time to adjust according to label instructions. Test frequently and do not enter the pool until parameters are back to normal. If your measurements stabilize but chlorine is still too high, add another small dose of neutralizer.


If your circulation system is slower than average, you may have to wait longer for the neutralizer to take effect.
 These chemicals usually lower the pH of the pool. Be prepared to raise the pH once chlorine is back to normal. The pH value should be between 7.2 and 7.8, and ideally as close to 7.5 as you can get.