 A homemade poultice is a powerful and often a cost-effective option. It should deal with most old, stubborn stains, but can be tedious to mix and apply over a large area.
 Poultices contain hazardous solvents, which may be flammable, dangerous to inhale, or corrosive. Check the solvent label for safety instructions before opening. At minimum, work in a well-ventilated area and wear rubber gloves. Keep children and pets out of the garage.


Some chemicals may be banned in your area, especially sodium orthophosphate (aka trisodium phosphate).Check regional laws or ask an environmental agency before ordering a solvent from another state or country.
 Every poultice contains a solvent to break down the oil. Here are a few possibilities, roughly in order from common & mild to specialized & powerful:


Acetone
Lacquer thinner
Mineral spirits
1 pound 6 oz (0.6kg) sodium orthophosphate in 1 gallon (3.8L) water (Very corrosive to skin. Use only as a last resort.)Note — Start with a small test batch.
 To turn the solvent into a poultice, mix it with an absorbent powder until you get a thick paste, similar in texture to peanut butter.Here are common options:


Baking powder, flour, or powdered sugar (less effective but easily available)

Kitty litter, diatomaceous earth, kaolin, or talc (usually more effective)

Whiting chalk or fuller's earth (for non-acidic solvents only. Whiting chalk is recommended for sodium orthophosphate.), The solvent may damage your concrete finish. Brush a little of the poultice onto a hidden area of the floor. Wait for it to dry. If it damaged the floor, mix a new poultice using a different solvent., Spread the paste over the oil stain. Ideally, cover the whole stain in a layer at least ¼ inch (0.6 mm) thick. Spread it slightly beyond the edge of the stain to make sure all oil is covered.
 Most poultices take about this long to dry. If the poultice dries before then (common for mineral spirits poultices), scrape it off and apply a new poultice. Continue once at least 24 hours have passed.
 Brush away the dried poultice. Scrub the stained area with water. Dispose of the poultice according to local hazardous waste laws.
 Stubborn stains may require a second or third application. If there is very little change in the appearance of a stain, try a different solvent or a commercial product instead.

