 Choose an outdoor or well-ventilated indoor working area. Cover the area with a plastic drop cloth, recycled newspaper, or similar protective sheeting.


Similarly, you should protect yourself by wearing plastic or rubber gloves and a face mask. It's also a good idea to change into clothes that you won't mind staining in the event of accidental over-spray.;
, Locate a clear glass piece you wish to transform. Thoroughly wash the piece with water and soap, and dry completely with clean paper towels.


The piece you transform must be made of clear glass; plastics and colored glasses will not work. Other than these two restrictions, you can use this technique on nearly any piece, including vases, lamps, candle holders, jars, recycled bottles, serving trays, ornaments, and more.



For larger sections, you may wish to cover the area with newsprint or thick paper. Tape the paper in place with painter's tape.
When working with vases, jars, and other double-sided pieces, cover the side you do not plan on painting. You can apply the paint to either side of the glass, so the side you choose is mainly a matter of preference.
 Choose a mirror-finish spray paint. Rattle the can of paint for three to five minutes so that the paint evenly mixes.


Popular paints used for this project include Krylon® Looking Glass and Rust-Oleum® Mirror Effect. Any mirror-finish spray paint would probably work, but higher-quality paints such as these will create the best finish.
 Close the bottle and shake well for 60 seconds to combine the two components.


You can prepare more or less depending on the size of your glass piece, but either way, you need to maintain equal parts vinegar and water.
After combining the vinegar solution, set the nozzle of the spray bottle to a fine mist setting. Avoid using harsh stream settings.
 Continue until the entire surface is coated with small droplets of liquid.


Work carefully. To create the desired mottled-finish effect, you need to apply enough of the vinegar solution to cover the surface with small beads of moisture, but not enough to create running streaks.
For double-sided pieces, choose one side to work with. Paint manufacturers may recommend coating the inside of the piece, but coating the outside of the piece can be easier and will allow you to use the finished piece for more purposes.



These paints tend to be fairly thin, so you should hold the can roughly 1 foot (0.3 m) (30.5 cm) away from the surface and apply the paint in short bursts. Keep the coating light and even over the entire surface.
 Allow the paint to set over the vinegar solution for a full minute before continuing.


The paint will look cloudy when you first apply it, but after this first minute passes, it should begin setting to a bright mirror-like finish. You should also notice some mottling occurring beneath the paint thanks to the initial layer of vinegar solution.
 Lightly spray another thin coat of vinegar solution over the paint. As before, you should only apply enough vinegar to create light beads over the surface; do not use enough of the solution to create streaks.


While this step can enhance the mottling texture throughout the paint, it may not be needed. If you like the way the pain looks with only the underlying layer of vinegar, you can opt to skip this step and move directly to the next one.
 After another two minutes pass, crumple up a clean paper towel or soft rag and lightly blot away the beads of vinegar solution.


To make the mottling effect more controlled, consider dampening the paper towel with the vinegar solution before using it. This can be especially helpful if you did not apply a second coat of vinegar directly on top of the paint.
Use a straight up-and-down or small circular motion to remove the beads of liquid. Vary the pressure as needed or desired to distress the paint, but do not rub the surface from side to side.
Note the appearance of the glass after this step. If you applied the paint as thinly as necessary, the glass will still look slightly translucent at this point.
 Allow the paint to continue drying for another one or two minutes. Afterward, repeat the vinegar solution and paint layers as before, continuing until you achieve the desired look.


Shake the vinegar solution and can of spray paint in between each layer.
Give each layer a few minutes to dry before creating another one. Overall, you'll probably need about three layers, but you can safely use up to four during this process without negatively affecting the way the paint dries.
Depending on the dimensions of the piece, you may need to turn the piece upside-down for one or two of the coats to adequately cover all sides of it.



This step is technically another optional one, but it's also highly recommended. Applying a final layer of paint can fill in any spots that are still too translucent while adding another layer of dimension to the finished piece.
 Allow the piece to dry to the touch before handling it.


During this time, any dull cloudiness should completely fade and transform into a shiny, semi-reflective finish. The mottled effect created with the vinegar solution should remain in place, however.
If you painted a piece on multiple sides, consider leaving the glass on a drying rack so that air can circulate around the entire piece., Examine the appearance of the glass piece. If you are satisfied with the way it looks, continue directly into the next step; otherwise, touch up the paint before continuing.


Instead of applying additional layers of paint or vinegar solution, it's best to spot treat any areas you aren't satisfied with. Lightly mist these areas with paint or vinegar solution, drying and blotting as before to create the appropriate finish.
 Once you're satisfied with the final appearance of the mercury glass, set it aside and let the paint dry for a full 24 hours before using the piece.


As soon as the piece is dry to the touch, you can remove it from the protected working area and set it aside in a more convenient drying space.
Giving the paint a full 24 hours to dry is especially important if the glass will come into contact with water or other forms of moisture. If you allow the paint to get wet before it completely cures, it may start peeling or fading.
 Once the piece has completely cured, you can use it for its intended purpose.


Note that you should never place unwrapped food directly inside of a painted glass if you painted the interior of the glass. Similarly, flowers may wither sooner and candles may cause distortions in the paint when placed inside interior-painted glass.
If you wish to use the glass for the above mentioned purposes but painted the inside instead of the outside, simply insert a smaller, clear glass inside of the painted vessel before filling it.