 Your parents are not going to let you have Snapchat if you are not responsible. Show your parents that you are well behaved and they will trust you more to use Snapchat. Do your chores, do your homework, and help out around the house. This will show your parents that you are responsible and can handle having Snapchat.Don’t post anything inappropriate on Instagram or Facebook. Otherwise your parents might not think you are responsible enough for Snapchat.;
, Make sure to bring up the subject of Snapchat at a good time. Don’t ask when your parents are busy or half asleep. Find a good time to ask them when they are not distracted or stressed out.


Good times to ask your parents might be during dinner time or in the car.
Start by saying, “Mom and Dad, can I talk to you for a minute?”, When you ask your parents if you can have Snapchat, make sure you are being calm and polite. Don’t whine, cry, or beg. Your parents will be more likely to say no to someone having a tantrum than someone being polite and understanding when they ask.


Try saying something like, “Is there any way I can please download the app Snapchat?”, Have good reasons why you want to have Snapchat. Explain to them how it will help you socialize and be included in friend groups. Talk about how you will use it to get closer to friends and make new connections at school. You can explain to them how it is a great way to stay in touch with people more than regular messaging because you can see what people are doing.Say something like, “Many people at school have the app and I feel left out of conversations and groups because I don’t have it. If I have the app I can connect with more people and become closer to other kids at school.”

, Your parents might be concerned about Snapchat because of how quickly the pictures disappear. This means that many people use Snapchat to send each other inappropriate photos. Talk to your parents about how you will not send anything inappropriate and that you understand the risk in people taking screenshots of your photos, even though the photos technically "disappear."For example, you could say “I promise I will be responsible with Snapchat. I won’t post or send anything inappropriate. I understand that although the photos disappear, people can still take screenshots of what I send. But I'm only going to use Snapchat with my closest friends.”

, If your parents say no to you, calmly ask them their reasons. Understanding why they don’t want you to have the app might help you convince them to let you download it., If your parents don’t want you to have Snapchat because they are worried about you being on it too much, consider a compromise that includes time limits. Agree to be outside a certain amount of time a day, without your phone. Promise to never use it during class time or after you go to bed.
 Letting your parents control your Snapchat friends list might make them feel more comfortable about you having the app. This way they will know you are only talking to people they know and trust. Their rules might be that you can’t have kids of the opposite sex on your Snapchat or maybe they only want friends on your Snapchat that they have met. Agree to have “friends list checks” to make sure you are following the rules.
 Explain to them that you can edit the settings on the app so only people on your friends list can send you photos and messages. This way you won’t be getting random messages and photos from strangers.


Explain to them that they can block people on Snapchat that they are uncomfortable with., The reason your parents might not want you to have Snapchat is because of the stories from media outlets such as MTV and Buzzfeed. Your parents might be worried about inappropriate content showing up on these stories. Promise to not watch these stories if you get Snapchat., If your parents really won’t budge, ask them if you can use Snapkidz. This app allows you to take photos and draw on them, but you cannot send them out to anyone. Snapchat is technically not supposed to be used by anyone under 13, so this might be your best option until you are older.