 Before you can get started, it’s important to identify what, specifically, interests you about broadcast journalism. Knowing this will help you figure out what kind of training or future steps you should take.Take some time for personal introspection; ask yourself what type of news you’re most interested in: politics or entertainment news, for example.
Think about what format or medium you prefer: do you like writing more than public speaking? Would you rather work in radio or television?
Ask yourself if you’re interested in world travel and being a foreign correspondent, or if you'd rather stay local within your community. Chances are you’ll have to relocate for your first job, but you’ll narrow the field a bit if you know for sure you’re not interested in international news work.;
, If you're passionate about a particular topic, but can still keep an open mind on the issues, chances are you’ll make a great journalist!


Consider joining some special interest or advocacy groups.Offer to help develop their public profile, for example: writing press releases or giving interviews about the cause.
 Come up some goals for yourself that are reachable, but still aspirational.Have a mix of short and long term goals: maybe you want to join your school's radio club next semester, or to have an internship within a year.
Write these goals down and hang them in your office or study space to remember what your passions are and what you're working towards.
 Having strong interpersonal skills and being a well-rounded person are important qualities for a journalist.


Take time to get to know your neighbors and community members. Knowing what's important to them can help you get an idea of what news stories might be important for your community.
Practice being social with lots of different people from different cultural, economic, religious backgrounds.
Become knowledgeable in different cultural or social practices. This can help you connect and understand people,especially in a global context., Being the type of person that people will want to talk with and confide in will definitely advance your journalism career. If you distinguish yourself as a good listener, people will want to share with you and this can lead to great news scoops or compelling human interest pieces.How to be a Good Listener

, Good broadcast journalists have both strong writing skills in addition to speaking skills.You can improve your writing skills by starting your own blog. Practice writing news or human interest pieces that others will enjoy reading. You might even start to develop a fan base through your blog. How to Start a Blog

Write op-ed pieces for your local newspaper. This is a great way to practice writing for a public audience and to start developing your own professional voice.
 Public speaking can be scary, but being a good journalist means being able to verbally express yourself and ideas. How to Be an Effective Public Speaker


One way to improve public speaking skills is to practice retelling interesting news stories or current events to your friends and family. Not only can this make for interesting coffee talk, but can help you improve your communication skills.
You can also take classes in communications or public speaking.
 Many journalists, especially those working in Europe, claim that knowing shorthand is a useful skill that can help land you a job.How to Write in Shorthand

, Knowing which type of journalism you’re most interested in will help you know if continuing your education through college coursework and degrees is a good idea for you.Most journalism jobs require a Bachelor’s degree. Not only are there a wide variety of undergraduate degrees in broadcast journalism and communications, but many other degrees, like political science, theater, or print journalism for example, could be useful foundations for a broadcast career.
Postgraduate courses can also help you to prepare for a future career. Not only do they further your basic training, but can help you network with working professionals and provide you with resources like filming and editing equipment., After deciding that you'd like to go to school for broadcast journalism, decide which school is right for you. One important factor to consider is if a school offers internships, hands-on residency program, or has high placement rates in the industry., In addition to the required coursework, get involved in other clubs or electives to make the most of your time in school.


Join any broadcast related clubs. Even the athletics department might have need for sports broadcasters to help cover their games. Pursue internship for course credit. Not only does this help you graduate faster, but it allows you to start getting real world, industrial specific experience while still a student.
Stay in touch with your fellow classmates and faculty mentors. They can be great resources even after you graduate. It's all about building a network of people in your field.
 Local unions, clubs, or other organizations can help you network with peers, find mentors, and gain experience for the job market.If you’re a student, consider joining or starting a journalism club. If your school has a newspaper, join the writing staff.
If you’re not a student, you can still connect with local community groups that are focused on local news events and issues. If your community has a local access TV or radio station, volunteer to be an on-air correspondent for local news.
 Even though these are often entry-level and unpaid positions, internships are a great way to get your foot in the door. Often these are for students, and can count towards graduation credits, but you can always reach out to your local borough to see if they have other types of entry-level jobs available for non-students., Employers usual prefer applicants who have some experience in journalism and a portfolio gives them a sense of your past work experiences.  How to Create a Career Portfolio


Whether you participated in the journalism club during high school, or contributed to your campus newspaper while in college, all of these experiences show that you can actually complete the work of a journalists.
Select samples of your writing and/or on-air work that showcase your skills in specific generes or knowledge in certain topics.
Save past recommendation letters or commendations, as well. These prove your past successes.
 Your social media accounts can be venues for developing news pieces, newsreels, and other media-based projects that your future employers can easily access and peruse online.Create your own video blog channel where you give your own news reports.
Utilize career building and social networking websites to serve as portfolios for your work and put you in-touch with other work in the field., One benefit of a digital portfolio is that you can email or post links online for potential employers to easily, instantly access., Chances are your first job out of the gate will not be glamorous and at a smaller, local level. Do good work at the entry levels and try to get yourself noticed so that you can work your way up the ladder and move on to bigger news assignments and placements.
 No matter how small the job is, always strive for excellence and see it as an opportunity to show your value.


You can prove your value by winning awards for your writing, or by impressing your boss with your dedication service. Awards look great on your resume, and a strong recommendation letter can go a long way.Become a proficient multitasker who can perform a number of jobs (writing, editing, on-air speaking, etc). Being a jack-of-all-trades in the newsroom can help to distinguish you from the countess others vying for journalism jobs., In addition to having a strong work record, knowing the right people, or people who know the right people, can go a long way.Make connections through your school teachers, work colleagues, and community peers. #*Ask new acquaintances for their business card and turn these into a career rolodex. You can call on this social network down the road to help advance your career.Ask someone your particularly admire in the industry if they would be willing to mentor you. Not only can you gleam wisdom from their experiences, but they might be able to introduce you to their circle of colleagues.
 Becoming a broadcast journalist is hard work. The process may be daunting, with lots of bumps and setbacks along the road to success, but stay dedicated and keep at it!

