 During adolescence, puppies often become more antisocial. Some even become aggressive. As an adolescent, your dog should already have considerable experience playing and interacting with other dogs and people. Ensure your dog continues to engage in social interactions.Allow your dog off-leash time with other dogs. For instance, let your dog play with your neighbor’s dog or another of your own dogs in a fenced-in yard.
Take your dog to your local dog park.
It’s normal for dogs to nip and bite each other. However, if your dog is biting another dog with violent intent, remove your dog from the situation quickly. Let it cool down before reintroducing your dog to another dog or group of dogs.
If you notice your dog engaging in antisocial and aggressive behavior like growling at other dogs, lowering its head and splaying its feet, or bristling the hair along its back, remove your dog from the situations for a brief time-out.
Host a puppy party where your friends and neighbors can bring their own dogs over to meet each other in a safe, controlled environment., Adolescent dogs are bundles of energy. In addition to time in the backyard or at the dog park, ensure your dog gets the opportunity to run around the backyard on its own outside of structured socialization opportunities. This will ensure your dog’s energy is spent in a constructive way, rather than a destructive way.Take your adolescent dog for a daily walk. A walk of 15-30 minutes each day will do wonders to keep your pup healthy and fit.The amount of exercise your dog needs depends on its weight. Larger dogs will need more exercise than smaller dogs.
 If you live in a family or have housemates, encourage them to help you. They can help you train and discipline your dog, walk it, and provide opportunities for socialization and play. The more people you have helping you out, the easier it will be to survive your pup’s adolescence.Simply ask your family or housemates, “Could you help me get my puppy through adolescence? If you have time to walk my puppy, play with it, or provide opportunities for socialization, I would be most grateful.”
If you have younger kids at home, ensure they treat your adolescent dog with respect. Remind them not to pull the dog’s tail or ears. Tell them not to scare the dog or yell at it.
For instance, tell your children, “Do not pull the dog’s tail or ears, and do not scare the dog or yell at it.”

, If your dog feels loved, it will strengthen the bond between you and prevent the likelihood that your dog will act out. Give your dog hugs and pat them gently on the head and back. Many dogs love being rubbed on their bellies. Offer verbal praise in the form of enthusiastic phrases like, “I love you, doggie” and “Good dog!”Smile at your dog when offering verbal praise.
Be sure not to let your love spill over into spoiling your dog. Loving your dog doesn’t mean you don’t punish it, but rather than you offer discipline in a loving way.
Never strike or shout at your dog when correcting its behavior.
Don’t nurse a grudge against your dog if it chewed your magazine, for instance. Correct its behavior and then let the issue go.
Avoid giving your dog too many treats. If your dog eats too many doggie treats, it might not be able to eat a more nutritious meal later.
 To get through puppy adolescence, your dog will need to be kept busy and have a range of experiences. For instance, intersperse disciplinary training sessions with walks, playtime, socialization, and other daily activities that your dog enjoys.Work with your dog to cater to their likes and wants. For instance, if your dog really enjoys watching TV with you, schedule time to watch TV together.
 When you’re out at school or work all day, your adolescent puppy is bored and lonely at home. Many adolescent puppies amuse themselves by eating newspaper or chewing on table or chair legs. In order to prevent these unwelcome outcomes, you should provide plenty of stimulation for your dog to enjoy while you’re away.Many dogs enjoy watching TV while their humans are away. Documentaries about other animals are generally favored.
Provide an array of balls, toys, and bones for your dog. This will dissuade your dog from chewing the sofa cushions and pillows.
Invest in a few KONG toys and leave one for your dog to play with each day. A KONG toy is a kind of hollow dog toy stuffed with bits of kibble or other doggie treats. The tasty bits are released throughout the day as your dog shakes and turns the toy around in the course of playing with it.

