 Remind yourself that your wedding is about the commitment between you and your fiancee. Instead of feeling stressed out about your loved ones' refusal to come to your wedding, focus on the fact that you and your spouse will soon be starting a new life together.


Share your feelings with your fiancee and let your fiancee help you work through them. For example, you might say, "I'm really upset that our loved ones won't come to the wedding." Talking through your emotions together will make you feel closer.
 Keep in mind that your wedding should be filled with people who love and care for you and your fiancee. If you think a loved one's absence will be notable, ask a close friend or relative to step in and fill the role. For example, if your father refuses to come to your wedding, you could ask a close friend to walk you down the aisle.Remind yourself that you may have a better time at the wedding than if people who didn't support you came to the wedding and made you uncomfortable., Some guests may feel uncomfortable if others refuse to come to your wedding. Take the time to talk with guests who have accepted the invitation to thank them for coming, especially if they may feel out of place. This will put them at ease.


For example, you might say, "I know you and my mom don't really get along, but it means a lot to me that you're coming to my wedding."

, Having loved ones who refuse to come to your wedding may be very painful and feel like a rejection. Allow yourself to feel that pain and grieve a little, then take steps to rebuild your bruised self-esteem and more forward. Catch any negative talk — things like "What is wrong with me?", "Why don't they love me?", etc. — and remind yourself that everyone experiences rejection, even the most confident and successful people. The way to recover is to think of the rejection as something outside of yourself; that it has absolutely nothing to do with your worth as a person. This is your loved ones' problem.If your self-confidence is hurt, try taking a moment every day to write down three things you like about yourself. On top of that, you might write a few things that you are looking forward to at your wedding, such as cutting the cake with your new spouse.
Try setting a limit on how long you can grieve. Tell yourself: "I can mourn the fact that my dad won't be at my wedding and walking me down the aisle until Friday at 4pm. Then I will let go of it."

, If you find yourself dwelling on how unhappy you are or you can't seem to shake feeling sorry for yourself, change your focus. Remind yourself that you should feel happy during this engagement period. Take time out of your planning schedule to do something that cheers you up.For example, you might want to do something by yourself like go for a hike, shop, or see a movie. Or you could call a close friend and do something fun together.

