 Your logo and slogan go hand in hand. A slogan works best when it is accompanied by a logo. Your logo should be clear and easy for your audience to understand. Your slogan should be once sentence or less.Have another person review your logo to see if it makes sense. If it takes a long time to understand it or figure out what it is, you need to change it.
If you are trying to convey that you are trustworthy and reliable your slogan might be “A clean you can trust.” If you are trying to convey the versatility of the services you offer, you may say, “No mess is too small” or “There’s not any mess we can’t handle.”
Other good slogans may be “;
, Your business card should appeal to your target audience and reflect your personal style. You may take a look at other cleaning professionals to see what cards are standard for your industry. No matter what design you choose, your business card should have the following information:Your name
Title of company
Address
Phone number
E-mail address
Website

, Your flyer should be brief, eye-catching, and to the point. Draw your customers in with a catchy headline (e.g. No time to clean? Let us take care of it!). Focus on the information that your customers need to know such as the benefits of your business, any special promotions, why your business is better than the competition, and your contact information.If you do not want to create a flyer from scratch, there are many templates available online.
Remember to appeal to your target audience.
Use a font that is easy to read and speak directly to your customers by using the word "you" in your flyer.
If you plan to contact higher income families, you may post flyers in high-income neighborhoods with small children.
If you are looking for busy adults, you may post your residential cleaning services in the business district.
 Direct mail is good for targeting a certain neighborhood or geographic area. You can either mail out advertisements yourself or use a direct mail advertising company. The United States Postal Service has a direct mail delivery service that allows you to choose an area based on demographic data. This is a more affordable than going through a company.A postcard is best. Present an offer, coupon, or incentive to use the services.
You may say, "Mention this postcard and receive 10% off your next appointment."
Keep track of the number of customers you receive based on this method. You may decide to discontinue or keep using it depending on how successful it is.
You may also use flyers for direct mail, but they will be more expensive.
 Your local SBDC offers free research and advisory services. This gives you access to local market and demographic research reports that are specific to your business.Visit the SBDC website to find your local office.This is a great tool to use so you do not have to conduct a ton of market research on your own.
The SBDC can also provide information about other suppliers in your area.

