 You will receive a thorough training before becoming a suicide hotline worker. Your training should indicate steps you take in every call, resources available, how to troubleshoot situations, and who to ask if you need help. Make sure you understand all of these steps before you begin taking calls. If you do not understand something, ask.


You will receive hands-on training, including participating in role-playing exercises, answering mock phone calls, and watching other workers take calls, before you answer calls on your own.Make sure you follow your agency’s rules on confidentiality, for both you and the client. Some agencies have you use an alias to protect your identity. While it may feel frustrating to not be able to follow-up with the person who called you, understand that it helps you focus on staying in the moment to prevent a crisis, and not dwelling on things you may not be able to change., QPR (Question, Persuade, and Refer) is a suicide-prevention technique that anyone can learn and use, whether you work in a crisis management capacity or are just a concerned citizen. Those trained in QPR learn suicide warning signs and become “gatekeepers,” or people in a position to recognize a crisis and suicide warning signs.Question the person about suicide directly. Talk to them about any suicidal ideation, plans, timelines, or means. Assess their immediate risk.
Persuade the person to get help. Be a supportive listener and empathize with their concerns. Then you could say, for example, “I want to make sure that you have a way to stay safe right now. Who can you call right now who can come over and stay with you?”
Refer for help. Assess their support network and other protective factors (relationships and behaviors that reduce likelihood of suicide). Utilize some of these support systems already in place to get them help. Your hotline may have additional resources to which you can connect your caller., Understand that different cultures and groups of people may have different needs and concerns. If you are working in an area that has a large population of a group of people with whom you are not familiar, you may want to have some additional training on common problems and how to work with that particular community.


For example, you may want to take additional training courses on how to help suicidal youth, LGBTQ+ individuals, the elderly, or veterans.Check with your organization to see if they offer in-house trainings on different populations, or if they recommend outside organizations that can help you.
 If you are on a call trying to manage a difficult situation, or if you feel like you are unable to be an effective helper for this caller, follow your organization’s protocol to get assistance. Remember that different people are more susceptible to different emotional triggers than others.


Keep your ego in check. Remember, it’s not about you, it’s about helping the caller survive. Do whatever you can to keep the caller safe, even if that means asking for help.
 Know that in your role as a hotline counselor, you will likely be exposed to many difficult situations. Understand you may even hear a person attempt and/or complete suicide over the phone. Your training will help you develop effective strategies to handle your own emotions while working on the hotline.Connect with other volunteers and supervisors on your hotline to prepare for difficult calls, and to for suggestions on how to take care of yourself after particularly traumatic calls.

