 To make your bag more interesting, consider using a shirt with an interesting print or graphic on the front. If the shirt is white, consider tie dyeing it first. This will make your bag more colorful and fun., To make the cut more even, fold the shirt in half first. This way, you will be cutting both sleeves off at the same time. To make longer handles, consider cutting a little bit below the sleeves.
 Try to leave 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) of space between the neckline and the sleeves. This will make your handles more durable.








To make your neckline more even, trace the curve using a marker and a bowl or plate first.
 Use a ruler or some other straight edge to make the line as even as possible. Remember that your shirt will stretch a little when you put things into your bag.
 These vertical lines will be your cutting lines to make a fringe. You will be knotting the fringe together to make the bottom of the bag.
 Be sure to cut through both layers of the shirt at the same time, so that your fringe is even. Do not cut past the horizontal line, however.









Be sure to cut the side seams going from the hem of your shirt up to the line you drew. This will create the first and last fringes., Tie the first top fringe to the first bottom fringe. Tie the second top fringe to the second bottom fringe. Keep doing this until you have knots all along the bottom of the bag.








The knots and fringe will be part of your bag's final design. If you don't want the knots and fringe to be visible, then don't turn your shirt right side out. This will keep the knots and fringe on the inside.
 Your bag will likely have tiny gaps between the knots. You will need to hide them, or your bag won't be able to hold small items. To do this, you will need to tie the first and second fringes together, the third and forth fringes together, and so forth, on both sides (front and back) of the bag.








If you are keeping the fringes on the inside of your bag, consider trimming them down, so that they don't get tangled.
 Turn your bag inside out. Cut the shoulders apart. Sew the front left shoulder to the front right shoulder. Sew the back left shoulder to the back right shoulder. Use ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowances. When you are done, turn the bag right side out.








