 Staying on beat is all about having rhythm. So you need to understand the basic block of rhythm -- the beat. A beat is how long to play a note or chord. It is what the numbers stand for when you hear someone count out "1 and, 2 and, 3 and, etc." So what's the difference? Compare, for a moment, the four most common beats for guitarists:










Quarter notes: the bread and butter, this is just a quarter of a measure. For example, "1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3, 4" is two measures of straight quarter notes.

Eighth notes: double the speed of quarter notes. This is when you hear the "ands," being used as a beat, such as in "1 and, 2 and, 3 and, 4 and // 1 and..." Guitarists usually alternate up and down strokes

Eighth-note triplets: This is a little weirder, but no less important. Count out three evenly-spaced syllables per beat -- "1 trip-let, 2 trip-let, 3 trip-let, 4 trip-let." The important thing to remember, when playing triplets, is to think of each set of three notes as one quick beat, not three separate beats.

Sixteenth notes: This is four evenly-spaced syllables, often counted out as "1 E and a, 2 E and a, 3 E and a, 4 E and a..." and is a quick, down-up-down-up strumming pattern. It often seems like it is just continuous up-down strumming., Even if you don't know any music theory, you know 4/4 time. It is the same rhythm you hear counted out -- "1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2..." -- when bands start a song or a music teacher helps their students. It is, by far the most common time signature.









In 4/4 time, there are four quarter notes. The first 4 is for the number of notes, the second for length. Thus, the 3/2 time would consist of three half notes, or "1..., 2... 3... // 1... 2... 3..."
Staying on beat means hewing to this 4/4 rhythm so that everyone counts out these four beats at the same speed, hitting them together., Many songs have what's called "double time," which is simply when you go from quarter notes to eighth notes (or any other doubling of speed) for your rhythm. Remember, however, that this does not change the length of a measure, it simply doubles the notes in the measure. Many players will not only play more notes, they'll play them faster, losing the actual beat. Whenever changing the length of the beats, remember to keep the rhythm the same.









This is way metronomes are so essential -- they can keep you on rhythm even when your strumming needs to change.
Think about keeping the same downstroke rhythm for each strum of double time. Each downstroke should be the same distance apart, but you add an extra upstroke in between to double the number of notes. This keeps the actual rhythm intact.
 Put on a backing track or a metronome and start counting out, "1, 2, 3, 4." Strum on each beat, playing out two measures. Then seamlessly transition to eighth notes for two measures, then triplets, then sixteenth notes. When done, work back down. One of the best ways to stay on beat is to practice changing these rhythms without speeding up or slowing down. If you can do that, you can play with any band out there.








