 There are a number of different paths you can take under the heading of Chartered Accountancy. Some of these include Chartered Accountant (Audit), Chartered Certified Accountant, Chartered Management Accountant, Chartered Public and Finance Accountant.These vary depending on the training emphasis you have, size of organization you work for, whether you work in management, and so on.


Ask yourself questions about the type of professional career you’d like. For example, what size firm would you like to work for? Do you want to have a private practice? Do you want to work for nonprofit organizations or for-profit businesses?
As you get more training and experience, you’ll get a better idea of the aspects you like and don’t like.;
, Enroll in a four-year accredited university program. Aim for a degree in accounting, economics, or business. If you already have an undergraduate degree, it doesn't necessarily matter if your degree is not in one of these subject areas. You will, however, need to take extra classes to hone your skills in numeracy and other accounting-related subjects.


Get good grades in your classes, especially in any math- or business-related classes.Alternately, some professional organizations will accept a 2-year accounting associate degree as a foundational education for an aspiring Chartered Accountant., If you have an undergraduate degree in a subject area unrelated to accounting or business, enroll in classes on accounting or economics at a local college. Courses might include accounting, taxation, finance, auditing, and statistics., Some accountancy programs offer programs that prepare you to start a CA training program. These programs give you education in specific subject areas to build your numeracy skills and other areas., In a CA training program, you will take classes to build your competencies in key subject areas, such as finance, taxation, financial accounting and law. These courses may be offered in person or online.


Some training programs, such as the program offered by Chartered Accountants Ireland, consist of courses that prepare you directly for the examinations. For example, in Ireland, you will register for the Chartered Accountant Proficiency 1 (CAP1) exam, which covers Finance, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, Taxation, and Law for Accountants.The syllabus for the course describes the learning outcomes and weighting for the course's exam.
Some programs are offered for working professionals who already have jobs and who have experience in the financial sector. Check with your local organization to learn more about the options for working professionals., A core requirement of the Chartered Accountant is to gain three years of professional experience with an approved employer. These employers are usually accounting firms or financial firms that are registered with the CA professional association in your region.


Search for placements in your region by checking with your CA professional association.
Apply for placements in your industry of choice.
If you want to work for an organization that is not authorized, you may be able to register your manager as someone who is authorized to evaluate your performance and growth. Check with your CA professional association to see if this is an option.
 Once you have been hired in your placement, you will work in this organization for 3 years in order to gain experience in the company. Some placements rotate you through different divisions of the company so that you gain exposure to several different lines of business., As you progress through your professional training, keep track of your achievements and competencies. At the end of your 3-year program, you will need to submit an evaluation of your competencies.


In some regions in Britain, this is called an Achievement Log. In Canada, it is known as the Record of CA Qualifying Experience (RQE)., If you are living in a country where you are not a citizen, you may need to get additional experience in that country to qualify to become a Chartered Accountant. Some of your home country experience will likely count towards your qualifications, but getting experience in the local context will be useful and possibly necessary.
 Some regions will test you incrementally. When you finish one phase of your education, you will be tested, and then you will progress to the next phase. There will also be final comprehensive exams, which often are three-day testing sessions.In Ireland, for example, you will take the Chartered Accountant Proficiency 1 (CAP1), Chartered Accountant Proficiency (CAP2), and the Final Admitting Examination (FAE). The CAP1 covers Finance, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, Taxation, and Law for Accountants. CAP 2 covers Audit & Assurance, Strategic Finance & Management Accounting, Taxation and Financial Reporting. The FAE is a comprehensive final exam., Do not try to wing it by coming into your exam unprepared. Also, don’t cram for the exam, thinking that you will absorb and retain all the information the day before the exam. Make a study plan that builds in plenty of time to study, working about a month out from your exam date.


Find a study partner to help you study. This could be someone else who is also taking the exam, or it might be someone who is already a Chartered Accountant.
Many work placements will give you some education leave so that you can take time off work to study for your exams., There are a number of practice tests for Chartered Accountancy exams available online. Check to make sure the practice tests are for your region and your exam, as the tests do vary from region to region.
 Make sure you know when to arrive for your exam. Be sure to check out the location where you will be tested. Map out your route for getting there so that you can arrive early and get settled before the exam starts.
 The night before your exam, be sure to get a good night’s sleep. Get about 7-8 hours of sleep. Try to relax as much as possible. If you are having trouble getting to sleep, try listening to some calming music.
 Fueling your body with a healthy breakfast will help you maintain focus and concentration throughout your exam.
 Different countries and accountancy organizations have different examination formats, but all require that you pass an evaluation to become a Chartered Accountant.


There are different score minimums that you must attain; for example, you must achieve a minimum of 50% on your exams in Ireland in order to pass.In Canada, for example,you'll take the Uniform Evaluation, which is a three-day, national exam that tests you on your competencies in responding to business simulations.
 Your region will likely have a professional organization for Chartered Accountants. Once you have gained your professional experience and you have passed your examinations, you are eligible to become a member of this organization.
 Once certified, chartered accountants are monitored and supervised by their home institute, and must comply with all rules and standards established by these organizations to retain their certification.
 Polish your resume, including your new training and certification as a Chartered Accountant. Send your resume and a cover letter to accountancy firms.


Alternately, you might be hired on permanently at the company where you had your professional placement.
 Locating someone who can serve as a mentor as you build your career can be helpful. This person might be a former supervisor or another contact you’ve made in the field. They can help you determine strategic career paths, help you connect with other professionals, and give you career advice.
 Build your professional contacts in your field by networking with other Chartered Accountants. Join LinkedIn and other social media sites to connect with professionals. Attend networking events held by your professional association.

