 The way you approach a rabbit makes a big difference. Approaching a rabbit too quickly or clumsily can startle the rabbit. Rabbits are friendly, but can be skittish. Approach with care.


Open the door to your rabbit's cage. Make sure you're in a closed, rabbit-safe room. Do not pick your rabbit up and force him out of the cage. Allow him to make the decision to leave the cage on his own.
Let your rabbit come to you first. Sit in the room with your rabbit and allow him approach you on his own. If you see him coming your way, then you can start approaching him as well.
Talk to your rabbit calmly as you approach him. Offer him praise and reassurance so he knows you are not a threat.Unless you need to move your rabbit somewhere, it's best not to pick him up until he knows you. Rabbits may feel restrained when held and take the gesture as a threat. Instead of picking up your rabbit, try petting him slowly between the eyes as you get close to him.;
, In your rabbit's eyes, you look like a giant. If you want him to feel comfortable in your presence, try getting down to his level. This will lessen some of your rabbit's fear.


Try playing with your rabbit in a closed-off, rabbit safe room. Lie down on the floor so you're about eye level with your rabbit.Allow your rabbit to come to you. Rabbits are curious by nature. Your rabbit may sniff you or climb on you. Don't be alarmed by these behaviors. They're actually a sign your rabbit feels comfortable in your presence., Do not try to rush the bonding process with a new rabbit. This will only serve to alienate your rabbit and reverse any progress you've made. Have patience and allow things to happen at their own pace.


Let your rabbit choose the pace of the socialization process. Do not try to approach him if he's uninterested in you. If he does not want to come out of his cage one day, don't force him.Rabbits are all different. Some will be social very quickly while others may take a few weeks or months to bond with their owner. It's very important you let your rabbit's unique personality control the bonding process. Rabbits have good memories and if you do something to scare them, like forcing them out of their cage, it may take them awhile to trust you again., Food can be a great tool to bond with your rabbit. If your rabbit associates you with positive experiences, like getting treats, he'll be more eager to bond with you.


Try feeding your rabbit pellets from the palm of your hand. When you're refilling his food dish in the morning, see if he'll take a few pellets directly from you before you fill his bowl.When playing with your rabbit on the floor, offer him treats like fruits and veggies. Some owners put a bit of food on their backs while lying on their stomachs. This encourages your rabbit to climb on you, allowing him to get comfortable in your presence., You want to make sure you know how to read your rabbit. This way, you can tell if you're bonding with him successfully. You should be able to tell when your rabbit's feeling content and safe and when he needs his space.


If your rabbit feels safe around you, he may flop down on the ground to rest. This is a sign of relaxation and general contentment. To show affection, your rabbit may lick you. If your rabbit spins in circles while making a honking noise, this means he's excited. If your rabbit spins and honks when he sees you, this a sign he's growing to like you.Rabbits grind their teeth both to show contentment and pain. A rabbit may grind his teeth when you're petting him, for example, if he's enjoying himself. However, pay close attention to the nature of the grinding as it can also be a sign of distress. If the grinding is loud and your rabbit's body is hunched up and tense, stop doing what you're doing. This is a sign your rabbit is upset.Rabbits may also growl to show anger. When annoyed, a rabbit may run away from you while kicking out with his back feet. In the wild, rabbits kick dirt at potential threats. If your rabbit is growling or kicking at you, it's a sign you're doing something to upset him.