 Often an interviewer will ask you a question to get more information about your personality, aptitude, and experience. Sometimes the question is aimed at learning something that isn't apparent. Think about the actual meaning behind each question before you give your response, and cater your answer to what they are actually asking., Blaming past coworkers for your own shortcomings could signal to the employer that you don't take responsibility for your actions and aren't a team player. Instead, talk about how their communication or management style didn't mesh well with yours, and emphasize how you were able to adapt and accomplish goals, even though this was so.If the interviewer asks "What did you dislike most about your last boss?" they want to understand your expectations of management and understand which management styles you have trouble working with.
You can answer "Tell me about your worst boss" by saying something like "I had a boss who communicated differently than me. I learned that you have to be able to adapt to different personalities if you want a project to get done on time."

, If they ask, "Why are you better than anyone else for this job?" they are looking to gauge your level of confidence and humility to see if you can fulfill expectations while still being a team player. Talk about your experience and why it makes you capable, but also talk about your passion for learning and getting better at your job.


You can say something like "I have a decade of experience, and I work well with other people. Also, you won't meet a person more passionate about this than I am."

, Sometimes an interview will contain specific questions regarding your industry. These questions are designed to see if you understand the current standards and practices of the industry as well as your experience level. Make sure to have a solid grasp of the specific technical and operational aspects of your potential job.Jobs where you may be expected to have an intimate knowledge of your industry include biotech, pharma, business, coding, IT, medical, design, and many more.
 Think of the goal of the interviewer and what they need out of a person to successfully fulfill the role. They also want to make sure that you would be a good team member and pleasant to work with. Think about what would benefit them the most, depending on what role they have in the company, and cater your answers to their role.For example, an HR manager wants to know that you can communicate well with others and can adhere to the company culture.
A director of a department will want you to communicate well and accomplish results in a safe and effective way.
An external recruiter will want to know that you have the experience for the job and are a good candidate to send to the employer.

