 It is going to take time for you to explore options, taste desserts, and ultimately place an order for your wedding dessert, so get started as soon as you can! Late summer and early fall are the most popular time for wedding desserts, so if your wedding falls during this peak season, get started early!Know the date of your wedding.
Figure out how many guests you need to serve.
Make a list of local dessert-makers you’d like to speak with.;
, A major factor in selecting the right wedding dessert for you will be based on how much money you wish to spend. Sit down with your fiancé and determine how much you are willing to spend on the dessert(s) for your wedding.Begin working out how much you will be spending on other aspects of the wedding, such as venue, dinner, etc.
Make some phone calls to local dessert-makers to get a scope of various dessert costs.
Arrive at the amount you are willing to spend on dessert.
 Consider the look, style, and vibe of your wedding, and select a dessert that fits.For a chic urban wedding, serve bon bons or truffles.
For a bohemian/outdoor wedding, serve locally-made pies.
For a Parisian-themed wedding, serve macaroons.
 Whipped cream, ice cream, meringue, and buttercream will all melt in hot weather. If you are having an outdoor wedding during the summer, stay away from these! Speak to dessert-makers regarding their recommendations for your specific climate and venue.Additionally, consider what access you will have to refrigeration.
 Cupcakes are perhaps the most popular non-traditional wedding dessert. Cupcakes are ideal because they are still essentially cake, however you can select a variety of flavors and icings, and they are far more cost effective than traditional wedding cake.Choose a cake flavor, such as white, chocolate, or red velvet.
Select a frosting flavor, like white, buttercream, or cream cheese.
Consider arranging the cupcakes in a “cupcake tower” that mimics the look of a wedding cake.
 Another cake-like dessert option that has been growing in popularity is cake pops. These small, round cake bites are covered in a candy frosting and mounted on a stick. Just like cupcakes, these enable you to select a variety of flavor options, but an added benefit to these snacks is that they do not require plates!Choose a cake flavor.
Choose a frosting flavor and color.
Determine how you will serve the cake pops. Will you mount them using a cake pop stand or lay them down on a serving plate?

, If you have access to refrigeration, consider creating a build-your-own-sundae bar. This economical choice enables you to select from a wide a variety of brands, flavors, and toppings. You can choice local or gourmet ice cream. The best part? You will not require the assistance of a baker.Select ice cream flavors, such as mint chocolate chip, chocolate, and graham cracker.
Choose toppings, such as whipped cream, chocolate sauce, and sprinkles.
Decide if you’d like you wait staff to serve the ice cream, or have guests serve themselves.
 Many people love donuts, and nowadays gourmet donut shops are popping up in cities in towns all over. Consider creating a tiered display full of donuts of different flavors and kinds.If you don’t enjoy donuts, you can do a similar thing with cookies of various kinds.
 Cheesecake is a delicious, savory dessert choice that many people enjoy. Plus, it can be made in a variety of flavors and with a variety of toppings, such as chocolate, raspberry jam, or fresh fruit. Serve traditional cheesecake slices, or opt for individual mini-cheesecakes., Many chocolate-lovers would rather bite right into a decadent piece of chocolate than to have the flavor diluted in a cake. If this applies to you, perhaps serving rich bon bons, truffles, or chocolates is the right choice for you! You can arrange these in a tower for a beautiful display., Ultimately, you do not have to choose just one dessert! You can create an entire dessert bar, where guests can pick and choose from a variety of items. If you have a few favorites you’d like to enjoy, this might be the best choice for you!Choose at least three items to stock your dessert bar.
You might like to try cookies, macaroons, brownies, or any of the other options mentioned above.
 Before you can decide which dessert (or desserts) to serve at your wedding, you will need to do some taste tests. Contact local dessert-makers and explain your ideas. Make appointments to speak with them and taste their wares.In most cases, you’ll need to provide the following information before you make an appointment:


The date of your wedding,
The number of guests you will serve.
The types of products you think you might want.
 Depending on the complexity and portability of your dessert choices, you may need to inquire about the delivery details. If your desserts will need to be assembled on site, you must make sure that the dessert-makers and/or wait staff have all the space and time they need to make everything perfect. Be sure to ask about any extra fees associated with delivery.Once again, if you will be serving heat-sensitive/perishable items, ensure that you have access to proper refrigeration.
 After you’ve spoken to a variety of dessert makers, tasted yummy treats, and weighed all of your options, it is time to make a final decision! If you’ll be employing a dessert-maker, place your order and put down a deposit right away.