 Imagine your whole body relaxing and as it relaxes, it turns into cloud, vapor, smoke, mist or energy. You may also generate a pleasant feeling instead if your mind does not easily visualise. It typically retains the same shape as your body, but it doesn't matter if it doesn't.
 Spend a few minutes allowing the whole body to be consistent - tensions and blockages may express themselves as solids or voids in the mists and movements or currents in the mist often represent energy flow in the body, but can also represent your state of mind and so a busy or anxious state of mind can create turbulent mist.


If you wish, you may imagine this cloud or mist draining out of you through your feet while fresh mist is flowing in through your head, flowing just like a gentle river and cleansing, healing and replenishing your entire body.
 This should be done until it fully clear, but you are still fully aware of the boundary of the energy as your normal space.


This can take some time, so it is best to be in no hurry for this kind of meditation. Take care that you base this energy on love or kindness, as the next stage will not happen unless you are able to love the entire universe and everything in it, which means letting go of any troubles you may be experiencing in your daily life now.
 You will know when it is right by a sense of complete harmony in the body. Gently and slowly allow it to expand to fill the space around you, the room around you, then your house, your suburb and so on until you fill the entire universe. Don't be in any hurry for this to happen, you will generally feel this expansion rather than telling yourself where you are now. It might take a long time before you can expand even to the end of your room.
 By filling the whole universe, you and the universe are becoming one, combining together. Spend as much time here as you wish.


Gather and share your energy with the stars, the planets and all beings. Sharing your energy gives you more energy.
 Thank the universe and gently start to contract back down until you fill your space again. Essentially you are reversing the process. Allow the energy to settle inside your lower dan tian. Allow your heart to be filled with a gentle gratitude and rest for a minute with your eyes closed. Then gently move your body, rub your face and head to stimulate energy and open your eyes.

