 Static splints support, protect, and straighten injured fingers by way of form-fitting piece of metal, plastic, etc. They are used in cases of trigger finger in order to hold a joint in place, regardless of whether it is just slightly bent or completely out of alignment. Since a proper fit is key to a static splint, it is best to accurately measure the length and diameter of the affected finger before choosing the splint.Static splints can be bought over the counter at pharmacies and supermarkets. They are made from basic metal, plastic and foam.
Please note (again): You should consult your doctor first before using a static splint for anything less than short-term protection. Among other benefits, the doctor can help ensure that the splint is the proper type, size, and fit for your injury.
 Straighten the injured finger by supporting it with the other hand. Slowly slide the static splint along the underside of the trigger finger until it fits into place.Make sure to check if the static splint fits completely and the finger is really straight. If the finger is slightly bent either forward or backwards, it can lead to the development of sores at the knuckle.
 Wrap the first piece of tape firmly once around in between the first and second knuckles of the trigger finger until the tape runs out.Repeat in between the second and third knuckle of the affected finger until the tape runs out.
 Do this by pinching the nail for about two seconds. If the nail returns to pinkish appearance within one to two seconds, then it has good blood circulation.


If it takes more than two seconds, the blood flow is insufficient because the splint is too tight. Removing and reapplying the splint is the best option.
 This is the average time it takes a trigger finger to heal. For some people it will heal in only two to three weeks time; it depends on the extent and severity of the inflammation in the tendons. Make sure to change the tape twice daily or as necessary.Depending upon your injury and your doctor's advice, you may only need to use the splint while sleeping/resting. This is more convenient, of course, but full-time splinting will likely provide better protection and healing.
When the splint and tape becomes soiled and dirty, replace it with a new one.
If trigger finger does not resolve after four to six weeks, you should contact your primary health provider for further assessment and management

