 In one teaspoon of olive oil, sauté your onions, carrots, and garlic over medium heat. You should cook the vegetables and garlic until they're slightly soft. This should only take about 2 minutes. It's not necessary to cook the vegetables until they're limp or caramelized., From here, the recipe is simple. You will add the cooked vegetables to the remaining ingredients. The meat, eggs, crackers, and spices should all be gently mixed together with the vegetables and garlic. Mix until all the ingredients are evenly dispersed throughout the meat., Cut your parchment paper into 2-inch wide strips. Cut out enough strips to fill each compartment of your muffin tin.Set a strip over each compartment of the tray.
Push the strips down so about two inches of parchment paper come up on the side of the muffin tray.
This way, you can easily remove the sections of meatloaf after cooking.
 Use your ice cream scooper here. Scoop out a generous portion of the meat loaf mixture. Fill each compartment of the muffin tray to the top with the mixture.After filling each compartment of the tray, round out the tops of each section of meatloaf using the back of your ice cream scooper. You want to form a dome-like top, something like a cupcake.
 If you want to add some flavor, you can use a cooking brush to brush a bit of barbecue sauce over the top of each section of meat loaf. However, this is optional. You may prefer meatloaf with less flavor.If you don't like barbecue sauce, you can use another sauce you feel would go well with meatloaf.
 Place the tray in an oven heated to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. You will need to bake your meatloaf for around 15 to 20 minutes before you can remove it from the oven. Make sure to let the meat loaf cool before serving it.To check if meatloaf has cooked through, use a meat thermometer. The temperature in the middle of the meatloaf should be at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit.
 You should always take precautions when handling raw meat. Wear plastic gloves as you're kneading ingredients into your meat. When you're done, dispose of the gloves.You should also make sure to wash utensils used to handle raw meat with hot water and soap.Be sure to clean off any kitchen surfaces that had contact with raw meat. It's best to use paper towels, which can be discarded. If you use cloth towels, wash them in the hot cycle of your washing machine after use.
 A lot of fat will rise to the top of your individual portions of meat loaf. Use a knife or a fork to scrape off any fat. This will cut down on calories, as well as things like saturated fat, making the dish healthier., If you're on a specific diet plan, you can use any meatloaf recipe to make meatloaf in a muffin tin. If you, for example, want something like low fat or paleo friendly meatloaf, simply make your regular meatloaf recipe and then cook the meatloaf in a muffin tin.Make sure to use a meat thermometer to assure the meat loaf is cooked throughout. Cooking times may vary depending on your recipe, and you want to make sure your meatloaf is safe to eat.
