 People tend to show you the very best of themselves during the early stages of a relationship. Chances are that your new partner isn’t going exhibit behavior towards you that reveals his or her tendency to blame others, to have a sense of entitlement, or view themselves as superior. However, you’ll have a better chance of observing the individual exhibit or communicate this type of behavior with others.Pay attention because if you don’t, you’ll probably be next.
 The blaming partner makes it appear that others are at fault for the negative feelings and misfortune. You’ll find yourself thinking that you are awesome compared to the other folks they’ve dated in the past.For example, your partner might say, “My last boyfriend was such a downer. We could never have an enjoyable outing. I’m so glad you’re not like them.”

, A partner with a sense of entitlement might make a statement such as, “With all that money I spent on my ex girlfriend on all those expensive dates, I deserved to have sex any time that I wanted it!”


Be aware that you will likely suffer emotional abuse from an entitled individual because they view their needs and desires to be more important than yours.
 A partner with a sense of superiority has the potential of being an emotionally abusive partner. They gain their feelings of superiority by making others appear to be inferior.For example, to show their superiority over a coworker, they might say, “He doesn’t deserve that promotion. He only attended some little university that know one ever even heard of. I graduated from an ivy league college, for goodness sakes.”

, Date rape occurs when the assailant and victim are familiar with each other in some way. There’s a very small number of men who commit the majority of date rapes. Typically, these men target women when they are most vulnerable, such as under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or when they are alone.When you are on a date, avoid drinking to the point of intoxication or being under the influence of drugs. It is best to never leave your drinks unattended to prevent your drink from being spiked with roofies, commonly referred to as date rape drugs.
Trust your instincts. Your instincts are there to protect you, so don’t ignore them. If you are uncomfortable about the place your partner is taking you or the way your partner is acting or behaving, get out of the situation. If you are in a secluded area, try and move to a place with other people, or call someone who can come and pick you up.