 This is one of the best ways to find a complimentary shade of blonde for you. If you try going blonde with the wrong shade, it could wash you out. Regardless of how light or dark your skin is, your skin tone can fall into either of the two main skin tone categories. Most people are either warm toned or cool toned, with very few people falling somewhere in the middle. Here are the best indicators for which skin tone you have:Cool skin tones usually burn in the sun and range anywhere from porcelain, rosy-beige, pink, olive, brown or ebony skin. The veins in your wrist will look bluish-purple and you will have a blue or pink undertone in your skin.Warm skin tones tan more easily in the sun and range anywhere from golden, peach, pale, or yellow skin. The veins in your wrist will look more bluish-green and you will have an olive undertone in your skin.Neutral skin tones are somewhere in the middle between cool and warm and may show characteristics from both sides. You will be able to choose almost any blonde shade if you have neutral skin so feel free to play around and see what works best for you., There are so many shades of blonde to pick from, and once you identify your skin tone, you can begin choosing.


For cool skin tones, choose a blonde that has an ash or green base to better compliment your skin. An example may be vanilla or dishwater blonde. Stay away from brassy shades because they may look harsh and wash you out.If you have warm skin, you want to look for blondes with red or golden bases. An example may be golden, caramel or rose gold blonde., If your natural hair color is more ashy or rich chestnut brown with no red, you should look for cool blonde colors. If your natural hair color reflects warm tones such as red or gold, then you may want to look for warm blonde colors. Keeping your natural hair color in mind will help your new blonde hair look more "natural".


For help seeing the undertones in your natural hair, try looking at your hair in the sunlight.
 You will have better color results if you pick a color that allows a deeper contrast between your skin and hair. The trick in choosing the right shade of blonde is to find an option that offers contrasts but still compliments your skin.Avoid picking a color that matches your skin tone too closely.
 Highlights are a great way to lighten your face. With highlights you get the same effect as being blonde but without all of the damage. Another great thing about highlights is that there is less upkeep. When your roots grow out, it will be less noticeable and will require less trips to the saloon. You can choose to have skinny or chunky highlights or decided if they will be all over, or framed near the front of your face.


Highlights offer a more "natural" looking appearance than all over blonde colors.
Highlights can add depth and texture to your hair which is especially great if you have hair on the thin side.