 Cube and Coroplast cages are probably the most popular type of cages for indoor guinea pigs. They are also easy to construct. To make one you will need storage cube grids, corrugated plastic called coroplast, and a box-cutter. These materials can be easily found and purchased at big-box stores like Costco, Target, or Kmart., Assemble the cube grids in a rectangle of your desired dimensions. Then, take the plastic grid connectors (these are small plastic ties) and connect the grids so that they are tight. You can make the cage even more sturdy by using cable ties, which are available at most hardware stores., You will need these dimensions in order to cut the coroplast, which will sit inside of the storage cube grids. You can measure with string if you'd like. Then, add 6 inches to the length and width to find your “cutting dimensions.” When you cut and insert the coroplast, these extra inches will give you a six-inch internal wall all the way around the cage.
 Use a tape measure, yardstick or long straight-edge, and pen to measure and mark the coroplast. Then cut it with the box cutter. A pair of heavy duty or even regular scissors will work, as well. Remember, the piece of cut coroplast should be to the size of the enclosure plus 6 inches on all sides.
 Now you can start to make your enclosure walls. Measure and mark 6 inches in on all sides to create the inner dimensions. Use a box cutter or razor blade to score the coroplast along the lines you made, but don't cut all the way through. You can practice on a scrap piece first. It is also much easier to score with the grain of the coroplast rather than against it.
 Cut in 6 inches each way at all four corners of the coroplast to create flaps. Doing so will allow you to snap up the edges and place the coroplast snugly inside of the enclosure. If you forget this step, it will not fit.
 Snap the edges of the coroplast upward from where you scored your lines to create your cage box. Then, tape the edges to make them more sturdy and secure. Make sure that you tape the outside, using two or more large strips of tape for extra strength.
 You now have a basic C & C guinea pig cage. The next step is to find a suitable location for the cage and to finish the living space with bedding, a food bowl, and a water bottle. Choose a place where there is fairly high traffic. Guinea pigs are social animals and benefit from human contact. Find a place with natural light but one that is not in direct sunlight, and also avoid drafty areas.