 This is typically located on the front plate of the disc drive, on the bottom-right.;
,, The tray's motor will typically handle the closing, unless it's a spring-loaded notebook drive.
 If you don't see this notification appear on your screen, you've already chosen an action to take when an audio CD is inserted.


If you want to change the program that opens automatically when a CD is inserted, you can do so from the Control Panel.
 You'll see the program that will play the CD displayed beneath. If you have multiple programs installed that can play audio CDs, you'll see them listed. Windows Media Player is the program that comes installed on all versions of Windows.
 If nothing happens when you insert your disc, you can start Windows Media Player yourself.


Press ⊞ Win and type "windows media player."
Click Windows Media Player in the list.
 The CD will begin playing, and you'll see all of the tracks appear in the center of the window.
 This will adjust the volume of the CD as it plays. Note that this volume slider is separate from your system volume. Make sure your system volume is set high enough to hear before adjusting the Windows Media Player volume.
 The process for this is a little different for Windows 10 and 8 versus Windows 7 and earlier:


Windows 10 and 8 - Right-click the Start button and select "Control Panel."
Windows 7 and earlier - Click the Start button and select "Control Panel" from the Start menu.
 If you don't see this option, click the "View by" menu in the upper-right corner and select either "Large icons" or "Small icons."

,,,,,, The actions you set will be the new default actions for when an audio CD is inserted into the computer.
 Make sure that the disc is label-up as you insert it.


Most Mac laptop computers have a slot for discs, while some Mac desktops have a slide-out tray.
, You'll see this along the top row of buttons in iTunes.
 The CD will begin playing.
 You'll see the volume slider at the top of the window next to the playback controls.


The iTunes volume slider is independent from the system volume slider. If your system volume is turned all the way down, adjusting the iTunes volume won't do anything.
 There are several ways to eject the disc on a Mac:


Press the Eject button on your keyboard.
Press ⌘ Command+E.
Click your desktop, then click File → Eject.
Drag the CD icon on your desktop into the Trash. This will only work if icons for discs are visible on the desktop.
 Some users of older versions of iTunes report audio CDs automatically ejecting, even though other discs work. This problem is usually solved by updating to the latest version of iTunes.,, If you don't see all of the System Preferences options, click the Show All button at the top of the window.
 You'll see this in the second section of the System Preferences menu.
, If you want the CD to start playing immediately in iTunes, select "Open iTunes."

, If you set iTunes to open when an audio CD is inserted, you can now set a more specific action for iTunes to take.
,,, You can choose to start playing the music, import the songs to your library, or display the contents of the CD.
 Audio CDs will now automatically play in iTunes when they are inserted.

