 If you work in an office, you might be looking for a way to show a little personality while still looking professional. Accessorizing is the perfect way to show off your style in a way that's tasteful and office appropriate. Accessorize any basic office neutrals with the following:


Stud earrings. As long as they don't hang too low, most earrings are office appropriate. If you have a big meeting, you might want to go with classic silver, gold or diamond studs, but for everyday wear, mix things up with a little pop of color.
Chic glasses. Black or tortoise shell wayfarer-style glasses will make you look smart and stylish at the office.
Colorful flats or kitten heels.
 With the right accessories, you can turn a standard sweater set and slacks ensemble into something with rockstar edge. In fact, the juxtaposition of the two looks is all the more interesting and fun. To amp up your basic sweaters, shifts or blouses, wear these:


Mixed metal jewelry. Try a stack of gold and silver bangles.
Studded jewelry. Wearing jewelry with thick metal studs or little spikes shows the world you mean business.
Bold eye makeup. Break out the black eyeliner and create a smoky eye to go with your goth jewelry.
Motorcycle boots. They look good paired with a dress or jeans.
 The place where you live might be completely land-locked, but that doesn't mean you can't look like you just spent your afternoon at the beach. Try these accessories to build a look that's free and breezy:


Colorful beaded necklaces or earrings.
A sheer, light-colored scarf you can use to block the sun or wind.
The perfect pair of sunglasses.
Rings made with natural stones.
 If you're going to an award ceremony, a formal wedding or another event at which you want to look your best, keep your accessories elegant and understated. These accessories pair well with formal gowns or cocktail dresses:


A string of pearls, diamonds, or other precious gems.
Small drop earrings or studs that match your necklace.
A slender matching tennis bracelet or simple chain.

