 Sometimes scary movies you watch can leave a lasting impression on you. As a result, you may develop chronic fear that is difficult to get over. If you began watching scary movies as a child or teenager, you are more likely to have long term anxiety and fear.Addressing your fears helps you develop courage and feel safe.Write down exactly what you are afraid and everything that is related to that fear.For example, if you are afraid of the dark, you may write that you are afraid of the dark, afraid of going to sleep, and are scared of having nightmares.
 One way to overcome your fear is to expose yourself to what you are afraid of. You should expose yourself in a safe, controlled environment. This teaches you to move through your fear and allow it to pass.For example, if you are afraid of Freddy Krueger, you may watch the movie every week. To control your environment, you could watch the movie in the daytime with some of your friends.
The more you expose yourself to something, you will develop more control and the movie will have less of an impact on you.
If watching the entire movie is too scary for you, start small and work your way up. Watch the movie for 15 minutes one week and then 30 minutes the next week. Continue to build until you can watch the entire movie.
 You may experience physical symptoms (e.g. racing heart, sweating, difficulty breathing, upset stomach, lightheaded, etc.) when you are afraid or anxious. Relaxation techniques such as deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, and aerobic exercise (e.g. walking, running, dancing, swimming, etc.) can help you feel calm and gain control.Try to find time to do relaxation techniques every day. You will see the best results if relaxation becomes part of your regular routine.
You can practice multiple relaxation techniques or stick to one that you really enjoy.
 Fear can cause you to have negative and irrational thoughts. It is important that you replace these thoughts with positive thoughts. If you do not counter these thoughts, your imagination may take over.If your negative thought is, "I am afraid dolls and stuffed animals are haunted," you may remind yourself that many people sleep near dolls and stuffed animals and are not harmed, and that you have never been attacked by a haunted doll.
If you developed a fear of taking showers when you were home alone, you may remind yourself of all the times you have safely taken a shower, and all of your friends and family members that shower safely. You would also remind yourself that you have never been attacked while you were taking a shower and that you have no evidence that it is unsafe for you to take a shower when you are home alone.

