 If you suspect your loved one is abusing drugs, speak to them about it. Do so in a non-confrontational manner. You don't want to scare them away or make them defensive. The best approach is to simply explain your suspicions and tell them you are concerned.You might say, "Justin, I found a bag of pills in your pocket when I was doing laundry. I've also noticed a few changes in you lately and I'm worried you're abusing drugs. Can you tell me what's going on?"

, Once your loved one admits to using drugs, you might simply request that they get help. You might say, "I will help you look up some treatment programs to help you get better" or something similar. If the person is unwilling to get help or denies that they have a problem, you may have to convince them through intervention., If your loved one is abusing drugs but doesn't want treatment, you need to try to convince them to get help. One way to do this is by planning an intervention, which involves close friends and family talking to the person together.Reach out to others who care about this person. You might say, “I’ve noticed a lot of alarming signs with Jacob lately. I think he might be using drugs. Will you join me in talking to him?”

, The best interventions are facilitated by a mental health or substance abuse professional. This person can guide you in preparing for an intervention. It may help to have this person present during the meeting to maintain perspective and offer their expertise.Contact local substance abuse treatment centers or mental health agencies to find someone in your area who facilitate interventions.
 Before you talk to your loved one, it can help to educate yourself about the different ways to treat drug abuse. The type of treatment your loved one needs will depend on how severely their drug use has affected their life and functioning. Some people may be able to recover from drug abuse through outpatient treatment, while others may require more intensive inpatient treatment.Research some treatment programs in your area. If you are working with a facilitator, they can probably supply your with resources. Go over the treatment options with other key people to decide on possible courses of action. Gather the information (e.g. brochures and contact numbers) and prepare to present it during the intervention meeting.
 The purpose of an intervention is to relay your concerns to a loved one who is abusing drugs. Each friend or family member will take turns expressing their love for the person and pleading with them to get help. You might also share ways the person’s drug abuse has negatively impacted you.For instance, you might say, “Jacob, you know that I love and care about you deeply. But, I’m worried. I’ve watched you spiral over the last few weeks and I see how your drug use is causing problems at school and in your relationships. I’d feel so much better if you got treatment.”

, Typically, loved ones present possible treatment options to the person and let them know that they expect them to get help. You might communicate consequences if the person refuses. If you set consequences, be sure that you are willing to enforce them, if needed.For example, you might set the consequence that your brother will be cut off from his inheritance unless he gets help for drug abuse.

