 In order to repair an exhaust leak, you will need to jack the vehicle up to locate it. Always jack vehicles up on flat, level surfaces to ensure the jack won’t topple over as you lift the vehicle. It is also important to ensure the surface is sturdy enough to support the weight of the vehicle beneath the jack.Black top or concrete are the best surfaces to jack up a vehicle on.
Never jack up a vehicle on an uneven surface or the car may fall off of the jack.;
, You won’t be able to work on the exhaust pipe of your vehicle until it has cooled down for a while. The exhaust gas that travels through the exhaust piping is extremely hot while the engine is running and it could take hours for the metal to cool enough to touch.Wait for a few hours then place your hand near the exhaust pipe to see if you can feel any heat radiating off the metal.
Touch the hood of your car. If it is still warm, the engine and exhaust are both still extremely hot.
 Once the exhaust is cool enough to work on, slide a scissor or trolley jack under one of the vehicle’s rear jack points. Once in place, either lift and lower the handle (trolley jack) or turn the handle (scissor jack) to jack the car up.Place jack stands beneath the vehicle to support its weight once it is jacked to the appropriate height to work on the exhaust pipe.
Never work beneath a vehicle without jack stands in place.
 If you aren’t able to easily identify the leak in the exhaust pipe, use the vantage point you gained jacking up the vehicle to visually inspect the piping and muffler. Look for signs of damage that may indicate a leak such a deep rusting, cracks, scrapes or holes.Bottoming a vehicle out can cause exhaust leaks by scraping on the road or puncturing the piping.
Rust can cause serious exhaust leaks if allowed to penetrate all the way through the steel.
 If you can’t find the leak in the exhaust pipe with a visual inspection, leave the vehicle jacked up and start the engine. With the engine running, you should be able to quickly and easily identify the source of the leak.Keep your hands away from any moving parts while working beneath a vehicle with the engine running.
Make sure the vehicle is in park (for automatic transmissions) or is in neutral with the wheels chocked (standard transmissions) before starting it while jacked up.
 If your exhaust pipe is severely rusted or has suffered extensive damage, it likely cannot be repaired and instead will need to be replaced. However, if the issue is a small leak or damaged muffler, you can patch the leak or replace the muffler using common hand tools.Small leaks can be repaired using exhaust tape or repair epoxy.
Seriously damaged exhausts may need to be cut off and replaced completely by a mechanic.

