 Begin talking about your daughter’s body as soon as she has questions. This will likely be as soon as she can talk. Have age-appropriate talks spaced out over your daughter’s life, instead of one, big “Period Talk.”You can talk to very young children about their body parts, and what various things are for. Provide more details as she gets older, always checking to make sure your daughter understands the information you’re giving her.
 Most girls get their period when they’re about 12 or 13, although some girls could get their period when they’re 9 or 10. Once your daughter hits these years, stock up on items for her kit. You don’t want to make a panicked, late-night pharmacy run with your daughter crying in the backseat., Avoid calling your period “the Curse,” or anything similarly terrifying. Your daughter should understand that this is something women experience naturally as they grow up. It’s an exciting sign that she’s growing up.Tell your daughter this definitely isn’t something she should be embarrassed about. Explain that all women and girls get their periods. In fact, because periods are part of becoming a mother, the survival of the human race depends on them!, Your daughter will probably have lots of questions for you. Some you’ll know the answers for, and some you won’t. Keep up a comfortable and open tone during this chat, and make sure your daughter knows that no question is a bad one.Common questions might include, “Why am I the first one of my friends to get my period,” “Can I still go swimming,” “How long does it last,” “Why does it happen,” or “Am I normal?”
Tell your daughter when she’s asked a question you don’t have an answer for. Use this as a chance to look for good, reliable answers together. You can go online, search in a book, or call your daughter’s doctor.
 Don’t just hand your daughter a book or a link to a video and think you’re done. She might not read or watch whatever you give her, and then you’re leaving her totally unprepared. Explore this stuff together and make it part of an experience that you share with one another.Some good options for books include Lynda Madaras’s What’s Happening to My Body? and My Body, My Self for Girls by the same author. American Girl also has a line of books called The Care and Keeping of You with good information.
 Your daughter might want to hear all about your embarrassing period stories, as this could make her laugh and feel more comfortable. She may also think this is weird, so let her tell you what she needs from you.Not all parents have had periods, and that’s ok! If your daughter wants to talk to someone who’s had a period, and that person isn’t you, put her in touch with a friend, family member, or doctor. By doing this, you’re still giving your daughter the support she needs, and she’ll know it came from you.

