 Put your best foot forward and showcase all of your best qualities. Remind them of all the things they used to love about you. Think about your best attributes and let them shine! The person may have told you what they loved about you in the past, like your smile, your wit, or your compassion. Make extra effort to bring these traits forward. Being your best self will show them how irresistible you are.For example, if you tend to be a funny person and they enjoyed your humor, reach out with a joke or silly story.
If you don’t know your best attributes, write out the characteristics you think you embody. For example, you might write kind, thoughtful, sincere, forgiving, funny, caring, generous, intelligent, and open-minded.
 Eye contact is important for creating a connection with somebody else. Most importantly, you must learn how to make proper eye contact. There is no “right way” to make eye contact overall. Instead, tune in to the person’s eye contact. Do they make frequent eye contact, meet your eyes then look away, or maintain a steady gaze? Mimic their style so that they feel connected to you.For example, if the person likes to make constant eye contact, they may think your fleeting eye contact is dismissive, while someone who prefers less eye contact might find your steady gaze intimidating.
 It’s hard to get someone’s love if you’re only texting or emailing. Spend time together away from talking about what went wrong or is going wrong. Do activities you know you enjoy. Remember their favorite restaurants and movies and find activities that allow you to spend time doing fun things together.You don’t need to travel to a tropical island to reconnect. Just do something that helps you spend time and feel close, like taking a walk or a hike.
Show your thoughtfulness by recreating activities that you’ve done together in the past that have been memorable and enjoyable. For example, go back to a special restaurant or rent the first movie you watched together.
 Make a point to have fun in each other’s presence. Plan fun activities to do together. Reach out to the person and invite them on a fun activity, like going ice skating or seeing an improv show. Do activities that bring out a fun and loving side to both of you. Talk about things that make the other person laugh or smile.


Be intentionally silly or playful.
Remind them of how much fun you have together.

