 Frequent, loud snoring may be a sign of sleep apnea--particularly if your snoring is punctuated by pauses followed by choking or gasping. Sleep apnea causes shallow, interrupted breathing, and keeps people from slipping into the deep REM sleep that restores their energy for each coming day. About 1/2 of people who snore loudly suffer from sleep apnea.You may be suffering from sleep apnea if, in addition to snoring, you are abnormally sleepy during the day. Your reflexes and your concentration may be impaired.Bear in mind that some of these symptoms can sprout from many other roots.
Sleep apnea is treatable. Identify the symptoms and speak with your doctor.
 The drugs that you're ingesting might be making your snoring worse. If you are not sure, ask your doctor.
 Snoring tends to worsen as you age. Many of the above solutions still apply to elderly snorers.


As you reach middle age, your windpipe becomes narrower, and you gradually lose muscle tone in your throat. You may be able to reverse this effect by performing throat exercises.
 There is a strong link between snoring and diabetes: people with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) are nine times more likely to suffer from diabetes., These "dental appliances" are designed to prevent your soft throat tissues from relaxing to the point that they obstruct the airway.


Some devices bring your lower jaw forward, some lift the roof of your mouth, and some stop the tongue from falling back over your windpipe.Be wary about commercial sleep aids. Ask your doctor about the risks, costs, and benefits, and make an informed decision about whether an anti-snoring mouthpiece is right for you.
 These devices use the power of your breath to create a gentle pressure that helps keep your respiratory passages open.


Again, be wary about commercial sleep aids. Ask your doctor about the risks, costs, and benefits, and make an informed decision about whether an EPAP device is right for you.
 Before you purchase an expensive valve or mouthpiece, try to identify any habits or environmental factors that may be causing you to snore. Refer to the "quick lifestyle fixes" at the top of this page and try to solve the root cause of your snoring problem.

