 The side of a cereal box can make a small box for home use. Use corrugated cardboard for a sturdier project, or make a larger, decorative box from scrapbooking paper or cardstock.If you have a specific size of box in mind, cut the cardboard to fit:


A piece of cardboard makes a square box with sides ¼ the original length. For example, a 12 inch long piece of cardboard will make a 3" x 3" box.
The width of the cardboard forms the height, base, and top of the box. For example, if you want to make a 3" x 3" box out of a 12" x 9" piece of cardboard, you'll use 3" of the width to form the base and top, and the remaining 6" will form the height of the box.;
, It's easier to decorate the box before you start cutting and folding. One easy way to do this is to use a piece of wrapping paper about ½" (1.25 cm) larger than the cardboard on all sides. Glue this onto the cardboard with strong glue, then fold over the edges of the wrapping paper and glue them onto the other side., This forms a small "glue flap" that you will later fold over and glue down to help keep the four sides together. The glue flap can be as wide as 2 inches (5 cm) for a large shipping box, or about ¼" (6mm) for a small art project., Use a ruler to measure the length of the cardboard, ignoring the glue flap. Mark it at each ¼ of the length, then use the ruler as a straightedge to draw parallel lines through these marks. This should divide the cardboard into four equal sections, that will form the four sides of the box.


If you want a rectangular box instead of a square one, use sections with two different measurements. For example, to make a 4" x 2" box, divide the cardboard into a 4" section, a 2" section, another 4" section, and another 2" section, in that order.
 Place the ruler along the lines you just drew and press along them to make them easier to fold. Use a utility knife for extra thick material such as corrugated cardboard, using light pressure only. Use a bone folder or empty ballpoint pen for medium-weight material such as posterboard., Fold the sides inward from both ends to form a stack, then unfold. This creases the paper for easier folding later.


Bend thick material so the cut score is on the outside of the box. You can bend medium-weight material either way., Divide the length of one box side (the distance between two lines) by two. Measure this distance from one edge of the cardboard and draw a line width-wise at this point, running across the lines you folded. Measure the same distance starting from the opposite edge and draw a second line.


For example, if you are making a 3" x 3" box, divide 3" by 2 to get 1.5". Arrange the paper so the creased lines run vertically. Draw one horizontal line 1.5" from the bottom edge, and a second horizontal line 1.5" from the top.
If your box is not square, you can use either side of the box for this calculation. Using the longer side will give the box a sturdier base and top. Using the shorter side will make a taller but weaker box.
 Cut along the vertical "side" lines until you hit the horizontal "flap" lines. This should leave you with four flaps along the top and four along the bottom.


Score and crease these as before if using thick cardboard.
 Bend the four sides to form the frame of the box. Fold the narrow glue flap over the edge of the side and tape or glue it down., Tuck the flaps on one side together, so each one overlaps the flap next to it. Reinforce this base with tape.


If you are storing lightweight objects, you can just close the flaps together without trying to tuck them into place. Reinforce this simple fold with tape on the inside as well as the outside, to prevent the flaps from poking up.
 Tape the top as well if you are making a decorative box, or if you've put something inside for shipping. Otherwise, just leave them tucked together for easy opening.
