 Drama llamas will cause drama. Also be aware of a very suggestive man.
 At the very top of the page should be your username, followed by a small face. If you click your username, it will bring you to your profile.


Profiles tell how old a person says they are, what languages they speak, their gender, and their last login time. If you scroll down, you will see the person's edited profile, their oekakies, diaries, Picstream, and clubs.



Profile views - How many times your profile has been looked at.
Kidnapped Oekakis - How many times people have 'kidnapped' your oekakis, or displayed them on their profile.
Friends List - How many people have you on their friends list.
The link will show the people that have you, and what they wrote about you(If anything)
Blacklist - You can blacklist someone if you don't wish to speak with them.
Subscribers - How many people have subscribed to your writings / drawings.
Invites - How many people have written you as their invite to kupika.
 The Kupipoint count is to the right of your username. Kupipoints are commonly used to buy VI, make oekakis, change your avatar, and request others to draw you an oekaki.
 Kupicredits need to be bought. They help out Aris(known by his Kupika name, Hina.) financially.
 The "My Friend's" link will show all of your friends

, Kupichat is an Instant Messaging like device to talk to other users. There is a limit on how many you can send.
 Letters and messages are along the same lines, except messages disappear after 14 days, and letters are always there. They are the two main ways of communicating with people.
 VI, or items, are bought at a store with Kupipoints. On another person's profile, you have the option to send items to them.
 Kupipages are like your own web page. You can make multiple ones. They can be pictures of you, your favorite pictures from photobucket, games, elouai contests, layouts, a story, or whatever you please.
 Diaries can be viewed by only you, only your friend, or the whole community. They, also can be about anything you please, however they will not recurringly show up on the "Diaries" page like Kupipages do.
 Oekaki is the drawing program that may make or break you. Most popular people on Kupika are artists.

