 The first step to studying harder is to create a study space for yourself. Studying in the same space each day is effective because your mind will learn to associate a particular space with work. It'll be easier to get into the flow of studying when entering your study space.


Students who spend time struggling to find a space to study often waste valuable time. Having a space you go every day to study is helpful.Choose a study space that is free of distractions. Find a space away from television and other noises. You should not study in bed or on the couch. Choose a place with a desk where you can sit upright to work.Make sure the space is set up for what you need. If you need to prepare a class project with lots of small pieces that must be arranged, a large, uncluttered space with a worktable will be best. If you just need to read your textbook, a cozy chair and a cup of tea may be just fine.;
, Once you've found a great space to study, create a study schedule for yourself. Having a regular study sessions will help you avoid procrastination and stick to your goals as a students. You should start planning your study schedule as you get your course syllabus -- that way, nothing will sneak up on you.You should strive to prioritize studying. Place study time ahead of extracurricular or social activities. Try to study shortly after class or school each day.Schedule study sessions at roughly the same time each day. Having a regular schedule can help you stick to studying on a regular basis. Put these sessions into your calendar, just as you would a dentist appointment or soccer practice.Start slow. At first, keep your study sessions between 30 and 50 minutes. After you've gotten used to this duration, push yourself to study for longer periods. However, stop to take short breaks occasionally. Studying for hours on end can cause stress. Take 10 minute breaks as you study.Don't go longer than 2 hours without a break., Studying without direction is not an effective way to learn and retain information. Go into each study session with specific goals in mind to try and make the most out of your study session.Keep your overall academic goal in mind. Branching off of that goal, break it down into manageable chunks and focus on each chunk per session.For example, say you have to memorize 100 vocabulary words for your Spanish final. Aim to memorize 20 words per session over the course of 5 study sessions. Make sure to review old words at the beginning of each new study session to make sure the information stays fresh in your mind.