


You will need to figure out the placement of your bathtub or shower, sink and toilet. This will determine where you will need to run the plumbing lines.
You will have to cut holes in the floor so that you can run the pipes to the fixtures, so determining the exact placement is important.
Locate and carefully mark all cut points and drill points
Measure again to make sure your markings are accurate. "Measure twice, cut once" may be an old saw, but it still has teeth.
Do all the cutting and drilling necessary. You want to do the prep work before you turn off the water, to minimize your "dry" time.;
,


Before doing any work on your plumbing, you will need to turn off the bathroom water lines. Locate the water valves and turn them off.



You will need to run 5 water lines into a standard bathroom: a hot and cold line for both the bathtub/shower and the sink, and a cold water line for the toilet.
You can either run these lines through the wall or up from the floor, depending on the location of your bathroom.
Attach flexible lines from the hot and cold waters line to the sink and bathtub faucets.
Using sandpaper, clean the copper pipes to make them smooth, and then solder the lines to the main water line.










For your bathroom, you will need multiple sizes of drain lines. The drain line for the toilet should be either a 3 inch (7.62 cm) or 4 inch (10.16 cm) line. After you attach the pipe to the toilet drain, the pipe should slope downwards toward the main drain line. The sink drain line will be 1.5 inches (3.81 cm) and the bathtub will use a 2 inch (5.08 cm) drain line.
 Toilets usually come in 2 pieces: a tank and a bowl. Start by installing the bowl.









Connect the closet flange from the waste pipe to your toilet. To do so, glue the closet flange into place so that the slots line up with the toilet's bolt holes.
Set the bowl over the bolts and on the flange. You may want to sit on the toilet and rock back and forth a bit to get it on correctly.
Check if the bowl is level, and then tighten the nuts and the washers of the closet bolts.
Attach the toilet's tank to the bowl using nuts.
Connect the water line and then caulk around the base of the bowl to secure the toilet.
 Start by positioning the stand to do a test fit.









Mark where the floor bolt should go and drill a hole through the sink stand and fasten it to floor using a nut and bolt.
Connect the sink to the hot and cold water lines. Also connect the handles, stopper and drain to the top portion of the sink.
Set the sink onto the stand and glue an adapter with threads to the drain pipe.










Mark the outline of the tub on the floor so that you can estimate where the drain will be.
Run the drain line and dry fit it.
Once you have it lined up, glue the waste line to connect to the tub's drain.
Set the tub and check that it is level.

