 Add 2 cups (473 ml) of heavy cream and 1 cup (237 ml) of chai tea latte flavored creamer to medium saucepan. Heat the mixture on medium heat until it begins to simmer.You’ll know that the mixture is simmering when small bubbles begin to appear near the edges of the pan.
 Add 5 egg yolks and ¾ cup (150 g) of sugar to a medium bowl. Use a whisk to blend the two together until the mixture is thick and pale yellow.To separate the egg yolks, crack the eggs against a flat surface, such as a countertop. Break them into two halves over a bowl, allowing the yolk to fall into the lower half. Move the yolks back and forth so the white drips into the bowl below, continuing the process until you’ve removed all of the egg whites.
 After you’ve combined the egg yolks and sugar, slowly add a small amount of the hot cream mixture into the bowl. Be sure to whisk the mixture the entire time that you’re adding the cream.Adding a small amount of the heated cream to the eggs helps temper them, or raise their temperature, so they don’t cook when you add them to the full cream mixture.
 Once the egg mixture is tempered, pour it into the rest of the cream mixture. Whisk the mixture constantly to help prevent the eggs from scrambling., When the entire egg mixture is added to the cream, turn down the heat to medium-low. Allow the mixture to cook until it thickens, which should take 5 to 10 minutes.You’ll know that the mixture is thick enough when it coats the back of a spoon that you lift out of it.
 When the mixture has thickened up, take the pot off the heat. Pour the mixture through a sieve into a bowl to strain any solids from it., After you’ve strained the custard, add the zest from 1 orange to the mixture. Stir well to ensure that it is fully incorporated.Adding the orange zest is an optional step. You can let the chai flavor stand on its own if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed in the orange zest, transfer the custard to a popsicle mold. Place the mold in the freezer, and allow the popsicles to set up for an hour.If your popsicle molds have built-in sticks, you can just freeze the pops for 4 to 5 hours until they are fully frozen and skip the next step.
 If your mold doesn’t have built-in sticks, take the pops out of the freezer after an hour. Place wooden sticks in the center of each pop and return the mold to the freezer until the popsicles are fully set, which should take another 3 to 4 hours., When the pops are set, run the outside of the mold under warm water to help loosen them. Gently take them out by the stick and serve them.Leave any popsicles that you don’t eat in the mold in the freezer until you are ready to serve them.

