 They should all be of the same size and preferably the same color.;
, Untwist the hanger shape and start pushing it into a circle. This will take some effort on your behalf, and it's a good idea to wear gloves, to avoid accidentally cutting or poking yourself with the wire.
 Cut off the hanger hook using wire cutters or tin snips. Discard this portion with care.



Arrange the circles within each other so that they create quarters like an orange, spaced at even placements around the ball you're now creating.
You will probably need to slightly bend some of the circles to fit inside the others; always try to keep the circular shape as true as possible.
 It can help to stand back from the project at this point.
 Weave over, under and around each of the crossover sections of the wires of the whole sphere. Be generous with the amount of wire you're using; the sphere needs to be stable and strong to hold the lights.


Tie/wind off each woven end neatly and firmly so that it won't unravel.
 Press down on it gently at various positions to ensure that none of the circles can move or slip. When you're satisfied this works, move on to the next step.
 Weave in and out, around and around, covering all of the wire divisions making up the ball.


If the Christmas light ball is to be located outside, use lights suitable for outdoors.
You may need more than one set of lights, either for fullness or even for interesting color variations.
 Make attachment points regular down each wire line of the ball.


If the ball is for outdoor use and you're using tape, ensure that it is heavy-duty outdoor tape.
 It can be used in various ways, depending on its size, indoor or outdoor use or need. Some examples include:


Place inside a plant container and put along a pathway or at your front gate entrance.
Place inside an interesting bowl and use as a centerpiece.
Place direct on the ground or snow outside.
Hook some wire or rope at the top and hang it from a rafter, a tree branch or some other high area indoors or out.


However you display it, don't forget to account for the need to place the cord somewhere and plug it into electricity or a generator.

