 If you have clogged pores that are leading to breakouts, exfoliate your skin at least three times a week to release the bacteria and thoroughly clean your skin. Choose a gentle exfoliating cleanser that won't further damage your skin.Exfoliation is just as important for body acne as it is for facial acne. If you break out on your back, buy a sponge or loofa with a handle so you have the reach to exfoliate your back properly.
It's important not to over-exfoliate your skin, since that can cause micro-tears and abrasions on the surface of the skin and lead to more serious irritation.
 Benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid are effective spot treatments that can help dry up acne and reduce the duration of a breakout. However, it's important not to overdo it.Read the label of any spot treatment you buy carefully, and follow the dosage instructions carefully.
Remember that these drugs are drying agents, and will dry out your skin. In most cases, you'll need to combine them with a moisturizer unless you want to cause other skin problems when your skin responds to the dryness by producing more oil.
Use a spot treatment as just that – dab it on individual zits, but don't slather it all over your face.
 If your skin has already erupted, or if you're acne-prone, a gentle medicated cleanser can help keep your skin clear. Use medicated cleansers during your shower immediately after your workout.When you lather up with a medicated cleanser, step out from under the water and let the product sit on your skin for five minutes. You may want to gently massage it in using a circular motion – don't just scrub your skin up and down.
After five minutes, thoroughly rinse all the lather. Pat yourself dry after your shower, and follow up with a light moisturizer.
Avoid using medicated cleansers every time you shower, as it can lead to excessive dryness. Only use them during the shower immediately following your workout.
 If you've eliminated irritants and are taking good care of your skin, and yet you still continue to breakout, something you're eating might be the culprit. This is particularly true if you've recently made significant dietary changes.For example, whey protein may cause some people to break out. If you didn't have any problems with exercise-related acne until you started drinking a whey protein shake before each training session, that may be why you've started breaking out. Discontinue the whey protein for a week or two and see if you notice any changes.
Various performance enhancers and supplements also can contribute to acne. This is particularly true of those that may create hormone imbalances.
You also should evaluate the types of foods you're eating. Some foods, particularly greasy foods, are thought by some to contribute to acne.