 Planting the climbing roses earlier in the season gives them ample opportunity to establish a sturdy root system before winter. You can technically plant them in the early fall, as well, but roses planted in the fall may not be as strong the following season.;
, Roses generally prefer full sun, so the spot you plant them in should receive an average of at least six hours of sun per day. A spot that receives early morning sun from the east is generally better than one that gets hot afternoon sun from the west.Choose a spot with plenty of space. Climbing roses tend to overtake the space that they grow in, so they should be positioned away from trees, shrubs, and other plants.
Soil near walls and fences tends to be dry and low-quality. If you want to plant the rose within 1 foot (30 cm) of one, replace the soil with an even mix of quality topsoil and well-rotted compost or manure., Roses suffer from "replant disease," meaning they may struggle or die if planted in soil where another rose plant grew.Remove 6 inches (15 cm) of topsoil and replace it with soil from another part of your garden. For best results, mix the new soil generously with compost and allow to settle for 2–3 weeks.

You may use the displaced topsoil to grow any plant besides roses.
 Roses need light, well-draining, nutrient-rich soil. Chop the soil in the plant bed up using a trowel or shovel and mix several handfuls of compost into the soil. Mix enough in that ⅓ to ½ of the plant bed consists of organic material.


Skip this step if you already replaced the soil.
 Climbing roses are often planted as bare root plants, without any container or ball of dirt. Before planting a bare root plant, soak in a bucket of lukewarm water for about an hour. Remove any leaves or hips from the stems, and prune long or damaged roots.



Sanitize pruning shears before each use to prevent the spread of plant diseases.
 A good rule of thumb is to make the hole about twice as wide as the actual plant. Usually, this means that the hole needs to be about 18 inches (46 cm) wide and 12 inches (31 cm) deep.
 Scrape soil from inside the hole to form a small bump or hill.


Some rose growers like to sprinkle rose fertilizer, bone meal, or other nutrients at the base of the hole. Do not use fertilizer on plants with young roots, as it can burn them. Other soil improvements should be based on the specific qualities of your soil.
 Sit the plant on the peak of the mound and carefully spread the roots out down the sides of the mound. (If your plant has a root ball, just spread out the roots growing around the outside.) Check the location of the graft union — the knot or ball where the root system was attached to the base of the trunk. Lay a tool handle flat from the edge of the hole to the trunk, and compare this with the level of the graft union:


If you have dense or clay-heavy soil, plant the graft union about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the soil surface to prevent rotting. Adjust the height of the mound as necessary.
If you have light, loamy soil, plant the graft 1 inch (2.5 cm) below ground level.
 Fill the hole to the brim with water and let drain. Keep an eye on the water level. Continue to the next step as soon as it finishes draining, to prevent the roots drying out.
 Add soil back in the hole, until the roots are fully covered and the soil is level. As you fill, tamp down with your hands gently. Do not tamp with your feet or tools, as densely packed soil could harm the roots or interfere with the rose's growth.


Pay special attention to tamping early on. Make sure there are no air pockets around the roots.
Make sure the crown of the plant is above the soil level. The crown is the point on the trunk where the stems emerge.

