 Gold eyeshadow, clothes, shoes, and jewelry will make you look "heavenly". Gold is a very rich colour, so only set courses - otherwise, you will look a bit overdone. White is a very "pure" color; it is the key to appearing angelic. Silver will give a very angelic and soft look; you can wear more silver jewelry without looking overdone.;
, Also, be sure that the clothes are very feminine. Some choices are loose, flowy skirts and dresses; shirts embellished with designs of hearts, stars, or flowers; glittery (but subtle) articles of clothing; silky or satin fabrics, etc. The most "heavenly" colours are white, gold, silver, rose, lavender,light pink and light blue.
 Angels, unless infants, do not expose a lot of skin, as they symbolize purity. This doesn't necessarily mean you can't wear anything that flatters your figure, just avoid things too revealing or tight. There's a world of difference between the two.
 As mentioned above, gold and silver jewelry is best for you, mostly silver. Wearing jewelry with angel wings on them will let you look MUCH more like an angel! Also, cute ribbons, flower clips, or other accessories in pastel colours will grant you a very cute and feminine look. However, if you're an adult, avoid using clips for six year olds at places like Justice or Claire's and find accessories that are age-appropriate.
 A conventional angel would have a natural hair color, but subtle highlights can give it a sunkissed glow. Just make sure your hair is healthy, shiny and clean.
 Make sure your face has a healthy, rosy glow, you have moisturized legs & body, pearly white teeth, healthy eyes, soft lips, smooth nails, etc.
 It will add a nice touch to your new look. Smile as much as you can, but don't force it or else it you can come off as creepy.
 Thank people often for the things they did for you. Angels are not vulgar, so mind your language. If a cuss word does slip out (it happens to all of us), just tell others to excuse you and carry on. They will be able to drop the subject as long as you do as well.
 You don´t have to be a genius or straight A student, but you should make grades a priority and try to go to college. Take it from me, by the time you get to college, nobody will care about the grades you got in school. Just remember that being angelic, feminine and innocent don't translate into being an idiot! Nothing is more depressing than a smart person acting like an idiot on purpose to change their personality or impress someone.
 Without a kind, warmhearted, caring, and helpful personality, your angel look won´t work. Be nice, open, honest, and polite to the people around you, and avoid any fights or conflicts. If you are angry, stay calm, but voice your opinion! The most important traits of an angel are sincerity, a loving heart, calmness, forgiveness, and maturity- try to exhibit these as much as possible. It may be easier for some than others, but it's worth the effort since all of these traits make one really likable and even good role models.

