 Electrical impulses in the heart direct the heart beat. The normal heartbeat is about 60 to 100 beats per minute (about 100,000 beats a day). When the electrical impulses are disturbed and do not work properly, it causes heart rhythm problems.


The heart can beat too fast (tachycardia) or too slow (bradycardia) or it can beat irregularly (atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation), these abnormalities in the normal rhythm of the heartbeat are known as heart or cardiac arrhythmias.
This condition can be harmless if palpitations occur occasionally, but there are instances that the signs and symptoms persist for a long period of time that cause discomforts to an individual and could be life threatening.;
, A heart arrhythmia may not demonstrate any symptoms. The health care provider can only discover an abnormality in the heart beat upon performing physical examinations. The doctor will take the pulse, listen to the heart and perform certain diagnostic exams to detect abnormalities in the heart rhythm. If symptoms develop in heart arrhythmia it may include:


Palpitations or irregular heartbeat. This occurs as a result of the disturbance in the electrical impulses of the heart.
Shortness or difficulty in breathing. Disturbance in the electrical impulses of the heart affects its pumping action, therefore, unable to supply blood to the vital organs such as the lungs. Without sufficient blood, the lungs cannot perform its function well.
Chest pain. Because the heart is not pumping enough blood to the vital organs, pain receptors near the heart sends signal to the brain and a burning, sharp or heavy feeling in your chest are felt.
Dizziness, mental confusion, lightheadedness and fainting spells. Because the heart is not pumping enough blood to the vital organs such as the brain, the level of consciousness of the person is altered.
 A fast or slow heartbeat does not necessarily indicate an abnormality in the heart rhythm. The heart rhythm can be affected by anxiety, activity and medications. Heart arrhythmias can be caused by:


Heart disorders. Endocarditis, myocarditis and rheumatic fever can damage the heart and its valves that affects the proper functioning of the heart.
Fluid imbalance. Dehydration or depletion of potassium or other electrolytes may trigger the development of cardiac arrhythmia.
Certain medications. Some drugs including digitalis, stimulants, and diuretics, as well as overdoses of cocaine, marijuana or antidepressants can lead to cardiac arrhythmia.
Heart attack. This medical condition causes injury to the heart.
Healing process. Surgery involving the chest and heart can affect the rhythm of the heart as it undertakes healing.
Thyroid gland disorders

, The risk factors for arrhythmia include:


Advancing age
Excess consumption of caffeine or alcohol
High blood pressure
Kidney disease
Smoking
Stress

