 Concrete can be difficult to paint. It must be treated so paint will stick to it, and painting should only be done within a specified temperature range and dry conditions.


Test the humidity in your basement by taping a piece of plastic onto the floor and letting it sit for 24 hours. If condensation appears on the plastic, moisture is seeping through the floor.
Moisture appearing on the outside of the plastic means the room is too humid. Use a dehumidifier to make conditions right for painting.
Water on the underside of the plastic means the moisture is making its way through the concrete. Clean out your gutters and downspouts to help alleviate this problem.
Don't paint your basement floor if room temperature exceeds 90 degrees F (32.2 degrees C) or is 40 degrees F (4.44 degrees C) or colder.;
, A concrete floor must be properly readied to ensure that the paint will adhere to it.


Move all furniture out of the area that will be painted. The heavy-duty paint you'll use to paint your basement floor contains a chemical component that requires timely application. You'll have to paint the entire room at once, so furniture must be stored elsewhere.
Sweep the floor, including baseboards. Make sure no dirt of debris will ruin your paint job.
Use a degreasing agent as needed to remove oil and other substances from the surface.
Scrub the floor with a detergent and water mixture, using a heavy brush. Your floor must be free of grime for the paint to stick.
Mop the entire floor with clean water and let the surface dry.
Repair cracks or other imperfections in the floor using a concrete patch kit and trowel. Kits are available at home-improvement stores.
 By taping off the perimeter of the floor, you can complete the job faster.
 Epoxy floor paints are ideal for concrete floors. They're scuff-resistant, adhere well to concrete, and are easy to use.


Mix your epoxy floor paint with a catalyst. The catalyst makes the paint harden quickly, so once you mix the paint, you'll want to get started on the job.
Cut along baseboards and fixtures with a brush.
Use a roller to paint the rest of the surface area. Paint from the far corner back.
Allow the surface to dry thoroughly before laying down a second coat. Remember to mix your epoxy with a catalyst each time you paint a concrete floor.

