 Creating a relapse prevention plan is a crucial component of taking control of your urge to steal, as well as preventing stealing in the future.The first step in relapse prevention planning is to identify the past issues you have had with stealing.


You can use the information you wrote down during the writing exercise above in order to begin your relapse prevention plan.
Write down a history of your stealing. List as many stealing episodes as possible, starting from when you were a child. Note any situations that were going on during that time or what influenced your decision to steal.
Rate the need to steal for each episode. Use a scale of 1 to 10 to show how much you felt compelled to steal on each occasion you've noted.
 Triggers are thoughts and feelings about a situation that may lead to a behavior. Write down your thoughts and feelings that are associated with stealing.


Learn high-risk situations. The key to controlling your impulses is understanding risky situations and avoiding them.What were your feelings when the stealing took place? See if you can identify particular triggers, such as someone being nasty to you, someone yelling at you, feeling down or unloved, being rejected, etc.
Note the correlation between what triggered your need to steal and the rating you've given the feeling that you needed to steal.
Keep this list, journal or notebook very safe.
Remove yourself from triggering situations that might encourage you or make it easy for you to steal. Some examples of these types of triggers include being around friends who steal, or going into stores that you know have low security. Avoid these situations at all cost so you will not be tempted.
 This involves talking to yourself before proceeding any further. Try the following:



Stop. Instead of acting on impulse, stop yourself immediately.

Take a breath. Stand still and give yourself breathing space.

Observe. Think about what is going on. What am I feeling? What am I thinking? What am I reacting to?

Pull back. Attempt to look at the situation objectively. Is there another way of thinking about the situation? Project yourself to after the theft when you're holding the item and wondering what to do with it and wondering how to overcome the guilt.

Practice what works. Choose for yourself what you would rather do instead of stealing something. Plan to change your behavior every time the craving to steal comes over you. Some examples of what might be helpful include: telling yourself about who you are and what your values are, reminding yourself that you are a good person and a person who is valued, self-calming techniques, and imagining peaceful scenes to calm your racing heart and tension.
 Once you have mastered the art of impulse control and have reduced or eliminated your stealing behaviors, you will need to continuously monitor your relapse prevention plan and adjust it accordingly.Turn to the present. Keep a daily account of your current stealing exploits, if any. As before, keep writing the feelings and rate the desire to steal.
Balance the writing. Be sure to write down your accomplishments, the things that you're proud of and the things that you're grateful for. Try to make these things become the main focus of your journal keeping over time, in order to help build your self-esteem.

