 Test results that come back positive for FMD in affected animals will play an emotional toll on you because it will mean that your entire herd will need to be euthanized and strict restriction on movements of any animals or vehicles leaving or coming to the premises are going to be put in place. This is much more true for animals with FMD that have come into countries where the disease is not regularly affecting the national herd (or enzootic countries).

FMD-free countries currently are USA, Canada, countries of Central America, Australia, New Zealand, Greenland, Iceland, and Western European countries.
 This is very important to prevent further movement and spread of this disease to other herds.

Farms with the affected animals undergo strict restriction of animal and vehicle movement (no one in, no one out) on the premises of that farm.
As already mentioned, animals in designated FMD-free countries that have contracted FMD are restricted to the farm they were found on, and it and other susceptible animals it would've came into contact with would be euthanized.

Animal carcasses and their manure are then properly disposed according to federal biosecurity regulations.
There may be additional orders that feeds, animal products, materials and equipment may also need to be destroyed and properly disposed of on site or at another secure site.


Environmental disinfecting of the premises and any vehicles, tools and equipment involved is needed after animal and manure disposal.
Tracing and surveying  the movements and locations of potentially affected animals and detecting newly affected animals, respectively, must be done by the federal animal health inspection services of that country.
 Restrictions and biosecurity practices include:

Showering before leaving the premises.
Clean clothing and footwear need to be worn before leaving.
No visiting other farms of susceptible animals; those coming from farms with susceptible animals may not be allowed to visit the affected farm either.
Dogs, cats, and other pets must be confined.
Vehicles and equipment need to be properly cleaned and disinfected before leaving the farm; some countries may order certain equipment to not leave premises, but be destroyed as well.
 Everything from herd records to the contact of the primary veterinarian that regularly sees your animals will be needed. <http://www.inspection.gc.ca/animals/terrestrial-animals/diseases/reportable/foot-and-mouth-disease/if-your-animals-may-be-infected/eng/1355870935544/1355871049411</ref> This is so that the officials can trace animals back to the source where they contracted FMD and if any other potentially infected animals were moved and where they went., No antibiotics exist for this disease, since it is a viral infection, not a bacterial one. Infected animals will more sickly and weaker after they have recovered from the disease, and may need to be eventually humanely euthanized., Vaccines are low in their effectiveness because most only protect susceptible animals for 4 to 6 months and may induce animals to become carriers. Vaccines are primarily only used in enzootic countries to protect susceptible animals from clinical illness (but not viral persistence), and required because the slaughter of all at-risk animals maybe economically unfeasible and cause food shortages., This communication needs to be immediate to prevent further spread of the disease.