 Fasting for 12 hours or more at nighttime can boost weight regulation, increase energy, and improve sleep. Don't eat anything after 8 PM and try not to eat until 8 AM the next morning.


If you have health problems, exercise frequently, or are underweight, you should not fast. If you are dizzy, nauseous, or lightheaded, stop the fast immediately.
Some may advise that you fast for a full day before you start your detox, consuming only water or juice, but there are dangers associated with full, extended fasting, such as a slower metabolism and nutrient deficiency. . If you plan to fast for longer than a day, consult a licensed dietitian or doctor to supervise your cleanse.
 In this cleanse, you eat cooked rice for a few days. Brown rice is ideal because it is high in fiber, and it will keep you full, making the cleanse easier on your body. After a few days, introduce plain vegetables and broth into your diet. .


If you have never done a detox cleanse before, start small. Only follow this cleanse for two to three days before stopping. If you are experiencing discomfort or feel faint, do not continue. Resume your normal diet and consult a doctor for a nutritional plan tailored to your needs.
 If you want more variety in your diet than just rice, you can try a short-term vegan cleanse instead. For a few days, only eat plant-based products. This means cutting out all meat, dairy, and eggs. Focus on vegetables, especially green vegetables like spinach, broccoli, and kale. Instead of butter, you can cook your foods in healthy oils, such as olive, canola, sesame, and coconut oil. If you need a snack, try nuts or blend chia seeds into a smoothie. If you feel the need to snack, try eating a handful of nuts or some raw vegetables.
 After a few days of a restricted diet, you can begin to start eating other foods again. Start by eating easily digestible foods like broth, yogurt, and vegetable puree soups. Slowly introduce other dairy, meat, and eggs. When possible, keep your food organic and non-processed. Your diet should now consist of healthy whole grains, vegetables, and lean meats with limited consumption of refined sugars.


While you can reintroduce meat into your diet, you should only eat lean meats that have not been processed. Limit your meat consumption, especially red meats like beef.
You should be reintroducing foods by the end of the week of detox. Do not go on a restricted diet for longer than seven days. If you feel dizzy, faint, or nauseous, do not continue the restricted diet.

