 Neck tilts are a good way to start your neck stretching routine, as they will help to lengthen the larger muscles in your neck and relax your whole body. Lengthening and stretching the small muscles in your neck can also prevent tension headaches.Sit in a comfortable cross-legged position on an exercise mat or a soft surface. You can use props like a yoga block or a pillow and sit on them to make the seated position more comfortable.
Inhale and tilt your head to the right side. Extend and elongate your neck towards the space to your right, rather than try to bring your ear to your shoulder. You should feel a stretch on your left shoulder and the left side of your neck. Hold this position for three breaths.
As you exhale, raise your neck and look forward. Then, inhale as you tilt your head to the left side. Hold this position for three breaths.
You can repeat this exercise two to three times on each side. You can also add some resistance by placing your hand against your head and gently applying pressure to your head as you tilt your head to one side. If you are tilting your head to the right side, for example, you would use your left hand to apply light pressure on the left side of your head. Do not pull or tug on your neck and only apply light, gentle pressure on your head.;
, Open up your neck muscles with simple but effective chin to chest stretches.Sit in a comfortable cross legged position with any props like a pillow or a block to help tip your pelvis forward. Inhale and slowly lower your chin towards your chest. Imagine you are holding an egg between your chin and chest and you do not want to drop it.
Hold this stretch for two to three breaths. You should feel your neck muscles and your shoulder muscles lengthening.
Inhale as you lift your head and return to the starting position. Repeat this exercise two to three times, holding for two to three breathes at a time.
 This simple standing stretch will get your torso and arms moving and help to release any tension in your neck and shoulders.Begin in a standing pose with your feet hip width apart and your arms down by your sides. Start to swing your arms from side to side. Use your torso and your shoulders to turn your body gently from side to side, letting your arms also swing side to side. Swing your arms and body for six to ten breaths.
You can also make your hands into fists and swing your arms so your fists land just about each hip. Repeat this for six to ten breaths.
 This standing pose is great for releasing tension in your neck and shoulders.Stand with your legs two to three feet apart on a mat. Turn your feet in so your toes are turned inward and your heels are turned slightly outward. Clasp your hands behind your back so your fingers intertwined and your palms are as close together as possible. Inhale as you lift your chest to the ceiling, with your neck facing upward.
Exhale as you slowly bend forward between your legs, bending at your hips and not your lower back. Let your clasped hands raise up towards the ceiling and allow gravity to slowly let them fall over your head.
Hold this position for six to eight breaths. Allow your head to hang heavy and continue to clasp your hands tightly together. You should feel a stretch on your neck and shoulder muscles.
 You can use the corner of a wall to help stretch your neck muscles and relieve any tension you are holding in this area.Start by standing about two feet back from the corner of the wall, facing towards the corner. Keep your feet together and place equal weight in both feet.
Place your forearms on each wall, with your elbows just below the height of your shoulders. Inhale and lean in as far as you can without feeling any pain. You should feel a stretch on the front of your shoulders and your chest.
Hold the stretch for about six to eight breaths. You can repeat this stretch three to five times a day.
 Once you have warmed up your neck muscles with several opening stretches, you can try a cobra pose to strengthen your shoulder muscles, and your neck and upper back muscles. This pose can help improve your posture and your overall spine health. It is recommended that you stretch out tense neck muscles first before doing cobra pose.Begin by lying face down on a mat, with your forehead flat on the mat or resting on a thin towel for support. Your arms should be at your sides, with your palms flat on the mat. Place your tongue on the roof of your mouth, as this will help to stabilize your neck muscles.
Inhale and squeeze your shoulder blades together as you lift your hands and arms, letting them hover a few inches above the mat. Lift your forehead about an inch off the mat with your gaze straight ahead and down.
Hold this position for six to eight breaths, making sure your head is facing downward and you are putting weight into your legs and pressing your toes down on the mat.
Repeat this pose again two to three times. Rest between each pose with one side of your head flat on the mat.
 Shoulder shrugs work the upper shoulder and neck muscles. Sit in a chair or stand with your feet flat and shoulder width apart. Let your arms hang at your sides as you raise your shoulders up as if you are trying to touch your ears with your shoulders. Hold this position for 10 seconds.Repeat three to four times per day.

