 Sheet applied waterproofing differs from fluid applied systems, which are usually sprayed on and can cover irregular surfaces quickly and easily. For large projects with embedded appurtenances, fluid applied materials may be more suitable, but for a simple, flat wall, sheet applied material can be applied and back-filled in less time, with less mess. Here are some other things to consider:

Does the contract documents specify a certain type, or even brand of material to be used? If so, you should submit the material you intend to use for review by the project architect or engineer responsible for the waterproofing scope of work.
Does the schedule require fast performance of this work so that the area can be back-filled for other work to begin as quickly as possible? Sheet applied membrane waterproofing can be back-filled the day of application, where fluid applied coatings may require multiple coats, with a curing interval between coats.
Do you have the proper equipment and trained personnel to apply other types of waterproofing? Sheet applied membrane waterproofing can be installed with minimal tools, and the cleanup process is fairly straight-forward and easy.;
, Adding 10% to allow for waste, and for materials that require a primer, it may be a good idea to add 50% more than the recommended amount for very porous surfaces, as the primer may not give equal coverage. An example would be the application rate on cast in place concrete might be 175 square feet per gallon, but concrete block, being more porous, would take much more primer to give good results., For concrete block walls, grout-fill all the cells which require this step, point up mortar joints, and allow complete drying before continuing., Go a few inches below the required depth of the waterproofing so you will have room to work., On a cast concrete footing you may see nails, wires, or sharp pieces of aggregate sticking out, make sure these are removed by chipping or grinding.,, Using compressed air or a leaf blower is very effective for this step, but careful sweeping with an ordinary broom will suffice., Buying your materials from one manufacturer is the best way to insure they will perform as expected. Other things to remember are:

Read the health and safety statement on the containers.
Make sure you have a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) if you are required to, such as when the project is governed by OSHA.




 Read the label (did I already mention it?)

Read the installation/application instructions carefully.
Buy tools and supplies for applying the materials.
Buy safety equipment, including gloves, safety glasses, and a respirator if required.
Buy a suitable solvent to clean up tools if required.
, Most primers are a contact cement type adhesive, and can be applied with a paint roller or brush. Again, make sure the surface is clean and dry before applying., In very dusty conditions, you want to cover the primer with the sheet material as soon as practice, since the dust will adhere to the primer, reducing its bond strength., Since the adhesive side of the membrane is covered with a wax coated paper sheet for protection, working with long lengths is difficult, so beginning with six to eight foot lengths is suggested., This will be the bottom when you lay or hang the membrane on the surface you are waterproofing., Hold it level or flat on the surface, making sure the edge with the exposed adhesive side is in the correct position before allowing it to contact the primed surface. Once the membrane's adhesive side contacts the primed surface, it will immediately bond, and is very difficult to reposition.,, In some situations, it is better to apply the sheet of material horizontally, at other times, you may find you need to work from the bottom up., This eliminates an unsealed seam, and makes getting a precise fit unnecessary. Smooth, straight corners are much easier to wrap than irregular or crooked ones., Making a tight fitting cut is essential.,, Styrofoam or polyurethane sheet insulation can be a good choice for this step, but not if your back-fill contains large, sharp rocks, because then you may need to use a more durable product., Clean up your tools, and store or dispose of left over materials in a safe manner.