 To be a global citizen, you must identify with a world community, but you should not lose your heritage or culture. Your heritage involves what cultures are present in your family history, what culture your family actively subscribes to, and what community you live in today. To learn about these, talk to your family, research your family history on the internet, and get to know more about your community by being active citizen. You can research your background on websites like Ancestry.com. Most websites that offer these services do charge a fee.
Be an active community member by exploring its museums, making use of the library, and talking to members of the community.
Ask your family what they consider their heritage to be. It is possible to have many different heritages in one family.
Think about where you come from. For example, if you are a North American, you have many cultures within being a North American. You may be a North American, from the United States, who lives in Texas, but has a Mexican heritage.;
, Ask your friends, family members, or teachers, about their cultural backgrounds and what that means to them. This isn’t limited to people you know personally. You can also research the backgrounds of your favorite political or entertainment figures, whether they are current or historical.For example, you could ask “What would you consider your cultural background to be, and is it important in your daily life?” Before asking people about their background, make sure you tell them that you are trying to learn more about every culture. Be as polite and respectful as possible. Don’t push the subject if the other person doesn’t want to talk about it.
 Thinking that all people are equal goes beyond respect. To truly be a global citizen, you should believe that all people are equal regardless of their race or religion. A person who believes in equality believes that every person deserves healthcare, education, respect, and justice when wronged. Watch the news and read newspapers and history books to gain an understanding of inequality that has happened in the past and is happening in the present. To believe in equality, it is crucial to see where equality has not been achieved.You should also read history books to see how equality was achieved. For example, it is important to learn about the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, and the important figures involved in the movement, like Martin Luther King Jr.

