 Before you get started preparing your ginger tea, it's a good idea to gather up all of your ingredients and tools. Having everything in front of you can help making the tea to be both easier and faster. Take a few minutes to make sure you have the following ingredients and tools:A ginger root.
Something to peel the ginger with.
About 2 cups of water.
Honey or other optional ingredients you might want to add for flavor.;
, Washing the ginger before you prepare it can help remove any pesticides, dirt or other material from the ginger. You'll also want to remove the outside skin of the ginger root before you brew it as a tea, as it can affect the flavor.Make sure you scrub the ginger thoroughly.
Peel the entire skin off of the ginger root.
 After you have washed and peeled the ginger root, you can cut it into slices to prepare it for the blender. Cutting the ginger into slices will help it soak into the tea more easily, resulting in a stronger flavor. Try to get the ginger root into the thinnest slices that you can before adding it to the tea.You could also try grating the ginger instead of cutting it.
You will only need to use about one or two inches of prepared ginger root.
 Once you've prepared the ginger, you can get the tea water ready. Add about two cups of water to a tea kettle. Turn the heat on and bring the tea water to a boil. Add your ginger to the boiling water and continue the boil for around three minutes before removing everything from the heat.Don't leave anything on the stove-top unattended.
You can experiment with how much ginger and water you use to find the perfect flavor.
 Once you've removed the tea from the heat, all that's left to do is strain out the ginger pieces. Run the tea water through a strainer to catch the larger pieces of ginger, leaving you with only the ginger tea water. Add any other flavors you might want, wait for it to cool a bit and enjoy.You might want to add honey to sweeten the flavor of your tea.
Adding a pinch of sugar can be a quick way to sweeten the tea.
Some people enjoy adding lemon or lime juice to their ginger tea.

