 This is necessary in order to maintain the cleanliness of the infected area and to treat it. Use grooming scissors to trim the hair to about half of an inch around the area. Make sure to clean the scissors with soap and water before and after using them.Many vet offices are happy to clip the cat's hair prior to a visit.
 First wrap your cat in a towel. While sitting on the floor, place your cat between your knees. Gently, but firmly, place one hand on top of your cat's head. Your thumb should be on one side of its jaw and your fingers on the other side. Then, place the syringe at the corner of your cat's mouth behind the canine tooth. Slowly administer the medication in small intervals so your cat has time to swallow.Depending on the severity of the infection, your doctor may prescribe topical antibiotics, oral antibiotics, or both.
It is important that you finish the whole prescription unless your vet instructs otherwise.
Common oral antibiotics are Clavulanic acid-amoxicillin (Clavamox), Cefovecin (Convenia), Clindamycin, and cephalexin.
 Mix one part of medicated shampoo to five parts of water. Then, in a bathtub or basin, carefully wet your cat with warm water using a cup or hose. Make sure not to get water in its eyes, ears, or nose. Lightly massage the shampoo into your cat's hair in the direction of its hair growth. Finish by thoroughly rinsing your cat with a cup.Medicated shampoos, like Clinical Care, and shampoos that contain benzoyl peroxide are a great way to treat and clean infected areas on cats that have mild infections.
These products may also help prevent future bacterial skin infections.
 Bacterial skin infections can be caused by the environment, for example, allergens, chemical toxins, fleas, parasites, and mites. They can also be caused by internal problems such as food intolerance or allergies, hypothyroidism, hyperadrenocorticism, hormone imbalances, cancer, and gland diseases. If the problem continues or recurs, try to identify possible causes in the environment or in the cat's diet. If additional symptoms appear, consult a vet to see if there is an underlying health problems.


Allergies to pollen, mold, pine needles or other substances are huge contributors to skin conditions. Try to remove these from the environment to see if your cat's condition improves.
 If your cat’s symptoms worsen, if it develops new symptoms, or if you do not see an improvement within a week, then contact your vet. Call the vet and describe your cat’s symptoms and recovery process. Your vet will most likely ask you to come in for an additional appointment.The vet may run more examinations, cultures, and blood tests.

