 The morning after a late night, a little caffeine can help get you going. It’s important not to overdo it, though. Most people only need 100 to 200 milligrams (mg) to get an energy boost, so start with a single cup of coffee at breakfast. The effects last for three to four hours too, which means you won’t need to have more caffeine until about lunch time if you’re feeling tired again.If you aren’t used to having caffeine regularly, it’s especially important to stick to small doses so you don’t wind up jittery and unable to concentrate. Don’t have more than 100 mg, or a 5 ounce cup, at a time.
If you don’t like coffee, you can swap it for your favorite energy drink, soda, or tea. Just make sure to check the label to see how much caffeine is in your beverage so you don’t overdo it.
It’s a good idea to drink your caffeinated beverage with a meal or snack. The food will help slow the release of caffeine in your body, so it doesn’t hit you all at once.
 If it’s possible, plan to give yourself plenty of time the following day to catch up on sleep. When you get home from school, take an hour long nap to recharge. Don’t sleep longer than that, though, or you may ruin your chances of sleeping at night. After you’ve finished with dinner, homework, and chores, get to bed as early as possible. You want to make sure that you get a solid 10 hours of sleep if possible.Your motor skills will probably be affected after staying up late the night before, so make sure not to drive or do anything else that requires a quick response until you’ve caught up on sleep.
 It may not seem like it makes sense, but moving around regularly after a late night can help improve alertness. You probably won’t have time to fit in a workout before school, but consider walking there if possible or doing some light stretching before you head out. It can also help to fit in some activity during lunch, such as a quick walk around the school track or building. Even jogging in place or doing some quick jumping jacks can help get your blood flowing and boost your energy.If possible, aim to take an activity break every 45 minutes or so. That can help ensure that you stay awake and focused all day.

