 The first step in cleaning and disinfecting a bird's cage is to remove all the perches that are in it. Finches do not usually like to be handled, so your bird may struggle when you attempt to catch him. His perch will likely be the first place he goes for.The perches need to be cleaned and disinfected on a regular basis along with the rest of the cage. Use this opportunity to let the perch soak in hot, soapy water while you secure your finch and disinfect the rest of the cage.;
, Before you can actually clean your finch's cage, you'll need to remove the bird and transport him to a safe, undisturbed location. If you have a second cage, you can use it as a storage space to keep your finch confined while you clean his primary cage. If not, you may want to consider using a bird-proofed room to avoid exposing your finch to your cleaning supplies.Songbirds like finches do not generally like to be handled, so you'll need to proceed with caution.
Turn out the lights in the room before attempting to catch your finch. This will help keep him a little calmer when you reach into his cage.
Gently place one hand over your finch's back so that his head is resting between your index and middle fingers. Do not pinch your bird's neck, as this may seriously injure him.
Use your thumb, ring finger, and pinky finger to gently restrain your finch's wings.Use your other hand to cup your finch from the bottom so he does not squirm out of your grip. Carefully transport him to his temporary space.
If keeping your bird in an empty room, make sure you bird-proof the room first. Close all windows, doors, and skylights. Turn off any fans in the room, unplug any electrical cords, and cover or remove any mirrors. All windows should also be covered with curtains or blinds., Once your finch is secured outside the primary cage, it's safe to take out anything else that remains. Remove your finch's food and water dishes, any toys, and anything else that is in regular contact with your bird, as these will all need to be cleaned and disinfected as well., Remove any cage liners, including newspapers, and discard them. Even newspapers/liners that appear unsoiled should be discarded to ensure that the cage is completely disinfected. After taking out the cage liners, you should also wipe down the floor of the cage with a wet paper towel to remove any seeds and/or droppings that may have fallen through. Disinfectants will not work properly if there is any organic matter left behind, so it's a good idea to scrape away any residue for a proper cleaning., It's important that you wash the cage thoroughly before using a disinfectant, for the same reason that you scraped away the floor of the cage: disinfectants will not work properly in the presence of organic material.You can use a gentle dish soap or antibacterial soap and hot water to clean the cage, but make sure you thoroughly wash every part of the cage.


Add enough dish soap to a bucket or sink full of hot water. You'll want a nice, soapy wash for your finch's cage.
Use a designated bird cage sponge, or simply use paper towels. Do not use anything that you might also use to wash dishes or countertops with.
Dip your sponge or towel in the hot, soapy water and scrub the cage thoroughly. Get between the bars, in the corners, and on all parts of the cage's floor.
Rinse the cage completely under hot running tap water. Make sure there is no residual soap left behind.
Use a clean paper towel to wipe the cage dry.
 Even if you use an antibacterial soap to wash the cage, it's best to use a disinfectant to ensure that no bacteria remain behind. There are a number of options when it comes to disinfectants. Many bird owners simply use a store-bought disinfectant that's safe for bird cages, like Avitek Oxy-Gene.You can also make your own disinfectant by diluting 1/2 cup of bleach in one gallon of water.Whatever you choose, make sure your finch is far away from the cage at this point, as the fumes can be very harmful to birds.


Make sure you are in a well-ventilated area so that you are not exposed to any hazardous fumes.
If you're concerned about exposure to bleach or other disinfectants, wear rubber gloves and safety goggles to protect your eyes and skin.
Apply your disinfectant liberally to all surfaces in the cage. Work some disinfectant between all the bars and in every corner of the cage, inside and out.
Let the disinfectant sit for about 5 to 10 minutes undisturbed. This will allow it to kill any bacteria or viruses that may be growing in the cage.
You may want to rinse the disinfectant away using clean, hot water. This will help remove any residual chemicals so that your bird is not affected by the fumes.
 After approximately 10 minutes, use clean paper towels to wipe down the cage inside and out. Once again, get in between all the bars and in every corner of the cage. You need to ensure that the cage is completely dry and free of any residual disinfectant before putting your bird back inside.


Try giving the cage a smell. If it smells like bleach or other disinfectant chemicals, you may want to rinse the cage again to make sure it's completely free of any residual fumes.
 Once the cage is clean, you should focus on cleaning and disinfecting your finch's food and water bowls, toys, and perches. You may want to wait until everything is done before returning your bird to his cage to ensure that the fumes have time to completely air out.


Use clean, hot soapy water and your designated bird sponge or a bundle of clean paper towels to wash the bird cage accessories one at a time.
Rinse the cage accessories completely free of soap, and gently dry them with clean paper towels.
Liberally apply disinfectant to all the bird cage accessories, and allow them to sit undisturbed for approximately 5 to 10 minutes once again.
Note that bird perches and toys made of cotton rope or wicker/wood will be difficult to disinfect due to the porous nature of these materials. However, some of these accessories may be dishwasher safe. Check the packaging from your accessories or contact a pet store employee to confirm that your cage accessories are dishwasher safe. Discard any toys/accessories that will not come clean or cannot be properly disinfected.
Dry your cage accessories completely. You can use clean paper towels, or put metal accessories in the oven at 250 degrees Fahrenheit (120 degrees Celsius) for 10 to 15 minutes., Now that the cage and its accessories are clean, you should turn your attention to the spot where your cage is generally kept. Use a clean paper towel dipped in soapy water to hand wash the surface of your counter or table top, then wipe it dry. Spray a little disinfectant on a clean, dry paper towel and wipe the counter or table down, and let it sit undisturbed for 5 to 10 minutes. Once again, wipe everything dry with clean, dry paper towels, and make sure there is no residual disinfectant or any lingering fumes before setting the cage back up.Consider turning a small room fan on facing the table where you keep the cage to blow away any residual fumes from the cage or counter. Turn the fan off when you're done so that your finch does not accidentally fly into the fan and injure himself.
 Lay down clean, un-used cage liners (newspaper will do). Be sure to cover the entire bottom of the cage with liner paper to ensure that no droppings, food bits, or splashed water soil the floor of the cage., Put your finch's clean perch back in place in the now-clean cage. Refill his food and water dishes and set them out where your bird is used to them being. You can also return any toys that you washed and disinfected back in the cage, as your finch may want to play when he settles down., You'll need to take great care once again when you catch and transport your finch back to his permanent cage. If possible, try to turn off the lights in the room before attempting to catch your finch again. This may help keep him a little calmer after what has surely been a stressful afternoon.


Gently place the palm of one hand over your finch's back so that his head is between your index and middle fingers. Do not pinch your bird's neck, and take great care not to squeeze his body.
Use your thumb, ring finger, and pinky finger to gently restrain your finch's wings.Cup your finch gently from below with your free hand. Carry him carefully back to his cage and let him loose inside his clean, disinfected home.

