 A heavy toilet lid can damper a lot of sound if it is placed on the toilet tank correctly. Thus, if the lid of your toilet is not completely in place, you may hear more noises than normal. Wiggle the lid around a bit to make sure it is seated properly.


Before troubleshooting for a more severe problem, making sure that the lid is in place can save you a lot of time and headache.;
, A toilet has a variety of parts that could be causing the noise. In order to figure out what the problem is, you will need to familiarize yourself with the basic internal parts of a toilet. Inside the tank of your toilet there is a:Flapper: The flapper is connected to the toilet handle so that when you flush the toilet, the flapper is lifted. This releases the water in the tank.
Float: The float can come in a variety of forms, usually a float ball or a float cup. It responds to the water level in the tank. When the water has filled back up in the tank, the float lifts high enough to switch off the water coming through the fill valve.
Fill valve: Also sometimes called a flush valve, this valve is responsible for allowing water into the tank. It is turned on and off by the position of the float.
 In order to find a problem, it is usually necessary for that problem to be occurring. Don't assume that a problem will be immediately evident even when it is not actively happening.


Take the cover off the tank so that you can hear any sounds coming from inside it. This is an area that noises often come from.
It may take some time and patience, but wait until the noise is happening to sleuth out the problem.
 Many small problems with a toilet can be fixed by you easily. However, depending on your skill level, there are some times when a professional plumber can be of great use. If you have tried your best to fix a problem but you just can't figure it out, call a plumber to come help you out.


Don't think of hiring a plumber as a failure on your part. Plumbers are actually skilled workers who have spent a lot of time building up their expertise. Why not hire an expert?

