 If you don’t use this too often, you may have forgotten what it looks like. And for those who think they may have deleted it, know that this is a base app (an app that already appears when you buy your iPad or iPhone), and can’t be deleted, so you probably just misplaced it somewhere. Its icon is what appears to be lined pad paper with a yellow border on top.


You can also look for it via the Spotlight Search option, which you can access by going to the Home menu and swiping down from anywhere but the topmost portion of your screen. Just type in “Notes” in the search bar, and it will appear.;
, The first time you launch the app after updating, you'll be asked if you want to upgrade to the new Notes app. Simply select “Yes,” and it will update shortly. Afterwards, rejoice on receiving your new and shinier Notes app!


Don’t worry about losing your old Notes from the app if you have any, since the update affects only the app, but not the data inside.
 If you forgot how, just tap the pen-and-paper icon on the upper-right portion of the screen to make your new blank note. This is where (most of) the magic happens, now.


If you don’t have any existing notes, just tap on the blank half of the screen and you will automatically make a new one.
 For aspiring artists or for people with kids in their care, this new function is a lifesaver. If you press the squiggly line on the lower-right part of the screen, you’ll be taken to the drawing interface, where you can freely draw in until you press the “Done” option on the upper left of the drawing screen to exit, and it will be automatically added to your note.


If the keyboard is loaded, the new additional options (sketches, photo attachment, formatting) will appear on the top-right part of the keyboard, or by tapping the + symbol on the same spot. This also applies for the Photos option.
You can add your doodle above or below any text you make, and the same applies for the Photo and Video Attachment function.
 You got a selection of “pens” you can choose for different effects (pen, pencil, marker), a ruler tool, an eraser tool, and a variety of colors. Simply tap on the tools you want to use, then slide, dot, and swipe your finger to make art.
 The pen, pencil, and marker tools have different textures when you draw. Both the pen and pencil tools have thin lines, but while the pen has more solid, opaque lines, the pencil has a less opaque line and a rough texture. Marker has thicker, almost watery-textured lines, but the colors are less opaque. You can layer marker and pencil lines because of their textures and less opaque colors.


You can pick your colors by scrolling through the color picker on the lower right portion of the screen, then tapping your desired color.
 This tool may be a bit confusing at first, but it’s pretty useful once you’re used to it. When you use this tool, a ruler appears on the screen. You can rotate the ruler to any angle you want and position it anywhere you want. Then when you have it in position, you tap on one of the pens you want, then just draw a line on either side of the ruler. As long as the stroke is along the side of the ruler, it’s all right even if you don’t draw exactly beside the ruler, just know that the stroke appears only where the ruler touches. And once you’re done, just tap the ruler icon again to remove it.
 To undo or redo some of your previous strokes, you can find the Undo and Redo buttons on the upper left of the screen. Undo is the curved arrow pointing left, and redo is the one pointing right. You can also rotate the picture you just drew by pressing the rotate button,which is a square with a curved arrow around it, on the upper right of the screen.
 If you want to add anything to the drawing, just tap the drawing itself. You can even undo some previous strokes even when you exit. You can also add regular text below or above the drawings.


If you want to delete the drawing, just tap and hold it, then press the “Delete” option on the pop-up.
 If you tap on the camera icon next to the squiggly line, you can use it to add a photo either from your album or take a new video or photo for your note-taking needs. Once you're done, it’s added to the note. Then you can cut, copy, share, or delete it by tapping on the photo or video on the Note and picking from the pop-up options.
 When you pick “Take Photo or Video,” you are redirected to the Camera app, and you can pick whether you want to take a video or snap a pic. Afterwards, you are asked whether you want to retake it or use it. Retaking it just brings you back to the camera app, and using it automatically embeds the photo or video on that note.
 When you choose the “Photo Library” option, you can scroll through your pictures, and you can just tap the “Use” option to embed it. Like with the sketches, you can add text above or below the photo or video for both methods, making this a good way to track significant photos and jot down notes.
 When you’re typing in the Notes app, you can see two icons: one that looks like a checkmark and one that has a capital and lowercase A. These two new icons will let you format your text to however you like.
 The letter A icon lets you choose which kind of list formatting you want—bulleted list, dashed list, or numbered list—or use a plain text body without bullets or dashes preceding every new line. You can highlight the text you want in a different format, too.
 The other icon is a special thing that enables a specific format that lets you literally check off the stuff on your list. It will first resemble empty circles, but when you tap on those, a check appears inside. It also precedes every new line you make, and you can disable the checkmark on specific lines too.


To disable the checkmarks, press the check icon on your keyboard again. You can also highlight specific text and assign and remove checkmarks that way too.
 You know how in some apps, you can share things to other apps using the AirDrop “Share sheet” option? You know the little box with an arrow pointing up that you can find in the corner of most apps? You can do that with Notes now! You can embed pictures, web pages, maps, news articles, and possibly even more in the upcoming updates in the future.


When you tap the AirDrop icon, or select some text and press “Share,” you can choose to open it in a list of apps, which will be the Notes app for this example. A small pop-up window will appear, and you can see your selection, which you can either save as a new note (default option), or you can chose to attach them to an existing note by tapping the “Choose Note” option when you’re sharing it and picking the note you want from the list.
 If you want to store your doodles, chores, or writing in different places, you can make folders. On the left half of the Notes screen, where your notes are listed in, you’ll see an arrow icon that’s pointing left. Tap on that, then you’ll see a list that contains some base folders, like “All on my (iPad or iPhone),” “Notes,” and “Recently Deleted.” Now, on the very bottom of the list, you can see a “New Folder” option. Tap on that, and you’d have made yourself a new receptacle for your notes!

, Now, on the top side of the list screen, you can see an “Edit” button. If you tap on that, you can move or delete any note or folder currently in the screen. Once you’re finished, just press “Done” and you can now relish your freshly organized notes. You can also press “Cancel” to exit the Edit function without doing anything.


Tapping on the name of the folder while in the Edit screen will let you rename it.
You can move or delete notes around individually or by bulk, or you can delete or move them all at once. For bulk and individual moving or deleting, tap the individual notes you wanna move, then press the “Move To” at the bottom left side of the list and decide where they end up, or the “Delete” option on the right side. If move or delete all at once, just tap either “Move All” or “Delete All” on the bottom of the list.
Tapping on a note or the checkmark beside the folder will let you delete it. However, any notes you delete are moved to the Recently Deleted folder, where they will stay for 30 days until you either recover or delete them. When deleting folders, you can chose to delete the folder and contents, or just the folder. If you only delete the folder, the contents of the folder will be moved to the Notes folder.
 Lastly, if you feel disorganized or couldn’t find a specific picture in a specific note, just tap the icon of small four boxes on the lower left of the screen. This will take you to the Attachments window, which lets you scroll through all the stuff you added to your Notes, from pictures to maps to even web pages.

