 Any old Android, iPhone, or internet-capable iPod should do the trick--anything that can run an app and access the internet.


Bear in mind that the phone itself will be taking the footage. Thus, you won't be able to use the phone for anything else while you're filming. It's best to use a phone that you don't need on a regular basis; you may be able to acquire a used phone from a friend or from a used-phone retailer.
Make sure that you have an AC power charger for the phone. It will be very energy-intensive to record a constant video stream, and you'll need to keep the phone charging.
 Search for "webcam app".


Look for apps like IP Webcam, MobileWebCam, DroidCam, or iCam. Read reviews before you download any app, and make sure that you're downloading something safe.
Many of these apps are free, and the developers make their money from ads. Don't worry about paying for a more expensive app; a free program should be sufficient.
You will need to give the webcam app full control of your phone's camera, meaning that no other app can use the camera while the webcam app is running. This will not harm your phone or its camera.
 You will need this to link the phone to your computer.
 Make sure that the two devices are connected to the same wireless network. You will be able to remotely watch and record the feed. Use any video player with stream compatibility, such as VLC or Windows Media Player.


If you are using VLC, click "Open Network Stream" on the "Media" menu, and enter the URL that shows up on the phone's webcam app. Once you enter this URL, you should be given the option to connect to the phone's camera.
Free programs like VLC and Windows Media Player are great for watching a webcam stream through your computer, but you won't be able to record high-quality footage. If you're really serious about surveillance, consider looking into pricier webcam studio software.
 The phone will need to sit next to a charger, so plan accordingly. Point the phone-camera lens toward the area that you want to film, and place the phone such that it won't fall flat.


Leaning the phone casually against a wall or a stack of books may suffice, especially if the phone is laying on its lengthwise side.
Consider hiding the phone inside of a household object. See the "Hiding a Webcam Inside a Household Object" section.
Turn off the sound and the vibrate feature on the phone, especially if the phone is enabled to take calls and texts. A loud ringtone at the wrong moment could ruin your entire plan.
 Consider setting a secure, password-protected wireless network. If you set this up on an unprotected or public network, anyone who can pick up the network will be able to see your footage.


Ask your internet service provider about secure network options. If you are paying for wireless internet, you should be able to set up a password from your router.
 If you need to leave the house, you can connect to a public wifi network at a coffee shop, a restaurant, or a library.

