 Develop a news reading routine that you feel you can stick to. This will help you keep informed about current events and allow you to practice awareness regularly. Maybe the first 20 minutes of your workday can be devoted to news reading, or you decide to read one article that interests you every day after dinner. It doesn’t matter what your routine is so much as that you stick to it.
 Seek out articles that challenge your normal thinking. It can help to question why you believe something or if the belief always holds true for you. Sometimes your natural tendency may be to only read articles that confirm your feelings on a certain issue. Try to use reading the news as a chance to push yourself outside your comfort zone.For example, you might decide to read a story about the daily life of death-row prisoner to challenge your thoughts about the criminal-justice system.
Exposing yourself to different points of view can give you a deeper understanding of the world. Even if you find your views on an issue do not change, a willingness to consider other perspectives can help you grow.
 Reading the news can sometimes feel uplifting and sometimes feel troubling. No matter how the day’s news makes you feel, make some time to process and accept those emotions when you are finished reading., Reading about difficult events on the news can be distressing. To cope, try turning your emotions into actions. You can donate money, volunteer your time or collect resources. This is a great way to help out your local community or even people in another country many miles away.

For example, if a news story about the future of the Arctic depresses you, consider making a donation to an organization that works to preserve polar bear habitat. This would be a healthy way of processing your negative emotions.
If you feel sad after reading about a lack of resources at your local school, you might volunteer there once a week to help fix the problem.
 Sit somewhere quiet and close your eyes for 5 minutes immediately after reading the news. Reading the news can give you a lot to think about, and clearing your head can help you carry on with your day. Focus on breathing in and out. Let your thoughts come and go without delving deeper until you feel calm.