 The color wheel is diagram of colors that provides a useful illustration of what colors match and what colors don't work well together.The first color wheel was developed by Sir Isaac Newton in 1666, and variations on his design have been used as the basis of traditional color theory since then.The color wheel is divided into the following parts:


Primary colors: red, blue and yellow. These are the colors that cannot be mixed using any other colors.
Secondary colors: Green, orange and purple. These colors are made by mixing primary colors in different combinations.
Secondary and tertiary colors: Yellow-orange, red-orange, red-purple, blue-purple, blue-green and yellow-green. These are created by mixing a primary color with a secondary color.;
, The concept of matching is also called "color harmony," which is achieved when colors create a pleasing effect. Red, yellow and blue always harmonize. These colors are bold and eye-catching, and they never really go out of style. Whether you're putting together a palette for your wardrobe, a painting or your dining room, you can depend on primary colors to lend your project a cheerful and bright appearance.


Bold primary colors are often associated with young children, tropics, and sports teams. However, there is no reason you cannot play with darker or lighter hues.
If you want your project to look more sophisticated, you might want to consider using just one or two of the primary colors, rather than all three. A red, blue, and yellow outfit might look a little juvenile, but a yellow and red combination be more sophisticated.
 Look at the color wheel and pick any color, then move your finger to the color just opposite. Colors opposite on the wheel are complementary colors. When you place them next to each other, they help each other stand out and the combination looks appealing.


Complementary colors of the same brightness and hue will always work well together.
Popular complementary combinations include blue and orange, purple and yellow, and green and pink.
 The concept is to stay within one color family in order to achieve harmony. These are the colors that are next to each other on the color wheel, like blue and indigo. Using varying shades of colors in the same family creates a nuanced look that has a beautiful, pleasing effect.


For instance, a denim skirt with a light blue T-shirt and indigo scarf will likely go together well.
Pick a favorite color and match it with a color to the immediate right or left. Red goes with pink, yellow with orange, and so on. Any gradations in the same family will match as long as they are the same hue, brightness, and so forth.
 Warm colors like yellow, orange, and red are on one side of the color wheel, and cool colors like blue, green, purple are on the other side. Any color can have an element of warmth or coolness depending on what is mixed in.


For example, if you mix basic purple with red, you end up with a warm, vibrant reddish purple. If you mix purple with blue, you end up with a cool, calming violet purple. When it comes to matching colors, temperature matters.When creating a color palette to use in your wardrobe or to decorate a room and you want a coherent effect, pair warm colors with other warm colors, and cool colors with other cool colors. For example, you might choose a rust-colored dress, a creamy mustard yellow scarf and a cognac purse.
Mixing warm and cool colors in the same palette results in an effect that can be either fun and funky or a little jarring, depending on how you look at it., Earth tones are not found on the color wheel, they are colors that do not exactly have an easy definition--these are colors that are more fashion-based than scientifically based. They tend to be muted colors which include: brown, cream, white, grey, and slate (grayish blue) fall into this category. These are natural, muted colors that match most other colors. They are reminiscent of natural elements like sand, soil and rock. However, they also encompass colors like off-white.
Black, white, and tan or khaki are often considered neutrals in fashion. They will usually always go together with any color. An example is a black pair of pants with a bright pink blouse.
In fashion, blue denim often is treated as a neutral. A pair of blue jeans will go with any colored shirt, for instance.
When you are deciding what neutrals match your color palette, you need to take color temperature into account. For example, if your color palette is cool, your neutral could be a bright white or a blue black; warmer neutrals would clash. For a warmer palette, you might choose a brownish grey or cream.
White and black are neutrals, but be aware that they are rarely absolutes. An off-white wall may have an undertone of yellow, for instance. Or a black shirt may have an undertone of blue.
Neutrals are not boring! People sometimes mistakenly think neutral means boring, bland colors. The strength of neutral colors is that they work well in group and work well with primary or secondary colors. For example:

A white t-shirt with blue jeans.
Khaki pants and a black sweater.



