 Fill a clean, plastic gallon jug or 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottle with water or sand. Make sure that the jug has a handle; this is needed to complete kettlebell exercises.
 Another technique for making homemade kettlebells is to wrap a rope around each end of the handle of a dumbbell. The thicker the rope, the more this will work your grip. Grab the rope in the middle so the dumbbell hangs below your hands evenly. Now you can do swings and presses and have the displaced weight effect of kettlebells. When you need to adjust the weight, simply use a different size dumbbell.


Be careful when swinging a dumbbell. It will swing and fly more than a traditional kettlebell. Be careful not to hit yourself with the dumbbell.
 Purchase a potato, rice, or sugar shipping sack, which can be found at most grocery stores. Fill the sack with sand until you have reached the desired weight. At the top of the sack, tie a loop for your hand. Use rope or duct tape to secure the loop so it doesn't detach. You can reinforce the sides and bottom of the bag with duct tape.You can use this method to make multiple kettlebells of different weights. Use a scale to measure out how many pounds you are putting into the sacks before tying the top of the sack.
 Buy a 1"x 24" PVC pipe, secure one end with duct tape, and fill with sand. Secure the other end. Place the PVC pipe in the oven at 450 degrees for 10 minutes. You want the plastic to become pliable, not melt. You are going to shape the plastic into the kettlebell handle. Watch the pipe carefully.


Remove the pipe from the oven, and bend the pipe into a handle, bringing the two ends together. Tape the ends together. Dip the pipe in cold water to help set it.
Cut a slit into a basketball with the two handle holes at each end. Stick the handle inside the ball to make sure you have cut the holes wide or narrow enough for the handle to be at the height you desire.
Mix quick mix concrete in a separate container, then scoop the concrete into the ball. Add the handle towards the end. Let the concrete set for two or three days before using.