 For mice, the rope should be at least 24 inches (61 cm) long and have a circumference of one inch (two centimeters).This will give the mouse an adequate distance when making its tightrope walk and provide enough width for its little feet. For a hamster, you might want to use a pet leash with flat (not curved) sides about one inch (two centimeters) wide. The flatter, wider surface is important for successfully teaching your hamster this trick, as it cannot walk across a thin wire or string.


Alternately, you could try to walk your hamster across a balance beam by laying a chair with smooth, flat-sided legs about one inch (two centimeters) wide on its side, and encouraging your hamster to walk across it.
Do not buy a rope of sisal. It might make your mouse sneeze.;
, The rope should not be very high off the ground. A height of three to five inches is sufficient. This way, if your mouse or hamster falls, it will not be injured. Pull the objects away from one another until the rope is tight.


Tying a rope between two table or chair legs is a good option.
Each end of the tightrope should have a small ledge or platform from which the mouse or hamster can ease itself onto the tightrope, and onto which it can step once it has traveled the entire length of the rope.
 With something soft below your tightrope, you’ll ensure that your mouse or hamster isn’t hurt if it falls. You could use several pillows or fluffy blankets to pad the area below the tightrope., Mice and hamsters are quick little creatures. They can easily slip under the crack beneath a door, or disappear through an open ventilation duct. Ensure that the room in which you’re training your pet is secure and offers no opportunities for escape.If that happens, not only will you be sad, but your mouse or hamster will be in danger of being stepped on or caught by a cat.


Stuff blankets into the crack beneath your door.
Think like a mouse or hamster. Get down on the ground before training your mouse or hamster to walk on a tightrope and look for gaps, cracks, and other areas into which your mouse could escape. Take action to seal these exits appropriately.
If you’re worried, you could invest in an infant playpen with solid sides. These are square or rectangular open-topped structures designed to keep babies confined, but they could just as easily serve to keep your mouse or hamster within a safe area.

