 In some cases, your first stop should be a doctor’s office. Consider your symptoms and recent activity to determine if you should see a doctor. See a doctor immediately if you:Are suffering from diarrhea and a fever above 102 degrees Fahrenheit.
Have noticed blood in your stool.
Have flu-like symptoms while visiting an area that is known for malaria outbreaks.
Have gotten a bite or scratch from an animal.
Were in a car accident or have been injured in some other way.
Have been sexually assaulted.;
, If you’re sick when traveling alone, you should not aggravate your condition by expending unnecessary energy. Doing so could delay your recovery. Instead, give yourself time to heal by staying in bed, sleeping, reading, and generally kicking back until you start feeling better.While taking it easy is the best course of action if you are sick while traveling solo, there is no right way to decide what to do if you have tours booked and activities planned. Sometimes the fresh air will do you good. Other times, your sickness will only get worse when you decide to soldier on. Analyze your own condition and make decisions using common sense and your best judgment.
If you have any doubts about your ability to enjoy a tour or outing, cancel it. After all, the point of going on a tour is to have a good time, and you won’t have much fun if you’re excessively ill.
 If you haven’t packed a prescription or an over-the-counter medicine that can help you, check out the local pharmacy. Many pharmacies have over-the-counter medicines available that could help your symptoms. If possible, obtain over-the-counter medicine and use it as directed. For instance, if you are coughing, visit the pharmacy and get some cough syrup., If you are suffering from nausea, vomiting or diarrhea, stick with BRAT foods (bananas, rice, apples, and toast). Simple carbohydrates like porridge and plain noodles in broth are good options, too. These foods are unlikely to upset your stomach or make your condition worse.Additionally, take some probiotic foods in small amounts (yogurt, milk, and/or probiotic tablets).
 Only drink water that you are sure is clean and safe to drink while traveling.If necessary, boil the water or use purification tablets. Purification tablets are chemical additives you can drop into water you suspect harbors harmful bacteria to avoid illness. You can obtain them online, in large department stores, or at any hiking/camping shop.Avoid drinking sweet sodas and alcohol.Bring purification tablets along with you if you'll be traveling in areas where the water may not be safe to drink.
 If you ate something that you don’t usually eat, or found that a certain dish tasted a bit off, you might recognize that dish as the cause of your illness. Undercooked meats, eggs, and unpasteurized dairy and juices can pose a risk of food poisoning. Once you’ve identified the culprit, do not repeat your mistake by eating it again (or, at least, avoid the restaurant where you received the particular version of the dish that made you ill)., If your pain or sickness lasts more than 24-48 hours, you should see a doctor, even if the symptoms are not serious. Only a trained medical professional can provide an accurate diagnosis of whatever is ailing you.If you do not speak the local language, going to the doctor might be more complicated. Use your phrasebook and pocket dictionary to communicate what you’re feeling. Point to key phrases in your phrasebook such as, “I am ill” to describe your situation.
Another communication solution is to mimic your symptoms. For instance, if you have a cough and a sore throat, pretend to cough, then clutch your throat to help the medical personnel understand that your throat hurts.
 If you have tickets to travel to another destination, or have a tour booked, do not cancel or seek a refund as soon as you fall ill. It’s better to wait it out and see if you’ll recover than to immediately cancel your future plans.It is not uncommon to get sick while traveling, when you’re exposed to new pathogens, bacteria, and environments. But except in rare cases, you’ll recover after 24-48 hours.
Even if you’re sick while traveling solo, do not miss flights unless absolutely necessary. Getting a refund or waiting until a future flight has an available opening are your only options, and both can be difficult.
If you have a fever, it will probably go away in a few days. However, if your fever exceeds 103 F (39.4 C), seek medical attention.
If you have sinus pain, the pressure of the airplane cabin could make it worse. Reschedule your flight if you have sinus pain and/or a sinus infection.If you have the flu, you really shouldn’t travel.

