 This will make him think that you value his advice and opinion, and you'll also have opened the door to further conversation.


For example, asking for directions is always a great way to start conversation. You could also say "hey, sorry for bothering you, but are you from around here? I was wondering if you had any recommendations on where to get a good cup of coffee?" Then if he seems open to the conversation you can invite him to grab some coffee with you.
 Ask him how he knows the host of the party, or even just walk up to him and say “can I sit with you?”. This will give him the chance to make a little conversation, even if he doesn't know you. By saying anything at all you have given him the green light to start talking to you.


Once they say you can sit with them you need to be prepared to make conversation. Say something like, "what does this house remind you of?" or, "have you seen anything interesting today?". This will jump start a conversation more than a question like "how was your weekend?", If you notice he needs a pen or a pencil, offer him one. If he drops something on the street, help him pick it up. If he isn’t sure what to order at a bar, make a suggestion. Little favors like this won’t freak him out but will definitely make him notice you. Empathetic statements work really well too.For example, if he is complaining about his job say something like. "I could see that being really difficult. How do you handle that day by day?"

, Flirting is a time-honored way to get someone to notice you. Make little jokes or tease the person. Try complimenting him in an indirect way. Flirt with him partially with body language and partially with the things you say. Try to maintain eye contact and smile at the things that he says. Move closer to him in a non-threatening way and open up your body towards him. If you’re sitting on a couch close together, don’t be afraid to let your knee slide over and touch his. Ask the person questions and find out what he is interested in. You should try to be genuinely interested in what he is saying.For example, if you’re ordering drinks at a busy bar try saying “could you help me out here? I think the bartender might notice a cute guy more quickly than he’ll notice me.”

, If you are sitting at a coffee shop and you really want a guy to notice you, try giving him a cup of coffee or tea. Studies show that giving someone that kind of warmth is associated with being friendly and approachable.