 As you walk, keep the detector roughly two feet in front of you. As you walk, sweep it back and forth in a half circle in front of you, roughly a foot to each side. Walk in a straight line so you don't re-test ground when you turn around.









You want to go "low and slow," and never touch the ground. Walk about half the speed as usual.
The detector should be roughly 6" or less above the ground., Stop immediately if you hear a beep. Slowly use the detector to find out exactly the spot it beeped at. If you can, increase the sensitivity on the metal detector as you get closer. Move the detector slowly back and forth, then up and down as you find the exact spot where the metal resides.









Many metal detectors even have breakdowns of metal type or potentially coin worth. Work slowly, reading the face of the metal detector as you learn how to use it.
 Your metal detector should tell you how deep the object is, and many trowels have rulers attached to the blade letting you know how deep you're digging. Cut a circular plug roughly 6" in diameter around the spot the metal detector picked up, then pull out the whole cylinder of dirt.
 If you don't have a pinpointer, place the plug of earth right under your metal detector. This can help you determine if your object is in the plug or the surrounding dirt.
 You want to preserve the dirt and any roots as much as possible. Use gloved fingers to feel through the plug until your find your object.
 It takes two seconds, but most people leave after digging out the first quarter. Your detector will ping the same amount if there is one piece of metal or five, so always rescan once you've dug a hole. Stuff tends to congregate together, so chances are good there will be something else.
 No one wants to see a pockmarked, dug up park. The reason you dig in a plug is so that you can easily return the earth to the ground, allowing it to quickly recover. Once you replace the plug, push it firmly back into the ground to help set it.
 Walk a long, straight line on your first pass. If you don't find anything, move over 1-2 feet and walk back to the right or left of your first line. Overlapping a bit allows the detector to pick up things it might miss on the fringe of your path. You'll be making a giant zig-zag pattern across your search area.









If you're feeling casual, just walking with the detector will work fine. But for a thorough, systematic search you'll need to stick to straight lines.
 There are some places where you are almost guaranteed to find more metal, because people tend to drop more things of all sorts. After you've done an efficient, full sweep of the open ground, try out:









The edges of pathways and trails
Under bleachers or hedges
Areas in front of food stands, vending machines, etc.
The perimeter of bandstands and gazebos.