 Your mindset or attitude is an important part of your mood. That is, you can't always change a situation you're in, but you can change how you react to it. You have to start by identifying what you're feeling currently.For instance, maybe you had a bad interview for a job. You can identify your feelings as sad or angry, depending on what you're feeling.;
, Once you've established what mood you're already in, think about what mood would be better. To help you decide, focus on what kind of mood would help you move forward, rather than stay stuck where you are.For instance, if you did badly on an interview, you may decide that a better mood would be confidence that you will do better next time by learning from your mistakes.
While you can't instantly change to a new mood, deciding what mood would be better can help push you in the right direction.
 When you're in a bad mood, you're likely only looking at what went wrong. However, if you can find the positive in the situation, you'll help change your mood.This step can be as simple as looking for the things in your life that you're grateful for or looking for what you can be grateful for, even in a situation that you think isn't great. For instance, if you've had a bad job interview, at least you have the qualifications and the resources to apply for those jobs., Basically, just tell yourself that you can and will do better. It's like a friend giving you a pep talk, but you're doing it for yourself.For instance, in the case of the interview, you could say, "That didn't go as well as you hoped, but you'll do so much better next time. Plus, at least you didn't bomb it completely. You showed up on time, and you were dressed in a professional manner. Plus, you rocked that question about your future goals!", Sunlight can naturally improve your mood, especially over time. If you work in a dark environment or stay in the house all day, try spending some time outside.If you can't get outside, try opening the windows to let the light in. If you live in an area that is darker in the winter, you might try getting a lamp meant to offer the same benefits as sunlight.
 Exercise is a natural mood-lifter. When you exercise, your body releases mood-lifting endorphins into your bloodstream.Even if you don't have time for an hour-long workout everyday, adding exercise to your routine can help, too. For instance, take the stairs instead of the elevator if you can or park farther out when you go to the store., Getting out and spending time with people you like can also boost your mood. If you don't have many friends, try joining a club that focuses on a hobby you love.Try connecting with people on the internet through social media, who you can then meet up with in real life. You can also meet people at social events such as open mic nights at your local coffee shop.
 If you're sitting alone in your house brooding, it may be time to get out. Go to the park. Enjoy a coffee at a coffee shop. Stop by the library or bookstore. Pick a place that makes you feel better, and spend an hour or two lifting your mood., Pick some music that always energizes you. Put it in a playlist, and blast it across your room or house. Spending some time listening to music that makes you happy can lift your mood.If you can't decide what to listen to, many social music sites have playlists made by users for certain moods. For instance, you could find a list meant to be energizing or make you happier.
 When you are in a bad mood, try engaging in something that interests you. Learning something new, which engages your creativity and interest, can help boost your mood.One place to explore ideas is your local libraries. Try checking out books on some topics you love.

