 Knowing all you can about Peru, Incas and Machu Picchu`s history before you leave helps you understand the magnitude of the Ancient Inca Empire that once governed these beautiful lands. This makes your exploring Peruvian holidays so much more interesting and satisfying. You can really know what you're looking at or looking for!;
, Being able to ask questions or hold a simple conversation really add to the whole experience.
 Believe it or not, Machu Picchu is quite accessible for Families and Children and the retired. If you do take kids be prepared to carry them!

, Therefore once you know how many are going, think about ages and levels of physical fitness. This is important for understanding the type of active or none active holiday package you require. Furthermore Machu Picchu is visited all year round by all levels of fitness including many retired and many children under 5. However it is important to understand that high altitude can affect anyone from fit to not so fit, it seems to be a lottery who gets altitude sickness

, You can expects to be looking for average flights from London to Peru booked a few months in advance cost around £600 to £800. Average 3 star 7 day tour package with pick up at Lima airport and return cost around £399 to £799.
 Clothing is so important when travelling to places with many eco systems. Peru ranges from very strong direct sunshine to cold breezy wet bursts. It is recommended that you take light weight breathable clothes and a light weight water resistant rain jacket. Take thin layers give you flexibility to go from sunshine to cold weather. Take a pair of practical well gripped shoes for trekking over uneven grounds. If you are planning to tour Peru’s upper crust of wealthy restaurants and hotels then do take some smart clothes and shoes as city Peruvians can be very professional and well dressed. Sunglasses are great. Lip balm is important for the dry high altitude and lots of sun screen as even when cloudy you could be getting burnt. Cash machines are in every major town so no need to carry lots of cash.
 If you are going with kids then take some none valuable games to entertain them on the many plane, coach and taxi journeys!

, Hotels, Airlines, taxis and people are fantastic in Peru but there can always be that one desperately poor person looking for an opportunity to feed the family for the month.
 If you are only sticking to Lima, Cusco and Machu Picchu there is very low risk of malaria and yellow fever.
 It's important to consider the weather at the time of your trip and any festivities or potential uprisings such as strikes that may be going on in the area at the time of your trip.,