 Do not drink any beer, wine, liquor or any other form of alcohol during conception or pregnancy. There is no safe amount of alcohol that you can drink during pregnancy, and when a woman drinks, the alcohol passes from her bloodstream into the fetus.


Prenatal exposure to alcohol can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). One of the most severe of these disorders is fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). FAS is the major known preventable cause of intellectual disability in the United States.
Drinking during pregnancy can also lead to a miscarriage and stillbirth. ;
, There is no safe amount of smoke that a pregnant woman and baby can be exposed to, so always avoid smoking cigarettes and secondhand smoke during conception and pregnancy.


Tobacco intake increases the risk of a premature birth, low birth weight, birth defects such as cleft lip or cleft palate, and death. Women who smoke while pregnant are more likely to have a miscarriage. Smoking has also been linked to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS)., Particular over-the-counter and prescription drugs, referred to as "teratogens," carry a high risk of causing birth defects. If you are taking medication, speak with your physician before conceiving.


Teratogenic drugs are most dangerous between the first and eighth week of pregnancy, a period when many women may not realize they are pregnant. Thus, it is very important to consult with your doctor if you are taking medication and wish to conceive.
There are a number of drugs that fall under the teratogenic category, including some antibiotics, lithium, thyroid and cancer medications, blood-thinners, acne medications, male hormones, anti-epileptic drugs, antidepressants and more. A helpful list and description of high-risk medications can be found here., The consumption of drugs like cocaine, methamphetamine, and heroin can lead to serious complications during and after pregnancy. These and other illicit drugs should be avoided at all costs during conception and pregnancy.


Cocaine, heroin and other illegal drugs can cause premature birth, low birth weight, defects in the heart, and other complications for a newborn. In addition, a baby born to a mother who uses cocaine or heroin during pregnancy may enter the world addicted to these drugs and experience painful withdrawal symptoms.
The use of cocaine while pregnant can produce babies with defects of the limbs, intestines, kidneys, urinary system, and heart. It can also cause microcephaly, a condition that leads to the development of an abnormally small brain. Cocaine also often causes placenta abruption, which can be fatal to both mother and fetus.
Heroin use can cause respiratory problems, hypoglycemia, intracranial hemorrhaging (bleeding in the brain), and other defects. Heroin and other opiates also cause a withdrawal syndrome in the neonate which is very hard to treat.
 There are many everyday solvents, insecticides, and toxic fumes that may cause birth defects, and you should avoid situations in which you may be exposed to such agents.


The list of potentially dangerous toxins is long, and exposure can occur in a number of different ways: refinishing furniture or painting, agricultural work, ingesting polluted water, living near a hazardous waste site, and so on.
The most common toxins a mother might come into contact with are pesticides (insecticides, herbicides, fungicides), solvents (gasoline, paint thinner, nail polish remover), and colorants (metallic dyes, furniture paint, fabric dye). For a longer list of harmful toxins, see here.
For a more thorough description of the potential harm caused by environmental toxins, and the situations in which exposure can occur, see here. , Because the largest number of birth defects occur during the first 3 months of gestation, it is very important to know if you are pregnant. Indeed, it is recommended that you speak with your doctor before you become pregnant in order to discuss your family and medical history.


Planning for pregnancy with the advice of a doctor is particularly important for women who already have a child with a birth defect.
Planning your pregnancy allows you time to break bad habits like smoking and drinking, and to prepare your body for the big event.
You may also request a pre-pregnancy or early pregnancy screening test in order to spot potential or real birth defects. The types of tests include a carrier test to see if you or your partner carry potentially harmful genes, as well as screening and diagnostic tests that can determine risks for and detect genetic disorders. , This B vitamin is crucial to preventing neural tube defects in a baby’s brain and spine, including anencephaly and spina bifida, respectively. It is recommended that expectant women take at least 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid every day. You should begin taking folic acid a minimum of 3 months before you become pregnant.The safest approach is to make sure you are taking 400 mcg of folic acid daily before you become pregnant, and continue taking this amount at least through the first three months of the pregnancy.
Good sources of folic acid are cereal, spinach, beans, asparagus, oranges and peanuts. However, the easiest way to obtain the recommended amount of folic acid is by taking a multivitamin. Make sure to speak with your doctor about the use and benefits of folic acid. , Particular foods may contain toxins dangerous to both you and your unborn child, including mercury, salmonella, listeria, shigella, and E. coli, and thus should be avoided before conception and during a pregnancy.


Avoid eating fish such as swordfish, shark, tilefish and king mackerel, as they may contain high levels of mercury, which can lead to hearing and vision problems, as well as brain damage.
Do not eat raw fish or shellfish during pregnancy. Avoid eating sushi and sashimi, oysters, clams and scallops.
Food poisoning can also be very dangerous to an unborn child. Make sure to fully cook poultry, meats and eggs, and avoid luncheon meats, hotdogs, and foods that contain raw or partially cooked eggs (hollandaise sauce, Caesar salad dressing, eggnog, and more)., The healthier your body is, the lower the chances are that your newborn will have a birth defect. It is thus important to eat a balanced diet, engage in regular exercise, and control your bodyweight.


A balanced diet will include the following: 5 portions of fruits and vegetables a day; 2-3 portions of (low-fat) dairy products a day; protein-rich foods every day; and 2 portions of fish a week. Be careful to check each food for potentially high levels of mercury or other toxins. For more information on maintaining a healthy diet during pregnancy see here.
Speak with your doctor before beginning or continuing an exercise regime, particularly if you have any medical conditions (heart disease, high blood pressure, etc.) that may pose a risk to you and your baby.
30 minutes of low-impact exercise each day is recommended for pregnant women. Healthy activities include riding a stationary bike, swimming, low-impact aerobics and, particularly, walking. Be careful to stay hydrated and avoid overheating.
Obesity increases the chances a newborn will have birth defects, including heart complications and spina bifida. Thus, it is important to maintain a healthy lifestyle and keep your weight under control before a pregnancy. An ideal body mass index (BMI) is between 20 and 25, while a BMI of 30 or higher is considered obese., If you have a physical condition that may put added strain on your body during pregnancy, or create a risk for your baby, speak with a doctor about ways you can get it under control.


Uncontrolled Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes put women at greater risk of miscarriage, and can cause several different birth defects in a newborn’s brain, spine, heart, kidneys, and other areas of the body.
Gestational diabetes can affect all women, but women who are over the age of 25, obese, have a family history of diabetes, or are of a non-caucasian background have a higher risk of developing gestational diabetes. This can cause excessive birth weight, preterm birth, low blood sugar and potentially type 2 diabetes in your baby.Pay particular attention to epilepsy, obesity, and high blood pressure when you are planning a pregnancy, and speak to your physician about the risks these conditions pose to a pregnancy., Particular infections can cause birth defects, and thus you should carefully avoid situations that may cause infections, and make sure your vaccinations are up to date.


Rubella (German measles) is a particularly dangerous cause of birth defects in children. Make sure to speak with your doctor before you become pregnant in order to have your blood tested for immunity against this infection.
Toxoplasmosis can cause hearing and vision problems, as well as intellectual disabilities. The parasite spreads through the eating of unwashed vegetables and raw or undercooked meat, as well as through contact with animal (particularly cat) feces. Make sure to wash and cook vegetables and meat, use gloves when gardening, and (if you can) avoid emptying litter boxes.
Cytomegalovirus can cause hearing and vision problems, as well as intellectual disabilities, and spreads through children's urine and other bodily fluids. If you are around children on a regular basis, it is recommended that you use gloves when changing diapers and wash your hands regularly., Consulting your physician before and during your pregnancy is crucial to preventing birth defects in your baby. Visit your physician before you become pregnant to discuss your family and medical history, and begin prenatal care as soon as you know that you are pregnant.