 Find a comfortable place where you can sit for fifteen to thirty minutes without being disturbed. This could be on a favorite chair, outside in the grass, or on a yoga mat. While some people prefer to meditate in a cross-legged lotus position, you can sit any way you like so long as you are not in pain.If you work in an office, you might want to close your door while you meditate. If you do not have a door, slip away to a bathroom, empty conference room, or to your car.
If you lie down while you meditate, you may fall asleep.
 Breathing is an important part of the process. It helps you relax and control your body as you go to your safe place. Start with a deep breath, and slowly exhale. With each breath, your breathing should become slower until you are calm and your muscles are relaxed.It may help you to visualize your breath coursing through your body to the pit of your stomach as you inhale. This will help you take deeper breaths.
 Focus on your breath to help you shut out the noise and distractions of the outside world. Keep doing this until you are able to focus on the stillness and silence of your mind. This is your zone of peace, and it can help reinforce the tranquility of your safe place., Close your eyes. Picture yourself standing in your safe place.If you cannot immediately find yourself there, picture yourself at the bottom of a staircase or at the beginning of a trail. Walk along this trail until you arrive at your safe place., Try not to bring any negativity, anger, resentment, insecurities, or guilt into your safe space with you. Let go of them at the door. If you're having difficulty doing this, try using a mantra. Repeat the mantra until you no longer feel stressed, tense, angry, or upset.A simple mantra you can use is "Let go" or "I'm calm."

, When you arrive at your safe place, walk through it until you find the room, area, or destination you’re looking for. Allow the safe place to come alive around you. Instead of a static image, let the leaves blow in the wind, birds fly in the air, or clouds float overhead. Take a hike through the mountain or rock in a hammock. These actions not only make the safe place seem more real in your head, but they provide calming relief to you as well.


You are not limited to realistic actions either. If you want to fly through the air or swim through the depths of the oceans, you can do it, provided that it is a sensation that makes you feel peaceful and free. , If something is worrying you, you can deal with it in your safe place. Identify the problem and why it is worrying you. Allow it to take on a physical form or shape. It could be a rock, a marble, or a box. Now picture that object being destroyed or taken far away from you.For example, you might imagine your problems as appearing on a long piece of paper. Crumple up that paper and throw it in the trash. You can bury the paper, or you can tear it into many different pieces.

