 In 2013, more Europeans bought and rode bikes than they did cars. The 3.6 million people who bike in Great Britain is almost twice the number of people who travel by car. In Greece, there are over five times more bikers than there are drivers. Instead of relying on your normal routine, buy a bike and take it to work. You will be travelling like millions of Europeans while saving money and improving your health., Most European nations have extensive bus and train systems that are utilized daily by residents. Germany has the Bahn, Italy has the Metropolitan, and Paris has the Métro, which locals take around these cities everyday. Instead of taking your car to work, figure out the bus routes that go between your house and work. You can also take a metro train. This will make you feel more European and save you money in the process.One of the most multi-functional public transit systems is in London, which has Transport for London (TfL), an extensive network of buses, underground and overground trains, ferries, and trams that run all hours of the day. The TfL is also affiliated with an airline and cross country train service. The Brits take these modes of transportation everyday, wherever they go. The red double-decker buses that litter the streets of London are known all over the world., An overwhelming number of Americans drive large, gas-guzzling SUVs, while Europeans lean toward small, compact cars that get a much better fuel consumption rate. In Italy and France, you are much more likely to find a Fiat 500, Mini Cooper, and Smart car than you are a Cadillac Escalade. This is mostly due to how little space there is on the streets, especially in big cities. If you need to drive, or just prefer it, think about buying a Fiat 500 or Mini Cooper. Not only will the cars help you feel like an Italian, they are easier to drive around, are cost efficient, and better for the environment., Whether it is shopping or going out with friends, many Europeans take their time and walk to the shops or restaurants that they need to get to. The design of the city of Paris is made for strolls, with its walkways along the Seine River, sidewalk cafes on every corner, and large, tree-lined avenues. Try walking more in your everyday life. Walk to the store to pick up a few things or walk to a local restaurant for dinner.Europeans also tend to go for evening strolls. There is rarely a night that you don't see people strolling through the streets of Venice or through the parks in France. Add in a nice after dinner walk with your spouse, family, friends, or roommates. It helps you unwind after the day and will give you time to spend with those you care about.If you don't live in a place that is necessarily conducive to walking, try driving near wherever you need to go and then walk to the specific location you need to get to. This allows you to walk more and you can cut out some of the stress of traffic and parking.

