 It is possible to forge a deep connection with your baby before they are even born. Gently pat or rub your belly, making soothing sounds for your baby. Listen to classical music and watch to see if your belly moves in response. Study your ultrasound photos and imagine what your baby will look like. Try to feel connected instead of isolated from your growing baby.Talk or sing to your baby as you go about your day. Describe to them what you are seeing and your thoughts and feelings. You might say, “I just went to the store and looked at some toys to buy for you. I wonder what you’ll like.” And, If you feel lonely, this will provide some comfort for both of you.;
, Plan pampering activities that you enjoyed prior to being pregnant. Go see a movie, hit the mall, or get a prenatal massage. Make yourself the focus for a few hours at a time. This will also help to break the monotony that comes from a stream of never-ending baby related medical appointments.


If the idea of making yet another appointment is just too much, find activities that do not require pre-planning, such as wandering the bookstore.
 Write down your everyday thoughts and emotions in a journal for your eyes only. You may keep another journal that discusses the baby’s movements, etc., but this diary is intended to be an honest outlet for all of your feelings, be they positive or negative.Try to keep balance in your diary by keeping a one-to-one ratio of positive and negative observations. For example, if you write about your sore feet, balance that out with a line or two about how you’ve discovered that your hair is fuller than ever.
 Look online for pregnancy blogs, buy or borrow pregnancy and baby books, subscribe to related magazines, etc. You’ve been given a nine-month window to gather as much information as you can about this major change in your life. Knowledge is power and it will combat fear of the unknown, which can be real problem in pregnancy.


Doing your research will also show that you do not have to, and will not be, the exact same as your parents. No matter how you feel about how you were raised, you are experiencing pregnancy in a way that is unique solely to you.
 When faced with negative feelings, ask yourself if your feelings are focused on something that is actually within your control. If it is within your control, then try to figure out how to address the main problem. If it is not within your control, then you have to push it to the back of your mind and leave it alone.


This is an especially important process for women who are pregnant with complicated medical histories, such as suffering from miscarriages. Fear for the ultimate safety of your baby can be crippling if you do not address it. Focus on what you can do to improve your baby’s health, such as taking prenatal vitamins.Feelings of fear and anxiety when pregnant are not always a bad thing either. In fact, they help to activate a woman’s protective impulse toward her baby, leading to a good standard of care in the long term.