 If you are not a U.S. or Canadian Citizen, then you will need to fill out an I-94 form. If you are a U.S. or Canadian Citizen, then you do not need this form. All passengers must also complete a customs declaration form. This form is required for both U.S. and Foreign citizens. Make sure to have the required documents completed before you enter the customs and immigration facilities.;
, Don't stop to gaze around as this could make officers suspicious. Most often, you will walk through a hallway or go down an escalator to the customs and immigration facilities. In rare circumstances (mostly at smaller, more poorly run airports), you will need to ride a bus.
 If you are a U.S. Citizen, go to the lanes marked United States Citizens. If you are non-U.S. Citizen, go to the lanes marked Foreign Citizens. If you have another flight to connect with, there are sometimes special lanes for Connecting Passengers.
 He/she will look at your passport, scan it, and possibly validate it. He/she will also retain any I-94 forms, and validate and return the customs forms.
 Here, you will claim your checked baggage, even if you have another flight to connect with. Check the screens for the carousel number that your flight has been assigned to and wait for your bags to appear.
 If you do not have any items to declare, proceed to the green lanes marked "Nothing to Declare". If you do have items to declare, proceed to the red lanes marked "Goods to Declare". Here, you will turn in your customs form and if you do not have anything to declare, you will be waved through to the exit.
 If you are already at your final destination, skip straight to step 8.


When you get to the connecting baggage carousel, be sure to place any liquids, gels, and aerosols that are over 3 oz, or any other items that are not allowed through TSA security checkpoints in your checked luggage. Check that your baggage tags match your final destination. Place your luggage on the conveyor belt, wheels or handles facing up (the bag itself should be upside down).
Continue following the signs marked Connecting Flights, and proceed through security to the departures area.
 Once you exit the customs and immigration facilities you will be in the International Arrivals area. Here you will meet up with friends and family, or proceed to courtesy shuttles, taxis, rental cars, or other ground transportation.

