 Reserve the living room or a corner of the backyard for the grown-ups to sit and chat. You can take this opportunity to catch each other up on what’s been going on in your lives while the kids are busy playing. That way, everybody gets to benefit from a little friend time.Post up somewhere within eyesight of the kids so that you can supervise while you socialize.
Take a break from talking about princesses and potty training and steer the conversation toward topics like your career, interests and recent personal developments.;
, Don’t forget that the parents will start to get hungry after a while, too. It can be a good idea to have a few mature alternatives to pizza pockets on hand for your guests to nibble on, such as a fruit and cheese tray or some light finger sandwiches. Or you could get more elaborate and experiment with some of those fancy hors d'oeuvres you’ve been meaning to try. Keeping pace with a dozen screaming kids will be much easier on a full stomach.Fix a big batch of chili to simplify the food situation, or encourage your guests to bring one of their own favorite dishes.You might even turn a party for younger children into an impromptu luncheon for friends that you don’t see very often.
 There should be something for the older partygoers to drink other than juice boxes and strawberry milk. Iced tea, cucumber water and berry-infused lemonades are always crowd pleasers. After the food has been served, break out the cold beers, uncork a bottle of wine and put on a pot of fresh coffee (you may need it to get through the rest of the afternoon).Set up a cocktail bar, complete with soda water, fresh fruit, and other mix-ins, where your adult guests can serve themselves.
A few alcoholic beverages are okay, but try not to let things get out of hand. Offer to arrange a ride home for guests that accidentally overdo it.
 A well-staged live performance is great fun no matter what age you are. If you’re going all out for a big bash, secure the services of a clown, magician or comedy troupe to captivate the little ones. You can practically guarantee that no one at the party will be able to look away. Chances are, you’ll end up feeling like a kid again yourself.Schedule an appearance by your child’s favorite Disney princess or superhero.
Get in on the act by putting on a homemade puppet show or theater production., A couple rounds of Scrabble or Cards Against Humanity can make a welcome diversion for the big folks while the little ones are off amusing themselves. These games require creativity and critical thinking, which are both assets you don’t typically get to employ at a party for adolescents. And, if nothing else, they’ll help the time pass a bit faster.Board games are an excellent way to break the ice when you’re around parents you don’t know very well, especially if you divide up into teams.
Look for games with simpler rules and less mature themes so that the kids can get in on the action too., After a while, a soundtrack comprised of nothing but jingles written for grade schoolers can be enough to drive anyone to the brink of insanity. Luckily, there’s a good chance that the music you listened to growing up will be accessible to the younger generation as well. Skip The Wiggles Greatest Hits and instead queue up some music that will get everyone at the party grooving, like The Beatles, The Beach Boys, Queen or Jimmy Buffett. You’ll be glad you did about an hour in.Musical soundtracks tend to be a big hit with listeners both young and old.
Screen your track selection for bad words and other inappropriate content beforehand.
 When you need to mesmerize a group of eight year olds in a hurry, some big big-screen entertainment may be the answer. Pop in a Disney DVD or find an age-appropriate selection in your Netflix watchlist that the kids can gather round and watch together. They’ll be enraptured for an hour or two, during which time you can take a breather from having your hands full.Pick a movie that everybody can get into, including the adults and older kids.
Sitting still for a movie may even lead to unscheduled naptime—for the older partygoers, that means peace and quiet.
 Rather than having every parent drop off their child individually, find a few who are willing to play chauffeur for small groups of kids who have all been invited to the party. This will free up the other parents to pay bills, run errands, see to other responsibilities or simply relax and take the day off. They’ll appreciate the favor, and the kids will have a blast riding around with their friends.Work out specific routes and limit the pickup radius to a small area so that the trip there and back isn’t so hard on those who volunteer to drive.
Make sure it’s okay with the other parents before offering to give their kids a ride.
 A lot of times, the parents that are forced to hang around at kids’ parties have no choice but to sit and wait uncomfortably until their little ones tire out. You can circumvent awkward silences and possible boredom by giving everyone something to do. Delegate basic tasks, like taking over Bounce House safety duty or picking up discarded drink cups.Set up stations where the kids can get their faces painted, put together basic crafts or have their picture made with props and costumes.If the party is proceeding without a hitch, have a lounge area available where everyone can sit and watch the kids together.
 Tackle culinary tasks with a partner that likes to cook. With a little assistance, you can greatly expedite the process of mixing, measuring, grilling and putting the finishing touches on the birthday cake or dessert. Collaborating on the food and festivities will help everything fall into place with minimal time and stress, and definitely beats standing around timidly cradling a cup of warm punch.Get together before the party to come up with some ideas for a menu that will satisfy everyone’s tastes.
 As stressful, tedious or downright boring as these types of parties can sometimes be, remember what’s truly important at the end of the day: that the kids are happy. Your little boy or girl will be all grown up before you know it, so don’t take their exciting, adventurous, wide-eyed early years for granted. Get out there and have fun right alongside them. The memories you make together will be worth it.Play games that give parents the chance to be on the same team as their kids.
Take plenty of photos to mark the occasion and capture those precious moments of joy.

