 The best way to act confident is to feel confident. There are several things you can do to help your self-confidence and self-esteem, which in turn will help you feel better in a variety of situations. Believing in yourself is the secret to confidence. While you can act confident, you will be much more convincing if you believe in your confidence. Look deep inside yourself and acknowledge your best attributes. You may not think you have anything special in you, but you do. This inner confidence will naturally make you feel and look great.


Set realistic goals and meet them. Give yourself the confidence to know that you can successfully accomplish goals.
Love yourself for who you are. Accept yourself for your positives and negatives. Give yourself leeway for mistakes and give yourself accolades when you are successful.
Talk with your loved ones. People who love you can help you see the positive in yourself. They love you for particular reasons, and their influence will have a positive effect on your self-worth.
 In order to act confidently, shift your focus to the things that give you confidence. Think about your positive attributes. Consider the things you’ve done well and succeeded at (no matter how big or small). Make a list of positive things to say about yourself. Some examples are:


I’m a great friend.
I’m a hard-working employee.
I excel at mathematics, science, spelling, grammar, etc.
I won trophies for competing in chess.
 Recall situations in which people have complimented you. This will help you think positively about yourself, which in turn will help you to act confidently.
 Once you understand the situations in which you feel confident, you can transfer your confidence skills to other situations.


Write a list of each situation where you feel confident. For each situation, write down what it is that enables you to feel confident in that situation. For example: “I feel confident when I am with my friends. Reasons why I feel confident: I have known them a long time. I know they don’t judge me. They accept me for who I am.”
Write down each situation where you don’t feel as confident. For each of these situations, write down what it is that prevents you from feeling confident. For example: “I don’t feel confident when I am in work. Reasons why I don’t feel confident: It’s a new job and I am not sure about what I am doing. My boss is a bit picky, and she has pulled me up on the work I have done.”

, Another skill you can work on is striving to succeed in the things you do at work, at school, or even at your relationships. It’s all about focus. Confident people focus on how to improve what they do until they succeed. People who lack confidence will focus upon how they appear, worrying about their perceived shortcomings (which are most often not true), and worry about failing rather than trying to find a way to make things work.


Reflect on a recent situation that you were in, such as giving a public talk or interviewing for a job. Count at least three things that went well in the situation. This will help keep negative thinking at bay., Negative thoughts cause a lot of misery for a lot of people. Negative thoughts are often based upon self-beliefs that are untrue. These types of thoughts might include, “I’m not good enough,” “I’m unlucky,” or “I mess up all the time.”


Acknowledge those thoughts as they occur. You simply have picked up some bad habits along the way. Changing them is completely within your reach.
Counter negative thoughts. Offer an opposite thought and then test out which one is true. For example, if you catch yourself saying, “I’m unlucky,” counter that thought with all the things you have in your life that make you lucky. For example, remind yourself, “I have a roof over my head, food on the table, and clothing on my back. I have friends and family who love me. I won $40 last year from lottery scratch tickets.”
Acknowledge that your inner critic is never really correct. Quieting the inner critic can help you act confidently because you will feel more confident without someone (you) putting you down all the time.
 You can use your list of positives to increase your belief in the fact that you will rise to challenges and do your best in any given situation.If you always think about what you’re doing wrong, you will decrease your sense of “self-efficacy” (your belief that you can actually accomplish things big and small). In turn, this will erode your self-confidence and cause you to act with less self-confidence. Instead, believe that you can overcome challenges.

