 CD Decks used by DJs generally include pitch control, advanced anti-skip, and a jog wheel which is used to manipulate the song that is playing. There are two types of CD players used by DJs:



Table Top Table top CD players sit on a flat surface like turntable and can each play a single CD. Table top CD players generally have a large jog wheel and may include vinyl simulation.

Examples: Pioneer CDJ1000, Denon DN-S3500




Rack Mounted Rack mount CD players may take a single CD like the table top's but more often are Dual-CD where half controls one CD and the other half controls a second CD. Rack mounted CD players are often used by mobile DJs because the fit well in mobile cases.

Examples: Pioneer MEP-7000, American Audio VELOCITY


;
, DJ Turntables will include pitch control and may have other features such as reverse or multiple start/stop buttons so you can orient them as you see fit on your table. There are two types of DJ turntable:



Belt Drive The main advantage of the belt driven turntable is the motor is set to the side of the platter and the spin is generated by a continuous belt thus reducing vibration. The problem with belt drive turntables is that they often lack the torque to bring the platter to speed as quickly as you need to and are more susceptible to speed (pitch) variations.

Examples: Gemini TT01, Numark TT1600MKII




Direct Drive Direct drive turntables have the benefit of the motor being directly connected to the platter thus allowing for greater torque and faster start/stop times there is also no belt which could become worn and need replacing.

Examples: Technics SL1200MK2, Vestax PDX-200MK2




, Mixers also usually include basic EQ controls for Bass, Mid, and Treble. There are two main types of DJ Mixers:



Battle Mixers Battle mixers are generally very slim, have limited extra features beyond what is necessary, have a very shallow curve on the individual channel volume controls, and very high quality cross-faders. They are used primarily by DJs who scratch records.

Examples: Mackie D2-PRO, Vestax PMC-06-Pro




DJ Mixers Everything else falls under this category. DJ mixers have usually between 2 and 4 channels and may include 1 or 2 mic inputs. Most newer DJ mixers also include some basic effects and may even include an automatic BPM counter.

Examples: Pioneer DJM-800, Denon DNX1500




, DJ's use their headphones to cue the next song and make sure everything is mixed correctly before raising the volume and letting people hear it. The headphones used by DJ's need to be loud to overcome monitors and crowd noise, clear so the DJ can hear the details in the songs, and comfortable because they will be worn for long periods of time.




Examples: Sennheiser HD-25 are used by many pro DJs all over the world, crisp, clear and loud with great cancellation from outside noise, Sony MDRV700's, Behringer HPX2000's, Technics RPDH1200's




, There are a number of different types of cables that you may encounter:



RCA Cables These are basic audio cables, they are a dual cable with two separate connectors on each end usually colour coded red and white. 1/4" Patch Cables Sometimes used to connect the mixer to speakers these cables have a 1/4" male plug on both ends. 1/4" to Banana Cables These cables are used to connect some amplifiers to speakers that are not self powered. XLR Cables These are most commonly used for microphones however they may be used to connect some brands of speakers as well. 