 Sometimes, hearing about someone else who has endured a similar experience can help you feel not so alone. Look up books, movies, or TV shows with story lines about friends who are long-distance. Doing this might help validate your feelings.,

Turn to loved ones who can comfort you. Missing your friend is completely normal and healthy. It’s common to long for someone when you have a strong bond with them. However, don’t withdraw from others. Your parents and other family members would probably be happy to spend more time with you and help you get through the initial transition of your friend leaving.

Go to your parents or siblings and say “Hey, I feel really lonely since Charlie left. Can we do something together?”

, Producing some type of tangible record of you and your friend’s relationship may help you to recognize the strength of the bond you share. Get some arts and craft materials and work to create a memory book. Use pictures, quotes, magazine photos, and other decorations to make a physical representation of your time together., No matter how hard you try to fight it, change is an unavoidable part of life. You have changed from the person you were five years ago and so have the people around you. Resisting change can prevent you from engaging with your new circumstances in a positive way and it can even be detrimental to your personal growth. As a result, you may start to isolate yourself and become depressed because your friend has moved away.This response is harmful to you, so try to look for ways that you can adapt to your new situation instead.


For example, while you won't be able to replace your friend, you can use your friend's departure as an opportunity to make some new friends. Try inviting someone new to do something that you and your friend used to do together, such as going for walks or going to the movies. Or start a new tradition with someone, such as going for bike rides together after school or playing video games together on the weekend.
 Feeling painful feelings can be uncomfortable, but doing so can help you move through these emotions and feel better. If you refuse to acknowledge the pain or loss you feel, it will only build up inside of you. Try the T.R.U.T.H. strategy for feeling your feelings:Tell yourself what happened- stick to the facts

Realize what emotions you're feeling- try to describe the emotion

Uncover any self-criticism- look for any judgments you have about yourself for feeling a certain way

Try to understand yourself- answer "why" you are feeling this way (e.g. "We've been living near each other our whole lives and things will be scary without her/him.")

Have the feeling- experience the emotion completely allowing yourself to cry or shout

, Having a friend move away is difficult. Feeling sad and missing your friend is difficult. It does take time to adjust to your new situation. After you acknowledge your emotions, allow yourself to feel them, but also know that the feelings you have will not last forever.


The emotions you are feeling can be referred to as “transitional feelings.” These are emotions that are related to the fact that you have a sudden change life that is disrupting your life at the moment. When you do make the adjustment, these feelings will start to lessen with time.
 When you're trying to cope after a friend has moved away, it can be healthy and practical to distract yourself until you start to adjust to the new change. Just be sure that you choose positive distractions that benefit your health and well-being rather than jeopardizing them.For example, refrain from distracting yourself by overeating, using drugs or alcohol, or spending excessive amounts of money to buy things you think will comfort you. Instead, distract yourself by taking on a project such as leading a local community improvement effort, completing a work of art, or even something as simple as reorganizing your bedroom.
Taking your mind off your absent friend and getting involved in a different activity may help you to manage during the initial period after he or she has left.
 Moving can be a very difficult ordeal for kids and adolescents, especially those who are left behind. If you seem to have trouble adapting to the change, you may want to talk to a professional who can teach you skills to cope better.