 Heavy bags come in a variety of shapes and sizes. They can weigh between 20 and 100 lbs (9 and 45 kgs). They can range from 2 feet (.6 meters) in diameter to 4 (1.2 meters) or more. Ultimately, you need to decide what type of bag is best for you. Some examples of bags include:


A conventional heavy bag. These are large bags that you can punch, kick, or run into.
Maize bags. These bags are tear shaped or round, filled with corn, and are great for practicing different types of punches.
An angle heavy bag. These bags are similar to a conventional bag, but the upper half of the bag has a larger diameter. These bags are good for uppercuts and other angled punches.;
, The location you pick should be one that will allow you to move around the bag. As a result, avoid picking a spot up against a wall or next to a column. The best place to hang your bag is in a large area, at least 10 feet by 10 feet (3 meters by 3 meters), and preferably larger.Ideal places to hang your bag are garages, large recreation rooms, or on a porch or patio.
 The place you choose to hang the bag should be able to support whatever weight bag you choose. It can either be a wooden or metal rafter, or a hook that is capable of supporting a lot of weight.


Install a hook into a support beam in your ceiling. You can purchase heavy bag ceiling hooks at sporting goods stores or online.
Tie your heavy bag to an exposed wooden or metal rafter or beam.
Purchase a freestanding hanger. The benefit of freestanding hangers is that you won’t need to install a hook into your ceiling or do anything invasive in your home. The downside is that you won’t be able to move completely around your bag.
Use a door jamb pull-up bar to hang your heavy bag., While you can punch your bag without gloves, it is best to use the opportunity to get used to how they feel. In addition, using gloves will soften the impact and possibly prevent hand injuries.Even if you don't box, you should use boxing gloves when punching a heavy bag.
 Your knees should be bent a little bit and your weight should rest on the balls of your feet. This will enable you to move around the bag quicker.


By bending your knees, you'll also be better able to safely absorb impact if and when you do box someone., Your feet should be separated by the width of your shoulders. If you don’t stand like this, you won’t be balanced and may fall. In addition, you won’t be able to direct as much power as you need into the punching bag.


The perfect stance may vary for some people. You may be more comfortable a few inches shorter or wider than your shoulder width. Experiment until you find the perfect way to stand., Your elbows should be tucked in tightly next to your body. This will make it easier for you to defend yourself if you ever box another person. Tucked elbows protect not only your arms but your torso., When hitting your bag, your default stance should be one when your fists are raised in front of you with one slightly higher than the other. When in this stance, your fists should not be tight and your thumbs should not be tucked in under other fingers.


Keep your fists relaxed until you go in for a punch., When connecting with the bag, your fists should be raised. Punch the bag and let your fist recoil back to you after it connects with the bag. Ideally, you want to let the rebound of the impact send your fist back toward your body., When punching, never fully extend your arms (or legs). This could cause tendon and ligament problems, fractured bones, or broken bones. Instead, allow your arms to remain bent slightly. If you need to get closer to the bag, do so.


Your elbows (or knees) should never lock completely.
 While it’s okay to do single punches, sometimes you may want to practice with a series of punches. To do this, throw one punch and quickly follow it with another punch or two. You can choose to punch with the same fist or to alternate.


To time your punches appropriately, think of three punches making a “rat-ta-tat” noise., After delivering a sequence of punches, pause briefly. Your pause can range from one to three seconds, but should not exceed three seconds., As you deliver single punches or sequences of punches, you should move around the bag in a relaxed manner. Punching in a relaxed manner will get you a better cardio workout and improve your agility.You can choose to move in a clockwise, counterclockwise, or back-and-forth pattern.
 Although you want to move around the bag, don’t run or jump around it. Running or jumping around the bag will waste energy and tire you out. In addition, you could learn bad habits, make missteps, and hurt yourself., Alternate hands and punch your bag twenty times. Break these up into sequences or deliver single punches -- whatever you prefer. The most important thing is that you use your routine to perfect single or sequenced punches.


Make sure to keep your guard up while delivering punches to the bag., Aim to hit the right side of your bag. Swing your left arm in a long-arched fashion to make the hit. Withdraw a few steps from the bag after delivering your punch. Then, complete four more left hooks., Take aim at the left side of your bag. Then, take your right arm, extend it in an arch, and hit the bag. Just like with the left hook, you should withdraw a few steps after delivering the punch. After you’ve completed one, reengage the bag and complete four more right hooks., Aim for the lower portion of the bag. Decide which foot you want to kick with, then turn slightly on your support hip so your kicking leg is closer to the bag. Then, turn your hip, raise your foot, and kick the bag.


Complete five repetitions with each leg., Aim for the top half of the heavy bag. Envision an opponent’s head. Raise your hands to guard your chin. Pivot slightly so your kicking leg is closer to the bag, raise your leg high, and make contact with the bag.


Complete five repetitions with each leg., Choose the leg you want to kick with. Then, pivot slightly on your hip and the ball of your foot. Lift your leg and deliver a blow to the middle section of the bag.Switch legs and do five more repetitions with the opposite leg.
 Stand one foot in front of the bag with your legs spread shoulder length. Dip your knees down slightly. Then, raise one knee and use it to strike the bag. You should make contact with the middle of the bag.


Complete five repetitions with each knee.