 You can't possibly be you, if you have no idea who you are! If you love soccer, tennis, and volleyball you are a person who loves sports. If you love makeup, clothes, and anything girly you might be a girly - girl. Whoever you are, you need to realize that now. Perhaps you want to write down some hobbies that you have, or what you like most, to help you determine this.;
, Imagine this: A puppy is in a horrible home, with a horrible owner. The owner beats it and he doesn't properly feed/water the pup. Most dogs with this life become aggressive. Same with humans. If you grow up hanging out with aggressive people, you'll probably become aggressive. Or if you hang with people who bring you down, you might start to believe it. The pup might not have had a choice, but here the great thing about being a human - you can choose! If you have any friends right now who is/has brought you down, tell them that you'd like to take a break from the friendship for a little while until they start to appreciate you as a human, and a friend.
 Almost everyone tries to go by the brain... but sometimes you shouldn't. When people say "listen to your heart" they mean your feelings, your thoughts. Of course, sometimes using your brain is the right thing to do, like when someone offers drugs. But listening to your heart is also important, and its an important skill. Imagine if no one listened to their inner thoughts and feelings! This world would be unstable.
 Be honest. When was the last time you felt embarrassed, pressured, or scared around someone else? Listen, you're not alone. You probably answered 5 hours ago, or last week. Even the president feels this way sometimes! Everyone feels this way. There's no reason why you shouldn't be yourself just because of others. They probably feel just as scared as you do - but if you stand up for what you believe in when they didn't, you'll be a hero to others and might even be looked up to for people who want to be as confident as you.
 What do you see? Put all looks aside. I mean really. Look beneath the skin, the eyes, the hair. Do you see a fun-loving, confident girl who isn't afraid to be herself? Or do you see a scared, helpless girl who is frightened at the thought of others making fun of you for being ... you? The look in your eyes says it all. If you take an online eye quiz, you'll see. People can tell when you're not confident, and people who aren't confident they want to make fun of them more. You might think its the other way around, but it isn't. People who aren't confident are putting targets on their heads.
 What are you unhappy about? Is it your obesity, tangled hair or the glass is half empty attitude? Fix it. Wear baggy clothes for now to hide the obesity, and go out for a jog every now and then. Brush your hair, or ask an adult or older sister to show you how. Be more optimistic about yourself, and others. Now that you've fixed things you don't like about yourself, look at what you DO like. If it your blue eyes, your tan skin tone or your happy attitude? Show those. Put a little eyeliner to make your eyes shine and pop out. Continue being happy and encourage others. You'll start to feel more confident when you think this way. Confidence will help you love yourself.
 Probably. Remember what it felt like? Would you want to put that pain on someone else? No! Don't bully others!

