 What triggers your negative thoughts? Do you have negative thoughts about school or work? Do certain people trigger your negative thoughts? Begin to piece together when you have negative thoughts and how they come about. You may need to reassess the people you hang out with or go to school or work with an extra strong attitude.If you know you’re going into a situation that can cause negative thoughts, have a mantra or positive affirmation ready so you can let those thoughts go. For example, you can say, “I can be positive now. Even if things go wrong, I know I’ll be okay.”
Try to avoid your triggers as much as possible.;
, When you have an internal monologue, listen to the thoughts that come across your mind. Where do the negative thoughts come from? Do they follow positive thoughts? Are there certain themes you notice? If you notice you’re engaging negative thoughts, catch them in their tracks before they compound.For example, if you start to think, “Wow I’m never going to finish this project” catch the thought before it grows into self-doubt or self-loathing.
Switch your attention to something else, or do an activity that resets your thoughts such as coloring.
 You might try to quickly get rid of thoughts that you find negative of disruptive. When you experience a negative thought, acknowledge it and try to see it from a different perspective.For example, if you have the thought, “I’ll never get a well-paying job” acknowledge that part of you feels this way. Then, release the thought by saying, “This thought does not help me right now.”


If the thoughts reoccur, acknowledge them by saying, “This thought continues to be acknowledged and released.”
Try seeing your negative thoughts from another perspective instead of engaging the negativity. For example, say, “I’m worried about getting a job, but I know I’m qualified. It’s okay to feel anxious, but I know that things will come together.”

, If making a big decision is contributing to your symptoms, give it a momentary break until you feel better. The stress and anticipation from making a large decision can contribute to your depression, so let it go for now. Things like getting married, having a baby, changing jobs, moving, or getting a divorce may be able to wait while you get things sorted.Tell yourself that now is not the time to think about major decisions, and it’s okay to wait.
 If you feel like you can’t escape negative thoughts, change your perspective. Actively spend time thinking of positive things you are grateful for on a daily basis. This can help you gradually shift your thoughts over time to be more positive, calm, and happy.If you catch yourself in negative thinking, replace the negative thought with two things you are grateful for. For example, if you think to yourself, “I really messed up that exam and now I’ll get a bad grade,” say to yourself, “I’m grateful I have the opportunity to be in school and I’m grateful that I can make up for low grades with the next test.”
Start a gratitude journal and write three things you are grateful for each day.
 Catastrophic thoughts go something like this: “I didn’t study, so now I’m going to fail the test, get a bad grade, never finish college and end up getting a terrible job.” One negative thought can lead to compounding negative thoughts or a worse-case scenario.You may also think, “If I don’t get this house, I’ll never find another house I’ll like ever again.” The underlying message of this type of thinking is, “If something is going to happen, it’ll likely be the worst thing that could happen.”


If you notice you’re catastrophizing, let go of the thought by saying, “Not all situations turn out badly, and this one doesn’t have to, either.”
Keep in mind that it is okay to acknowledge when things have gone wrong in the past, but remember that you have choices about what happens in the future.
 If you blame yourself for negative events, recognize how those thoughts are hurting you. For example, you might say, “It’s my fault my grandfather died” or, “If only I had gotten new tires, we would have avoided that car crash.” You cannot control for all variables.If you find yourself taking responsibility for a bad event, say to yourself instead, “This was not my fault. Some things in life cannot be avoided.”

, If you play a situation out over and over again, wishing it had a different outcome, let go of these thoughts and feelings. Remember that you cannot change the past, no matter how painful it is. Accept that you make mistakes and that it is part of being human.Ask yourself, “What have I learned as a result of this situation?” Take whatever it was that you benefited from or learned from, and release the rest.


For example, if you messed up in a relationship and you broke up, perhaps you learned the importance of trust or how to treat someone with respect. Although you cannot go back and undo what you did, you can learn from the experience and choose to move on with a new perspective. Release the experience by saying, “I have learned from that, and while it was painful, I know what not to do next time.”

, When a negative thought comes in, acknowledge it and let it go by replacing it with a more positive or beneficial thought. This can help stop negative thoughts in their tracks and reprogram you to think more positively.For example, if you think, “I don’t have any money” say to yourself, “I’m making changes to my spending so that I don’t worry about money any longer.”


Don’t let negative thoughts take over. When you notice them, release them by saying, “This does not serve me right now. I can find a more positive thought and approach to this situation.”

, If you feel like life would be better if people liked you, admired you, and thought you were great, you might feel like you need the approval to feel good about yourself. This might look like feeling as if problems in relationships are your fault or that you really want and need people to like you.If this sounds like you, say to yourself, “I am valuable and have worth just by being me. It’s okay if people don’t like me.”


If you feel like problems are always your fault, say, “I am not perfect, yet I know that difficulties in relationships arise from both people. I do not fully blame myself.”
When you notice yourself wanting approval, let those thoughts and desires go. Say to yourself, “I don’t need other people to like me to make a difference in the world.”

, Ask your therapist or whoever diagnosed you about your depression. Is there an underlying medical condition? How severe is the depression? Depression is generally treated with a combination of therapy and medication, although no two people are the same, which means symptoms and treatment can vary.The more you understand your depression and how it affects you, the better prepared you are to cope with it effectively.


Does depression run in your family? What do the symptoms look like? Looking at your own family can help you see how depression tends to look in your family and what may be best to use for treatment.
 Going to therapy can help you learn skills and practice them to help you change thoughts that contribute to depression.Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) specifically works with negative thoughts and behaviors that contribute to depression and helps you change those thoughts.Call your insurance provider or local mental health clinic for a referral. You can also ask your general practitioner for a recommendation or talk to family and friends about finding a trustworthy psychotherapist.
 Medication can be helpful in treating depression. They can help the way your brain processes information and moods.While medications won’t take away your depressive thoughts, they can help to stabilize you and lift the feelings of depression.


Consult with a psychiatrist or trained mental health physician about medications. It can take time to find a good fit for you that is effective with minimal side-effects.
Many people note improvements in their depression when using medications. However, some people are at increased risk for suicide. Talk to your prescriber about your risk and what to do in case you do feel suicidal.
 If you’re having thoughts of suicide, it’s important to take certain steps to ensure your safety. Tell someone, whether it’s a friend, family member, or therapist. Let them know you’re feeling suicidal and ask them for help. You can also talk to someone on a confidential suicide hotline, such as 1-800-273-TALK (8255) in the USA. Ask a friend to take you to the hospital or take an ambulance to ensure your safety.If you live outside of the USA, visit suicide.org to find an online chat or hotline near you.
Remember that you are not alone. Many people get through feelings of suicide and go on to live happy, productive lives.

