 When a person dies without a will, they are considered to have passed away intestate. If a decedent does not have a will, their property will be distributed to certain individuals in accordance with your state's intestacy statute. You can find these statutes by searching online for "intestacy law." When a person dies intestate, the probate court will appoint someone to administer their assets. If you are chosen, you will have to distribute the decedent's assets in a very particular order. While each state is different, the statutes will usually favor those relatives that were closely related to the decedent., Intestacy statutes usually start with surviving spouses and the decedent's children at the top of the distribution list. If the decedent left behind a spouse but no surviving children or their descendants (e.g., grandchildren and great grandchildren), the spouse will receive the entire estate. The spouse will also receive the entire estate if the decedent and spouse had children together who are still alive. In this scenario, it is assumed that the surviving spouse will use the assets to care for the children. If there is no surviving spouse but there are surviving children or descendants, each survivor will receive an equal share of the decedent's estate.Be aware that every state will deal with adopted children, step children, and foster children differently. Make sure you read and understand your state's statute before making distributions. If you need help, contact a lawyer.
Once you determine the order in which property needs to be distributed, the actual act of distribution will be the exact same as if you were distributing property through a will. For example, if all the property is going to the decedent's spouse, you will transfer title to the home, bank accounts, and personal property into his or her name.
 If the decedent does not leave behind any surviving spouse, children, or descendants, the entire estate will be distributed to the decedent's parents, if they are still alive. If the decedent's parents are not alive, the decedent's estate will be distributed to his or her siblings (or their descendants) in equal shares (i.e., brothers and sisters).Again, the actual act of distributing the property will be accomplished in the same manner as if you were distributing property through a will. This is the case because you will be taking part in the same type of legal proceedings as if the decedent had a will (i.e., probate).
 If none of the logical relatives are alive or found, the decedent's estate will be distributed to available grandparents, aunts and uncles, or even past spouses.Each state will have a different order and manner of distribution.
 If the decedent dies and there is no surviving person eligible to take distributions, the estate will escheat to the state. When an estate escheats, the decedent's state of residence will take control of the assets and sell them. The proceeds will then be used by the state to fund certain programs. For example, in Florida, escheated funds will be placed in the State School Fund.If the decedent's property escheats to the state, a state representative will help you make the actual distributions. He or she will tell you how to transfer title and turn over the property. For example, you will need help determining what name should go on title documents and where you can drop off personal property (e.g., a state department, the courthouse).

