 Go through as many online search engines as you can and type in your full name; you may be surprised by what pops up. Click on links that are related to you, and scroll through the images that are linked to your name.


If you find something that paints a less than flattering picture of you, consider refining your privacy settings on your accounts so that the item you do not want displayed will be hidden.;
, Look at each of your online media profiles. Scroll through and try to use an outsider’s perspective to consider what someone looking at your profile might see.


Use your profile to show off your interests; ‘like’ pages that reflect your (reputable) interests.
Put up photos of you pursuing those interests, such as hiking tall mountains, playing a sport, or writing.
 Part of making sure that your profile highlights your strengths involves getting rid of things that could highlight your weaknesses. Set up filter and privacy settings so that you have to approve anything that gets posted to your account, including articles, photos, and statuses.


Stay updated on the privacy settings. Check the settings every month to make sure that some upgrade hasn’t left you (or your embarrassing photos) exposed.
Delete (or untag) any photos or posts of you that you think could reflect poorly on your character. If possible, ask the person who posted the photo to take it down entirely so that it won’t exist anywhere on the internet.
 There is a good chance that there is someone else in the world who has the same name as you. If your potential employer searches your name and ends up on someone else’s page, it could lead to a lot of confusion (and a lowered chance that you get the job).


To minimize confusion, try to set up a specific URL that is registered to your name for your online profile.
 Social networking sites can be a veritable war zone when it comes to controversial topics. While it is perfectly fine to voice your opinions, you may want to consider doing so in person, rather than online. Try to limit the amount of debates or virtual fights you get into, and always try to be as respectful as possible. You wouldn’t want a potential employer to see a post where you call someone a nasty name for having a different opinion than you.


If you do feel the need to post something that could potentially spark debate, or make your potential employer see you in a certain light, try to only post these things to your friends. However, do keep in mind that things can go viral in minutes, and there are always chances that someone will re-tweet or tag you, allowing more people access to the post.
 While it is fine to ‘friend’ your coworkers, keep in mind that they are still working for your boss; if they see something that they think your boss should know about, they have the ability to tell him or her.


Employers also have the means to monitor whether you are ‘online’ during office hours, especially if they are your ‘friend’ or ‘connection’ online.
 While you may think that only your friends see what you post, if a potential employer, or your current employer, does happen to see that you post something using slang or derogatory language could affect your job opportunities.


Try to limit the number of pictures that show you with a drink in your hand, and do not post any photos of you participating in illegal drugs.

