 There are many ways that abusers can monitor your phone use. An abusive partner can install an app on your phone that can track your calls or listen in on them, or s/he can use the GPS feature to track where you are. Consider getting a prepaid cellphone or another phone that your partner does not know about.Some domestic violence shelters offer free cell phones to survivors of domestic abuse. Call a domestic violence hotline or contact an agency in your area to learn more.
When calling friends or family for help, call collect, use your “secret” phone, or use a prepaid phone card. Otherwise, the numbers you call will show up on your phone bill, and your abuser might be able to track you down using them.
 Your internet access may be monitored. When possible, use computers at a public library or a trusted friend or family member’s house. Remember that your abuser may have your login information and could read your emails or social media activity.Update usernames and passwords for all your online accounts. Create a new email account for the purpose of discussing your safety.
Some women's shelters and domestic abuse organizations may provide computers for your use.
 Ask several people you trust if you can contact them if you are in danger or need assistance. Memorize the phone numbers and addresses for organizations and people who are willing to help you, such as your local women’s shelter.If you have purchased a secret prepaid cellphone, program these contacts into its memory.
Your list should include your nation's domestic abuse hotline. In the United States, this number is 1-800-799-7233 (SAFE). In the United Kingdom, the number is 0808 2000 247. In Canada, call 1-800-363-9010. A global directory of domestic abuse hotlines is available at HotPeachPages.

Gather contact information for local women's shelters, police departments, and trusted friends and family members.
Give a copy of this list to someone you trust. That way, you will have it even if you are forced to leave your home at a moment’s notice.
 The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a PDF form that will help you develop a plan to keep you and your family safe.Print the form out on a public computer, not at home.
Give a copy to a trusted friend so that others know what you need to do when you are in danger.
 These safe areas should be large and open, preferably with an exit such as a door or window.Avoid the kitchen since knives may be used as weapons, and avoid bathrooms since they are usually small and enclosed.
 Share your plan with your children and frequently rehearse it.It is important to make sure all family members follow the same plan in an emergency so no one gets left behind if escape is necessary. Develop a code word to help your children understand when to initiate the plan. Share the code word with friends and family members so you can call for help without making it obvious to your partner.Keep your car filled with gas and unlocked. Hide a spare car key outside so you can make a fast getaway.
 This bag should contain cash, clothes, supplies, copies of important papers (photo IDs, court records, birth certificates, passports, etc.) and your list of important contacts. Keep it at a trusted friend or family member's home so you can easily pick it up after you leave.If you take prescription medication, keep some along with the information sheets in your emergency bag.
If you have pets, you might consider leaving some food for them at a trusted person’s house in case you cannot leave your pet at a shelter.
 One of the ways many abusers maintain their control of their victims is financially. If you can, open a bank account in your name. Keep a debit card for the account in your emergency bag., If your children are minors, your abuser may be able to accuse you of kidnapping if you take them with you when you escape. Get some legal advice about how to keep yourself and your children safe without putting yourself at risk of prosecution.Many domestic violence agencies can put you in touch with free or low-cost legal help., Many abusers monitor their victims’ lives using things like hidden cameras, keystroke loggers on computers, etc. If you discover anything like this, don’t disturb or destroy them. Doing so could alert your abuser that you’re aware of his/her actions and could put you in further danger.If you can safely do so, take a photo or other record of these devices when you find them. This will help you prove abuse in court.

