 You’ll be making many curls in one-inch (2.54 cm) sections. Decide if you’ll be more comfortable making multiple curls in several sections using a curling iron (either clipless or with a barrel) or rollers. Choose rollers that will wrap around the hair at least 1.5 times for maximum effect. You can use hot rollers or any other type of roller., Wash your hair as usual. Use a conditioner that will protect it from heat if you’ll be using a curling iron. Towel dry your hair if you wish before using curlers. You need to keep it damp for using curlers., This step is only necessary if you’ll use a curling iron. Spray it with heat protectant spray before you blow it out. Cover your hair from roots to ends with the spray. Make a part as you blow it out if you want a part in your final hair style.You can also spray your roots with a little hair spray before blowing it out to create more volume.
 Apply liberal amounts of the product. You can also use a texturizing or an anti-humidity spray. Start at your roots and work the ends of your hair. Finger comb it through your hair., Spray each section with hairspray or smooth on more gel or mousse for extra hold. Do this immediately before winding the section in rollers or your curling iron. Work from the top of your head down. Put the hair in the back of your head in a ponytail while you work on the front.

Wrap your front sections first if you’re using rollers.
 If you part your hair, roll the curls away from your part. Wind the curls in the back away from your face toward the crown of your head and the nape of your neck. Use an asymmetrical rolling pattern for a more natural look. Make tighter curls on top and bigger curls in the back for a more retro look. Get tighter curls with smaller rollers and bigger curls with bigger rollers.
 Use hair clips or bobby pins. Pin each curl immediately after making it with the curling iron. Leave all rollers in your hair until you’ve put them all in. Pin your curls as you release them from the rollers.

Leave your hair pinned for at least 20 minutes to let your curls set. This will also give hair time to cool if you used a curling iron or hot rollers.
 Let it fall around your head. Wet your fingers and gently comb them through your curls. This will separate the curls. You can stop working the curls near your face at this point., Use a paddle brush or a wide-toothed comb. Group your curls into larger sections. Brush two or three curls together for a curlier look and a larger number of curls - about five -- for a wavy look. Brush out all of your curls for a smooth Marilyn Monroe wave., Brush the curls near your face in the direction of your face, and the curls near your neck towards your nape. Gently pull the brush through each section from the roots. Only brush a few times and then let the curls drop naturally into place.Spray each section with hairspray after brushing for additional hold.
 If you have bangs, brush them together. Pull the brush upwards first and then curl your bangs under for a dramatic sweep off your face. Pin a section of your bangs to keep them in place. Spray them with hairspray.Tuck a curl behind your ear and pin it in place for a nice flourish.
Attach a hair accessory over the tucked, pinned curl for extra glamour.

