 The espresso machine, the most important part. For this guy, you need to really dig deep. You need to get pretty down into the info for all of these, but the machine will be all good if you know it.


First decide what you want. If you just want a decent, quick morning shot every day, you might not want professional coffee-house gear. You need to decide on your espresso budget, how often you will use it, your skill level, how automatic you want it, how hard it is to clean, and accessories. You could also look at a top-ten espresso machines list. Make note of what you want.;
, Are you going to buy it from Walmart, or Best Buy (the retail stores probably won't sell top quality), or get it shipped from Italy? One good source for the espresso machine, and possibly everything on this list, is online shopping. Online shopping with shipping, and everything. Ebay will be good.
 Look up something like "Espresso machine frother semi automatic cheap". You should use Google. Just type in what specs you want, and hit enter. A lot of times, you will have to dig through some options before you find the right one.
 Here comes the fun part. (If you are going to buy from a retailer, don't order, just go and buy it.) Ordering the espresso machine. Go to eBay, and find whatever company, and model you decided on. Place the order. Now for the next part.
 The key is freshness. Grind your beans within 15 days of roasting, and use your grounds within 15 minutes of grinding. First find out what kind of grinder you want. This will probably never be as specific as an espresso machine. You can choose from electric blade (terrible for espresso), manual blade (again, terrible), electric burr (now that's good), and manual burr (arguably better).
 Don't go Mr. Coffee. They don't know espresso, as much as other brands. You should choose a brand that has good rep. Read reviews. Go to a top ten list.
 Go to eBay again. Unless you want to go to a retail store. Place the order, preferably around the same time you ordered your espresso machine.

