 Open Explorer (also called File Explorer) by pressing ⊞ Win+E. Scroll through the list of drives and folders on the left until you find the one that contains the files you want to save to your USB drive.


Personal files are often stored in the “Documents” folder (sometimes called “My Documents” or “Joe’s Documents,” if your name is Joe).
If you are looking for photos or music you’ve saved to your computer, try looking in the “Pictures” and “Music” folders.;
, Desktop computers often have these ports on the front panel of the unit, though sometimes you’ll find them on the rear of the monitor. Laptops generally have USB ports on both sides of the device.
 You can copy files to any folder on the USB drive.


Your system likely popped up a dialog box a few moments after the device was connected. One of the options should be “Open folder to view files.” Click that link to arrive at the root (main folder) of your USB drive. Files can be copied right to this folder, or to any folders you see here.
If no window pops up, press ⊞ Win+E to open a new Explorer window, then double-click the name of your USB drive on the left side of the screen. It should be called something like “USB Drive” or “Removable Storage,” or perhaps the name of its manufacturer (e.g., “Sandisk”).
Creating a new folder with a memorable name will help you stay organized. To create a new folder on your USB drive, press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+N, then type a folder name (e.g., “Personal,” “Photos,” etc). Press ↵ Enter. Double-click the new folder to open it.
 With both Explorer windows open (one to the computer, the other to the USB drive), drag a file from the computer to the USB drive. Dragging a file to the USB drive will create a new copy of the file without deleting the original on the USB drive.


To copy multiple files at once, hold down the Ctrl key and single-click each file. When all of the correct files are highlighted, click anywhere in the highlighted area and drag the group of files to the USB drive.
You can also copy entire folders to your computer by dragging them in the same way.
 If you have a file open in a program like Microsoft Word or Photoshop, you can save it directly to the USB drive without having to drag it between Explorer windows. Click “File,” then “Save As,” and select a save location on the USB drive.
 To ensure you don’t harm the data on the USB drive, you’ll need to safely eject the drive.


At the bottom right corner of the screen by the clock, find the USB icon (depending on your version of windows, it may have a green checkmark over it). Right-click the icon, then choose “Safely eject.”
When you see a confirmation that says “It’s safe to unplug your device,” you can remove the USB drive from the port.

