 This increases the likelihood of an infection and scarring. Instead, try blackhead removal strips.


These adhesive strips stick to your skin and when you pull them off, the blackheads should stick to the strip.
The strips work best for small blackheads, but they do not work very well for larger or deeper ones.
If you do not have a commercially manufactured strip, you can try using a band aid or piece of tape.
Wash the area thoroughly afterwards to prevent infection.;
, This will prevent infection and promote healing.


Try a 1:3 mixture of lemon juice or apple cider vinegar and water. Use a cotton swab to thoroughly coat the blackhead. This will help dissolve the plug of dead skin and oil, but it may sting.The acid has a similar effect to the alpha hydroxyl acid that is in many acne medications., Tea tree oil is a natural remedy with antibacterial and antifungal qualities.Make a solution of one part tea tree oil to 19 parts water. Dip a cotton Q-Tip into the mixture and dab it onto the blackhead. Wash it off the blackhead after 15–20 minutes.
Tea tree oil is not recommended for people with sensitive skin because it can cause irritation., Garlic is antiseptic and contains sulfur which will aid healing.


Cut a fresh garlic clove in half or mash it to create a paste. Rub the sticky juice directly onto the blackhead and allow it to work its way into the black plug for about five minutes. Then wash the blackhead and garlic off with warm water., This will draw out the excess oil and any pus that may have built up. This treatment is also good for exfoliating the area and removing dead skin cells.Make a paste of baking soda and water by adding just enough water to make a stiff paste. Put a dollop on the blackhead and gently rub it into the pore. Once it dries into a white crust, wash it off.
 As they dry, the egg whites will draw out oils and unclog the pores. In addition, the proteins and vitamins will also be nourishing for your skin.Apply raw egg whites directly to the areas of your skin which are prone to blackheads. Mix them with a fork first to break them up and make them easier to apply. After they dry, wash them off.
Be careful not to get any raw egg in your mouth.
 Cucumber will nourish your skin with potassium and vitamins A, C, and E.


Grind a cucumber in a blender, skin and all. Apply the wet mixture to your skin as a mask and let it your skin absorb the nutrients for 15 minutes.
Wash it off with warm water.

