 Although distracting yourself from your emotions is not the best option, it can help you feel better momentarily. Things like exercising, gaming, or working on a hobby may take your mind off your sibling’s rejection and the associated feelings. However, the only healthy way to deal with your emotions is by addressing them.Exercise can significantly improve your mood and help you fight off depression., One of the first steps that you can take when dealing with negative emotions is to write them down. Write about your how you feel in a journal or a diary. Share how your sibling's rejection made you feel and what that means for your relationship with them. Putting your feelings on paper can help you better process things.You might consider writing a letter to your long-lost sibling that expresses how you feel. However, if you feel like sending the letter, think about it for at least a week before mailing it.
 When dealing with your sibling’s rejection, turn to your friends and family for support. Talk with them about how you feel. A good friend will listen to you and help you better understand the situation.Talking with shared family members of the long-lost sibling may be more complicated, especially if they have a relationship with the sibling. Feel out these situations and determine who will be a good confidant.
When discussing your feelings with family or friends, avoid blaming yourself. Try not to dwell on negative thoughts about yourself or the sibling who rejected you. Use facts to understand the rejection. Allow time for positive talk during these sessions, as such positive interactions will give you natural emotional pain relief.
 Talking with other people who have experienced a similar type of rejection may help you make sense of your sibling’s rejection. Look for organizations and groups in your area that bring together people who have been shunned or rejected by their family members. You can also go online and join a chat group for people who are in situations similar to yours.Joining a support group will allow you to share your feelings with people who can relate to your situation and help you feel less alone. Expressing your feelings to both yourself and others can help clarify the event. It may help give you a deeper understanding of why your sibling did not want to meet.
 If you are struggling with the rejection, a counselor or therapist may be able to help you process your emotions. They will talk with you about the rejection and any associated feelings. After meeting with a mental health professional for a few sessions, you may have new insights into the rejection that help you feel better about the situation.Go online to find mental health professionals in your area. Make sure that they are certified through your state’s psychological board.

