 Warm 2 Tbsp (30 mL) of butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat until it melts.


Olive oil can be used instead of butter for a slightly healthier alternative. Warm the olive oil over medium-high for a few minutes until it becomes glossier, but do not let the oil begin to smoke.
If the butter or oil begins to smoke, remove the skillet from the stove and reduce the heat. After a few minutes have passed, return the skillet to the stove, add more butter or oil to make up for what was lost, and watch closely to prevent it from smoking again.;
,


If starting from fresh cloves, mince two cloves of garlic.
You could also use garlic powder. Add the garlic powder when you add the salt and pepper. Use roughly 1/4 tsp (1.25 mL) garlic powder in place of the 1 tsp (5 mL) fresh minced garlic.
The garlic can be skipped completely, if desired.
 Pour the shrimp into your skillet and immediately season with salt and pepper. Cook until slightly pink and opaque.


Evenly sprinkle a generous amount of salt and pepper over the shrimp. You can add as much or as little as you would like, but if you need a starting point, try 1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 mL) pepper.






The amount of time needed for your shrimp to cook will vary depending on the size. Large strip should cook for 3 to 4 minutes, medium shrimp should cook for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 minutes, and small shrimp should cook for 2 to 2 1/2 minutes.Occasionally stir the shrimp with a spatula as it cooks.






Do not crowd the pan. The shrimp should be able to fit in a single layer inside the skillet. If this is not the case, cook the shrimp in two separate batches, adding more butter or oil as needed to cook the second batch., Drizzle 3 to 4 Tbsp (45 to 60 mL) of lemon juice over the cooked shrimp. Let simmer for another minute or so before removing the shrimp from the heat.


The lemon juice can also be skipped, if desired.
Do not cook the shrimp for too long after adding the lemon juice. Once the shrimp becomes opaque, it is technically ready to eat. You may end up overcooking the shrimp if you let it simmer in the lemon juice for too long.
 Remove the shrimp from the heat and transfer immediately to a serving platter or individual serving dishes.

