 Know that applying to West Point will involve many steps, like showing academic excellence and leadership skills, writing an application essay, taking physical fitness tests, and getting a nomination for your application.


The West Point website maintains good information about the school and its admissions requirements, as well as the requirements of its academic programs.You can also request brochures and additional information from West Point, or talk to your school counseler/college placement officer about your plans.;
, Take the most challenging courses you can during high school, and earn very high grades.Taking college preparatory and/or advanced placement courses, and excelling in them, can demonstrate your readiness for a West Point education. In particular, seek out and perform excellently in courses in the following subjects:Four years of English (composition, grammar, literature, and speech)
Four years of math (algebra, geometry trigonometry, calculus)
At least two years of a foreign language
Two years of laboratory science (biology, chemistry, physics)
One year of U.S. History
Geography and government
Computing

, You can demonstrate your interest in leadership by taking on a dedicated role in a variety of settings, including:School
Church
Scouting
Community organizations
Clubs
Sports
Student government
Journalism
Debate
Drama or other performing arts

, You can begin preparing early for the physical fitness tests you must pass for admission by:


Running
Playing intensive sports
Swimming
Lifting weights and doing other strength training exercises

, This can provide you with updates on the admissions process and requirements, helping you to prepare to complete your own application.
 You may also be able to shadow a current cadet for part of the day, or schedule an overnight visit.


You can schedule a visit to West Point by contacting the West Point Visitor’s Center for details.Whether or not you visit West Point as a prospective applicant, you may also be able to participate in admissions events in your region.For example, West Point admissions representatives may be available at college fairs or other events in your area, where you can ask questions and find out more information.
 You should plan to take the SAT or ACT test (or both) early in your junior year.You can take these tests more than once; West Point admissions will only consider your highest scores.


Make sure to have your SAT or ACT scores sent to West Point.The average ACT scores of those admitted to West Point are 29 (English), 29 (Math), 28 (Writing).The average SAT scores of those admitted to West Point are 627 (Reading), 645 (Math), and 608 (Writing).You can take the PSAT during your sophomore year as a way of preparing to take standardized tests during your junior year., The West Point website maintains a list of field force representatives in your area, which you can search by ZIP code.You can interview or email the field force representative in your area., The application opens in January of your Junior year, and you can update it throughout the subsequent year.
, If you are a interested in studying at West Point as an international cadet, contact the U.S. Embassy in your area; each embassy can nominate up to 6 individuals for admission.West Point limits the number of international cadets at any one time to 60. If you are applying as an international cadet, you must also:


Be sponsored by a national-level government official
Be between the ages of 17 and 22
Not be married or pregnant
Have no legal obligation to support children

, You may be eligible for admission to West Point if you are currently serving in the U.S. Army.Applicants who are currently soldiers must meet West Point’s regular admissions requirements. In addition:


You must be recommended by your company or lowest-level unit commander. Your commander can fill out a special recommendation form on your behalf.You are encouraged to have a recommendation from a member of congress (a senator, representative, territorial delegate, the Vice President, etc.). You can begin contacting these members early in the process of applying to West Point.If you do not qualify academically for admission to West Point, as a Soldier you can be automatically considered for admission to the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (USMAPS). After attending USMAPS, you can later be considered for admission to West Point.
 It is a good way to get a sense of what life as a student at West Point is like.The SLE provides a variety of academic, athletic, military and social activities that exemplify the offerings at West Point.
The SLE accepts a limited number of applicants.
The deadline to apply to the SLE is April 1st.
 Admission to West Point is highly selective; to apply, you must first gain either a Congressional nomination or a Service-Connected nomination. Visit the West Point admissions page for the most current information on how to solicit and submit these nominations. You can request a Congressional nomination from individuals such as a Senator or Representative, the Vice President, and territorial delegates to Congress.
Children of career military personnel, Reservists, children of deceased or disabled Army veterans, children of persons awarded the Medal of Honor, and certain members of the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) can obtain a Service-Connected nomination.
 You will send initial transcripts that are up-to-date at the time you apply. Once you have completed high school or another program, you will need to send a final transcript., Check the West Point admissions website, your application, or informational emails about how to receive the most up to date SOE form. Let your counselor know well ahead of time that you will need him or her to submit this form on your behalf.
 Your application for admission will include detailed instructions on how to complete and submit the statement.


Don't try to flatter the Admissions department. Instead, focus on describing why you want to attend West Point as vividly and specifically as you can.Avoid cliches like "Ever since I was a young child, I have wanted to attend West Point."
Have someone you trust (such as a teacher or counselor) read your statement and give you feedback on how to improve it.
Revise and proofread your statement before submitting it.
 It can be administered by Physical Education teachers, military officers, professors of military science, and J/ROTC instructors; see your application for details. The CFA has six components:


A Basketball throw Cadence pull-ups A shuttle run Modified sit-ups Push-ups A one-mile run [average time: 6:43 (m)/8:06 (f)

, After beginning your application, you will receive a notification from the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DoDMERB), giving the location and date of your examination. The QME may take place at a civilian or facility or at a military base near you.
 Once all of your application components are prepared, and all examinations have been completed, you will be ready to submit your application for admission to West Point. Make sure to do so by the stated deadline (typically sometime in March of each application year).You do not have to wait until the deadline to submit your application. You are encouraged to submit your application early, as soon as all of its components are finished.
 The West Point admissions committee makes offers of admission between January and May of the year in which you apply (typically your senior year of high school).Even if you are not admitted at first, you may be informed that you have been placed on a wait list. Each year, many candidates are admitted to West Point from this wait list.