 When you feel afraid or worried, your body enters the “fight-or-flight” mode. Deep breathing allows you to control the rate of oxygen entering your body, causing you to feel more relaxed.


Close your eyes. However, if you are having flashbacks or dissociation (e.g. an “out-of-body experience”) it may be best to keep your eyes open.Breathe in slowly through your nose for about 4 seconds, feeling the air cause your lower belly to expand. Hold the breath briefly for a second or two. Then, exhale by releasing the breath from your mouth for 4 counts. Wait a few seconds and then repeat the process to achieve a more relaxed state. This will stimulate the phrenic nerve and help to relax you by activating the parasympathetic nervous system.
 When you get caught up in your thoughts and feelings, it can be helpful to back away from regret about the past or fear about the future. Mindfulness is a method that allows you to maintain focus on the here and now. Directing your attention on the present moment can help you gain control of negative feelings.To practice mindful breathing, find a quiet place where you can sit without any interruptions. Choose a sofa or floor cushion. Close your eyes or focus on a simple point like the wall ahead of you. Breathe in deeply. Keep track of your count in your head. With each inhale and exhale, simple think “1.” If you notice your thoughts wandering, go back to focusing on your breath and restart the count at 1. Don’t judge yourself when your attention wanders, simply return to your deep breathing.
Practicing mindfulness helps you become aware of your feelings and how they make your body react. You become more in touch with your feelings and how to deal with them as a result of this method of therapy.
 You may have to try a range of different methods to determine which works best for helping you gain control of your emotions and return to the present moment.


Grounding helps you reconnect with the here and now when your thoughts or feelings take you to a painful place. You can wash your face with cool water. Rub your hands over the wall or carpet if you are dissociating. Grab an item that helps you feel calm like a shirt that smells like your partner’s scent or eating candy that reminds you of childhood or a happier time. Or, you can listen to a soothing song.Carrying a grounding object like a stone or something that has personal meaning may comfort you and bring you back into touch with the moment.
 Physical activity generates feel-good chemicals in your body that lift your mood and give you a burst of energy. What’s more, engaging in vigorous exercise can distract your thoughts when you find yourself ruminating over the traumatic event that you experienced.


Do something that you think you will commit to and do it often. Try cycling, hiking, running, dancing, or even walking your dog around the block.
According to the President’s Council on Fitness Sports and Nutrition, you need to exercise for 150 minutes every week. This is approximately 30 minutes five times a week.
 Excessive worries or fear can lead to you making unhealthy lifestyle choices. To help yourself cope after a trauma, consume a nutrient-rich diet, get 7 to 9 hours of rest each night, avoid alcohol and drugs, and perform regular self-care.


Self-care activities may include reaching out to others for social connection, exercising, reading a book, watching a funny movie, taking a hot bath, or going for a walk in nature. Try to incorporate a few activities into your daily regimen to fight stress and support both your physical and mental health.

