


Your name should reflect you and your personality. An inside joke with a friend or a silly word. Make sure it is unique.

Make tons of friends. Make friends with the popular models and the MODs.;
,


Leave at least one comment on every board you see, while trying to avoid spam. This will get your name out there and people will recognize you.
Identify the "popular group" on GSM and mail every single one of them with mails like "What's up? Love your pics, you're so pretty!" and other such compliments. Be sure to use proper capitalization and punctuation, because no one will take you seriously if you don't, and you'll look like a noob or a wannabe if you use chat speak. If the popular models do not reply, mail them again a couple of days later and use a different method. such as "your diary is so interesting!" If the inevitable happens and they block you, contact one of their friends and politely tell them that the popular model blocked you and you don't know why.
 Be sure not to say anything rude or something that would smear your name.
 Change your personality. It's best to use a cool personality. People who are unnecessarily mean get more attention than people who seem good and wholesome, since you will look more interesting, badass and rebellious than those goody goodies. Chances are you will not get chewed out for this because all your "friends" will take your side. If you do, complain and moan and whine and act completely stupid, don't worry about what they think of you, most models do it anyway, and it's best to just follow them.
 Make a lot of love/hate boards for your friends and enemies. As an alternative, you can make another account and make a board about yourself, then you may attempt the drama. Drama is what keeps GSM going strong and without it, the site would flicker into nothingness.
 Do not attempt this if you have not have any boards made about you! Make a board saying you are going to leave. Do not supply a reason for your deleting. Keep your model long enough for people to beg for you not to leave, then say "Goodbye, all my good friends. I'll miss you forever," or something to that effect and delete your model. This will make your popularity skyrocket, as people will put you in their diaries and make boards about you, grieving their loss. 10 minutes later, make a new model with a name like "YOURMODELNAMEHERE back from the grave." Make a diary entry saying "I COULDN'T STAY AWAY LONG ENOUGH I LOVE ALL YOU GUYS! ;___;" and be sure to mail all your friends and make lots of boards about your triumphant return.
