 If you want to be more fashion forward, reach out to a friend whose style you admire. Being trendy and fashionable takes a certain amount of work. You can learn a lot from someone who knows how to follow the latest styles.


Ask your friend how he or she stays up to date with the latest fashions. Ask him about what blogs you should follow to keep yourself fashion forward. You can also use your friend as a source. Certain trend forecast websites have big user fees. It can much easier to lean on a well informed friend to keep track of the latest in fashion.Remember, you should never copy someone's style. While you can ask your friend for advice, try not to become a copy of that person. Being trendy does not mean blindly following every trend. It simply means being aware of a variety of styles and following trends that flatter you.;
, Not every trend works for every person. People can often be guilty of overdoing it when it comes to trends as well, resulting in unflattering fashion choices.


Pick what works for you and what you feel comfortable with. You're unlikely to look good in a trendy outfit if it doesn't flatter your body type and if it makes you uncomfortable. For example, if a certain style of dress looks bulky on you simply follow a different fashion trend. There's no reason to wear certain clothes simply because they're trendy.Do not overdo it. Leggings may be in at the moment but that does not mean a pair of casual leggings looks good with every outfit. A pair of black leggings coupled with a long sweater might look great. However, leggings with a more formal top may look tacky. Use discretion when following trends and don't be afraid to simplify or adjust given the occasion., Subscribing to fashion magazines, both print and online, can help you be more fashionable. Fashion on the Street blogs, such as the Sartorialist, can be a fun, cheap way to keep up with trends. You could also buy a subscription for a magazine like Vogue, Seventeen, or Marie Claire to keep up on seasonal fashion trends., Instagram is a great tool for those wanting a trendy style. Look up lists of fashion bloggers to follow on Instagram and search hashtags like #ootd (outfit of the day) to get a sense of what people are wearing. Follow people whose style closely matches your personality. If you like minimalist outfits, for example, look for Instagram users who dress in this style., If you're on a budget, or just want to spend more practically, try reviewing your current wardrobe. See how current, trendy items could be mixed and matched with your current clothing and accessories.


Make a quick list of what you have, including outfits you wear to work, school, hanging out with friends, and so on. Then, look at what's currently fashionable. Would an infinity scarf go well with that nice, swoop neck blouse you have? Would a nice, trendy cardigan wrap match well with that old t-shirt you love to wear? Incorporating trendy items into your current wardrobe means you can get by with only purchasing a few new items each fashion season.Pay special attention to items you own that are neutral shades. A black pair of jeans, for example, can go with many different colors, allowing you to keep up on fall and winter shades without investing in new pants. A white or black cardigan is also helpful, as this can be matched with many different trendy items.
Accessorize. If you don't want to revamp your wardrobe entirely, you can accessorize to stay trendy. What kind of sunglasses are in season this year? What kind of jewelry? A new necklace or pair of shades is less costly than an entire new outfit.

