 Working with your doctor you can find out exactly how much weight you should be aiming to lose. In addition, your doctor will review any medications or current health conditions you have and determine the safety of weight loss for you.


Your doctor can also help you determine whether you're physically capable of strenuous exercises and workouts.
He may also be able to give you some basic tips on calorie counting and decide what will work best for you.;
, Whenever you're starting any weight loss program (commercial or your own), it's important to start by setting realistic goals for yourself. This will help you determine what type of diet, the length and whether or not you'll need to include physical activity. Goals that are too large or lofty usually lead to discouragement and may cause you to give up.


In general, it's not recommended to lose more than about one to two pounds per week.This is considered safe, realistic, and sustainable weight loss.
Diets that promise faster or more weight loss may not be safe and are generally not sustainable for long periods of time. Focus on smaller, more attainable goals.
If you have a lot of weight to lose, you may want to set multiple goals for yourself. You can have one long-term goal and a few little goals prior to it. For example: Lose 30 pounds in six months as a long-term goal. Short term goals may include: Lose five pounds in two weeks, 10 pounds in four to five weeks, etc.
Buy or make your own calendar to track your goals. Circle the day you plan to start and end your weight loss program. This way, you'll have a specific deadline to meet which will give you a path to follow.
You can also denote what days you're going to exercise by marking it on your calendar as well.
Post your calendar in a spot where you'll always see it and don't forget to do what it says. If it says you have to do cardio, do it.
 Setting up exciting rewards may help you stay motivated throughout your weight loss program. Ensure that these rewards are specific, special things you save for when these milestones are achieved.


Set up smaller rewards for when you meet your smaller, more interim goals. Have a larger, more gratifying reward for when you meet your larger, long-term goals.
It's generally not recommended to have rewards that are food related — like going out to dinner or having a dessert. Try to pick non-food related rewards like: a manicure, new shoes or a new outfit, a massage, a round of golf at your favorite course, or a new book.
 Whenever you're trying to lose weight, it's typically recommended to ditch the fad diets and instead make long-lasting lifestyle changes.


Small changes to your diet and lifestyle over a longer period of time has been shown to be easier to maintain. You don't want to make big changes quickly for weight loss. You're less likely to keep them up in the long-term.When you're designing your diet, don't go too extreme or follow a program that you know isn't realistic for you. You want to create a diet, eating pattern, or lifestyle that you can follow long-term.

