 These lures give you a very accurate feel on the line, and are one of the most effective lures. The common plastic skirting attracts bass all year round.Bass will usually hit a bait while it is falling, so after it has sat on the bottom for a bit give the rod tip a small twitch to see if anything has picked up your bait.
 To fish a jig cast out and give the line plenty of time to hit the bottom. Jigs and plastics are fished differently than other types of lures. Instead of reeling in to produce the "action", the bait is retrieved by moving the rod tip.


After the bait has hit the bottom and you have given it a twitch, slowly lift the rod tip until it points straight up in the 12 o'clock position. Let it sit there for a moment and then drop it down to the 9 - 10 o'clock position and reel in the slack. Repeat these steps until your line is in.
You'll have to have a good feel for your line to tell when a fish is biting so most people hold their finger against the line while lifting the rod tip.
Look for sudden resistance or bumping on the line, a line that goes slack suddenly or veers sideways. To set the hook, drop the rod tip very quickly to the 3 o'clock position, and pull back hard to 12 o'clock.
 Jigs are most effective when employed in cover or closed to cover so be aware of the risk of getting snagged. Jigs are meant to imitate crawfish so try to make them scoot along the bottom.Both jigs and plastic worms are best used slowly.
Use jigs around fallen trees where bass are hiding.
Brush piles on a rocky bottom, standing timber, thick grass, and flats are all prime locations to employ a jig.
Pitch or flip a jig around the angles where limbs connect to the trunks of fallen trees. Let the jig fall to the bottom with a semi-tight line.
Drag or hop your jig down ledges or drops to mimic the movements of a crawfish.
Use a ¾ ounce jig when fishing through thick grass.
Jigs are also effective when fishing on docks and piers because they provide protection from predators.
 Jigs are meant to imitate crawfish so they should be light in clear water and dark in murky water.

