 Planning your classroom décor around a certain theme can help simplify the decision process and is a fun way to make your classroom more visually appealing. The sky is the limit when it comes to picking a theme, but here are some of the most popular ones:


Space: Cover your walls in shiny CDs to represent planets and have kids cut stars, comets, rocket ships and satellites out of gold and silver metallic paper. Turn your teacher's desk into a space station control center by adding rabbit-ear TV antennas and big Lego "buttons". Create mobiles of the solar system to hang from the ceiling and make a picture board with a photo of each student in the center of a star - if you're good with special effects, use the computer to make it look like they're in an astronaut suit!Hollywood: Buy a red carpet runner to turn your classroom doorway into a red carpet, turn student lockers into star-dressing rooms by sticking a gold star with the child's name on the outside and display student's work on a "Wall of Fame."
Western: Make a bulletin board of "Third Grade's Most Wanted" and add a photo of each child wearing a mustache and cowboy hat. Put a campfire in your reading center using rolled-up brown paper for logs and some gray stones circling around to hold it all together. Cover reading cushions with denim or bandana print fabric.
 Choose a color scheme for your classroom. Try to stick to 2-3 colors, this will help give a clean and consistent to your classroom décor.


If you're painting the walls, stick with one block color - multiple colors or patterns can look too busy and be distracting.
Remember - you'll have to live with your chosen color scheme all year, so choose wisely.
 Classroom posters shouldn't just look pretty, they should also display helpful learning materials which students can easily refer to at all times. If you can connect classroom assignments with visual projects, done with lots of color and strong graphic design elements (titles, borders, matting, and composition), then your room will be the envy of all the teachers.


Hang up posters featuring all kinds of helpful information - from multiplication tables, to French verb conjugations, to lists of capital cities. Use these posters as teaching materials during your lessons and your students will appreciate their value.
 Personalizing your classroom with photographs and student artwork will create a unique and meaningful environment for your class.


Showcase student artwork, creative writing and photos from field trips and class activities.
Try to use student-produced material to decorate your classroom, rather than posters or decorations you bought in a store. Have the kids work in groups to make their own posters, containing the information they think would be most helpful - whether this is an explanation of tricky math problems or guidelines for doing cursive writing.
 The possibilities are endless when it comes to decorating your classroom, and the internet is your best resource for ideas. Whether you're decorating on a budget or trying to make your classroom stand out from the rest, you're sure to find inspiration online.

