 You, your family, and your pets should leave your home if at all possible before a wildfire reaches your area. If, however, you do not evacuate in time, there are several steps you can take to increase your safety and reduce damage to your property.Plan two evacuations routes before you are faced with a wildfire. Make sure everyone in your family knows what these routes are.
Whenever unsure, begin your evacuation process and leave the area via a route that takes you in the opposite direction of an oncoming fire. Do not contact emergency services during a wildfire to ask whether you should evacuate – simply do so.
 Make sure any emergency responders will be able to access your home. Since emergency vehicles are often wide, clear the area around your driveways as well. Mark the entrance to your property if your house is away from the road. Use fluorescent spray paint if possible.Mark any water sources that emergency services may use as will. These include hydrants, ponds, pools, and wells. Make these features as accessible as possible.
 Dress in cotton and wool when evacuating or defending your home from a wildfire. Wear long pant and shirt sleeves, gloves, eye protections, and boots. Tie a dampened handkerchief around your nose and mouth., Your attic, basement, and eaves likely have vents that are usually open to improve airflow in your home. Find these vents and close them. This will reduce the likelihood of spars entering your home. Similarly, close and window shutters.As you do so, make sure anything combustible is away from your house. If you have exterior furniture, umbrellas, shade structures, or anything of the sort, bring them inside or move them away from your home.
 Fill any plastic trash cans and buckets with water and position them both outside of and inside of your home. Wet rugs or other heavy materials to beat out embers and small fires. Fill all of your bathtubs and sinks with water as well., Whether evacuating or actively defending your home, unroll all of your houses and position them in such a way that they will be able to spray as much of the exterior of your home as possible. Affix spray nozzle attachments to each hose and set them to their strongest spray setting.As you’re positioning your hoses, spray down the roofs of any structures.
Prepare any water pumps. If you have a water pump, position and prepare it for use as well.
 A fire-proof ladder can provide an escape route if the lower level of your home catches fire with you inside. Position the ladder on the side of the house away from the oncoming fire, near a window., Have the windows closed, the doors unlocked, and the keys in the ignition. Close your garage doors, but disengage any automatic openers so you will be able to open the door manually in the event of a power outage., It may be tempting to stay outside and try to keep any fires from catching on the exterior of your home. Do not do so. Go inside. Turn on a light on each room of your home. This will improve visibility if the house fills with smoke. Leave your porch and yard lights on as well.Find and carry a flashlight. This may be your only light source if your power goes out.
 Close doors within the home as well, to reduce any drafts. Open the damper on your fireplace, as this will help stabilize air pressure in your home. Close the fireplace screen and barricade it with something inflammable so it doesn’t blow open.Take down drapes and curtains. Close Venetian blinds.
 As soon as it does, go outside and check your roof. Make sure you’re wearing your protective outfit. Use the hoses you’ve positioned to extinguish any sparks. If the hoses are damaged, use water in buckets you’ve collected inside.After the roof, check the inside of your attic. Bring buckets of water with you when you do so.
Continue monitoring the inside and outside of your home for signs or smoke or embers.

