 Before cold calling a photo editor in an attempt to get work, you should do your homework. Understand, for example, what the magazine does.


Know the name of the actual photo editor, rather than just referring to him or her generically. Call the magazine, and ask for the name and title. Pick a magazine that suits your style.
Label everything. You will want to make sure you include your name and phone number when sending in your work. Don’t send in original photos. Include a stamped, self-addressed envelope if you want to get the work sent back to you.
 There are agencies that exist solely to help sell photographers’ work to clients. They can help get you jobs. The goal is to be booked for shoots, but some magazines will buy your stock photos too.


Some agencies will represent people who are just starting out. Getting an agent can save you time so that you can focus on your craft and let them do the negotiations.
Agents will often try to resell your work in different markets, too, and they may know the markets better than you do. Research the agent, and find one who doesn’t represent photographers who do exactly the same kind of work as you do. Otherwise the other photographers might feel too competitive. Act like your first contact with the agent is a job interview.
 These days, good photographers get their work seen and get jobs by using social media as well as traditional portfolios.


Have a professional social media presence in which you focus on creating a brand for yourself and in which you present some of your best work.
Only put your best work out there into the world, though, whether it’s through social media or in a portfolio book. You must market yourself constantly in order to make it as a fashion photographer.
 A fashion blog is a great way to showcase your work and to even start branding yourself by building an online reputation for yourself.Pick your own domain name and make the mission of your blog clear. Keep the blog focused on your latest and your best work.You can create a blog through a free service like WordPress. Make sure you keep the blog up-to-date. It can help you come up when people search keywords. Make sure the blog photos are consistently professional, using proper lighting and backdrop. Think of it as an extension of your formal portfolio.