 Identifying where your light is coming from is an important part of ensuring the best lighting for your subject. The light needs to be on your subject to illuminate it properly. Before you take a photo, take a moment to look around you and determine which direction the light is coming from.For example, if you are outdoors, figure out where the sun is at and observe how it is casting light on your subject. Consider what angle might be the most flattering or interesting for photographing your subject.
Avoid taking pictures with the light source directly behind you. This can make your photos look somewhat boring and flat. Instead, always try to position yourself so that you are shooting your subject at an angle to the light.
 The golden hour happens twice per day—in the hour before sunrise and in the hour after sunset. During this time, you will notice that your subjects will have a warm light cast on them. There will also be some shadows that may result in interesting details.Try taking outdoor photographs during the golden hour to reap the benefits of this pleasing light. You will notice that shadows are longer during this time as well, which can also add visual interest to your photos.
 Sometimes natural light from the sun can be too harsh for portraits. It may cause your subject to look washed out or cast harsh shadows and make it hard to see the details of a person’s face. One way to adapt when your light is too harsh is to photograph your subject in the shade.Keep in mind that photographing your subject in the shade may create a cooler effect than photographing your subject in an unshaded area.
 Many people only use the flash in dim light. However, if you only use the flash in low light, then you may not be getting the best possible pictures. Your flash can be especially useful when the sun is shining brightly, such as around midday. This may result in harsh shadows and unappealing photos.By using your flash when the light is harsh, you can direct extra light at the shadows and bathe your subject in more light. This may result in more pleasing photos.
Keep in mind that you do not always need to use the flash, especially if the natural lighting is good. However, you might want to try taking photos with and without the flash to see what works best for the light you have available.
 Red eye is caused by the camera’s flash reflecting off of your retinas. This usually happens when you are taking photos in low light and your eyes don’t have enough time to constrict.To avoid getting a red eye effect, you can try:


Turning on more lights. If you are taking pictures indoors, then you can prevent the red eye effect by turning on as many lights as you can and making the environment brighter.
Telling your subjects to look away from the camera. If your subjects are not looking directly at the camera, then you can avoid the red-eye reflection.
Turning on the red-eye function. Most digital cameras have this feature and it can help to prevent red-eye shots.

