 Place a candle 1 meter from where you are seated on a table. Sit across the table and try to blow the candle out with one deep breath. Pushing out all the air in your lungs will increase the breathing capacity of your lungs as well as reduce the volume of the residual air in the lungs. The more the residual volume, the more the lungs are damaged as they cannot exchange air well.


Once you can blow the candle from a distance of 1m, move it further away from you and repeat the same procedure.
 This exercise will improve your breathing capacity and increase your total lung volume, as well as decrease the residual volume in your lungs.


The goal is to exert your lungs and expand them so that they will remain that way and the bronchial tubes will not get constricted too often. This exercise will also reduce the feeling of breathlessness when an asthma attack occurs.
 Swimming will also help to reduce fatigue and breathlessness. Initially, your lungs may feel tired or worn out but as you continue swimming, your respiratory muscles will become stronger and you will feel more comfortable when you breathe.


Water also offers lesser resistance to the body and is a great way to improve your lung capacity.
Start by swimming 15 minutes a day and slowly increase up to 30 minutes or more per day.
 Cycling not only tones your abdomen and calf muscles, it also improves your respiratory system and expands your lung capacity.


Initially, you may feel breathless biking even a short distance, but the more you bike, the less carbon dioxide remains in your blood, enabling you to cycle for longer periods of time.
Start by cycling for about 10 minutes and then gradually increase up to 30 minutes or more each day.
 Brisk walking in the early part of the day improves breathing capacity of the lungs. This will then reduce the spasms of the bronchial tubes and enhance your breathing.


A walk early in the morning also helps to stimulate the metabolism and wake it up from the night’s slacked pace. This improves your metabolism, bolsters your circulation and helps clear out allergens and inflammatory substances that tend to accumulate overnight.
Start with a 10 minute brisk walk or a shorter distance if this is too much for you. Increase the time slowly up to as much as forty minutes a day, at least 5 times a week, to see significant results.
 The lung function tests or Spirometry tests determine your lung’s capacity to comfortably and forcibly breathe air in and out. A small tube is attached to a machine that makes calculations of the air you breathe into the tube.


You should see drastic improvements in your test results after repeating these exercises for three months.