 Certain federal agencies such as the Department of Justice help enforce human rights law and prosecute human rights violations.


For example, USAIDprovides human rights assistance around the world, as well as humanitarian aid and development assistance in foreign countries. This assistance may be tied to respect for certain basic human rights.The DOJ is interested in human rights violators who have entered the U.S., or U.S. citizens who have violated human rights abroad. If you know of such a person you can provide identifying information to the DOJ. You can remain anonymous if you want.Be prepared to let the agency know the suspect's name and a basic physical description, what they did that constituted a human rights violation, and how you came to know about it.You also may provide information about non-U.S. citizens living in the U.S. to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement at 1-866-347-2423.;
, Getting signatures on a petition can encourage the federal government to take notice of a particular human rights violation.


Before you start your petition drive, research the requirements for a legal petition so you can make sure you're following the rules and that all signatures on your petition will count as legitimate and actually make a difference.
While there are plenty of websites where you can build a petition for free, many of these sites do not check identification of anyone signing. If age and residency cannot be verified, the petition cannot be considered as more than suggestive to any governmental entity., Your federal government representative may be willing to advance your interest in congress.


If the violation is occurring in a different country, you should keep in mind that interventions to stop human rights violations are seldom unilateral. However, you may be able to spur the federal government to work with other countries or work collectively through an organization such as the UN to put an end to the practice.Writing an official can help explain the importance of the issue and persuade her to put her support behind any efforts to stop the human rights violation. If there currently aren't any government actions to fight this particular human rights violation, you may be able to get the issue on the table.
Keep your letter straight and to the point, and stick to the facts. Explain what the issue is, why it is important, and who it affects.