 All schools have written rules and use disciplinary actions like detention to encourage students to follow them. Your school most likely issues an official student handbook that outlines its detention policy.


If you believe you didn’t break any of these rules, politely explain that the rule is not properly stated or should be clarified.;
, Teachers are often stressed out because they deal with a large number of students every day and have limited time to get through their lesson plans.They need a classroom that is focused on the work and may be strict because of this.


Empathizing with your teacher can help you accept your situation and not take it personally.
 If you aren’t clear about the rule you broke, politely ask for clarification.


Consider your tone when asking or you may come off as combative and make the situation worse. Say something like "Excuse me. I understand you think you I broke a rule but I can't seem to find it in the handbook. Can you explain which rule I violated?" to start the conversation. Make sure to have a copy of the rules on hand.
If asked sincerely, this can demonstrate that you’re interested in avoiding issues in the future., Detentions often require that you receive a signature from your legal guardians before you return to school the next day. Plan your approach so they understand your side of the story.


Even if your school doesn’t require a signature, your guardians will likely find out anyway so being forthright with them is your best chance at controlling the situation.
Start the conversation by saying something simple like “Hey, I have to tell you something.” Avoid alarming introductions like “I have some bad news” because it may set a more negative tone for the conversation.
 Being honest about what you did wrong will be appreciated and give you credibility.They will likely be more upset if they find out you are not being honest about the situation.
 It’s important to tell your guardians about your detention as promptly as possible. But if they are coming home from work or are otherwise stressed out, you may want to wait for the right moment.


Try to deliver the news calmly. Make sure you’re not too emotional.
If you tell them at the wrong time, they may react in anger and it will be more difficult for you to tell your side of the story., Explain what you learned from the experience and what you will do differently the next time.


Even if you are maintaining that you did nothing wrong, explain how you will avoid putting yourself in bad situations in the future. For example, by avoiding students that are known to get in trouble or creating a better relationship with your teacher., A respectful tone can make all the difference when having a tense conversation so don’t interrupt or get an attitude, even if you feel they’re being unfair.Finding out their child has a detention can be stressful for your guardians. Try to understand that their first reaction will most likely be disappointment and it’s your job to improve their perception by demonstrating you’re responsible and mature.
If there is a punishment, accept it gracefully.
 If you were given detention by your teacher, you will obviously continue to see them on a regular basis so don’t let this ruin the rest of your year.


Even if it’s an administrator, you’re likely to see them in the hallways or cafeteria.
Find a constructive way to either repair your relationship with them or avoid further confrontations.
 You have nothing to gain from holding onto your frustration. Like it or not, this teacher controls your grades and can potentially give you more detentions.


Even if you don’t intend to create any problems, simply remaining angry can lead to negative confrontations in the future. Holding a grudge can also be bad for your health., If you did something wrong or if you made an honest mistake, a simple apology is a great idea.


Because they deal with youths all day, most teachers appreciate maturity and will see a sincere apology as a sign that you’re taking an adult view of the situation.Approach your teacher before or after class and be direct. Say something like “I understand why you had to give me detention. I didn’t mean to cause any disruption. I’m ready to get back to work.”
It may surprise you how quickly a teacher can go from having a negative attitude toward you to a positive one when you demonstrate maturity.
 Like an apology, maintaining a constructive focus on the classwork and performing well on assignments is an excellent way to demonstrate maturity to your teacher and create a positive relationship with them.This is also the best way to deal with any awkwardness between you and the teacher.
 You probably won’t consider your detention a good thing but focusing on the positives can help you get through and make your wasted time as productive as possible. Most schools will allow you to study during detention.


The silence of a detention room can provide the perfect opportunity for you to get your work done.Plan your work ahead of time. Make sure your textbooks, class notes, calculator, worksheets or anything else you’ll need to get something done during detention.
 If you don't feel like completing school work or need materials that won't be available in detention, try drawing a picture. It's a great way to pass the time, stimulate your mind and build an art portfolio.


Even if you aren't a particularly artistic person, practicing art on a regular basis can build your creativity, improve your mental acuity and relieve stress., Another great way to pass the time is to practice your creative writing. Even if it isn't based on a class assignment, you can build a writing portfolio that will be useful for college and job applications.Creative writing during detention improves student behavior and academic outcomes.You can use your experience getting or being in detention for inspiration.
 If it goes off during detention, you could get in more trouble. Turn off any other device that may make a sound that could get you in trouble like a digital watch alarm.
 Even if you believe you truly didn’t do anything wrong, there is still a valuable lesson involved. Not all institutions, rules or authority figures are just and benevolent and coming to terms with this fact in a constructive manner is an essential part of adulthood.If you feel that you were punished by an unfair rule, ask if other students have had similar experiences and see if you can start a conversation with the administration to change it.

