 These traits don't always come naturally, so they have to be developed. The most important thing to remember is to keep practicing. Practice makes perfection.;
, To get faster, simply run track every weekend. The reason not to run everyday is because it will burn out one's body. So running everyday is not a good idea. Also, time the speed of the laps you run. See if it improves.
 A keen eye is another thing. This needs serious brain work and physical work. To obtain a keen eye, have a friend throw a ball at you as fast as he/she can. Make sure he/she throw it at your feet. Simply dodge these. There are two reasons one would want to dodge these. 1 is to practice moving your feet the instance it's needed. The 2nd reason is because if that ball hits you, it's going to hurt!

, To develop patience is easier than developing a keen eye. All one has to do is meditate. Just sit down for 10 minutes in a quiet area and think. This will help you to develop patience.
 Practice this beforehand so you don't have to be put on the spot during a game where you need to steal a base. Pretend the pitcher just released the ball. Sprint to the next base as fast as you possibly can. Don't look at the ball, just run to the base. If you want, you can have a friend throw the ball toward you for a better idea. Realize that often, catchers and basemen have very quick reflexes. If you're too sluggish, they may tag you out.
, On first when the pitcher first gets set face second and take a step with your left foot pivot to face the infield grass and home plate shuffle about 4-5 steps. More or less depending on your reflexes. NEVER TAKE YOUR EYE OFF THE PITCHER'S FEET. On right hander as soon as that front foot goes up take off. If the back foot comes up first GET BACK NOW. Timing is everything. A good jump can beat a lot of catchers. On a lefty if you commit when that front foot comes up do not stop no matter what. Do not get in a run down unless there is a runner on 3rd. If you are not running when that foot comes up wait. When it goes forward take your secondary lead.
,