 Also called pinning kits, rekeying kits are available at most hardware stores and home centers, as well as online.


Kits are available for most lock brands and come equipped to do multiple locks, but frequently work for only locks of the same brand.
Some kits include only lock pins, while others include special tools (cylinder follower, ring remover, plug follower) to remove the lock cylinder so you can replace the lock pins.
You can order extra pins if you have more locks to rekey than the kit has pins for.;
, Door knobs are held in place with a clip accessed by inserting a wire into a tiny hole. Your rekeying kit may include a wire tool for this purpose, or you can unbend a paper clip and insert it.
 Using a cylinder follower (a small brass tube), push the cylinder through the assembly to remove the sleeve covering it and then remove the cylinder.
 Use a wrench-like ring remover to remove the retaining ring from the lock cylinder. Put the retainer ring somewhere you'll find it later when reassembling the lock.
 Insert the key for the current lock into the cylinder and turn it to separate the upper and lower lock pins. Push the plug follower through the cylinder, using constant pressure to remove the plug.


Keeping constant pressure will keep the upper lock pins and their retaining springs in place when you remove the cylinder plug. If you should let the springs fall out, you can still pick them up and reinsert them.
 The lower lock pins are roughly bullet-shaped, with the pointed ends touching the key, and of varying lengths.
 This will push the springs out of the way and serve as a partial guide for the new lock pins.
 The new pins should be color-coded or coded numerically to match a chart showing which pin goes where in the lock. You'll need either a tweezers or small needle-nosed pliers to grip the pins and insert them. The new pins should align with the key when it is inserted in the lock.


If the pins are not coded, you'll have to use trial and error, inserting and withdrawing the key to make sure it fits the lock with the new pins installed.
 Replace the cylinder plug and retaining ring, then replace the cylinder in the doorknob or lock face and reattach it to the door. Test the re-keyed lock to make sure it locks and unlocks with the new key.

