 Before you dive into getting a new puppy, you should consider the care required for a new puppy. You should also consider if you will have enough time and energy to take care of a new puppy and take care of your pregnant dog. You must be responsible enough to take care of the puppy and also still fulfill the demands of caring for your pregnant dog.A new puppy will require a visit to the vet as well as feedings two to four times a day, depending on how young the puppy is. You will also need to commit to taking your puppy out to go to the bathroom and work on potty training your puppy.
You will need to do obedience training with your new puppy to ensure it is well trained and spend lots of time playing with the puppy so it learns how to be social. You should also observe the puppy for any signs of illness or injury, as puppies can be fragile and susceptible to falling ill.;
, Once you have thought more about the care required for the new puppy, you should decide how you will be able to cover the responsibility of caring for the puppy and caring for your pregnant dog. You should also consider how you will have enough time to care for the puppy, the pregnant dog, and the litter of puppies, once they are born.You may enlist the help of family members in your home or roommates who can assist you in the care of the puppy and the pregnant dog. You should make sure you have individuals who are willing to commit to helping you take care of the puppy while you focus on the pregnant dog.
You should make sure you have enough time in your day to fulfill the duties of caring for a new puppy and for the pregnant dog. You may look at your current schedule and list of responsibilities to make sure you will have enough time to take care of both animals.
 You should also consider your pregnant dog’s temperament and whether she will respond well to a new puppy in her home. Pregnant dogs can get overly tired and are not as active as other dogs. Having a new puppy could be overstimulating for your pregnant dog, especially if she was pretty docile to begin with.You may want to consider fostering a puppy, rather than getting one out right, to see if your pregnant dog can handle a new puppy in her space. Fostering a puppy will allow you to try out having a puppy around your pregnant dog and gives you the flexibility of not keeping the puppy if your pregnant dog does not react well to it.
 You should consider how your puppy will fit in with your pregnant dog, as this will make the addition much easier. Think about the temperament of your pregnant dog. Is your pregnant dog high energy or pretty docile? Does your pregnant dog often nap and rest? If your pregnant dog is pretty docile and relaxed, you may not want to bring in a puppy who is a high-energy breed. Instead, you may opt for a puppy who comes from a more docile breed.You should think about whether your pregnant dog is dominant or assertive. Your dog may appear more dominant due to her pregnancy, so you may want to consider a puppy who is more submissive. Getting a dominant puppy could lead to tension and issues between your two pets.
You may also consider if your pregnant dog prefers playing with male or female dogs. If she seems to prefer playing with male dogs, you may opt for a male puppy. However, with the right training, your pregnant dog may be fine with co-existing with either a male or female puppy.
Size should also be a consideration, especially because your pregnant dog may be extra sensitive to being around other dogs. If your pregnant dog is a smaller breed, you may opt for a puppy that is also a smaller breed, rather than a breed that will grow to be much bigger than your pregnant dog. You may also get a puppy that is a bit older in age so it is not as small and fragile.
 You should consider getting the new puppy early in your dog’s pregnancy to give both animals time to get used to each other. The more time the two pets have to get to know each other, the better.Having more time upfront will also ensure both animals can co-exist before your pregnant dog has her litter. This will make caring for the puppy, the dog, and the litter much easier.
Avoid getting a puppy within the last three weeks of your dog’s pregnancy. Your pregnant dog will need to be isolated from all other dogs during the last three weeks, and introducing a new puppy into the household may make it difficult for both dogs to bond and socialize., Once you get the puppy, you should make sure the puppy has a full check up at the vet before you introduce it to your dog. Take your puppy to the vet as soon as you get it so you can be sure the puppy is healthy and able to be around your pregnant dog.Your vet should be able to answer any questions you may have about food for your puppy, feeding times, and portion sizes for your puppy’s meals. You may also ask the vet about introducing your puppy to your pregnant dog and how to do this well.
Your vet should also set up a vaccination plan for your puppy and discuss any illnesses or injuries you should watch out for. You should also talk to your vet about spaying or neutering your new pup.
 Taking both dogs on a short walk will allow them to be active and get to know each other in a neutral space. You should make sure both dogs are on a leash and that there is one person per dog so you are not trying to walk both dogs at once.You can keep the leashes loose and let both dogs start to get to know each other. They may smell each other briefly before or during the walk. You should try to keep both dogs moving and praise both dogs in a lighthearted tone.
You should also bring treats and reward both dogs if they remain calm and engaged in each other. If the walk goes well, you can take the dogs to a fenced in area, such as your backyard, and allow them to interact further.
Always supervise the two dogs when they are together for the first few weeks. Do not leave the dogs alone in the house, the car, or the yard, as you will need to be there to intervene if either dog gets stressed or aggressive.
 You can prevent conflicts between your puppy and your pregnant dog by setting up separate feeding and playing areas for each animal. Doing this will ensure there are no turf wars between your puppy and your adult dog. It will also make it easier for both dogs to get along.You should give each dog its own food bowl and water bowl. You may feed each dog in a separate dog crate to avoid conflicts at feeding time. Make sure you give each dog their own treats and separate bones.
You should also set up a separate sleeping area for each dog, with their own bed.
 Most puppies will be curious of adult dogs. Your puppy may end up bothering your adult dog and your adult dog may react with some playful growling or snarling at first. This is to be expected and over time both dogs should start to bond and get along. However, you should watch both dogs for signs of stress, such as staring, growling, tails lifted, forward ears, and body stiffness.If you notice your puppy or your pregnant dog acting stressed, you should call them apart and tell them to sit and stay in separate areas of the space. You may also need to put them back on separate leashes.
 Though the dogs should have separate feeding and sleeping areas, they should be socialized together. You should take them on walks together and try to get them to play together on a daily basis. Doing fun things with both dogs together will help them grow to like each other and view each other’s company in a positive way.You should also be sure to give both dogs individual attention so they feel acknowledged and loved separate of each other. You may alternate doing training with your puppy and then having a grooming session with your pregnant dog, for example, or reward each dog separately during a walk. Try to strike a balance between individual attention and activities as a threesome., In the last three weeks of your dog’s pregnancy, you should isolate her from other dogs, including your new puppy. This will ensure she is not at risk of illness or viruses that could trigger a miscarriage. Prepare for the delivery of the litter and keep your new puppy in a blocked off area so it does not get too close during the birth.Most female dogs give birth 64 days after conception and often the mother dog knows what to do by instinct. Still, you should be aware of the signs of labor in your adult dog so you are prepared.Your pregnant dog may stop eating 24 hours before labor and she may become restless leading up to the birth. She may also paw at her bedding and begin to lick her vulva. She may discharge mucus or vomit leading up to labor.
 Once your pregnant dog has her litter, you should clean her up and place the litter in a whelping box. You should also keep the puppy away from the litter until you take the litter to the vet. You should have a vet examine the litter at least 48 hours after the birth.Once the vet gives the puppies a clean bill of health, you may allow the puppy near the litter. However, you should never leave the puppy alone with the mother and the litter.

