 You may find that your tics will be milder or less frequent if you are engaged in an activity that truly interests you. Identify activities that bring you joy and make you feel better about yourself.Consider playing sports or getting physically fit. Join a sports team at your school, or an intramural team after school. Take a fitness class like martial arts to help keep you focus and centered.
Get creative. If you are artistic, take more classes or join clubs that help you to express your creative side. Draw. Paint. Take photographs. Play music. This can help your mind stay focused.
Try other hobbies that keep you focused, and make you feel better. Try activities that involve interacting with other teens, or help you to boost your confidence around others.
 If you have new or worsening symptoms, it's important to talk with your doctor about them. If you are taking medications to help with your symptoms, but they have side effects or don't seem to help, get medical advice about other options.There are various medications available that can help control involuntary motor tics. Learn more about how these medications can help you in your daily life.
See medication as a way to managing your symptoms. Just like if you had difficulty with breathing or your heart, using medication to help with your Tourette's could possibly improve your health overall.
 Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) has been shown to help people cope better with their condition, and learn to recognize their tics more. Therapy can also help to ease the other symptoms you may be feeling such as depression, anxiety, or feeling isolated.Talk with your school counselor about any counseling resources in your area for people who have Tourette Syndrome.
Discuss with your family about individual or family counseling to help cope better with the feelings you're having. A counselor can help to provide an unbiased opinion, and keep you motivated to improve.
See counseling as a support rather than a stigma. Getting help will make you stronger, not weaker.
 Believe that you can improve, and that things can be better. It may not seem possible when you're a teen, but have patience and find healthy ways to appreciate yourself.


Give yourself permission to be different, and that's okay. Love who you are, just as you are.
Do things that relax your mind. Listen to music. Go out into nature. Take a walk around the neighborhood. Get good rest.
 It’s important to have people in your life who can help you, particularly when you’re having a difficult time. Keep your friends and family close. Identify who are the family and friends that you trust the most.Avoid isolating yourself when you’re feeling down or frustrated about your condition. Seek a friend or family member for support by phone or in person.
Talk about what’s bothering you, and get their advice about ways to cope with what you’re feeling.
Openly communicate with those you trust about what you’re going through as a teen. Consider finding at least one friend or family member that can be your go-to person when you’re stressed.
 Depending on where you live, and what community resources are available, find a support group that may help you as a teen, and as someone with Tourette’s.Find a local chapter of the Tourette Association of America for information about support groups or resources: https://www.tourette.org/resources/find-local-chapter/

Talk with a school counselor about your condition, and that you are interested in support groups for teens or those facing your condition.
Reach out to a counseling center in your area that focused on the needs of teens and young adults. See if there are support groups that may match your concerns, related to your condition or your overall mental health.
 Be an advocate for yourself and what you’re going through. Know that you’re not alone in what you’re feeling or facing. The more educated you are about your condition, the more you will be able to help to reduce stigma or feelings of isolation.Find out how to be active your community. Go to the Tourette Association of America: https://www.tourette.org/

Be an advocate by speaking up for yourself, and helping to break down stereotypes about your condition. Believe that knowledge can be power. It can help to build greater understanding and confidence.
Remember to have patience, as change takes time. It’s important help others to understand your condition, but don’t expect things to change overnight. Take each step, one day at a time.

