 Pay attention to the people who are at the event and introduce yourself to those who make eye contact. Don't limit the conversation to people who you know. Instead, try to go out of your existing network and introduce yourself to new people. If you're nervous and don't want to introduce yourself, you can ask the host to introduce you to people who you want to talk to.You can introduce yourself by saying "Hey, my name's Joe, I work over in accounting. How are you today?"
You can also say "Hi, my name's Stephanie. I saw your presentation on nuclear thermodynamics, and I thought that was awesome."
Or, "Hey, I'm Jake. I heard about the prank that you guys pulled in accounting yesterday, and I couldn't stop laughing about it.";
, Read magazines and blogs, and watch new documentaries to stay up on the latest trends. Staying up on trends will give you something to talk about outside of work and your social life. Having a couple of subjects that you're knowledgeable about will make you seem more interesting to the people you're schmoozing with., Unless you are in a particular setting, like a church or political fundraising event, you shouldn't bring up these topics. Often, people have strong feelings and opinions about these themes, and it's easy to offend someone. Steer clear from these conversations and stay neutral if someone brings it up.For instance, if someone says, "What do you think of the new president?" you can say something like "I don't really follow politics."

, The goal of schmoozing may be to build your network, but it shouldn't be obvious. People don't want to associate with those who they think are overly ambitious or goal-oriented. Avoid talking solely about work, especially if you're in a social setting with your coworkers. Stick to more interesting subjects so that people don't think that you're fake., If you run into someone who you don't want to talk to anymore, you shouldn't be rude. Smile, nod, and give short responses until they run out of small talk. Wait around five minutes, then excuse yourself politely.When you're leaving the conversation you can say something like "Well, it was really nice meeting you. I think I'm going to find my friends and grab a drink, thanks."
You can also say "Ah, I have to use the restroom. It was nice talking to you."

