 After you have introduced the idea of the 3DS and laid out your reasons for wanting it, ask your parents if they have any questions or concerns about it. Since you are asking your parents to buy the game, it’s important to have a two-sided conversation so you can hear your parents’ concerns and respond to them directly.You can say something like, “I was wondering what you both thought about me getting the 3DS.”

, One concern your parents may have is the price of the gaming console. If your parents seem concerned, let them know the price, which is $100-200 depending on the model. Also tell them how much the games cost that you want to play on the 3DS.If your parents didn’t know what the 3DS was, they may have expected that it was much more expensive. Putting the price on the table is an important part of asking for the game, regardless of whether the cost is something they were worried about.
 Many parents worry that games are a bad influence on children and make them desensitized to violence. Explain to your parents the most popular games on the 3DS are not violent in nature because the device is marketed toward younger people. This should make them feel better about the content that you will be exposed to by having the console., Your parents may be worried that you will use all your time to play games and will lose focus on your schoolwork. Let them know that this is not true, and promise that you will keep your focus on your school, extracurricular activities, and anything else they may feel is essential to your education and wellbeing,

, If you have brothers or sisters, your parents may worry that they will be jealous of your new 3DS. If this is a concern, let your parents know that you are willing to share the console with your siblings, as long as they don’t delete your game.
 Your parents will want to have some control over your gaming habits. They want to know that if they need you to do something like set the table or do your chores, you will listen to them and get off the game.Tell your parents that you understand the fact that they want some say in your gaming, and assure them that you will respect their authority if they ever need you to stop playing for any reason.
Talking about your parents’ role in your game playing habits sets the stage for compromising with your parents, which you will need to do if they aren’t completely convinced that you should get the console.

