 Always have two to five monologues ready to perform. You never know when a call is going to come up, and it’s best to be prepared rather than cramming at the last minute.


Make sure that the monologues are distinct. If one is dramatic, the other should be comedic. Likewise, it’s good to have one modern work and one classic or Shakespearean monologue.
You'll stand out more if you choose unique monologues. Look through books and films for monologues that will allow you to showcase your special talent; chances are, they won't be the same ones the casting director has seen a hundred times before.
 You need them to get an agent, as well as to audition at open casting calls.


Work with a professional photographer who specializes in acting and performance headshots, and make sure that he or she will provide make-up and hair styling.
Know your type. Roles are written for certain looks and types, and you should have photos that meet these casting criteria. If your look and acting-age is “high school cheerleader,” include that look in your photo package. Likewise, if you’d make a great vampire, suburban mom or mob-wife, have photos taken that capture that aspect of your look and acting-age.
Get electronic copies of your headshots. Some agencies may ask you to email your resume and headshots.
Make sure your printed headshots are the same size as your resume. If you plan on printing your resume on standard 8 1/2" x 11" paper, your headshot should be the same size. It looks more professional this way.
 A demo reel is footage that showcases your acting work. Make sure your plays are filmed, and prearrange with directors to use the work in your reel. The site www.productionapprentice.com/tutorials/general/create-a-winning-demo-reel-that-people-will-actually-watch/ has great tips on how to cater your demo reel to each casting director.
 It's important to get a franchised, licensed agent. Many people who are not agents will claim to be. Real agents are licensed by the state, and generally receive 10% of your earnings.


A great way to meet an agent is to attend a casting workshop. A casting workshop is an opportunity for actors to audition in front of a number of agents and casting directors. You do have to pay to participate, but it’s a fantastic way to get your name and face out there. Do an online search for casting workshops in your area.
The Call Sheet, which can be accessed at www.backstage.com, has a list of reputable talent agents. The SAG-AFTRA (Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists) website, www.sagaftra.org, also has lists of agents.



SAG-AFTRA is the screen actors’ labor union. SAG-AFTRA can get you higher paying (and higher profile gigs), provides health insurance and makes sure that your work is not misused. It also opens the door to more audition opportunities, as agents have access to union calls.
Actors’ Equity is the stage actors’ union. Again, it provides health insurance, and ensures fair wages and decent working conditions for stage actors. Equity actors also get to participate in workshops and seminars, and again have access to a greater number of auditions.

