 For instance, if you or someone else mishandled the bottle of spray (in relaxed circumstances or playing), be careful. By not ceasing the behavior you can cause more exposure and more damage to be incurred on you or any person in the vicinity. #Avoid touching your towel, eyes, nostrils, mouth -- actually spreading pepper spray to any other portion of your body. Also, don't touch any objects you don't need to. As the pepper material can stick there and hurt someone else or you much later if not cleaned.;
, If you don't know, make sure you have no swelling, trouble breathing, hives, or any symptoms that warn you of an impending health problem. Don't hesitate. If you have any allergy problems or questions, call the Emergency Services. Trouble breathing, for example, may be the difference between life and death.
 (Still focus on your body, making sure you have no allergic symptoms. They may be slow in showing themselves.) Get a basin or a container that can hold water and is clean. Be careful and don't panic while getting the materials.


Get some soap. Try dish soap works fine. If the pepper spray was chemical you may be wary of mixing it with the dish soap, but you should be fine using Dawn or similar brands. You may need is a fingernail brush.
 You may want to use it liberally as some pepper spray have oil in them, and they are meant to stick (but don't go overboard as it may cause skin irritation).


Don't scrub too hard, even though it may be tempting. You can wipe and rub your hands together making sure that every part of your hands are being cleaned. You may want to do this for about a minute or 2.
 After letting them dry a little (they shouldn't be dripping water anymore), you can wash them again. You should make sure to wash them like you did the first time. Do this step until your hands feel normal again. If they always felt fine (no pain or burning) then you should still wash them at least 5 times.


Wash them more between 5-10, if you felt pain or burning, though. If your hands were very contaminated then you may want to change the dishwater between the first, second and third washings.







