 Male Kangals can grow to a height of 30 to 40 inches and weigh 110 to 140 pounds. Female Kangals can grow to a height of 28 to 31 inches and weigh 90 to 120 pounds. As long as the balance between weight and height is maintained, a weight exceeding these parameters is not a disqualification.


In general, Kangals appear large, impressive, and powerful.
 The Kangal is a whole-colored dog. The color of its body can range from cream and pale fawn to gray dun. Its coat is never white, pinto, or brindled, however, it may have white markings on its chest or feet. Kangals also have a short, dense double-coat.Its hair lies flat and close to its body; it is neither wavy nor fluffy.
“Dun” refers to the black guard hairs in the coat. The more black guard hairs there are in its coat, the darker it will be.
 The Kangal has a powerful neck that is arched, muscular, and moderate in length. The hair around the neck and shoulders is slightly longer than its coat creating a protective barrier. The Kangal’s back is muscular and powerful. Its back is level with the withers, i.e., the base of the neck, and gradually arches over the loins.The length of the Kangal’s back (from prosternum, i.e., top of the sternum, to buttocks) is slightly longer than its height (from withers to the ground).
 The Kangal’s forelegs are relatively long. The length of its front legs (from the elbow to the ground) should measure a little more than 50 percent of its height. Additionally, its forelegs are straight and well-boned with its elbows close to its sides.For example, if the Kangal’s height is 18 inches, then the length of its forelegs should be a little over 9 inches.
 The Kangal’s chest is deep and extends to its elbows. Its ribs are well sprung with a distinct tuck up near its loins. The Kangal’s tail is long, reaching its hocks. When the Kangal is relaxed, the tail is carried low and has a slight curl at the end. On the other hand, when it is alert, the tail is carried high and curled in an open circle over its back.The length of the hair on the end of its tail is slightly longer than the hair on its body.

