 These tools are available at most beauty supply stores, and come in a variety of different brands. Like hair straighteners and curling irons, they are plugged in and heated prior to styling. Unlike hair straighteners, crimpers have zig-zagged plates that create texture in hair.









Take the following into account when choosing a crimper: temperature settings (the higher the temperature, the more effective the styling will be), size of the styling plate, and ceramic versus metal plates.
Ceramic styling tools claim to cause less damage to hair, but regardless, all hot styling tools cause damage to hair with prolonged use.;
, Allow hair to completely dry, because the crimper won't work on wet hair. Be sure to condition your hair and brush out any tangles prior to styling.









If you are prone to frizzy hair, then apply a dime-sized amount of anti-frizzing serum.
To protect your hair from heat damage, you may want to apply a heat-protecting product like Argon Oil to the ends of hair prior to styling.
 Choose the appropriate heat setting and allow it to warm up for 3-5 minutes. The higher the heat setting, the more effective the styling will be. However, high heat settings also cause more damage to your hair. Consider this trade-off before styling.









You will need to have a mirror in front of you while styling, so plug the crimper into an outlet in your bathroom or bedroom where you have access to a mirror.
 You may want to crimp your entire head of hair, or simply isolate certain strips of hair for a quirkier look.
 Grab a section of hair with your non-dominant hand and gently clamp down the crimper using your other hand, starting at the roots. Get as close to your scalp as possible without burning it. Hold down for at least five seconds, and then release the clamps.









Slide the tool down the length of your hair and clamp down on the next section, and continue until the entire section is crimped.
 If your hair tends to not hold a style for very long, then spritz your hair with a styling spray for longer-lasting waves. Hairspray is also a good idea if you plan on being in windy weather or driving with the windows down.
