 If things aren't going your way, try to take some of the pressure off of yourself. Look at each day as a new beginning. This mindset will help you be able to see the positives in life.Try journaling before bed each night. Writing down your thoughts can help you sleep better and start each day with a clear mind., In order for your life to change, you need to be the force that drives changes. Being proactive means that you are in charge of your own destiny. You respond to your own choices, not choices made by other people. When you feel in charge of your own life, you will start to feel more comfortable and confident. To be proactive, think about specific actions that you can take to improve your life, and then take them.For example, if you are unhappy with your job, a proactive step to change that would be to update your resume and start applying for new jobs.
 If there are parts of your life that you feel are not the best they could be, try to make changes. Maybe you want to improve your physical fitness or maybe you want to save more money. Whatever it is, try making changes in your daily life in order to see big changes. For example, try setting aside $2 a day as a way to start saving more money.A habit typically takes two months to really become part of your routine, so be patient with yourself.
 Goals are a reflection of your priorities and are concrete ways that you can improve your life. Goal setting can be useful in every area of your life. Having realistic goals can help you visualize the changes you want to see happen.Set both long-term and short-term goals. When you see results from the short-term goals, that will give you the encouragement you need to persevere and make long term changes.
 Having a purpose in your life can help you to live the best life possible. Try asking yourself what you would do if you no longer had to worry about money. When you find the answer, you're on your way to find your passion.Follow your curiosity. Your passion is unique to you, but it will definitely be something your find both interesting and challenging. For example, if you love animals, find a way to work with them. You could begin by volunteering at your local shelter.

