 Pairing colors that complement each other and avoiding colors that clash is an essential part of putting together an outfit. When you're working with scarves and T-shirts, there are just a few basic color rules that you may want to keep in mind. See below:When in doubt, use a color wheel.Shades that are directly across from each other on the wheel are complementary — that is, they look good together.
Almost anything looks good paired with a neutral color. These include white, black, grey, and some shades of brown and tan.
You can also pick a patterned scarf that incorporate the shirt color somewhere in the pattern. Sharing a color with your shirt makes your scarf look like it was meant to go with it.;
, If you have a scarf with an intricate pattern, wear it with a simple, one-color shirt. Alternatively, if your shirt has a complex graphic or pattern you want to show off, wear it with a simple scarf. Balancing areas of simplicity and complexity ensures your outfit is never "too much" to look at.A good policy is to start with a solid color shirt and make this your base. Your base shirt can be long or short sleeved and can have whatever neckline you like since the scarf will most likely be covering the neckline. Pair this base with a patterned scarf that uses the same color, a complementary color or mostly neutral colors.
 Color and complexity aren't the only factors in play when you're making your outfit. Different shirt and scarf fabrics have different visual textures based on the material and the size of the stitching. Pair textures together to create areas of visual contrast so that your scarf stands out from the fabric around it.


For instance, if you're wearing a cotton T-shirt, you might want to pair it with a thick wool scarf with large stitching so that it contrasts with the shirt. You probably wouldn't want to pair it with a scarf made from material that's similar to the T-shirt.
 The way you wear your scarf around your neck can affect how your overall outfit looks. Wearing a scarf loosely draped around your neck tends to direct the eye downwards — a good choice if you're wearing pants or a belt that you'd like to attract attention to. On the other hand, tighter ties that position the scarf around the neck attract attention to your face by isolating it from the rest of your body.


In the section below, you'll learn a few basic ways to tie your scarf that you may want to try out.
 This is the main faux pas that you'll want to avoid when pairing a scarf with a T-shirt. Scarves that are the same color or texture as your T-shirt are not generally a good idea. Since they have little contrast with your shirt, it's difficult to see where one begins and the other ends. To avoid this homogenous look, be sure to incorporate at least some contrast into your outfit.

