 Staying sane, to a large degree, is about feeling like you are in control of your life. While we cannot control everything, calmly dealing with problems and setting long-term goals will give you a sense of agency and control.;
, Staying sane is about knowing your needs and wants and feeling like you can fulfill them. While it is easy to get caught up in negative emotions, we should remember to talk about what makes us happy. Take the time to write, not just think, a list of things you love in life.


Think about what relaxes you, people you love, successes you've had, what you do for fun, and locations where you feel "at home."
Resist the urge to be critical. Just think about what makes you happy, whether it is as simple as a cupcake or as complicated as your career.
 When you feel like you are on the edge, doing something you are good at reinforces your sense of self-worth and purpose. You show yourself that you are capable of creating success and controlling your life. Find a hobby and dedicate time to practice.
Taking pride in yourself makes working easier and your accomplishments more fulfilling.
 Whether it is being near a co-worker or grocery shopping at the end of the day, you should note the times you feel overwhelmed and avoid the situation next time it comes up.


If there is a particular person who makes life difficult, tell them that you are "really sorry, but have to go at the moment," or go to the bathroom for a minute.
Excuse yourself from situations where you feel uncontrollable stress or worry, even if it is only briefly.
 If, for example, you dislike lots of noise, bright lights, and crowded spaces, you may realize that living in a city is not the right lifestyle for staying sane. On the other hand, if you feel content and comfortable when you are with your significant other, remember the importance of that connection when times are tough. Recreate the patterns that promote your sanity, and break the ones that don't.


Approach your day from a personal perspective. Think: what do you have to do to be happy? Don't worry about what you have to do to make others happy

, You are not an illness. Instead of saying "I'm bipolar," say "I have bipolar disorder." Instead of calling yourself "a schizophrenic," say "I have schizophrenia." By not letting a mental health disorder define you, you remain in control of your life and sanity.


Having a mental illness is not your "fault."

