 You're onto the pendant! Here's how this one goes:



English: Hail Holy Queen, mother of mercy; hail our life, our sweetness, and our hope. To thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve. To thee do we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this vale of tears. Turn, then, most gracious advocate, thine eyes of mercy toward us. And after this, our exile, show unto us the blessed Fruit of thy womb, Jesus. O clement, O loving, O sweet Virgin Mary. Pray for us, O Holy Mother of God, that we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ. Amen.

Latin: Salve, Regina, Mater misericordiae; vita, dulcedo, et spes nostra, salve. Ad te clamamus, exsules filii Hevae; ad te suspiramus, gementes et flentes in hac lacrymarum valle. Eia ergo, advocata nostra, illos tuos misericordes oculos ad nos converte; et Jesum, benedictum fructum ventris tui, nobis post hoc exilium ostende. O clemens, O pia, O dulcis Virgo Maria. Amen.
 Hands still on the pendant, recite the following:



English: O God, whose only-begotten Son by His Life, Death and Resurrection, has purchased for us the rewards of eternal life; grant, we beseech Thee, that by meditating upon these Mysteries of the Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary, we may imitate what they contain, and obtain what they promise, through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

Latin: Oremus: Deus, cujus Unigenitus, per vitam, mortem et resurrectionem suam nobis salutis aeternæ praemia comparavit: concede, quaesumus; ut, haec mysteria sanctissimo beatae Mariae Virginis Rosario recolentes; et imitemur quod continent, et quod promittunt, assequamur. Per eumdem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
 This one is the most uncommon, but adds a nice finishing touch to your intimate session. This one goes like this:



English: Remember, O Most Gracious Virgin Mary, that never was it known that anyone who fled to thy protection, implored thy help, or sought thy intercession, was left unaided. Inspired by this confidence, we fly unto thee, O Virgin of Virgins, Our Mother. To thee we come, before thee we stand, sinful and sorrowful. O Mother of the Word Incarnate, despise not our petitions, but in thy mercy, hear and answer them. Amen.

Latin: Memorare, O piissima Virgo Maria, a saeculo non esse auditum, quemquam ad tua currentem praesidia, tua implorantem auxilia, tua petentem suffragia, esse derelictum. Ego tali animatus confidentia, ad te, Virgo Virginum, Mater, curro, ad te venio, coram te gemens peccator assisto. Noli, Mater Verbi, verba mea despicere; sed audi propitia et exaudi. Amen.
 The Litany is a list of call-and-response prayers, with the first several invoking the three Persons of the Holy Trinity to "Have mercy on us", and the rest asking the Virgin Mary (under various titles such as "Mirror of Justice") to "Pray for us". It ends with a slightly different version of the Agnus Dei that is recited before Holy Communion at Mass. The full text of the Litany may be found here., Catholics sometimes add one Our Father, one Hail Mary, and one Glory Be for the reigning Pope, asking that he be blessed physically and spiritually. Some would also pray another set of the above for the intentions of the dead, including loved ones and particularly the Holy Souls in Purgatory., Lift your head, feel lightened, and go about your day, prayerful and contemplative. Now wasn't that a worthwhile 20 minutes?

