 Even cats with a typically mild temperament can become aggressive when in pain. A wounded cat may claw or bite you. To reduce the risk of this happening, speak soothingly to the cat as you approach. Walk slowly, and do not make any sudden moves towards the cat. The cat may interpret these as hostile.Even if the wounded cat is your own, it may still lash out due to fear and pain. You should still proceed with caution in this scenario.;
, Using a relatively clean piece of material such as gauze, tissues, or a clean cotton rag, apply steady pressure to the wound. Be careful not to press too hard on the wound, especially if it’s on one of the cat’s limbs. You don’t want to risk breaking the cat’s leg; just press hard enough to slow down or stop the bleeding.If the cat is bleeding severely and you don’t have time to get cloth or gauze, you’ll have to use your bare hands to apply pressure.
 Continue to apply a steady pressure to the cat’s wound for at least 10 minutes; this will give the wound time to form a clot and stop actively bleeding. While applying the pressure, resist the temptation to lift up the gauze or cloth and see if the wound is still bleeding. Lifting up the gauze could rip the clot off. If blood soaks through the layer of cloth or gauze you’re holding, you can add another layer.
 After the bleeding has stopped or slowed, you no longer need to apply constant pressure. If the bleeding wound is on one of the cat’s legs or its head, you can bind the gauze or cloth compress so that you no longer need to keep your hands on it. Use another strip of gauze or a long piece of cloth to firmly bind the blood-soaked compress in place.Be careful not to tie the compress on too tightly. This will cut off blood flow and could cause serious problems for the limb.
 Internal bleeding is more difficult to spot, although a cat which has suffered a fall may be bleeding internally. You can’t treat internal bleeding through first aid, so you’ll need to take the cat to a veterinarian for treatment. Signs that a cat is bleeding internally include:Pale gums and vomiting or coughing up blood.
A distended stomach, coupled with extreme lethargy.
Fast, shallow breaths.
Extremities (legs and paws) feel cool to the touch.

