 Many managers start by doing part-time or full-time work as a stocker, cashier or customer service representative. You can start as early as high school or well into adulthood.;
, Although this is not necessary to work in a supermarket, if you want to get on a management track and seek further schooling, you will need this certificate.
 Treat any position that you have as important. Always arrive on time and take extra shifts when you can.


Supermarkets often suffer from high turnover rates in their entry-level positions. The work can be monotonous and low-paid in the beginning. Although shift work may be less fulfilling, you may be able to go to school while working these jobs and move up the job ladder.
 Since supermarkets have relatively high turnover, if you stay around and work hard, you are likely to be hired from within. Talk to your manager about opportunities to move into other departments.
 You should be able to achieve this level through hard work. It will also allow you to begin training for a higher management position.
 Go to the supermarket website and look under the "careers" tab. While this is not available in all supermarkets, some look to hire people with some experience directly into assistant manager positions, with the possibility of becoming a department head within 18 months to 3 years.


This is the best option if your supermarket is not active about hiring from within. If you do not feel a position will open up in a few years' time, you may want to look at a new supermarket location or a different chain.
 If you want to increase your chances of obtaining a supermarket manager position, you can earn an associate's degree or bachelor's degree in business administration. You may also be able to find a 1 to 2 year certificate program in management through a community college.


Talk to your manager about your desire to move up the ranks. If you let your managers know that you are getting training in order to become a better manager, they may look more favorably on you if there is a promotion available.
 As the head of the seafood, deli, meat or produce departments, you will have increased responsibility and salary. Many supermarket general managers come from these ranks.
 It may be in your own location or a neighboring location. Apply for the position with a strong resume featuring your experience, education and commitment.

