 When first identified, Toxic Shock Syndrome seemed to occur almost exclusively in menstruating women who used extra-absorbent tampons. Increased awareness and product changes have significantly reduced the overall number of incidents of TSS related to tampon use, but they still account for half of all cases.TSS is caused by staph (usually) or strep bacteria that release toxins into the bloodstream and (in a small percentage of people) cause a major immune response with serious side effects. However, it is still not entirely clear why using extra-absorbent tampons that remain inserted for long periods of time is the greatest risk factor for TSS. Some theorize that the extended insertion period creates ideal conditions for bacteria growth, while others believe the tampon dries out over time and causes small cuts and abrasions when removed.Regardless of the cause, your best defenses against TSS as a menstruating female are to use pads instead of tampons whenever possible; use the least absorbent tampons necessary and change them regularly (every four to eight hours); store tampons in a cool, dry place that does not promote bacteria growth (so, not in the bathroom); and wash your hands before and after handling a tampon., While they cause far fewer cases of TSS than tampons, vaginally-inserted female contraceptives of the sponge and diaphragm varieties must be used with care. As with tampons, the length of time in which the device remains inserted seems to be the key factor in the possibility of developing TSS.Basically, keep sponge or diaphragm-style contraceptives inserted for only as long as necessary, and never for more than twenty four hours. Also store them somewhere that doesn’t get warm and humid (and foster bacteria growth), and wash your hands before and after handling., Women, and especially young women, comprise a significant majority of all cases of TSS, but it can affect male and female, young and old alike. If the staph or strep bacteria enters the body, the toxins are released, and the body’s immune system responds in “overdrive,” then any person can develop a serious case of Toxic Shock Syndrome.TSS can also occur when bacteria enter open wounds, after a woman gives birth, during a case of chickenpox, or when packing for a nosebleed is used for prolonged periods of time.
So, clean, bandage, and re-bandage wounds thoroughly and regularly; change nosebleed packing regularly or seek other methods to reduce or stop the nosebleeds; and be vigilant about following health and hygiene recommendations.
Young people are more likely to get TSS, and the best current theory as to why is that older people have built up a greater immunity. If you are a teen or young adult female, then, be especially vigilant against TSS.