 Most people with Down Syndrome learn more slowly, and children will not meet their milestones as quickly as their peers do. Speaking may or may not pose a challenge for an individual with Down Syndrome—it all depends on the person. Some learn sign language or another form of AAC before or instead of speaking.


People with Down Syndrome easily grasp new words and their vocabularies become more advanced as they mature. Your child will be much more capable at age 12 than at age 2.
Because grammar rules are inconsistent and hard to explain, those with Down Syndrome may have difficulty mastering grammar. As a result, those with Down Syndrome usually use shorter sentences with less detail.
Enunciation can be hard for them, because their motor skills are impaired. Speaking clearly may also present a challenge. Many people with Down Syndrome benefit from speech therapy.
 Almost half of children with Down Syndrome are born with heart defects.The most common defects are Atrioventricular Septal Defect (formally called Endocardial Cushion Defect), Ventricular Septal Defect, Persistent Ductus Arteriosus and Tetralogy of Fallot.Difficulties occurring alongside heart defects include heart failure, difficulty breathing, and an inability to thrive during the newborn period.While many infants are born with heart defects, some only show up 2-3 months after birth. For this reason, it is important for all newborns with Down Syndrome to get an echocardiogram within the first few months after birth., Those with Down Syndrome are more likely to have common ailments that affect vision and hearing. Not all people with Down Syndrome will need glasses or contacts, but many will be affected by either nearsightedness or farsightedness. In addition, 80% of people with Down Syndrome will have some type of hearing problem during their lifetime.Those with Down Syndrome are more likely to need glasses or to have misaligned eyes (known as Strabismus).Discharge or frequent tearing of the eyes is another common issue for those with Down Syndrome.Hearing loss is associated with conductive loss (interference with the middle ear), sensori-neural loss (damaged cochlea), and accumulation of ear wax.Because children learn language by what they hear, this hearing impairment affects their ability to learn., At least half of kids and adults with Down Syndrome will experience a mental health condition.The most common disabilities for those with Down Syndrome include: general anxiety, repetitive and obsessive-compulsive behaviors; oppositional, impulsive, and inattentive behaviors; sleep related problems; depression; and autism.Younger children (early school age) that have difficulties with language and communication typically present with symptoms of ADHD, Oppositional Defiant Disorder, and mood disorders, as well as exhibit deficits in social relations.Adolescents and young adults usually present with depression, generalized anxiety, and obsessive compulsive behaviors.They also may have chronic sleep difficulties and daytime fatigue.
Older adults are vulnerable to generalized anxiety, depression, social withdrawal, loss of interest, and diminished self-care and later might develop dementia.
 Although people with Down Syndrome may live healthy, happy lives, they are at a higher risk of developing certain conditions as children and as they age.


There is a much greater risk of acute leukemia developing among children with Down Syndrome. It is many times greater than that of other children.Also, with increased life expectancy due to improved health care, there is an increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease among older persons with Down Syndrome. 75% of people with Down Syndrome over the age of 65 have Alzheimer’s disease., People with Down Syndrome may have difficulty with fine motor skills (such as writing, drawing, eating with utensils) and gross motor skills (walking, going up or down stairs, running).
 Each person with Down Syndrome is unique, and will have different abilities, physical traits, and personalities. A person with Down Syndrome may not have every symptom on a list, and may have different symptoms to varying degrees. Just like people without it, people with Down Syndrome are diverse and unique individuals.


For example, one woman with Down Syndrome may communicate by typing, hold a job, and be only mildly intellectually disabled, while her son might be completely verbal, most likely unable to work, and severely intellectually disabled.
If a person has some symptoms but not others, it is still worth talking to a doctor.

