 Cable terminology can be confusing. Look on the side of your coaxial wire for the size designation. In most homes, the two most common sizes are RG-6 and RG-59.


RG stands for "Radio Guide." The numbers of the various versions of RG cable refer to the diameter (59 meaning .059, and 6 meaning .06, etc) and internal characteristics of the cable, including the amount of shielding and the cable's attenuation, which refers to how much signal loss there is per length of cable.
You may also see the term RF used with these cables, which stands for "Radio Frequency."
Most non-industrial coaxial cable is now known as RG-6, although the previous thinner lower-quality standard of RG-59 is still used in some applications and older homes. Commercial installers may use a thicker RG cable, like RG-11(which is only used if the distance from the source tap to your point of termination at the home is greater than 200 feet)
RG cables used in homes for ordinary purposes should be 75 ohm (RG-6 or RG-59).
Be aware that all cables (and their connectors) come in a variety of qualities. Get the best quality cable you can.;
, Most connectors for home video installations are made with F-Style connectors. However, it is possible your system uses N-type connectors.


Be aware that there are several types of F-type RG-6 cable available, primarily screw-on and crimp-style connectors.

Screw-on connectors are easy to use, but are less secure and can leave a small air pocket. Some people believe this may affect your signal quality.
Crimp-style connectors have two parts: a ring (or crimp) and a terminator. They are typically more difficult to install, but can attain the greatest lengths and best connections when used correctly.


Know that to make a connection you will need a male and a female connector of the same type.

Male connectors have the center wire sticking out, while female connectors have a space for the center wire to stick into. Be sure to use the opposite gender to the connector you will be making. Most cables end in male connectors.


Use an SMA (sub-miniature Version A) connector for very small coaxial cable.

