 Before purchasing and printing tickets, you'll need to decide what event to attend or what type of travel to book. After making your decision, note all the relevant details of the engagement, including the date, time, location, and price.
 Most major event venues, from concert halls to sporting arenas, handle their ticket sales through a third-party vendor. In addition, vendors exist that allow ticket holders to sell and swap tickets online. Search for your chosen event on major ticketing sites such as Ticketmaster and StubHub.

On websites such as StubHub that allow current ticket holders to sell their tickets, you may or may not be able to print tickets at home after purchasing them. This will depend on whether the seller holds hard copies of the tickets or a download link.
Travel tickets can often be booked through the transit authorities or airlines themselves, but they can also be booked through travel websites like Orbitz and Expedia. Either way, you will generally be able to print your tickets directly.
 When you are ready to purchase your tickets, you will generally be given several options for how you want to receive your tickets.

Common options for receiving your tickets include will call, postal delivery, and direct downloading. Depending on the website from which you are purchasing, some of these options may not be available.
To be able to print tickets at homes, you must choose the option to download your tickets directly. They will usually be presented in either PDF or HTML format.
 Usually, you will be given an option to receive digital copies of your tickets shortly after your payment is processed.

In the case of PDF tickets, you will be presented with a download request shortly after purchase. Choose the location on your computer in which to save the file, and then confirm the download.
More often, however, you will be given a link to a web page containing an image of your tickets. After following the link, make sure to bookmark or otherwise save the web page for your reference.
 You will need to print the file containing your ticket images so that you can bring them to the event for entry.

Begin by opening the web page or PDF containing the image of your tickets. Click on "File" in your application's tool bar and then click on "Print." You will be prompted to print the page.
It is best to choose the option for no resizing, as this will prevent the barcode on the tickets from become shrunk and difficult to scan.
 Once you have printed the tickets, keep them carefully stored until the day of the event or travel.

When folding the paper on which the tickets are printed, be careful not to fold over the barcode, as this may make it difficult to scan.
You will not need to cut the paper down to size. Most event venues employ handheld scanners, so as long as the barcode is clear and intact, the ticket can be used regardless of paper size.

