 Especially when it’s hot outside, it’s important to stay hydrated. Dehydration can cause stress (and vice versa), so be sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day. If you feel nauseous, fatigued, or have a headache, this could be a warning sign that you’re dehydrated.Even mild dehydration can cause changes in mood.It’s recommended that adult men drink 10 cups and adult women drink 8 cups of water each day.If you’re in hot conditions, drink more than the recommended daily amount as you’re likely losing fluids, and don’t wait until you’re thirsty to drink.
If you have a child, common signs of dehydration include cold skin, dry mouth, lethargy, and a blueish tint to the skin.;
, If it’s hot outside, you may struggle to fall asleep or stay asleep due to feeling. Heat can contribute to difficulties in falling asleep and getting enduring, quality sleep.If heat is affecting your sleep, use a fan or open your bedroom windows. Heat rises, so consider sleeping downstairs. Keep rooms cool during the day by using blinds.


It is recommended that adults get 7.5-9 hours of sleep per night. School-aged children need about 10-13 hours of sleep per night., If you’re starting to feel the effects of the heat, cool down with a drink. Having a cold drink can mediate the effects of heat on aggression.Keep some cold water in the fridge, or have some lemonade on hand.


Plan for extremely hot weather by having lots of cold items available, including popsicles, ice cubes, and other frozen treats.
Keep a water bottle with you throughout the day. Keep it full of ice so it stays cold.
 You have a physical response when you feel angry or aggressive. Your stomach might knot up, you may tighten your fists, tense your muscles, or begin to breathe faster.If you start to notice your body making these changes, relax. Focus on loosening your muscles and calming your mind. Just like you notice that you feel hot, become aware of what feelings you have that accompany your elevated temperature.


Your body can give you early warning signs of your aggression. Listen up and aim to relax as quickly as possible to avoid escalating your aggression.
 While you might think that external things trigger your anger (such as people and situations), take a moment and ask yourself how your thoughts contribute. Perhaps you blame the weather or even other people for bad things happening or for the way you feel. Or maybe you feel more frustrated or easily more easily set off when there’s increased heat. It’s possible you overlook positive things while letting negative things mount. Whatever it is, notice how your own thoughts affect your anger and aggression.If you notice negative thought patterns contributing to your aggression, replace the negative thoughts with more positive thoughts For example, if you’re thinking, “If one more person bothers me I’m going to explode!” stop and think to yourself, “I know that heat can make me more on edge. It’s okay if people need help.”

, Using a mindfulness practice can help to reduce anger and aggression.Mindfulness involves attention and focus in the present moment in a nonjudgmental way. Some ways to practice mindfulness are through yoga, meditation, and body scanning. Mindfulness is easy to practice daily, and can be practiced while walking, sitting, and eating.When you notice how hot you feel, bring your attention to the other awareness you experience.


Get a small candy and examine it. Notice the texture, how it feels in your hand, and how it smells. Put it in your mouth and notice what happens. Do you begin to salivate? What do you experience?

, Being with friends can help you feel calm and relaxed.Choose to be around people who make you feel good, encourage you, and are good listeners. Do activities that are fun and that won’t cause stress. Engage in some indoor activities in an air conditioned place to help control multiple tempers.


Go to the pool together or play games indoors in the air conditioning.
If certain people activate your aggression on a normal basis, think about limiting contact with them during hot weather, as this may increase your risk of aggression.
 Exercise can help you boost your mood and help to relieve anxiety, depression, and stress.Additionally, exercise can help to reduce anger.Consider going for a walk or run in the early morning before it heats up, or late at night once it begins to cool down.


If you are a member of a gym, consider going when it’s unbearably hot outside. Many gyms use air conditioning and can give you some relief from the heat.
Make sure you don’t overheat when exercising. Stay hydrated and if you start to feel unwell, stop and take a break.
 If you notice your temper flaring in the heat when you’re already stressed, start a relaxation practice. Start a relaxation practice every day to keep your stress levels low and to calm your aggression. Using relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help to stabilize your moods, cope with stress, and increase your sense of well-being.This can help you cope with any aggression that builds up by handling it daily.


Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.

