 Help her imagine this by gently squeezing her arm or leg while reciting: “When I squeeze, I want you to envision all your anxiety and negative energy leaving your body. Ready?” When she offers her assent, count backwards from three, then apply a three to four second squeeze. Relax your hand but do not let go of the limb. Ask her if she feels better. Try it again at five to 10 minute intervals, or when particularly painful contractions come, until she is less panicky.


You might also encourage her to envision her favorite place. Free visualization might take her to the snowy Alps, or a shimmering Malibu beach. Ask her to close her eyes and tell you about her favorite place in the world. Push her to offer lots of details. If her place of choice is the beach, ask her, “What color is the water? What color is the sand? What does it smell like? How tall are the palm trees?” and so on.Programmed visualizations, unlike free visualizations, rely on a particular vision which you must walk the pregnant woman through. For instance, maybe you have an end-state visualization of the actual baby in her arms, or of the contraction process at work. Ask her to imagine how wonderful she will feel at home with her new, beautiful baby.;
, Hold her hand or touch her face to coax her through the process. Focus her attention. If she cannot make eye contact with you, place your hands on her cheeks and focus her attention to your eyes. If you cannot be in front of her due to the hospital arrangement or other birthing conditions, gently lean on her shoulders.Give her a massage. A gentle massage on the shoulders, feet, or hands can help women in labor relax.

Cup your hand around the foot or hand and gently work your thumbs into the surface in a circular motion. Slowly move your thumbs across the surface of the hand or foot so that the entire surface is massaged.Massage her shoulders from behind. Grasp the upper arm between your fingers and the heel of your hand. Squeeze and hold for a few seconds, then release. Repeat, moving inward towards the neck.
 It might also involve lotions which are massaged into the mother-to-be’s skin.


You can dip or apply the essential oil to a slip of paper (called a taper) and attach it to the woman’s hospital gown or clothing. Place it near her wrist or neckline, somewhere close enough that the scent will waft up to her nostrils.
Diffusers are devices which distribute the scent of essential oils. They vary in technical specifications. A good one will have the option to release an intermittent or continuous dispersal, automatic shutoff when water reaches a low level, and a long (eight or more hours) operational time for a single quantity of water and oil.
Lavender, sage, rose, or jasmine are popular scents, and inspire a sense of calm. Find a scent the pregnant woman enjoys.Check with the woman’s midwife or physician before utilizing essential oils, as they may interact with conventional medications.
 Music can be therapeutic and distract the pregnant woman from her pain and fear. The music can be anything from ‘80s pop to classical. As long as it soothes the listener and helps her relax, the music is doing its job.This method is especially useful if the woman has already been listening to a particular piece of music or style of music during her pregnancy in anticipation of the actual childbearing process. Now that she is in labor, encourage her to think back to the musical practice sessions and the positive associations she coupled them with. Have her envision how calmly and confidently she imagined giving birth during those practice sessions.
Encourage the woman in labor to move or sway slightly with the beat. This provides a more focused, deliberate kind of movement than simply thrashing about aimlessly in fear.
While doctors and nurses often respond positively to music, it might be distracting to them. If possible, locate some headphones so the woman can listen to her calming music without disrupting the hospital staff from doing their jobs.
 If a woman can chant or recite a mantra to keep her focused, she will relax and allow anxiety and fear to pass. Making a low-toned sound requires relaxation of the vocal cords, which can in turn relax the rest of the body. Chants and mantras will help her pass through the pain and overcome her panic.


Mantras and chants don’t need to be complicated. A simple one might just be the word “relax” broken into its two syllables.Encourage the panicky woman to breathe in on “re” and out on “lax.”
Ask her to recite a simple phrase or religious verse. “I am in control of my thoughts,” “This is hard but I am strong,” or “I do not need to be afraid” are good examples of phrases you can chant repeatedly with the woman to disrupt her fear and panic.
 Labor is hard work. While some women may be in no mood for eating or drinking, others will want light refreshment or a small snack, especially during the early stages of labor.Snacks appropriate for a pregnant woman include cereals, pasta, crackers, soup, or cookies.These snacks are good sources of carbohydrates, which will provide needed energy over a long period.


She’ll probably want something to wash the snack down with. Water is the best bet. An alternative choice is an isotonic drink.Isotonic drinks are known colloquially as sports drinks, and contain a low amount of sugar and salt. These drinks are meant for anyone engaging in vigorous activity over a long period — perfect, in other words, for labor. Find a flavor she likes and provide it for her.

