 It becomes easier to determine the sex of a puppy as it ages. Try to wait at least three to four weeks before checking to increase your chances of making a correct determination.It will be easiest to wait until a full eight weeks have passed since, after eight weeks, the genitals of male puppies should be fully visible.
Additionally, frequently handling newborn puppies under three weeks of age can cause too much of your scent to transfer to the puppy, masking its own scent in the process. If a puppy smells too "human," its mother may reject it.;
, Newborn puppies are fragile, so you'll need to be especially gentle while handling them.


Make sure that the mother dog is comfortable with you handling her puppies, as well. Some mother dogs can become aggressive if someone unfamiliar touches her puppies, so it's usually best if someone who knows the mother dog performs the check.
If the puppy or the mother become distressed when you handle it, you should return the puppy to its mother and try again at another time.
 You should perform the check in a warm area to prevent the puppy from catching a chill. Young puppies can easily become sick if they get cold.


To the same end, you should only handle the puppy for five to ten minutes. Keeping the puppy out for longer than that can cause it to get too cold.
If the puppy begins to shiver, you should immediately return it to its mother's side or to a heated puppy pen.
 Place a clean, soft towel on your work surface. Carefully pick up the puppy and lay it on its back over the towel, thereby exposing the puppy's belly.


The towel should also be warm. If necessary, throw the towel into a dryer for a few minutes before placing the puppy on it. Do not use towels that are cold, hot, or wet, however.
Alternatively, you could perform the check while holding the puppy if you cup your hands behind the puppy's back to support it.
 You should be able to identify the penis and scrotum of male puppies by examining its belly.If the puppy still has its umbilical cord, look approximately 1/3 inch (1 cm) behind the cord for the puppy's penis. Within the first few weeks of a puppy's life, this organ will look like a small raised lump in the middle of the puppy's belly.
Gently lift the puppy's hind legs until you can see its anus. The scrotum should be just below the anus, almost directly between these hind legs. By eight weeks old, a male puppy's testicles should be enclosed in the scrotum.
 If the puppy is female, you should be able to identify her vulva while the puppy has her belly exposed.


Gently lift the puppy's hind legs until you can see the anus. Above the anus and between the puppy's legs, you should be able to see a leaf-shaped structure. This is the female puppy's vulva.
Unlike male puppies, female puppies do not have any genitals on the belly itself.
 When determining the sex of a puppy, there are a few mistakes you might make if you aren't already familiar with the practice.


Both male and female puppies have nipples, so don't assume that a puppy is female based on that alone.
Do not make the mistake of identifying the detached umbilical cord as the puppy's penis. While both will look like small lumps on the puppy's belly, the detached umbilical cord (navel) will be just beneath the rib cage. Moreover, both sexes will have at least one bump since both will have a navel, but male puppies will have a second bump in between the navel and the legs.
 Young puppies urinate in identical manners regardless of which sex they are. Paying attention to the way a puppy urinates only becomes a reliable judge of gender after six months.During the first few weeks, puppies will not be able to control their bowel movements or urination at all.
Even after the puppies are strong enough to stand and control their habits, all puppies will squat while urinating for the first two months. Many male puppies need as many four to six months before developing the urination habits of adult dogs.
After six months, most male dogs will lift their legs while urinating, while female dogs will continue to squat.
 After a few months, male puppies may begin to mark their territory. Female puppies lack this instinct, however.The urge to mark his territory will be especially strong in male puppies who have not been neutered. Neutering a puppy will greatly reduce his urge to mark.
The exact age when male puppies begin to mark will vary from puppy to puppy, but most will start between two and six months. Some male puppies may begin marking before they learn to lift their leg while urinating.
Watching the puppy carefully will determine whether a puppy is merely urinating or whether it is marking its territory. A dog that urinates quickly in many different locations is likely marking, especially if he intentionally urinates after thoroughly smelling each spot. Dogs that only urinate once or twice generally aren't marking, even if they stop to smell many different spots during a walk.
 Female puppies who have not been spayed will go into heat on a semiannual basis. The first heat cycle will occur when the puppy is between six and ten months old.


Female puppies in heat will produce a vaginal discharge. You can put dog "diapers" on to reduce the mess it causes, but in many cases, it will be easiest to simply keep the dog confined in a designated area that can be cleaned later.
Each heat cycle will last for approximately three weeks.
 Both male and female dogs can be equally affectionate, so this is more indicative of a puppy's personality than the puppy's gender.


Female puppies do have a greater tendency to show affection through licking than male puppies, however. This results from the female puppy's instinct to groom other pack members. Expect the licks to be strong and precise.
Puppies who only give the occasional lick are likely doing so out of momentary affection, and not as a result of any grooming instinct. As such, you can expect the occasional lick from both male and female puppies.

