 In your everyday life, try to consciously speed up your decision making. If you feel yourself delaying or taking too much time, tell yourself, “faster, faster,” until you make a final move. Repeating this process will also help you to get used to the stress associated with quick decisions. You will learn how to keep your cool., Time yourself reading single pages to see how long it takes to make it through. Then, see if you can cut down the seconds while still comprehending the material. Do this with a variety of types of reading to keep your mind flexible. You can also take a speed reading course online or at a local college.Another way to practice speed reading is to glance through a page and mark out a single letter at a time. So, take a pencil and cross out every “a” on a single page. Do the same with other letters until you feel your speed increasing.
 There are a number of sites online that offer brain training. However, be careful that you don’t simply train the same way over and over again, or your mind will adapt and you’ll lose your edge. Instead, try old fashioned brain training methods, such as playing cards or a computer game.You can also look at a sequence of numbers and try to memorize them. Then, see how long you can remember the numbers and write them back down correctly.
 Get a game console and some action video games and play for 30 minutes a day. The fast placed nature of the gaming can increase your brain’s ability to process information. The gaming environment may also force you to get used to making quick decisions based on limited information.People who play action video games show an up to 25 percent speed increase in decision making when compared to people who do not play.
 Get a pack of gum and chew it when you know you need to be quick. Or, grab a handful of sunflower seeds. It has been suggested that chewing stimulates the muscles in your mouth and jaw, which then send additional blood and activity up to your brain. You only need to chew for 10 seconds for an initial effect to occur and you’ll get a boost for at least 15 minutes.The benefits of this step are often not viewable to the naked eye and are measured in milliseconds of difference. However, for athletes in particular, shaving down even small amounts of time can have a positive effect.
 This is essentially the process of getting your head in the game. Sit and think about how you need to be fast and accurate in your upcoming task. Mentally go through all of the preparations that you have done. Approaching a task in a calm, precise manner can help you to harness your stress nerves and put them to good use.Reminding yourself that you are in control can also lower the possibility of mistakes born out of nervousness, such as jumping the starting line.
 If you are working on something that requires concentration and speed, try to eliminate all other things that might grab your attention. If you are driving in bad conditions and need to react quickly, then you might turn off the radio and talk less with the car’s passengers.