 Reading is an important aspect of fluency, as reading will help improve vocabulary, and you are likely to have a very limited vocabulary if you can't read. Reading will also allow you to use the Internet, read newspapers, read mail, read Email, and read books.
Writing. Writing is yet another important aspect of fluency. If you can't write, then you can't use the Internet, write papers, write mail, and write anything you would ever need to write.
Listening. If you can't understand Hebrew, where would you be? Certainly not in Israel. Listening is a very important aspect of fluency, because if you can't listen and understand, then you just don't know Hebrew.
Speaking. Contrary to popular belief, only being able to speak and listen does not make you fluent. Speaking is the most basic part of fluency, because if you can't speak, then you can't communicate in the language, and so the purpose of the language is destroyed.;
, If you want to be able to improve your vocabulary enough to sound like a native speaker, and to be able to use the Internet, you'll need to know how to read. Reading is quite easy as a matter of fact; it takes much less time than learning how to speak and listen. But to learn to read Hebrew, you're going to need to know the letters and vowels.





א Aleph. This is possibly the easiest letter of the Hebrew alphabet to learn. This is because it has no sound! In order to make it have a sound, one needs to put a vowel with it. It will often be found at the end of a word, making no sound. Think of it like the letter "E" in the English alphabet; it is at the end of a lot of words, but it's silent.


Bet(בּ) and Vet(ב). Although these letters seem different because of their two different sounds, they are actually considered the same letter. Bet has the dagesh or dot, and Vet does not. (Remember, you put money--the dagesh or dot--in a Bank, not a vank.) Bet makes the "B" sound, but doesn't actually have a pronunciation until a vowel is added. Vet makes the "V" sound, but needs a vowel to actually be read.


ג Gimmel. Because Bet and Vet are essentially the same letter, this is the third letter in the Hebrew Alephbet. It has the "G" sound, like "gate". However, it never has the "G" sound as in "giraffe". Keep this is mind while pronouncing it in a word. Although, a gimmel with a flick or apostrophe (') is a 'giraffe' gimmel.






ד Dalet. As it may be easy to guess, Dalet makes the "D" sound. Like all other letters in the Alephbet, it needs a vowel added to have a pronunciation.


ה Hey. Hey makes the "H" sound, as in the "H" in "hey". It never makes the "CH" sound as in "chewy", and is often put at the end of a word as an ending, just like how Aleph is added to the end of a word sometimes.


ו Vav. Vav makes the same sound as Vet, but is a different letter. It can also have an oo sound as in spoon.


ז Zayin. This letter is pronounced just like the "Z" in "crazy".ח Chet. Chet is one of the more well known letters in Hebrew. It sounds almost as if you're hacking on something in your throat, or gargling without water. If those examples still aren't helping you hear the Chet, try growling in the back of your throat. It is a softer version of the noise you get from that. Remember, Chet never makes the "CH" sound as in "chewy".


ט Tet. Tet makes the "T" sound as in "tango". It can never make the "TH" sound as in "thicket".

י Yod. This letter sounds like the "Y" in "you". Sometimes, it is softened into the sound of "EE", as in "Greek". Most of the time when this letter is in the middle of a word, it is pronounced more like "EE" than "Y".


Kaf (כּ), Chaf (כ), Kaf Sofit (ךּ), and Chaf Sofit(ך). This is one of the more confusing letters. Although it may seem like four different letters, it's all actually the same letter. Kaf and kaf sofit have the dagesh or dot while chaf and chaf sofit do not. (Remember to feed the Kitty some food--the dagesh or dot.) Chaf is pronounced just like Chet, and Kaf is pronounced like the "C" in "cow". Chaf Sofit is pronounced the same as Chaf, but it comes at the end of a word. Kaf Sofit is pronounced the same as Kaf, but is also only at the end of a word. Kaf sofit is also rarely used in Modern Hebrew. Although it seems confusing at first, just keep practising. It will all become as clear as your first alphabet after some practise.


ל Lamed. Lamed makes the "L" sound, as in "lightning".


Mem(מ) and Mem Sofit(ם). Once again, these are actually the same letter, but they have a different version at the end of a word. They make the "M" sound, as in "Mike". Mem Sofit looks like Mem, only it is closed off at the bottom, and looks more boxy.


Nun(נ) and Nun Sofit(ן). Nun and Nun Sofit are pronounced like the "N" in "November". You'll only find Nun in the beginning or middle of a word, and you'll only find Nun Sofit at the end.


ס Samech. Samech makes the "S" sound in "sierra". However, it never makes the "SH" sound in "shipwreck".


ע Ayin. This is one of the trickier Hebrew letters to pronounce for non-natives, since Latin and Germanic languages do not have this sound. It is pronounced differently in different areas to ease pronunciation. Technically it is a "voiced pharyngeal approximant/fricative," and has equivalents in other Semitic languages, like Arabic and Syriac. In general, non-natives (and even many native Israelis) treat it like an aleph, which is to say, they do not pronounce it, only the vowel underneath it. If you want to try to pronounce the ayin, but can't quite get the voiced pharyngeal approximant/fricative, try pronouncing it like the "ng" in "singing" or the "nk" in "sink." Jews in various parts of the Diaspora pronounce the ayin in this manner. But it is perfectly acceptable to leave it silent. Pey(פּ), Fey(פ), Pey Sofit(ףּ), and Fey Sofit(ף) Pey and pey sofit have the dagesh or dot while fey and fey sofit do not. (Remember to Pay or Put a coin--the dagesh or dot-- in the machine.) Pey is pronounced like the "P" in "papa", and Fey is pronounced like the "F" in "foxtrot". Fey Sofit is a different version with the same pronunciation as Fey, but it comes at the end of a word. Pey Sofit also has the same pronunciation of its other version, but it only comes at the end of a word.


Tsadie(צ) and Tsadie Sofit(ץ)(Pronounced Tsadi, very often pronounced Tsadik - as a mistake). Tsadie and Tsadie Sofit are pronounced like the "zz" in "pizza." Tsadie Sofit is the same as Tsadie, but it only comes at the end of a word. It is also pronounced 'tz', and if you put a flick or apostrophe ( ' ) next to it, it's CH, like chocolate. ק Qof. Qof makes the "K" sound, as in "kilo". It can also be pronounced as a "Q" sound, but the "K" sound is more common.


ר Resh. This letter makes the "R" sound, as in "roger". Many Israelis pronounce this like a French or German "r" or the Spanish "r" (not the "rr") rather than an English "r."


Shin(שׁ) and Sin(שׂ). Shin and Sin only have one difference: Shin has a dot over the line furthest to the right, and Sin has a dot over the line furthest to the left. (If you look at them as stick figures where the dot is the head, the shin looks mermaidiSH and the sin looks like a person freefalling without a parachute which is Stupid.) Shin is pronounced "SH", as in "Shucks". Sin makes the "S" sound, like Samech and Tsadie.


ת Tav. Tav has the same sound as Tet; like the "T" in "tango".



Learn to read the vowels. Unlike most languages, Hebrew letters do not make vowel sounds.


אֵ Patach. Patach is basically a line to place under any letter, which becomes that letter with the "AH" sound after it, as in "aqua". Patach is considered a short vowel.


אָ Kamatz. Kamatz makes the same sound as Patach, and looks almost exactly like it. The only difference is that it has a tiny line in the midsection. Kamatz is considered a long vowel.


וֹ Cholam Malei. Cholam Malei is basically the letter Vav with a dot over it. This creates the "OH" sound, as in "doe". However, this doesn't create the "VO" sound, as the v is lost when the dot is added. Cholam Malei is considered a long vowel.


בֹּ Cholam Chaser. This vowel can't go over all consonants, which is why there is also Cholam Malei. When this little dot is over (or a little to the left, but still on top) of any consonant, the consonant gains the "OH" sound, in addition to its consonant sound. Cholam Chaser is considered a long vowel.


אֶ Segol. Segol is three dots under a letter that create a triangle shape. These three dots add the "EH" sound as in "echo" to the consonant. For example, adding this to Bet would create the "beh" sound. Segol is considered a short vowel.


בֵּ Tzeirei. Tzeirei is two dots under a letter, creating a horizontal line, (not to be confused with sh'va, which creates a vertical line). This adds the "EH" sound to a consonant, just like Segol. For instance, adding this vowel to Vet would create the "veh" sound. Tzeirei is considered a long vowel.


מְ Sh'va. Sh'va adds the "UH" sound to a consonant. It also has two dots, but they create a vertical line instead of a horizontal one. Adding this to Mem would make "muh". Sh'va may also cause the consonant to be shortened so that it sounds like it has a quick i sound after it or no vowel at all just as if one started to utter something but realized he made a mistake and stopped suddenly. An example would be the sh'va under the bet in the Hebrew word for "in the hand" בְיַד. It would be pronounced biyad or b'yad.


וּ Shuruk. This vowel creates the "U" sound, as in "blue". It never makes the "UH" sound, which Sh'va does. This vowel can only be added to Vav, which loses its v in the process. Shuruk is considered a long vowel.


אֻ Kubutz. Kubutz is three dots that are horizontal under any consonant, going to the right. It creates the "OO" sound, like "food" or "shoo". Adding this to Bet would make "boo". Kubutz is considered a short vowel.


אֲ Chataf Patach, Chataf Segol, and Chataf Kamatz. Chataf is two dots creating a vertical line, however, it is added to Patach, Segol, or Kamatz to shorten the vowel. Think of it as a staccato in music, which shortens the note. These vowels are therefore considered reduced.


נִ Chirik. Chirik makes the "ee" sound, as in "Greek" or "me". It is one dot under any consonant. For example, Chirik under Bet creates "bee". Chirik is considered a long vowel.


רָ Kamatz Katan. This vowel looks like Kamatz, only the second line doesn't actually connect to the midsection. Kamatz Katan creates the "O" sound, like "flow".
 For this aspect of Hebrew, you will need to know how to write the letters and vowels as you do in Reading. But, you will not only need to know how to recognize the letters, you will also need to know exactly how to write them.


Practice writing basic sentences and phrases at least 30 minutes a day, every day of the week (unless you don't write on Shabbat as you are probably Jewish if you are reading this article).
Buy activity books that teach how to read and write in Hebrew meant for children, as they will teach you how to read and write quite quickly.
 Learning to speak Hebrew will also teach you how to understand Hebrew. You must put a lot of work into this aspect of the language, as this is the most difficult part of learning a language. You will need to study grammar and know several thousand words in order to master this aspect of the Hebrew language.


Study pronunciation. Do you want to sound like a native? If so, you will need to learn pronunciation. Even if you don't want to sound like a native, you will need to learn the pronunciation eventually. When you learn a new Hebrew word, study the pronunciation and syllables of the word, until you can pronounce the word with ease.
Study grammar. Grammar is very important so that people can understand you, and so that you don't sound ridiculous. But, don't be afraid to make grammatical errors. You will end up learning the grammar fairly quickly.
Study vocabulary. Vocabulary is very important in order to communicate in the first place. 1,000-2,000 words is enough to hold a decent, non-politically related conversation. Try using flash-cards. Put a Hebrew word on the front, and put the English word (or whatever your native language is) on the back. Be sure to not only learn what the English word is for the Hebrew word, but you also need to learn what the Hebrew word is for the English word, because you will be able to easily use the Hebrew word in conversation like this.

Once you know at least 600 Hebrew words, and you understand the grammar fairly well, now is the time to spend a substantial amount of time in Israel. You aren't going to learn how to speak like a native until you visit Israel. You will learn all the vocabulary needed to have virtually any conversation, and you will learn some slang terms. Using the language will also make the words you do know easier to remember. Many people interested in learning Hebrew enroll in an ulpan, a school for intensive Hebrew studies, during their stay in Israel. Ulpan programs range from a few weeks to over a year, depending on how well you want to learn Hebrew.
 Most of the understanding will be tackled by learning to speak Hebrew, but many people have trouble understanding Hebrew when it is spoken very quickly. To avoid this, listen to the Israeli radio a lot, and speak with native speakers as often as possible. Also, learn read books and watch Israeli television. After a few months of this, you will probably be able to understand most of the "quick talk" that you hear.

