 It’s really no different. An effective presidential speech should have a beginning, middle, and end.


In the beginning of the speech, you should build rapport and introduce your theme sentence as well as a brief summary of the key points you will address.
The middle of the speech is where you will make your case. It should be longer than the beginning and the end because it’s where you outline your promises, the need for them, and how you will solve that need.
The end of the speech should tie back into the beginning by reinforcing the candidate’s central theme sentence.
 In order to get people to buy into your solutions, you need to convince them that change is needed.


Stick with 2-3 key points. Don’t inundate the audience with too many details or nothing will seem memorable. You could open by saying, here are the three things we need to change.
Be specific. Use statistics and human anecdotes to highlight the problem. However, be brief. You want to focus on solutions more than problems.
 It’s better to be positive than negative. Paint a vivid picture for the audience of what the world will be like with you as president (or your school environment).


Again, boil down the speech to 2-3 key issues that you plan to change. Be very specific when you outline your solutions.
Your speech should focus more on solutions than on the problems. Make your promises first, then outline the need, and then return to the promises.
Expand on each of your key promises by detailing the problem and how you plan to address it specifically.
Don’t make the middle of the speech too dry, though. Constantly reinforce your personality and theme throughout the details of your promises.
 No one wants to listen to an hour long speech. In fact, some politicians whose speeches ran too long at their party’s convention became the butt of jokes.


A good rule of thumb is that less than 7 minutes is probably too short and more than 25 minutes is probably too long. Unless the event you are speaking at has a specific requirement, shoot for somewhere in between the above.
It’s probably advisable to err on the lower side of the equation. A 15-minute speech is about the point where people will start to squirm. If you’re not sure, go short., You want your audience to care about the points that you are making. Find a way to directly connect your promises to their needs and experiences.


Let’s say you are talking about the Vietnam war. This might seem remote to 18-year-olds in your audience now – unless you remind them that many soldiers who died in Vietnam were no older than themselves.
Similarly, perhaps you are running for high school president and you want to find a way to ensure the administration does more to meet the needs of students. If you provide a specific your audience can relate to, this will be more effective. Perhaps you say that you will ensure the administration listens to student wishes for a longer lunch break.
 Make sure you give some sense of your qualifications for the job. Don’t talk endlessly about yourself, though, or it will seem arrogant.


If you are running for school president, you could mention things you’ve done that helped the school or student body, clubs you’ve belonged to and previous positions you’ve held.Politicians often present a few anecdotes from their family background, too, if they think it will build a sense of character to the audience. Some politicians emphasize their parents’ coal mining backgrounds, for example, in an attempt to connect with a blue-collar audience.
 This is a principle often seen in advertising. At the end of the speech, you should urge people to take action.


Perhaps it’s to join your campaign. Most likely, it’s that you will want them to vote for you. Don’t hesitate to ask people for their vote. Thank them for considering you.
Tell people how critical their vote is, not only to you, but also for the platform and change that you are eager to implement on their behalf.

