 Running a nonprofit can be an extremely rewarding experience, but the path to that reward is often filled with challenges to overcome. A Board of Directors provides governance to the nonprofit, and supports its efforts throughout some difficult times. Unless the Directors are as invested in the goal of the nonprofit as the founder, they may become discouraged by the roadblocks to accomplishing those goals and therefore be less effective in their role. Those individuals that are acutely aware of the need for your nonprofits services will be in a better position to thoughtfully discuss new ideas and come up with creative solutions to problems.;
, Simply being interested in the subject matter of the nonprofit is not enough to make an individual a Director. Choose individuals with special skills or unique viewpoints that can assist the board in making complex decisions. Professionals in business, law, finance, and the arts are all good choices.
 The members of a Board of Directors work together as a ground in order to govern the nonprofit. The individual Directors will all bring unique skills to the Board, but in order for the Board to get any real work done (and have any votes pass), the board members must be able to work together in a professional manner, compromise, and be able to discuss ideas in a polite manner.


Avoid choosing board members who you know do not get along, as their interpersonal conflict will likely effect the rest of the board.
 Boards of Directors must meet regularly in order to conduct business, share new ideas, and make changes as necessary. The board can only function properly if all members attend the meetings and are willing to put in the time to assist the organization.


Serving on a Board of Directors for a nonprofit is a volunteer position, meaning the Directors must be willing to give up some of their free time to assist the nonprofit. Selecting a highly skilled Director that is always busy will often mean that the person will frequently miss meeting and be ineffective within the Board. Choose someone who either has the time to devote to the Board or who is willing to make time while being unpaid for the work.

