 Too thick, and the icing and piping will be too hard to spread and can rip the surface of the cake. Too thin, and the results will be too runny and hard to control. Also chocolate and other ingredients used in the icing can affect how it behaves, as well.
 These gel paste coloring kits are thicker than the liquid colorings which can make your original icing thinner, which can cause problems., Couplings are the hard plastic "caps" on the pastry bag that hold the tip to the bag. The tip is the thing that makes the icing come out in different shapes, thicknesses, etc. Having these allow you to change different tips without having to transport icing from one pastry bag to another., It's tempting to want to start frosting but putting icing on a warm cake or cookie will cause the icing to melt and start oozing all over the place. Also, applying icing or frosting on a warm cake will result in visible cake crumbs or the iced surface., Every icing job requires a smooth base for the other icing to stick on to. This is a slightly chilled buttercream that is applied with a straight icing spatula. Warm buttercream slips and slides off the sides of the cake and cold buttercream cracks and can be hard as a rock making it difficult to lay on correctly., Skipping this step will result in "peeling icing," which reveals the cake beneath., Different tips will result in different shapes and thickness of the icing., Hold the bag tip down. Cuff (bring the bag top over your hand). Use the other hand to fill the bag with a spatula scraping the edges of the spatula against the bag to release the icing. If your prefer, you can also cuff the bag top over a tall glass or plastic container and fill the pastry bag with icing using the spatula. Do not fill the bag more than half way., With thumb and index finger of the other hand press the bag tightly to remove air pockets, forcing the icing into the bag and decorating tip. Much like squeezing toothpaste out of the tube., Hold the bag properly. For right handers, place your right hand on top. The right hand is your squeezer and your left hand is the steerer. Left handers, place the left hand on top and right hand on the bottom. For lines and writing hold the bag straight up. For the other designs hold the bag at an angle., This varies among individuals and is like squeezing the correct amount of glue on paper for a project. You can practice using parchment paper. Write letters on a piece of paper and use that under the parchment paper as guide., Poke holes in the icing to create a reference for a design. If you make a mistake, just take a spatula and swipe the holes away and start again., Gently press the cookie cutter into the base icing and follow the design lines as you pipe on the icing., This ensures less damage to designs on the cake or cookie already on and also helps to avoid bleeding of colors from one color to the next.