 Chestnut season generally starts in December, right before the holidays. While you can buy chestnuts by the scoop, it is recommended that you choose each chestnut individually, as there are always a few duds in the bunch.


When picking out your chestnut, make sure to pick a nut that is round, with no holes and no black areas. Holes can be attributed to bugs and black areas usually imply mold, so examine your chestnut carefully before purchasing.A good chestnut should be heavy for its size, with shiny skin that is stretched tightly. The chestnut should also be a rich, brown color.;
, Chestnuts taste best when they are completely dry and ripe. After purchasing your chestnuts, leave them out on your counter for between one to three days. During this time, the carbohydrates in your chestnuts will turn to sugars so your nuts will taste perfectly sweet.To test if your chestnut is ripe, try giving it a good shake. If it rattles, that means the chestnut is old and should be thrown out.
 If you pick your chestnuts in a forest, store them for 7 – 10 days before peeling and eating. This will help reduce tannins and make your raw chestnuts more digestible.Chestnuts have a shelf life of two – three weeks.Never allow raw chestnuts to freeze and thaw.
Store your chestnuts in a covered container in the coldest part of your fridge.
 Raw chestnuts are very difficult to peel and are traditionally peeled by boiling or roasting the chestnut. To peel the chestnut without applying heat, use a chestnut knife. Make an incision at the bottom of your chestnut. Using your chestnut knife, chisel your chestnut until all the skin is gone and only the nut remains.Chestnut knives can be purchased on Amazon for approximately $10.00
Peel your chestnut very slowly and carefully. The knife is very sharp and often gets stuck inside the skin, so proceed with caution.
 Depending on where your chestnut originated, it may or may not be safe to eat raw. American chestnuts have high concentrations of tannic acid and will make you ill if you eat them raw.European chestnuts may or may not be eaten raw, depending on the chestnut.Asian chestnuts are generally approved to eat raw, but there is no guarantee that eating a raw chestnut will not make you ill.
Before purchasing your chestnuts, ask their country of origin and double check that they are safe to eat raw.
Because of the dangers of eating raw chestnuts, they are rarely used in recipes without first being cooked.
Conkers, which are a variety of chestnut grown in Europe, should be kept away from animals, as they may prove mildly poisonous.