 Going into overdraft -- or withdrawing more than you have in your account -- can lead to being listed in Chexsystems. There are a few helpful tips that can reduce your odds of going into overdraft in the future.


Monitor your accounts frequently. If you see your account balance approaching zero it is important to reduce spending you can easily control. If you have essential bills coming due, consider using your credit card or line of credit so your account does not go into overdraft.
It is very important to note that using credit to pay bills should only be done in emergency situations. If you regularly are running out of money in your checking account and needing to rely on credit, it means that your expenses are exceeding your income. If this is the case, it is absolutely essential that you look at options to increase your income (if possible), and if not, that you reduce your expenses so they are equal to or less than your income.
 If you need to write a check, always confirm two things. Firstly, confirm that you have adequate money in your account to cover the check. Secondly, confirm that the money will remain in your account indefinitely until the check is cashed. Writing bad checks can easily get you listed in Chexsystems.


Consider opening two checking accounts. One for your day-today transactions,and another specifically for check writing. When you need to write a check, transfer the amount into the checking-only account, and do not touch the money at all costs until the recipient cashes the check.
Only write checks for amounts that you either currently have, or that you are 100% certain you will have. If you are writing a $100 check, and know you are getting paid $500 in the next week, do not write the check unless you are absolutely certain you can afford to use $100 of that $500 to cover the check.
 Learning budgeting skills is an excellent way to ensure your expenses are within your income every month. There are plenty of resources available online to teach you how to make a budget. In addition, there is also software available that can be useful.


Look for budgeting software like Mint. Mint, as just one example, allows you to sync your bank accounts with the software, and can closely track your expenses each month to ensure you stay within your income.
When you create a budget, you will often need to reduce your expenses. When doing this, it is helpful to think of what you want versus what you need. Reducing wants can be an excellent way to find savings.
For example, a cable package may be a want, but it is likely not a need especially if you already have internet. As another example, eating is certainly a need, but eating out once a week is a want and can likely be reduced to once a month (or even less frequently depending on your particular situation).

