 Are you sexy? Scary? Funny? Cute? Perky? Angry? Your Halloween costume is a great excuse to project a side of yourself you don't usually get a chance to share if you'd like to "hide" behind something really fun, wacky or scary. Or, the costume could emphasize a side of you that everyone already knows and loves well, such as being zany, cheeky or bright.

In finding your own style, think about what you wear on a daily basis and what's comfortable for you. This alone may help you to think of a costume right away. For example, do you usually wear cute skirts? A dress? Jeans? Can these be paired with something a little more exciting to form a costume, such as sticking a cloak over the top of jeans or a witch's hat on top of a dress?;
, If you wear black, you probably wouldn't want to be a fairy, although a dark fairy could be a good option. If you like bright colors, think of pumpkins, elves, fairies, ghosts, rainbows and similar costumes. If you like darker colors, think goth, vampires, skeletons, dark wizards, evil geniuses, etc. However, don't be afraid to mix and match, as it's Halloween and anything goes.
 Are they still something you'd like to build off, perhaps turning an existing old costume into a different costume? You don't have to be something that is exactly like you, but it would make more sense to dress up as someone or something that reflects your personality., What do you like to do? Make a list of the things you enjoy, be it sport, cosplay, cooking, playing games, dressing up, reading, etc. For example, if you like soccer, be a famous soccer player; if you're into a certain TV show, dress up as one of the characters you like most; if you like animals or food, dress up as your favorite pet or dessert. Match the list of options to the items you have available and be creative., Halloween costumes can range from cheap to very expensive, so it's important to have an idea on what you'd like to spend. When choosing, always check to see what's included in the costume, as some costumes will be better deals than others when add-ons are accounted for.


A costume containing, for example, a shirt, pants, hat, wig, and belt is a good deal if you get the lot for a single price. On the other hand, a single dress or costume item could cost the same amount as that deal, so you would need to balance up whether or not it's worth it to you and fits within your budget.
Generally, it's recommended that you be willing to spend around $20-$40 on your costume, as most decent costumes are within that price range.
 Stores have sales all the time for Halloween costumes, especially if it's very close to Halloween. Be sure to check the TV, internet, and newspaper ads for upcoming sales on Halloween costumes. By checking the sales, you could get a great costume for a small price. If there are no sales, try using coupons and gift cards, if you have any., Are you planning on making your Halloween costume? Make sure that you have enough time. You'll need an idea, first of all, so start thinking about a month before and try to allow yourself at least two weeks ahead to make and adjust the costume if you're making your own. Although it seems early, thinking ahead gives you the space to make something that fits well and gives you the chance to run down and buy more fabric or items if needed.
 Try not to buy costumes at the last minute as this will often mean the best costumes are already taken and out of what is left, they may not be in your size or to your liking. However, if you do manage leave the costume until late, read How to make a last minute Halloween costume to remedy things fast., It's important to be prepared to go out in any sort of weather, be it rain, hail or shine. Have a raincoat, poncho and rain boots option that can be thrown over your costume if needed.


Check the weather beforehand, both in the days leading up to Halloween, and on the day itself. This will help you make the right choices about what to wear and whether you can get away with not wearing an overcoat and tights or an umbrella.
If it's hot, don't wear thick leggings, a jacket, or a heavy costume. Avoid layers, and wear something fairly thin. Lighter colors are better than darker ones. Try putting your hair in a ponytail so you won't get extra hot. However, if you need to wear layers (if your outfit is inappropriate), just find another costume.
If it's cold, bundle up. Wear a coat, and wear a shirt under your costume so you won't be chilly. Try wearing boots as well.
 If you're trick-or-treating with some friends, one cool way to wriggle out of being original is to have matching costumes. This can be hilarious for onlookers who see a bunch of the same characters or similar ones coming to their door for trick-or-treating.

Either choose the same costumes or stick to a theme, such as Sesame Street characters. Consult your friends first to agree upon an idea that everyone likes.






Sometimes there are online sales for costumes that include three or four similar costumes.
 Still stuck on costume ideas? Here are a few suggestions that you may like.



Classics – witch, ghost, Frankenstein, mummy, angel, fairy, mermaid, werewolf, Vampire, princess, devil, pirate.

Sesame Street – Oscar, Big Bird, Elmo, Cookie Monster, etc.

Crayons – Blue, purple, red, green, yellow, orange, or make up a shade of your own.

Harry Potter – Harry, Hermione, Ron, Snape, Voldemort, Dumbledore, etc.

Spongebob Squarepants – Spongebob, Patrick, Sandy, Mr. Krabs, Plankton.

Vampire series – Bella, Edward, Jacob, etc.

Food – Banana, pickle, hot dog, ketchup, ice cream cone, etc.

Animals - Cat, dog, horse, giraffe, kangaroo, mouse , etc.

Fantasy animals - Unicorn, My Little Pony, dragon, Bigfoot, griffin, etc.

Other – Albert Einstein, a hobo, a nerd, cheerleader, ladybug, bumblebee.

Overseas – Costumes from other cultures or areas.

