 This valuation method works well if a company is privately held or if the market capitalization figure is deemed unrealistic for any reason. To estimate a company's value, look at the sales prices for comparable businesses.Market capitalization may be deemed unrealistic if a company's value is mostly held in intangible assets and investor overconfidence or speculation drives the price up way beyond reasonable limits.This method has several shortcomings. First, it may be difficult to find enough data, as sales of comparable businesses may be very infrequent. Also, this valuation method does not account for significant differences between business sales, such as whether the company was sold under duress.
However, if you are trying to find the market value of a private company, your options are limited, and comparison is a simple way to get a rough estimate.
 There is some discretion involved in choosing which businesses are comparable. Ideally, the companies considered should be in the same industry, be roughly the same size, and have similar sales and profits to the company you want to value. In addition, the sales (of comparable companies) should be recent so that they reflect more or less up-to-date market conditions.


If you are determining the market value of a private company, you can use publicly-traded companies of the same industry and size for comparison. This is easier because you can find their market value by using the market capitalization method in a few minutes by searching online., After finding recent sales of comparable businesses or valuations of similar, publicly-traded companies, average together all the sale prices. This average value can be used as the beginning of an estimate of the market value of the company in question.


For example, imagine that 3 recent mid-sized telecommunications companies sold for $900,000, $1,100,000, and $750,000. Averaging these 3 sale prices together yields $916,000. This might seem to indicate that Anderson Enterprises' market capitalization of $1,300,000 is an overly optimistic estimate of its value.
You may wish to weigh the different values based on their closeness to the target company. For example, if one is of very similar size and structure to the company being estimated, you may choose to assign a higher weight to this company's sale value when calculating the average sale price. For more information, see how to calculate weighted average.

