 This is widely considered to be the most effective method for getting rid of a mouse. Snap traps are baited with peanut butter or cheese. When the weight of the mouse presses against the trap, a wire springs down and kills it instantly. Using snap traps isn’t the most pleasant way to kill a mouse, but it does get the job done.


Set traps in places where you’ve noticed signs of a mouse, like droppings or a nest.
Bait the traps with a little cheese or peanut butter. One effective trick you can try is to cut the toe off a pair of pantyhose, tie the bait inside, and secure the pantyhose to the place on the trap where you’re supposed to put the bait. The mouse’s teeth will get caught on the pantyhose, causing the trap to spring.
 These look like little cardboard houses. The floor of the traps are lined with a very sticky glue that keeps mice in place as soon as they run inside. Once mice are caught, they eventually die of starvation. Place the traps in areas where you’ve seen signs of a mouse, like near closets or behind the refrigerator.
 Get a pail or garbage can, preferably with two opposing handles. Fill it one-quarter full of water. Poke a hole in the bottom of a used can or bottle. Get a string or piece of thin rope or wire and string it through the can, then tie it onto both handles Smear a bit of peanut butter on the can to serve as bait. Use a piece of plywood propped against the bucket to provide some kind of access for the mouse to reach one handle of the pail. The mouse will climb up the ramp to get to the bait, but once it steps onto the can, it will slip off into the bucket.


Leave overnight and there will be a drowned mouse in the pail to dispose of the next day. On a larger scale this can also work for a rat.
 Once you set a mousetrap of any kind, don’t forget to check it every day. You may need to replace the bait if a smart mouse figured out how to steal it. And if you caught a mouse, leaving it to sit for several days is unsanitary. The dead mouse could draw bugs and start to smell, so don’t forget to check your traps.
 When you see you’ve caught a mouse, place glue traps into a trash bag and seal it tightly. You can throw the bag out with the regular trash pickup. Glue traps aren't reusable, so don’t attempt to take the mouse out of the trap. If you are using a snap trap then simply deposit the dead mouse into a trashcan and reset the trap to catch another mouse.


You might want to wear a pair of thick gloves to protect your hands when you throw out the trap.
Bear in mind that if you used a glue trap, the mouse may still be alive when you throw it away. You can euthanize the mouse by applying massive force to the head with a heavy object (such as a brick). This is to ensure not only the animal doesn't suffer for long, but to ensure the animal does not manage to escape.
 Cats are natural predators of mice, and having one around is a great way to keep the population down. If you don’t already own a cat, see if a friend who’s a cat owner would mind if you had the cat come stay with you for a few days. Not all cats like to catch mice, so this isn’t guaranteed to work, but it’s often just as effective as setting a trap.

