 Unless you are painting a mural, you might want to limit your colors to two or three; this includes the base/background color of the wall. If you make your wall too busy, it will draw attention away from the rest of your room. Here are some color ideas to get you started:


If you want a more subtle look, use two different shades for your wall and design. For example, you can paint your wall a dark blue, and stencil on some bird silhouettes in light blue.
If you want a bolder look, use contrasting colors. For example, you can paint your wall a fresh, spring green, and some leaf and branch outlines in bright white.
You can also paint colored designs. For example you could start with a dark brown or black branch on a white wall. Then, you could add some light pink cherry blossom flowers to the branch.
 Most walls with designs have a specific theme to them. The easiest designs to paint are silhouettes or outlines. They will be just enough to add some interest and movement to your wall, but they won't be so busy as to detract attention from the rest of your room. Here are some common themes:


Nature-related, such as branches, leaves, and birds
Abstract designs, such as scrolls and damask

, Do you want your design to cover the entire wall, or just a small patch? How you arrange the design is important. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If you are covering your entire wall with the design, consider a grid or checked pattern.
If you are covering just a small patch, consider making the patch more asymmetric than asymmetric. If you are using both large and small shapes in your design, try to place the larger designs more towards the center of the patch, and the smaller designs towards the edges.
 Most acrylic paints will have a glossy, satin/semi-gloss, or matte finish. Most walls will have a satin/semi-gloss or matte finish. If you use the same finish for both your wall and your design, you will get a more uniform result. The design will blend into the wall, and look like it is part of it. If you use contrasting finishes (such as a glossy design on a matte wall), you will get a bolder result. The design will contrast with the background/wall, which can create a very interesting result.
 Some designs are better suited to certain rooms than other designs. For example, you might consider a more energized design in a room that sees a lot of activity, such as a family room. Bedrooms are generally a place of rest, so a more peaceful design might do better there. Here are some ideas to get you started:


For a fancy dining or family room, consider using dark, rich colors. Use ornate designs, such as scrolls and damask.
For a kitchen, consider using something bright and open. You can also paint some food-related designs, such as grapevines or citrus.
For a bedroom, use colors that you find peaceful. These can be cool blues and purples, refreshing greens, or even pastels. Consider using something organic for the design, such as long, sweeping curves, leaves, flowers, or branches.

