 For any eyelash look, a solid primer is a must. This includes frosted shadows.To start, use your fingers to dab some primer onto your eyelids and then gently rub the primer in. This will help your frosted eyeshadow stand out more.;
, To start, select a light blue shadow. Use an eyeshadow brush to dust a light layer of the shadow across your eyelid. Cover the full scope of your eyelid with blue shadow. It should be light enough that you can color it in with other shadows later to create depth., Blue is not the only color you can use for frosted eye shadow. A nice white can be combined with other neutral colors (i.e., beige, grey, etc.) for a frosted look.The important thing with frosted eye makeup is that it creates a gradient from light to dark across the eye.
 Choose a slightly darker shadow next that has a small amount of glitter so it shimmers slightly. Use a thin, angled brush to apply the shimmery shade in a small line running across your upper lash line., Opt for a darker shade for your brow bone that is still in the spectrum of cool pastels. For example, go for a slightly darker blue. Use a larger, puffier brush to apply the shadow to the crease between your brow bone and eyelid. Make gentle, circular motions as you apply the shadow to your crease. Apply it across the full line of your crease for the best results., Go back to the first shadow you applied. Add another layer dusting across your eyelid, blending it out with the new colors. Then, use an angled brush to add a small line of the shadow underneath your eyebrow. This provides a highlight effect to make your eyes pop., Take a second darker tone, such as an even darker midnight blue. In your outer eyelid, dab this shade onto your lid. Make a small triangular shape with the shadow on the outer corner of your eye., Take a clean brush. Use this to gently blend all your eyeshadow together. Do not blend to the point the colors smear, but blend so each color fades into the other color. This should form a gradient, frosty effect across your eye., When you're done, use one of your lighter shades to draw a small line running along your lower lash line. Use an angled brush to draw the line as close to your lash line as possible.The color you choose is up to you, as long as it's one of your lighter shades. A darker shade will not work as well for the lower lash line.
 Keep eyeliner minimal with this look, as the attention should be on the gradient effect of your colors. Take liquid or pencil eyeliner and use it to draw a very small, thin line running across your upper lash line. Get as close to your upper lash line as possible when drawing the line.If you want, you can apply eyeliner to your waterline as well.
 You do not need a lot of mascara for this look, as the primary effect is your frosted eyeshadow. Add a single layer of mascara to your eyelashes to bring them out slightly.