 You should never jump into a strenuous workout without a warm up. This will greatly increase your risk of a muscle cramp. To prevent cramps, do a light warm up before engaging in a full workout.Warming up means engaging in light physical activity for five to 10 minutes before you begin a vigorous workout.
Warm up activities are usually slower versions of your main form of exercise. To warm up for a run, for example, walk briskly for five minutes.
 Before aerobic activities, such as running, make sure to give your calves a good stretch. This can reduce the risk of cramping in this area.Place one leg in front of another and then lean against a wall.
Bend the knee of your leg closer to the wall. While you do this, stretch your back leg behind you and point the heel towards the floor. Hold this stretch for at least 20 seconds. Any less than 20 seconds will not be enough time for your calf muscles to stretch out.
Repeat with the other leg.
 You should also stretch your hamstrings if you do any exercises that use those muscles. To start, sit on the ground with your back straight and stretch both legs out in front of you.Place your hands on the floor with the palms facing downward.
Slide your hands forward until you feel a stretch. Then, hold this for 30 seconds.
 Your quads should be stretched before any workout that uses them. To start, stand next to a wall or chair and hold onto it for balance.Lift up one foot, moving your heel towards your buttocks, and then grab your heel with your hand.
Hold this position for 30 seconds. Then, repeat with the other leg.
 After a workout, you should have a period where you cool down before stopping. A cool down involves engaging in slightly less strenuous exercise for five to 10 minutes. It's essentially the same as warming up, but you do it after finishing a workout.For example, you can walk for 10 minutes after a run or do some slow swimming for five minutes after an intense swim.
 It can be very dangerous to swim if you're at risk for a muscle cramp. Therefore, you should avoid swimming, especially in large bodies of water like the ocean, until your muscle cramps are infrequent. If you're having severe cramps with no apparent cause, talk to your doctor before you attempt swimming.

