 Dab until just dry (rub in some lip balm if your kissers are chapped, and let sit until lips are moist and smooth).;
, Rub it in so that your lips look perfectly red, the colour not too faint and not too brash either. A lip brush, if you have one, will work wonders, but your fingers should do too. Just make sure you have all the creases filled in.
 How do you look? Are your lips too bright for your face? Do you look like a vamp? Do you look unnatural? Do you look really pretty? Do you look retro or modern? Does the red lip colour define your features? Does it make your big lips look little? Or does it make your normal lips bloat up into Angelina Jolie smoochers? Or does it bring out the pink in your cheeks? Or does it even out the difference between the colour of your skin and the colour of your lips?


If your lips have gone huge, you need to tone them down and make them dark. Not bright, dark. So pick up the brown lip colour (or lip liner, personal choice) and just rub it on around the edges. Then grab some cotton or a tissue, and blot. You'll be left with a lovely burnt-cranberry lipstain that you will instantly fall in love with. Burnt-cranberry lip stains do amazing things to your face - they tone up your features, making them look well-defined, they bring out the colour of your eyes, the red in your cheeks, they sharpen your cheekbones, and shape up your lips. They are adorable. NOTE: You want lip STAIN, not lip LAKE, so blot away if it's looking gaudy. You do not want to look like you just made out with a cup of dirty blood.
If the red lip colour is making your lips look a bit too teenie-tiny, then, well, pick up a tissue, and BLOT. Leave behind the slightest tint of red, and add in some pink. Rub it in. Ooh la la, strawberry girl! Who hates pink lips? Add in a little shine with some fruity, clear lipgloss or lip balm, and flaunt those candy-pinks! If you want to go subtler, blot just a little bit more, and let the spectators enjoy the new-rosebud look. You'll look amazing.
Scarlet kissers suiting your face wonderfully? Well then, go girl! Pucker up and strike a pose! You are lucky.

