 Tell your friend what you want out of your friendship. Be assertive (not aggressive), meaning you clearly and respectfully state your wants and needs while accepting that your friend may have different wants and needs. Speak simply an honestly.


Try to communicate directly with your friend about problems in your friendship. Be clear and direct when talking to her.
Don’t assume she knows what you’re thinking. She may not even realize there is a problem.
Talk to your friend about your needs. She may not realize she has not been a good friend to you., Allow your friend to be open and honest about how he feels. Listen actively to what he is saying — don't think about your defense or response while he is talking, take the time to hear what he is communicating. Encourage him with body language that indicates you are listening — nod when he makes a point and don't study your nails look at your phone, which may make it appear as though you aren't paying attention.


If he is defensive or evasive, this may mean he is not ready for the same type of friendship that you want., Your friend may be psychologically healthy, but has decided over time that she would prefer a more casual friendship with you than you would like with her. Remember that not all people are the same, and it's okay if someone doesn't want to be close friends with you — it doesn't mean there is anything wrong with you, or with her.


Do not give too much to someone in order to get something back. This can cause you to become resentful.
Adjust your expectations. Just because your friendship is different than what you would like does not mean you cannot be friends at all.
 If you’ve discussed relating to one another in a different way, make sure to do so.


Keep up your end of the friendship and make sure your friend does too.
Let him reach out to you. Some friends may take longer than others to adjust to a more open relationship.
Don’t smother him with your expectations, but give him space to come to you.
Don’t be resentful if he doesn't contact you immediately. It’s important to be open and friendly regardless. You may scare him off otherwise.
 Your friendship may not be what you want it to be.


Know that not every friend is going to be a lifelong or best friend.
Make plans with other friends. Don’t put your life on hold for your emotionally unavailable friend. Go and have fun with other people in your life.Enjoy the time you have with your friend. Even if she cannot offer the same type of friendship, try to have fun when you are around each other.
Check with your friend, but don’t obsess over her. Make sure you are there for your friend if she needs it.
Don't spend too much time thinking about your friendship if it upsets you unnecessarily.

