 Listen to music, watch movies or TV shows or just look up how the word is pronounced. Google Translate is a good site for this. Try to break every word down. Start with the first syllable, then the second, and so on if there are more. Listen and repeat exactly how the speaker said it.;
,,,, The Spanish are very forgiving. If you wish to practice this technique, however, the best thing I have found to do is to breathe out hard, and allow an L sound to emanate from your tongue. Leave the tip of your tongue very loose so that when the hard breathe comes out over the tongue tip, it will flip up and down. The L sound converts in our ears as an R sound.) For more on how to roll your R's, visit this serperate WikiHow article: https://www.wikihow.com/Roll-Your-%22R%22s

, Do it fast, it sounds like a very light, quick D. Once it sounds like a quick D, you've got there.
, So, once again the word jalapeño would be pronounced: hal-a-penyo. Also the word Texas would be spoken as Tehas. This is not a hard-and-fast rule for the X. The more Westernized a thing becomes the less strength is emphasized for a particular rule. Occasionally, for the J it can be more of a zha sound. For more on how to pronounce the letters, visit this separate WikiHow article: https://www.wikihow.com/Pronounce-Spanish-Words

, This is rule also applies when a word ends in a vowel, and the next word starts with one. They are basically next to each other.
 Why? Because there are two vowels next to each other. You'll have to get used to this.
 (A, E, I, O, U). Also note they are pronounced differently.
 The accented syllable is the one that gets the most emphasis or that you dwell on a bit longer. All "flat" words have an accent if they end in a consonant other than "n" or "s" (the letter "y" is considered a consonant). These are words that have the accented syllable second from the end: fácil, césped, mártir, álbum. All "high-pitched" words have an accent if they end in a vowel, n, or s. These are words that have the accent on the last syllable: caerá, alhelí, así, camión, jamás.
 You learned the sounds of your native language, you can do it for another one. Over 400 million Spanish speakers can do it, and so can babies, so you can too.

