 Judges in some states have recognized an implied contract is formed through language in employee handbooks. Certain provisions, such as disciplinary policies, are most likely to create an implied contract.For example, your employee handbook may include a progressive discipline policy in which minor infractions are handled with increasing severity.
Suppose your employee handbook states that you will be written up if you are late to work, and will be terminated after three write-ups.
If you're terminated after only being late to work once, a judge might look at that as a violation of the implied contract in the employee handbook.
 In the absence of written statements that apply to all employees, such as an employee handbook, your employer may form an implied contract with you personally.For example, suppose at your quarterly performance review, your boss says "We need more employees like you. As long as you're willing, there's a place here for you."
If you were fired the next week, that sort of statement could be interpreted as creating an implied contract.
However, keep in mind that some states have laws requiring employment contracts intended to last more than a year to be in writing. This makes these oral promises more difficult to rely on for legal purposes.
 The implied contract exception is one of the more straightforward exceptions to at-will employment. However, while the exception is recognized in most states, it is deceptively difficult to prove.The exception itself is recognized in more than 40 states, so odds are you live in a state that accepts the idea of an implied contract in some form.
However, this exception is extremely limited in many states. For example, the recognition of an implied contract in an employee handbook is not common and often controversial.
Once a judge rules that language in an employee handbook creates an implied contract, that implied contract applies to every employee who was subject to the policies in that handbook.
As long as your state recognizes the exception in some way, you can talk to an attorney about whether your particular case would fit within your state's understanding of the exception.
 If you think you've found evidence that supports an implied contract, it's important to get an experienced employment attorney to evaluate your case.Since the law varies greatly among states, look for an attorney who is not only licensed in your state but has been practicing there for a number of years.
These employment attorneys are most likely to understand the nuances of the implied contract exception to at-will employment within your state.
Keep in mind that even if your case seems to fall within your state's exception, that doesn't mean that your case is particularly strong or that you're likely to win.
Take advantage of free initial consultations to speak to several attorneys about whether you should pursue a wrongful termination lawsuit.

