, From this point, there is no return to the Dungeons of Doom., You can also leave your Bell of Opening and the Book of the Dead, because they are useless now (the end game doesn't have doors)., This will usually be 4 scrolls of gold detection and a reliable method of confusing yourself; reading the scroll while confused will tell you where the portal is located., He is guaranteed to reappear when you enter the Plane of Earth., The monsters in the first room will have a spellbook and wand of digging and also a pick-axe. If you are good at magic, you might use the spell; otherwise, you should probably bring your own wands of digging in case one wand is not enough. Do not use the pick-axe if you can avoid it as it digs slowly and allows earth elementals to attack you., You can save yourself from a lot of digging. It is not required, but is recommended., All you have to do except fight. Dig, dig, dig., Without one, you will just walk on air, and waste precious turns., This will scare the air elementals, which are the greatest danger on this Plane.,, Clouds will generate lightning., This way, you can take shortcuts across the lava., There are many fire traps trying to burn you to death, and while fire resistance will protect you, it will not protect any scrolls or potions you are carrying., Levitation allows you to float over the water. If you don't have levitation, you will have to stay in the bubbles; water walking does not work., The magic portal in this level will float around, moving slowly around every turn. You should still use a method of portal detection so you will be able to see the portal when it is nearby, however., Be prepared to get on another bubble if your bubble joins another bubble., While your god will send some angels to fight you in this case, conflict is very helpful in fighting the Riders., Death, Pestilence and Famine will revive after you kill them. Use a wand of death against Pestilence and Famine. If you can, avoid Death; death rays will only make him stronger., There are 3 altars (lawful, neutral, chaotic) to offer the amulet. Of course, choose your alignment. You can look at the altar when standing on it (or at the priest when standing next to him/her) to find out.

If you don't mind cheating, you can exploit a bug to make life easier. When you "call" them a name, it will show the name of the priest of your god.
 If you won. If you didn't, congratulations for making it to the End Game!