 Web-based publications, print publications that post additional content online, and businesses all need freelance writers to provide quality material for their sites. Search for resource sites that offer free access to listings of online writing opportunities. You may also consider investing in subscriptions to more specialized job-listing sites.


Avoid listings that don't mention pay, or that ask writers to submit new work on speculation in order to be considered -- after all, your time has worth.
Exercise care regarding offers to blog purely for exposure or that involve payment in exchange for Web traffic (for example, $1 per 1,000 page-views). You aren't likely to make much from such jobs.
Take the entire context of a job opportunity into consideration. You may be willing to write for less, for example, if you are just starting out or if a job takes minimal time and effort. The predictability of establishing an ongoing relationship (a weekly guest post, for example) may merit accepting a slightly lower pay rate, or you might value the opportunity to retain the rights to your material after it is posted.
 Read the forums of writer networking groups to gain knowledge and insight. You'll learn where to look for work -- and what opportunities to avoid. Attending industry events can yield valuable opportunities and help you gain exposure.


Start your perusal of online forums with a general site such as the American Society of Journalists and Authors.You can then move on to genre-specific sites for information specific to your writing interests.
Research writer's organizations in your field of interest to see whether and when they host conferences. Groups ranging from the Society of American Travel Writers to the American Medical Writers Association (and many organizations based in other countries or world regions) host regular gatherings.
 If you're interested in writing for a particular site, examine which areas of the site are updated most frequently. Is there a blog? Does it feature regular content from outside contributors? Understanding where opportunities lie will help you target your approach.
 Send a letter of introduction, or, better yet, a query outlining a specific pitch. Emphasize your Web writing experience, if you have it, and include any personal referrals you can muster. If you're short on experience but do maintain a blog or Web site, include a link.

