 Talk to government officials in your area to see if there are any assistance programs available to you. Consider these programs a temporary way to give your finances a boost in order to prepare you for future success. Make sure to follow all guidelines involved with the program.For example, there are many government grants available to small business owners. Some of these grants can help you to start over with a new business even if you lack the initial funding. Check with the Small Business Association (SBA) for more details.
 Tell your friends and relatives about your goals and your plans to start over. See if they have any suggestions or advice. They might also be able to provide you will additional resources, financial or otherwise, to help you get on your feet.Be aware that your story and choices may also help others to make positive changes in their own life. For example, you might have a friend who is struggling with credit card debt and could use any information that you learn about paying it down.
When talking to your friends and family members you might say, “I have very little money to work with, but I’m planning to get a job in an industry that guarantees regular pay and insurance as well.”, Living expenses can very quickly destroy your budget and ability to save. If you have a friend or family member who is willing to let you “couch surf” for a while, you might consider this as a viable option. It will allow you to save up money and give you enough time to find a living situation that suits your frugal lifestyle.You may also find that you are not the only person living in someone else’s home, especially in big cities. It is quite common for people to open their home’s to others searching for paid work in crowded, competitive areas.
 Every time that you talk with someone, try to consider how they could work as a professional contact for you. This may sound mercenary, but considering these connections can also make it possible for you to help them as well. When you are out in public, try to talk with the people that you encounter and be friendly as often as possible.For example, if you are a waiter looking for work it never hurts to talk with the wait staff when you eat out at restaurants. They may be able to give you some tips regarding looking for a job in that area.
 Go online and enter your city and “therapist” into a search engine. Contact these professionals to see if any of them offer free sessions or group therapy. If so, this can be a great way for you to explore your past choices and how you can make changes for the present. In a support group, you can also find people who can be your friends in your new life.

