 Colonies regularly send out lone ants to check for food sources. If you see an individual ant strolling across your coffee table, don't let it make it back to the nest alive. It'll tell the colony where you spilled the apple juice. If the scout makes it back to the nest and brings back some friends, they'll be following a scent trail, single file. Unless you're ready to bait them and wait them out – squish them all, and do it quickly.


Spray the trail with all-purpose cleaner or a bleach solution, then wipe it up with a wet paper towel. Spraying the nest can be effective, but you want to make sure that you get them all. If you only kill part of the colony, you may simply encourage some species of ant to establish new colonies – which ultimately won't stop ants from coming into your home.
For a less hands-on solution, vacuum them all up. Then, vacuum some talcum powder or diatomaceous earth to finish off the ants inside the vacuum cleaner. This second step is important: make sure that the ants don't survive their trip into the vacuum!
In a pinch, just use your hands or a damp towel. Squish the ants or wipe them into oblivion. You don't need any fancy methods to eliminate the scouts.
 If the ants are all over the floor, throw some water over them and wipe them up with a paper towel. If ants are on your bed, get a good handful of paper towels and a cup of water. Dip the towels into the water. Squeeze to let out all the extra water—you don't want to be sleeping on a soppy bed—and then wipe them all up.


Repeat this process as needed. You might need to do it many times to rid your home of all the ants.
 If ants continue to raid your home, you're going to have to raid theirs. If you're able to locate the nest, you can pour several gallons of boiling water into it to instantly kill most of the insects within. If you don't know where they're coming from, your best alternative is to bait them., The most permanent way to get rid of ants is to destroy their source: the ant queen. The queen produces a large number of ants, and she gives direction to the nest. Destroy the queen, and you'll scatter the ants. You can find the queen at the center of the ant nest. Follow the trail of ants back to the nest, if possible.


Consider hiring an exterminator. If the trail of ant-workers disappears into the wall of your kitchen, you'll find it much more difficult to trace. An exterminator can do this for you.