 There are three main types of at-home kits for artificial nails: gel, acrylic, and press-on. Each has its own advantages and disadvantages to take into consideration when trying to achieve natural-looking, artificial nails.


Gel: Gel manicures most closely resemble your natural nail, and are less damaging to the nail plate. Gel manicures last at least two weeks, depending on maintenance. They are applied like normal nail polish. Gel manicures require an ultraviolet (UV) light for drying and setting. Gel nail kits are generally more expensive than the other options, especially if the kit includes a UV light. Price range: $30-$120.Acrylic: Acrylic manicures last about two weeks. They look more natural than press-on nails, less natural than gel nails. Prolonged use of acrylic nails can cause damage to your natural nail. Price range: $8-$20.Press-Ons: Press-on nails are the easiest to apply at home, but only last about one week. They are also the least-natural looking of these options. Press-on manicures cause minimal damage to your natural nail, and are easier to remove. They are also easy to repair; if a press-on nail falls off, you can easily glue it back into place. If well-maintained, press-on nails can be reused. Price range: $5-$10. ;
, Proper preparation of your natural nails is crucial; it helps artificial nails to adhere better and look more realistic.Wash your hands with antibacterial soap to remove any dirt, oils, or lotion.
Clean nails with nail polish remover. Acetone-based remover is most effective. Cut and file your nails.
Push your cuticles back with a cuticle pusher.
Buff your nails.
Re-clean your hands and nails to remove any dust caused by filing and buffing.
Dehydrate your nails using acetone-based remover or a nail dehydrating solution. This helps nail polish and artificial nails to stay on longer., Each at-home kit will have the same basic application instructions, but may vary slightly from brand to brand. Follow the directions of your kit closely, as each is specifically tailored to yield the best results for that kit.
 Gel, acrylic, and press-on nails all have different steps you can take to make them look more realistic.


Gel Nails

Add some extra drying time under the UV light at the end of your gel manicure to make sure your nails cure completely and to prevent chipping. Acrylic Nails

File down the base of your artificial nail tip so it is as even as possible with the surface of your natural nail. Apply acrylic solution evenly across the nail bed so that the thickness of the acrylic nail corresponds with the thickness of your natural nail.Press-On Nails

Use the tip of the nail glue to spread it evenly onto your nail. Apply even pressure to press-on nails to help them stay on longer.