 He isn’t called the ‘holy’ Spirit for nothing and will not live in anyone who has not been cleansed and forgiven of all sin. If you have not done so, you must repent of all known sin and surrender your life to Jesus Christ; becoming indwelt by this Spirit. This is really a simple step to take if you are a sincere person and truly desire to know God and the Bible. Romans 10:13 “For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.” He will immediately respond to you by coming to live within you by His Holy Spirit. That will equip you to learn, and you may now be taught by that Spirit living within you.;
, He is still there but He will not respond to you when you are not responding to Him and the Word of God (which is your manufacturer’s manual in a sense). He says baptism is step two and part of the process!

, I really want to understand and I ask for your help. Teach me what you would have me to know and help me to walk in what you show me. In Jesus’ name, Amen.” You don’t have to pray that every time, but that should be your heart’s attitude… wanting to truly know His Word and Him.
 Just as you would take a pleasant walk, read your Bible that way, taking your time. If something kind of strikes you, stop and reread that part. Take a moment to reflect on it before you go on. First, read simply, not trying for hidden meanings; just take it at face value. Relax and know that the Holy Spirit is programming you as you read; installing the Word of God within you. Follow the story line and just go with it. Go for quality; not quantity. You don’t have to follow any prescribed program unless you want to. Lay it aside when you want to and go about your business.
 This gives the Holy Spirit the time and opportunity to teach you. He will begin to open the Word for you. Think of how it applies to your own life, giving the Spirit time to develop the thought He is giving to you. If what you read has raised questions in your mind, go back, take it up again and reread it. Break the verse down by portion, considering each part and what it means to you. He shows you a mystery to draw you to deeper meanings, sometimes… intriguing you to follow. Pr 25:2 “It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honor of kings is to search out a matter.” (As you grow more accustomed to reading you will begin to use the cross-references and other aids to help you navigate by subject and so forth as you go deeper into His Word.)

, If you are so inclined, pray about what the Holy Spirit is showing to you… perhaps you have been guilty of some selfishness or sin that He is revealing to you. Perhaps He is simply correcting some error or misunderstanding you have lived with. (The Bible is truth and overturns misconceptions in our life and blesses us with new understanding.) You come into a closer relationship and accelerate your learning process in that way for He responds also!

, Right before His crucifixion Jesus began to tell the disciples that He would be leaving them but that He would return to them as this Holy Spirit. “If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, that He may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of Truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it sees him not, neither knows him: but ye know Him; for He dwells with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.” (John 14:15-18) Jesus also explained the Spirit’s function. “But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.” (John 14:26 ) There you have it, His promise that the Spirit would do this thing we ask!

