 These devices will allow you to somewhat control the movements of your dog, especially when they are misbehaving. Go to the pet store and test out the strengths of various leads. You want a lead that your dog cannot break, but it shouldn’t be too heavy either. Make sure that the collar fits well enough so that your dog cannot slip out of it.You can do a “finger test” on the collar to determine tightness. You should be able to insert a finger or two into the space between the collar and your dog’s skin.
 For those dogs who are particularly unruly, a head halter may be a good option. This is a series of straps that fit around the face, with or without a muzzle piece, which allows an owner to control the movements of the dog’s head. Some head halters are designed for long-term wear and you can keep them on your dog while you continue indoor training., This method of training involves rewarding your dog’s good actions and paying little or no attention to the bad behaviors. You can reward by providing tasty treats or by giving tons of affection. After your dog does something good, you want to reward it immediately in order to get the maximum benefit. It is also a good idea to reward your dog when they are behaving calmly., Some dogs behave badly in order to get attention, even negative attention. To remedy this type of interaction, give your dog plenty of positive chances to play and learn with you. However, when they do misbehave, turn your shoulders away and make a point of paying them no attention., When a dog starts to misbehave they might lose control of themselves and just continue until they are exhausted. One way to stop this snowball effect is to disrupt it mid-cycle. You can keep a can filled with coins nearby or an air horn and give it a quick go whenever your dog starts to act out.However, be warned that distraction tactics are only temporary. You should still give your dog a positive outlet for their emotions.
 This may sound a bit odd, but it often works. If your dog enjoys running away from you, then make a bunch of noise and run in the opposite direction. This will usually incite their hunting instinct and they will turn and follow you. However, only do this if it is safe to do so.