 You should format your letter in the style of a formal business letter, as this will give your letter a level of professionalism. Compose the letter on a computer using a word processing program and use easy to read font in 12 pt type. The formal business letter format has a specific heading at the top of the letter, which is:First paragraph:

Your Name
Membership or Subscription number, if any
Your Address, including City, State/Province, Zip Code/Postal Code


Date you composed the letter in MM/DD/YYYY format
Second paragraph:

Membership or Subscription Company Name
Company Address, including City, State/Province, Zip Code/Postal Code

;
, You should start the letter with “Dear ”. You should then list the name or type of membership or subscription you are cancelling. Provide all the key information in the letter right away so the receipt is clear about the purpose for your letter.For example, you may write:

Dear Good Housekeeping Magazine,
Please cancel my monthly magazine membership at the end of this pay period. My account number is 12345678.
 You should also clarify why you are cancelling the membership or subscription in one brief sentence. You do not need to provide an elaborate reason, only provide context for the cancellation.For example, you may write:

Due to tighter finances, I decided to unsubscribe to your magazine.
 You should also ask for the receipt to confirm your membership or subscription has been cancelled so you are sure the cancellation has gone through. If there is a fee for cancelling the membership or subscription, you should include payment for the fee in the letter. If you have any money owed to you, such as a membership you have cancelled before the membership period is up, you should request the money refunded by check.For example, you may write:

Please confirm the cancellation of my membership by return mail. I have enclosed the fee for cancellation of my membership.
 You should end the letter with “Sincerely” or “Best”, and then print off the letter. Sign it by hand and send it via mail to the address of the membership or subscription company. Make sure you send it by certified mail, as this will ensure it has stamped proof of the date and time the letter was sent.The final cancellation letter will appear as:

Dear Good Housekeeping Magazine,
Please cancel my monthly magazine membership at the end of this pay period. My account number is 12345678. Due to tighter finances, I decided to unsubscribe to your magazine. Please confirm the cancellation of my membership by return mail. I have enclosed the fee for cancellation of my membership.
Sincerely,
Jane Doe



, You should scan or photocopy the letter so you have a copy for your records. You should also scan or photocopy any receipts or documents and send the copies with the letter. Do not send original receipts or documents as you want to keep those for your records.