 If you are painting your nails with only one or two thick coats of polish, the lacquer may be too thick to dry properly. Instead, paint three or more very thin coats of polish, allowing 3 minutes between each coat. Although it may sound like it will take longer, the total time will be less than the long waiting period you suffer with thick coats.





;
, Those clear top coats of nail polish are popular for a reason - they help your nails to dry speedy fast. Finish off your nail polish with a fast-drying clear topcoat. Not only will it help the polish to cure faster, it will protect it longer from chipping.
 Nail polish dries when it encounters cool temperatures, so try freeze-drying your polish in place by using ice water. Before painting your nails, fill a bowl with cold water and some ice cubes. Straight after painting your nails, submerge your nails in the icy water for 2-3 minutes.








The same way ice water works to freeze your nail polish dry, sticking your hands in the freezer will dry your polish completely as well. When you finish painting your nails, stick your hands in the freezer for a few minutes.
 Your blow dryer is great for drying your hair, so why wouldn't it also work on your nails? Adjust your dryer to the coolest setting, and blast your nails with the cold air. Using warm or hot air will soften the polish and keep it from drying.
 The squeeze bulb air-dusters that people use to clean out the nooks and crannies of keyboards are great for drying your nails too. Blow your nails with the air duster for around 5 minutes to dry the polish. Be sure to hold the spout far enough away from your hands and squeeze gently: The pressure of the duster could cause your nail polish to run.
 Although it may sound strange, a can of cooking spray in your kitchen cupboard works great for drying nail polish quickly. As soon as your nails have a top coat, spray them completely with your cooking spray. Let it sit for a minute or two, and then wash your hands of the oil.
