 Accepting a student loan is a major responsibility: you are agreeing to use the money for your education and begin paying it back as soon as you graduate. If your credit is bad, having this additional debt may place a considerable financial burden on you, possibly for decades to come. Take the time to distinguish between the different types of loans and understand how they work.


Direct Subsidized Stafford Loans are awarded based on financial need. These are the least risky, especially for someone with bad credit. The government will pay the interest on subsidized loans while you are in school, and for six months following your graduation. From that point on, you will be responsible for making payments, and interest will accumulate.Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans can be awarded through your school regardless of your financial need. These will make a bigger impact on your overall debt because, unlike Direct Subsidized Loans, you will be responsible for all of the interest and payments.Federal Perkins Loans are an additional form of funding earmarked for students with the most need. They have a low interest rate of 5% and do not need to be repaid until after you graduate., Depending on your school, you may be able to petition your financial aid office to adjust your offer. Pertinent expenses might include: costs associated with child care, if you have children, costs associated with a disability, or medical costs not covered by insurance.
 If your funding is still inadequate, and you have supportive parents who are willing to help, consider having them apply for a federal PLUS (Parent Loan for Undergraduate Student). These loans have the downside that interest rates are higher than other student loans but they are still much cheaper than a private loan from a bank.


Note that these Parent loans cannot be used for graduate or professional school. There is a separate graduate/professional school PLUS loan that the student applies for.
Parent loans are also very difficult to discharge, even with bankruptcy, so only consider this option once you have exhausted other financial aid sources.

