 Plug it in and wait for it to heat, or turn it to a certain temperature, depending on the model you're using. In many cases, a small light will come on when the waffle iron is ready. A good test of the temperature is to let a drop or two of water fall on the plates of the waffle iron. The drops should sizzle and dance for 2-3 seconds before vanishing. If the drops sit there for much longer than that, the waffle iron isn't warm enough yet. If they vanish in less than a couple seconds, the waffle iron may be too hot. ;
, Place the flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder into a medium-large bowl. For extremely fluffy waffles, sift the ingredients instead of simply mixing them.
 Use an egg separating tool to separate the yolks from the whites and place them in separate bowls.

You may also separate the eggs by cracking them in half and tipping the yolk from shell half to shell half, letting the white drop to a bowl below.
It's all right to leave a bit of the egg whites in with the yolk, but don't get any yolk in with the egg white. The egg whites won't foam properly if there is even a little yolk in them.
 Use a whisk or a mixer to beat the egg whites until they foam and form soft peaks. Joy of Cooking describes the right stage as "stiff, but not dry". , Beat the butter or oil and egg yolks in a separate bowl. Add the milk and vanilla, and continue beating until the ingredients are thoroughly combined. 
, Make a well in the dry ingredients. Pour the egg yolk mixture into the well. Stir the ingredients together until everything is moist. Don't overmix the ingredients, or the waffles will come out dense. You can leave a few lumps in the batter.
 Gently mix them into the batter until everything is a fairly even consistency. Again, don't over-mix. Remember that folding is a very gentle, top-to-bottom sort of stirring.
 Use a pastry brush or a paper towel to oil both the top and bottom plates of the waffle iron. Do this before you make each waffle, or it is very likely that the waffles will stick. , Use 1/2 to 1 cup of batter, depending on your waffle iron. If you're not sure, go a little under the amount you think you will need. The batter will puff up as it cooks. Spoon it evenly into the bottom plate of the waffle iron.
 Allow about 2 minutes for the waffle to form. If you like your waffles brown, cook them for a longer period of time. Don't press on the lid. The lid will press down enough and the waffles will naturally puff a little. Watch the steam production. It will stop or reduce greatly when the waffles are done.
Listen and watch for the thermostat in your waffle iron to turn off and on. Sometimes having it turn off is a cue that the waffles are done.
Waffles get a lot less sticky once they're properly cooked. If the waffle iron is hard to open and you oiled it properly, try giving it another minute. Don't open the waffle iron if you can help it. Try to cook each waffle in one go. If you do open the waffle iron on a waffle that's still a bit too pale, carefully close it again and let it go a bit longer.
 A spatula can help you lift it without breaking the waffle or burning your fingers. Place it on a plate and pour more batter into the waffle iron to make another waffle. Repeat until the batter is gone.
 The real thing is best if you can find it., This is another common topping for waffles, and it makes for a delicious, refreshing treat. Try strawberries, blueberries, bananas, or peaches.

To make a fruit syrup, place cut fruit, a few teaspoons of sugar, and about half a cup of water in a small pot. Heat it on the stove over medium heat. Stir the mixture until it thickens and becomes a syrup you can pour over your waffles.
Fruit can also be cooked directly into the waffle batter. Stir in some blueberries, chopped strawberries, banana slices, or another fruit before pouring it into the waffle iron.
 Serve the waffles with chocolate syrup and whipped cream to make them into a decadent dessert. You can also cook chocolate chips into the waffles by adding them to the batter before you pour it into the waffle iron., Can’t decide between having waffles or bacon for breakfast? Why compromise when your bacon can meet your waffles for an extremely tasty treat? All you’ll need are the ingredients for traditional waffle batter and a package of bacon to create your bacon waffles. Unfortunately, frozen waffles topped with a few slices of bacon won’t make the cut, so get ready to crack a few eggs and whip up the batter.
 Spicing up waffles is an excellent idea to brighten up any child's morning or just to have something different other than a plain waffle. This article posted will show how to make banana cinnamon waffles.
 Whether you are a beginning cook or an old hat, these made-from-scratch waffles are great for those looking to stick to unprocessed ingredients. These waffles are a modern twist on an old breakfast favorite. They also make a wonderfully sweet treat for dessert!

, Allow yourself or your kids to indulge in a sweet waffle breakfast once in a while. This waffle recipe is also a kid-friendly one to make as well.
 Waffles are a tasty treat - and not so hard to make if you buy the frozen variety. Here's how!

