 JHPs are almost universally considered the best choice for defense ammunition. Other expanding designs such as Federal EFMJ and Cor-Bon DPX are also considered effective. A trade-off with hollow-point rounds is that, when the round expands, it creates a larger permanent and temporary cavity. However, because of the faster energy transfer it reduces the penetration depth.



Soft-tip JHP is a vague description for any type of JHP which has a filling in the hole (it may be polymer or other hard material). This allows the bullet to pierce some objects or to travel through soft things (like clothes or flesh) for a period of time before opening up, allowing for deeper penetration. There are alternate names for such bullets, like ballistic-tip or V-Max. This is arguably the most versatile bullet. It will easily penetrate heavy clothing while retaining its ability to expand in a soft target.
 Solid FMJ bullets do not have the problem of losing their energy as quick and are known for penetrating through barriers and still piercing deep enough into flesh to arrive at vital organs. The permanent cavity is reduced in size (compared to JHPs), but there are trade off to every bullet. FMJs are often used for target practice.Federal Hydra-shok is a bullet which looks like a standard JHP from many angles, but inside the front cavity there is a "spear". This allows the bullet to open up and still pierce through some things. When it was first created this design led the industry, but most will say that improved standard JHP designs have since caught up.

Reverse-tapered hollow point is a unique kind of bullet. The hole in the bullet increases in diameter as it descends through the bullet. The design allows for some penetration through hard objects without opening. When the bullet does open it folds open into separate sections which are held together by the jacketing.
 In general, lighter bullets have higher velocities than heavier ones, so over shorter distances (less than 100 yards) lighter bullets have flatter trajectories. The problem with light bullets is that against soft targets they lose their energy with less resistance than heavier bullets. It has been proven that extremely light bullets can even be stopped by very heavy clothing.


A light 9mm bullet would be 100 grains. And a heavy bullet would be 147 grains (though 124/125 gr. is more common).
A light .40 would be 135 grains, and heavy .40 would be 180 grains.
A light .45 would be 165 grains. But a 230 grain would likely be better for almost any purpose in a .45; even heavier bullets such as 250 grain are also available., Standard loads are always recommended for most guns, but some guns like Glock and H&K specify the ability to fire hot loads. Most H&K pistols come with a dual-stage recoil spring which helps with felt recoil as well as recoil shock to internal components. This allows H&K to shoot +P (hot powder load) and +P+ (very hot powder load) without a problem. Other guns may need a spring replacement or other changes. The hotter loads allow for more muzzle energy and velocity as well as better reliability since the slide will be racked harder with the extra energy (less chance of limp-writing or stovepipes).
 You should fire many of your "specialty" rounds to make sure the firearm cycles reliably with them. Some pistols are picky about certain JHP bullet shapes. For general practice you can use FMJ to for cheap practice rounds, but consider using the same weight (grains) bullets and, if possible, the same load (Standard, +P, etc). This is because rapid-fire cycles can change drastically with different weight and loads.

