 If you don’t get Spanish television you can ask your cable provider or simply check what is trending on Youtube for a Spanish speaking country. You may also purchase or download a popular Spanish television series online. More popular series may have English manuscripts or subtitles to help you follow along. You may also have content in alternate languages. Check the site of your local channels and inquire whether they provide a Spanish alternative.
 This principle states that you need to learn the right words, which means that you don’t have to learn the entire language but simply learn the most important words. It’s easy to find the most important words because they will be the ones used most frequently.For example, rather than learning the formal forms of words and phrases, learn colloquialisms., Post on forums, colleges, or even the library. You don’t have to find someone overseas or living in a Spanish speaking country as Skype is great for generally working within your schedule at the comfort of your own home. Watching someone speak the language or using visual aids will help speed up the learning process so don’t be afraid to ask your partner to keep that in mind.Use multiple windows when using Skype so you can simultaneously use another language app or check your notes to help you follow the conversation. Use translation tools to help you keep pace in the conversation but don’t use it as a crutch. You shouldn’t hesitate to ask your partner for a break if you are lost in the conversation.You may also find a partner on Skype by offering to exchange English lessons. Practicing a second language together allows you to take a breath and regain your momentum when you switch over to your native language.
 There’s no better way to learn a language than immersing yourself fully in the culture. However, traveling can be very expensive so seek out local cultural centers for countries like Mexico, Spain, or most South and Central American countries. If you do not have a local cultural center, establish a language club so that you can share resources with others around your community.
 Practice makes perfect and there’s no substitute for simply forcing yourself to only speak Spanish. While this may be difficult because of your location or career, develop blocks in your schedule where you only speak Spanish. As your confidence grows, continue to expand these blocks.

