 There are a number of cover letters to choose from. And, the greeting you choose will depend on how much information you have about the company.


If you know the name of the hiring manager, your salutation should be something like "Dear " followed by either a comma or a colon. Make sure to address the manager formally using their proper title (Mr., Ms., Dr., etc.).
If you don't know the name of the hiring manager, consider addressing your letter "Dear Hiring Manager," "Dear Recruiting Team," or "Dear Team."
As a last resort, address the letter "To whom it may concern," though we recommend avoiding this salutation, as it could come across as a template letter.
 This is where you will mention the job for which you're applying and how you found the job listing. It only needs to be 1 to 2 sentences in length.
 Most cover letters will only have 1 or 2 body paragraphs. You don't want to overwhelm the hiring manager or use up a great deal of their time. Try to answer the following questions in your body paragraphs:


Why am I a qualified candidate for this position?
What work experience do I have that fits the job requirements in the company's listing?
Why do I want to work for this company specifically?

, This will be where you wrap up and discuss how you will proceed with the application. Consider including the following:


Reiterate in one sentence why you feel you're a perfect fit for the position.
Discuss what you'll do next. If you plan on following up with the hiring manager in a week or two, include a specific date. Otherwise, just say that you look forward to interviewing for the position and discussing your qualifications further.
Provide your contact information. Include your email address and your phone number so the hiring manager can get in touch with you.
Mention that your resume or references are attached (if applicable).
Thank the person for their time.
 "Best" or "Sincerely" are both classic options. Also, since you won't be able to sign your email, finish the letter by typing your full name.

