 There are many breeds to consider in order to have your own family milk cow. Make your choices based on the amount of feed you're willing to spend on, quantity of milk produced, the size of your farm, temperament, what's available in your area, what size of cow you can handle, among other things.;
, This is the easiest way to start the home dairy, rather than buying a heifer that you must raise, train and breed before you get any milk out of her. Purchase of a yearling dairy heifer will mean you having to wait at least a year until you get some milk from her. You are much better off getting dairy cow that's already trained, is gentle, easy to handle, and milk.
 Avoid auction barns if you can if you don't want to rescue a cull dairy cow that may have health problems down the road you don't want to deal with. Consider possibly buying a mature cow right from a dairy farm willing to part one of their good cows, or from a small-time dairy.


Make sure she has been vaccinated recently. If she hasn't, check with your local large animal veterinarian for a vaccination schedule you should have for your cow.
You will need to determine if the cow you purchased is bred or open (not bred or pregnant). This way you can decide if and when to get her bred next or if she needs to be bred at all. Dairy cows can still be lactating regardless if they are in calf or not. If the seller does not know if she is pregnant nor how far along she is, get her preg-checked either via rectal palpation or blood-test. A veterinarian can do this for you.
 Once you've made your decision on whether the cow you've picked out is good for you and your farm, then it's time to spend the money and bring her home.
 You can choose to milk her once a day or twice a day; it's your choice. Feed her the same time you milk her, but if you want you can choose to split the feedings to twice a day to break up the amount of feed she needs to be given per day. Fresh clean water and proper mineral needs to be made available to her at all times.
 You may want to consider times to give her a rest for a couple months before she calves and times when it's best to get her bred. She should be bred two to three months after giving birth to a calf. She can be allowed to milk for 10 months or so. Dairy cows can be lactating for much longer, but the optimum milk production you can get from a cow is during that 10 month time period.
 A barn or shed with a stanchion should have been put in place before you purchased your cow. There's nothing worse than having to milk a cow in the rain or out in the hot sun: the cow won't enjoy it, and neither will you.
 Proper feed, regular vaccinations, proper mineral and knowledge in how to prevent certain diseases that you cannot vaccinate for (such as milk fever, grass/winter tetany, ketosis, mastitis and bloat) will keep your cow healthy and productive for more years to come.

