 With over 3,000 species of crab spiders, there is a fairly large range of climate zones that these spiders can withstand. While a few sighting of crab spiders have been noted in most parts of the world, they are most commonly found in:Northwest Europe
Northern and eastern Australia
North America

, If you live in an area where crab spiders are commonly found, the next step in identifying a crab spider is to recognize their preferred environments. Because crab spiders hunt by blending in with their surroundings, they will make a home wherever they blend in the best. While these habitats can vary depending on the specific species of crab spider, they most commonly make nests in:Bunches of fruit
The leaves of plants
Thickets of grass
Flowers, especially brightly colored varieties
Pollen-producing plants

, Crab spiders are considered a hunter spider; however, the vast majority of crab spiders are not active hunters.This means that instead of actively pursuing prey, most crab spiders sit camouflaged in their nest for days or weeks at a time until an unsuspecting prey wanders too close. The clawed front legs of the crab spider are incredibly strong, and they use the additional length of these legs to reach out and grab insects. They then pull their prey in with their front legs and inject them with immobilizing venom, rarely moving their body or shorter back legs at all while hunting., Unlike some other spider species, the crab spider is a non-aggressive spider. Crab spiders are not only passive while hunting, they are also incredibly timid and fearful of predators. Their uneven leg lengths make them fairly uncoordinated in comparison to other arachnids, which can leave them vulnerable to prey. Rather than attacking a predator, crab spiders will flee to the other side of their nest or abandon their home completely if they spot a predator nearby., Crab spiders are unique in that they do not create webs like other species. Instead, crab spiders lay their eggs on whatever surface they’ve camouflaged themselves with, fastening the eggs to the surface with their silk. If you see any silken egg sacs that appear flat and are joined at the center, you most likely have identified a crab spider nest. Just keep in mind that female crab spiders will commonly remain near these egg sacs in order to protect them from predators, including you!