 If you want to interact with your family member, create a safe environment that feels comforting and not threatening. Turn off any background noise such as television or radio. Move to a room that has limited noise and consider shutting the door or closing the curtains.A minimally distracting environment can help your loved one focus their attention and energy on the conversation.;
, Your family member may not remember who you are from visit to visit. Begin each time you see your family member by introducing yourself and your relationship.For example, say, “Hello, I’m Rebecca, your niece. I’m your son Alex’s daughter.”


Be friendly in your introduction. If they don’t recognize you, remember that it’s not personal, and recognition may change from day to day.
 Avoid speaking in “baby talk” and instead focus on making your voice clear, calm, and soothing.Focus on providing safety through your voice.


If you notice that you’re speaking tensely, sharply, or that you’re raising your voice, take a pause and do some deep breathing. Come back to speaking when you’re able to speak calmly and with reassurance.
 If your loved one is struggling to grasp a sense of reality or is behaving in an inappropriate way, your first reaction may be to calmly explain the situation and explain the inappropriateness of it. However, people with dementia may lose the ability to understand and may not respond to logical or rational arguments. Use straightforward simple sentences to talk about what is happening or about to happen.Instead of alluding to situations or using vague speech, be clear in your delivery. For example, instead of saying, “We’ll see your doctor after you eat,” say, “First we are eating breakfast, then we will take the car to see your doctor.”

, Use short, simple sentences if your loved one is struggling to understand you. Slow down your speech. If your loved one does not understand, find a simple and direct way to communicate.Pause so that your family member can understand you. While it may feel like an uncomfortable pause to you, it may be necessary for your loved one to understand you.
If your loved one appears confused, frustrated or withdrawn, try again in a gentle, simple way.
You also want to make sure you are speaking at a slow pace and speaking loud enough for them to hear you clearly. You may have to talk louder and slower than you are used to., Ask questions one at a time so that they do not feel overwhelming. After each question, pause and wait for a response. Give simple choices when possible. For example, instead of asking, “What would you like to drink?” say, “Would you like juice or water?” If your family member’s dementia is advanced, phrase questions so that they have a simple “yes” or “no” answer ("Would you like water?").A person with dementia can feel overwhelmed when asked lots of questions. While choice is important, too many options can be confusing. If you notice this, tell instead of ask.For example, instead of saying, “What would you like for dinner?” say, “Today we are having lasagna for dinner.”

, Long conversations may be exhausting for someone with dementia. Keep your conversations short but regular. Take breaks but keep contact consistent. If you notice your loved one becoming fatigued, back off or take a break from talking.Offer to go on a walk or to have some quiet time if your family member appears exhausted or disengaged.
 Communicating with your loved one with dementia may be frustrating — you may have to repeat yourself multiple times, rephrase sentences, speak slowly and loudly, and allow the person extra time to think over and respond to what you have said. While this may cause you to become impatient, try to keep this in check. Your loved one is doing the best they can, and it is not their fault they are struggling. Remember that they will sense your tension if you become impatient or angry, which will only make the situation worse.


If you find yourself becoming impatient, this is another opportunity to take a few deep breaths and calm yourself. Breathe into your belly for five seconds, hold for a moment, then exhale slowly. This simple trick will trigger your parasympathetic nervous system, which will calm you down.
 If your family member is struggling to communicate, let them know that it’s okay. Don’t appear impatient or frustrated and instead, let them finish. Encourage your loved one to continue explaining their thoughts or feelings.Avoid interrupting your family member or completing their sentences. This may break their concentration or pattern of communication. Be patient and wait for them to finish speaking.
 Sometimes as communication ability decreases, you may find yourself talking as if your family member is not there. Include your family member in conversations, even if it means changing the language you use.This can help your loved one feel included.


Feeling excluded from conversations can increase feelings of isolation and exclusion. Make a point to include your family member in conversations.
For example, if you’re discussing the day’s plans, say, “I’m looking forward to spending time with you over lunch when we join Jacob and Leslie.”

, When engaging with someone with dementia, think about what they may be feeling. They may be acting or speaking in an agitated way or may appear confused. If you notice your loved one is confused or anxious, adjust how you speak and what needs to be said.For example, it may not be the time to ask them about their day or what they want to eat. Respond to their feelings and empathize with them.


Say, “I’m sorry you’re having a rough time. I know this isn’t easy for you. Let’s go over this later.”
Smile when you speak with the person. This can help relieve tension and remind them that you care, and that they are safe with you., If your family member is talking, listen intently and follow their verbal and nonverbal cues. If you don’t understand something, ask them to say it in a different way. If you’re unclear what your family member is saying, pay attention to their body language, tone of voice, and facial expressions.Even if your family member is struggling to express themselves verbally, respond to their nonverbal communication. For example, if your loved one drops their sweater and appears unhappy, say, “It looks like you’ve dropped your sweater and you’d like it put back. Let me help you with that.”

, If you're updating your family member about others, say their names. Avoid saying “he” or “she” or “they” and instead, spell it out for your loved one.Say, “You grandchildren Courtney, Heather, and Rachel all went boating together last weekend. Courtney, Heather and Rachel had a really nice time and enjoyed being in the water.”


You can also state relationships if that’s helpful. For example, say, “This is your grandchild, Sophia, your son Paul’s child.”

, While it may be tempting to correct your family member’s incorrect statements, let them go.If you find yourself correcting many statements, prioritize the time you spend with your loved one, not the correctness of what they say.


It can be draining to know that your family member is having a hard time grasping reality. If you need a moment to cope with the difficulty, step out of the room briefly or take a deep breath before responding.
 If your loved one begins to become upset, find an alternative activity. Connect emotionally to your family member and validate their feelings and experience. Then, suggest an alternate experience. For example, say, “It seems like this makes you feel upset. I’m sorry you feel upset. Would you like to go for a walk together?”Connect your family member emotionally. This can help them feel safe and understood.
You can also suggest getting food, seeing another family member, or doing a comforting activity.
 Keeping up with your loved one’s care can be exhausting and lead to burnout. You may be burned out or overstressed if you are easily angered by the person, resent the dementia, withdraw from friends or family, feel constantly exhausted, or begin to experience health problems of your own.Take some time for yourself.


Go for a walk, write in a journal, or read. Talking with someone about the difficulties can help.
 Especially if you’re dealing with a role change, it can be helpful to discuss these changes with a therapist.It can be especially hard if the family member is your spouse as the role change can be dramatic in addition to changes in sexual feelings and the ways you connect. If the family member is your parent, you may struggle with the role change and knowing that you now care for them and not them for you. Loving someone with dementia can be a difficult challenge, and it can be helpful to talk to someone about the thoughts and feeling you experience.


Find a therapist by calling your insurance company, local mental health clinic, or physician. You can also do an online search or ask for a recommendation from a friend.
 It’s a safe place to talk about fears, frustrations, and irritations while also being supported by a group of people who have “been there.”


If you are a caregiver, it can be difficult to see your loved one deteriorate while playing an extensive role in their care. It’s common for caregivers to experience burnout, or a point where they begin to resent the person and the role as caregiver. This is why joining a support group can be so crucial.
Do an online search for online support groups or call your local hospital or mental health clinic to see if there’s a support group in your community.

