 Creating the perfect glitter liner look is not difficult, but it requires some special makeup items and tools. To create a glittery eye liner look, you will need:








eyeshadows in white, nude, light brown, brown, black, and champagne
black gel eyeliner
black eyeliner
eye glitter with glitter adhesive
a liner brush
a blending brush
a small flat brush
a small fluffy eyeshadow brush
a crease brush
black mascara
false eyelashes and eyelash adhesive (optional);
, Applying primer will create a good base for your makeup and it will also prevent your makeup from running.You can apply primer to your eyelids using your fingertips or using a small fluffy brush.









Make sure that you apply the primer to your entire eyelid. Start near your lash line and work up to the bottom edges of your eyebrows.
 Use a medium size fluffy brush to apply some nude or white eyeshadow to your eyelids. You can use any pale nude or white eyeshadow that suits you. Just make sure that you apply the eyeshadow evenly to your eyelids.
 Next, use your crease brush to apply some light brown eyeshadow to your creases. This will help to accentuate your eyes and create a soft neutral background for your eyeliner. Sweep the brush back and forth along your creases until they are evenly shaded.








Your creases should just look slightly darker than the rest of your eyelids when you are done.
 After you have applied some light brown to your creases, use the same brush to apply a slightly darker shade of brown to the areas of your eyelids just above your creases. Sweep the brush back and forth over these areas until they are evenly shaded.
 Next, you will need to blend the areas above your creases. Take a clean fluffy brush and sweep it around the outer edges of the brown eyeshadow that you just applied. Use this brush to blend the edges with quick sweeping motions.








Blending will help to prevent the brown eyeshadow from creating a stark contrast with your skin.
 To complete the base, take your small fluffy brush and use it to apply a layer of white eyeshadow to your eyelids. Use gentle sweeping motions to apply the white eyeshadow.








Make sure that you only apply the white color to your eyelids. Do not extend the color into your crease or to the areas above your crease.
 To begin lining your eyes, you will need to apply some gel liner to a liner brush. Then, use the brush to draw wings on the outer edges of your eyes. You may want to start with a small wing and go from there.








Start your first line near the outer edge of your upper eyelid and then extend it out and up. The line should have a noticeable swoop shape when you are done.
Then, start your second line just below the first line, near the outer edge of the lower lash. Draw the line in the direction of the other line so that they meet at the ends.
 After you have finished your wings, take a regular black eyeliner and use it to line your upper and lower waterlines and your upper lash line. Create solid, even lines along these areas.








To make it easier for the eyeliner to stick on your waterline, wipe it off with a clean cotton swab before applying. You may also want to use waterproof eyeliner to make sure that the eyeliner will not run., Next, take a small flat brush and use it to line your lower lashes with black eyeshadow. Try to keep the line as close to your lower lash line as possible, but it is okay if it looks a bit smudged.








If you do not have black eyeshadow, then you can use black eyeliner and smudge the edges a little bit.
 To apply the glitter liner, you will need to use a liner brush or a small fine paintbrush that has never been used. Get some glitter adhesive on the brush first and then dip the liner brush into your eye glitter.








To apply the glitter liner, run the tip of the brush along the upper edge your eyeliner, as if you are outlining your eyeliner. Extend the lines of glitter all the way to the tips of your liner wings.
You do not need to line the outer edges of your lower lashes, but you can if you want to.
Keep in mind that you can use any color of glitter that you want.
 To add some shimmery highlights to your eyes, apply a dab of champagne eyeshadow to the inner corners of your lower eyelids, just below your tear ducts.








Champagne works well with gold glitter, but you can use a different eyeshadow color to accent a different glitter color choice. For example, if you used silver glitter, then a light silver eyeshadow will make a nice accent.
 Curling eyelashes with an eyelash curler before applying mascara adds volume and definition to your eyelashes.Hold the eyelash curler close to your eyelids, so that the entire lash is inside of it and pulse the curler gently.








You can also turn the curler upwards slightly as you pulse.
Make sure that your eyelid is not in the curler or you will injure yourself.
 You can complete your look with some black mascara or another color if you prefer. However, keep in mind that black mascara usually produces the most dramatic effects. Apply a few coats of mascara to your upper and lower lashes.








Make sure that you wipe off any excess mascara to avoid clumps. Use a clean tissue or paper towel to wipe off the mascara wand before you apply it., For an even more dramatic effect, you can apply some false eyelashes.When applying false lashes, make sure that you apply the adhesive to the lash band and not to your eyelids. Then, let the adhesive dry for a few seconds before applying to your eyes.









Make sure that you place the false lashes right against your actual lash line.
Never apply false lashes with tweezers or other tools. Use your fingers to apply them.