 It is recommended to make the shape 5 x 5cm (2 x 2 inches).;
, This is now your bunting template.
 This will protect it from the grease in the cookies.
 Line the baking sheet/tray with parchment paper.
, Stir to combine well.
 The thickness is important because the cookies will be hanging and need to be substantial enough to prevent breaking.
 Place the template on the dough and cut around it. Repeat until you have cut all the dough.
 Cut more cookies from the remaining piece.
 Pierce a small hole a that center of the wide end of each triangle. This will be where you insert the bunting ribbon or cord when hanging.


Suitable objects for piercing the hole in the cookies include: skewer, chopstick, toothpick or cocktail stick.
Make the hole large enough for ribbon to pass through but not too large. Be careful to keep plenty of space between the hole and the upper edge of the cookie.
 Place in the oven and bake for about 15-20 minutes, or until they turn golden brown.
 While still hot, check for any closed holes and use the tool to reopen these. Let the cookies sit on the baking sheet/tray for a few minutes, to prevent breakage when moved.
, Mix the icing sugar with the liquid flavoring of choice. If coloring, add food dye as well (see next step for theme suggestions).
 The decoration of the cookies is the fun part and it's entirely up to you––theme it with a party, special occasion or for a holiday event. For example, green for St. Patrick's Day; gold or silver for the holiday season; football colors for football season; pastels or neons fo a child's party, etc.


Ice each cookie.
Add any extras, such as dragées, sprinkles, little candies, etc., while the icing is still wet.
Let dry.
 Tie a knot to hold in place. Each time you add a cookie, angle the cookie to face forward; the knot will help the cookie to stay facing forward.


Leave enough ribbon space for tying up the bunting before adding the first cookie.
 Thread through and tie a knot in place.
 Leave enough space at the end of the ribbon for tying up the bunting.
 Choose a spot that is hygienic, so that the cookies can be eaten later. If children are to eat the cookies, you might like to keep the cookies low enough for them to pluck off later!


Places to hang cookie bunting include: Across a window space, along a clean wall, on the Christmas tree, around a cake or used for a centerpiece display along the table.

