 Harry and Ron always break the rules, but Hermione used to be really sensitive about doing so.What you need to do in most cases is find out what the majority of Hogwarts does. In this case, they have not got a problem with breaking the rules, but don't do it too often.;
, Take online sorting quizzes, but make sure to add your opinion. Do you wish that you are not in Slytherin? Do you absolutely detest Ravenclaws? Are Hufflepuffs too annoying? Are Gryffindors too stubborn and narrow minded? Consider your house carefully and choose.



What house are you in? What's your patronus? Figure it out by taking quizzes on these topics or just choose. Once you've figure out your house, try to brush up on the house's traits. For example, if you're in Gryffindor and you want to be more brave, take a risk, or be more friendly! If you are a Slytherin, put hard work into everything! Don't do anything you don't want to though!

, The Hogwarts students are very fun, brave, and adventurous, but down to earth at the same time. Go to unique places, try new things, and just have fun! Don't jump off a cliff, but maybe try a new, spicy food.Try it and you will learn to love it!

, Voldemort thinks he is above having friends, but he is a cruel person! Spend time with your friends, and don't betray them! If you do it would be very un-Hogwartsish and not nice either.
 These are the common hobbies at Hogwarts. Spell Battles might sound lame, but it honestly is fun when you duel with a friend for fun, or you could try the pottermore version. Some muggle hobbies wizards do are read, paint, play an instrument , bake, play outside, do crafts, goof off with friends, knit, etc.
 Hogwarts students usually dress comfy. If you're a girl, just dress classic. Think button downs, sweaters, blouses, cardigans, oxfords, scarf's, vintage jewelry, etc. Not too much makeup though. Just keep it natural. Since Hogwarts is chilly, they usually wear jumpers, jackets, coats, sweaters and so forth. This is optional, since this is not a part of your personality. Just be yourself.
 Think rustic and old fashioned pieces of furniture. Put up house pride banners, organize it nicely, have a wooden trunk, and put up some Harry Potter Merchandise. If possible, have a four poster bed, coloured with your house colours.
 Who doesn't want to eat like a Hogwarts Student? Buy the Unofficial Harry Potter Cookbook and cook up some food! There's recipes from Pot Roast, to Knickerbocker Glory. You can search online for chocolate frogs, all flavour beans, etc. There are multiple recipes online for butterbeer you can Google.
 Playing Quidditch is a hobby of almost all Hogwarts students, and there is no reason to avoid it. Don't get upset if you lose, but try harder!

,