 Research has shown that crowdedness can vary very heavily with even small changes in departure time, and that choosing a more suitable departure time can improve your travel experience.The simplest model is that crowdedness follows a two-peaked distribution, with the peaks occurring respectively during the morning and evening rush hours. If this simple model applies to your mass transit system, you should try to select travel times that are as far as possible from the respective peaks, subject to other constraints (such as when you need to get to work, what is the earliest you can get up, when you can get off, and when you need to get back home).
One complication is that transit systems vary both the frequency of trains and the length of trains by time of day. Therefore, the load you see in your train car may not scale in sync with the overall system load. One implication of this is that the load can be multi-peaked: for instance, there can be a peak during the actual morning rush hour peak, and there can be another peak when the rush hour service gets scaled down. Patterns vary heavily based on your mass transit system.
Another relatively minor complication arises in cases where the mass transit system has one key business/financial district or university stop that most commuters travel to. In this case, load tends to be maximum for trains that arrive at that financial district close to the start of an hour or half-hour, in line with typical reporting times for work or study. However, this phenomenon is usually not sharp enough because the business district is rarely that heavily concentrated.



A "tipping point" station is one where the passenger load factor crosses from below to above 1, i.e., the train car you are interested in boarding goes from having a few empty seats to having a few people standing. Most stations aren't tipping point stations: for most stations, either the passenger load factor both at the start and the end is less than 1, or the passenger load factor both at the start and end is greater than 1.
Based on the load patterns for your morning transit, you should be able to figure out whether your station is likely to be a tipping point station (note that the tipping point station can vary by daily fluctuation, however, for a given time of day and a given car, it is usually one of 2-3 adjacent stations.
If your station is a tipping point station, it matters whether you are among the first or the last to board the train car. In this case, being a little early to board your train car can make the difference between getting a seat and not getting a seat. You need to observe when the line for your train car starts forming in order to determine your optimal arrival time.
If you are at a tipping point station, and you arrive just in time to catch a train it may be better to let it depart and catch the next train, assuming approximately equal levels of crowding.

