 Hemorrhoids are common, but there are times when they will merit a visit to a doctor. If you notice any type of bleeding from your rectum, see a doctor immediately. He’ll be able to evaluate and rule out any other causes of rectal bleeding. If you experience pain or discomfort, talk to your doctor about pain management and other medications you might consider to fix the issue. Do not take pain or bleeding lightly.


If you are passing stools with irregular colors — most likely a tarry/maroon color — this could be a sign of bleeding somewhere in your digestive system., Hydrocortisone suppositories will help you get rid of the swelling and inflammation in your rectum and anus, both of which are associated with piles. It is very important to strictly follow your doctor’s administration advice.In most cases, hydrocortisone suppositories are administered for a 7 to 10 day period, 2 or 3 times per day.
 Local anesthetics, like Pramoxine, will help relieve itching and pain. After each bowel movement, apply the medical product directly on the affected area. You should repeat the procedure up to four times per day. The treatment should last for about one week., Rubber band ligation is the most common treatment method for Piles, especially in the United States. The procedure consists of the attachment of an elastic band to the base of the inflamed hemorrhoid. The blood flow is restricted, and the pathological tissue will eventually decrease in size and will fall off.After the procedure, it is advised that you keep yourself hydrated and also administer stool softeners. You may administer docusate before you go to bed each night, accompanied by a large glass of water.
 Stapled hemorrhoidopexy is an alternative to the common hemorrhoid removal procedure. For this procedure, a surgeon will use a stapling device, anchoring the piles in their original position after the enlarged piles are removed. The procedure is always performed under general anesthesia and has a very short recovery period compared to other methods., When all the other methods fail in getting rid of your piles, a hemorrhoidectomy is the last resort. When inflamed hemorrhoids occur, or when they become too large, surgical treatment is the only weapon of choice. The procedure starts with a small incision around the internal and external tissues which are affected by the condition. The second step involves the removal of the pathological tissue. Hemorrhoidectomy is the most effective procedure, and also has a very low complication risk. The rehabilitation period may be painful, but despite this disadvantage, a lot of people choose this method.