 In the 1970s, pairing a cropped, fitted t-shirt with denim flares was all the rage. If you are purposefully going for a retro look, definitely wear your flares with cropped tees. However, if your aim is to style flares in a more contemporary way, opt for shirts with a looser fit and longer length. Look for shirts that fall at approximately the hipbone. Highlight the silhouette of your flares by choosing t-shirts in fun colors and graphic elements.Wear a tee with a colorful geometric pattern with clean wash denim flares.
Try a vintage band tee with classic denim flares and vintage sneakers.
 A fitted jacket or blazer that falls at hip length can take your flares from casual to office-ready. For a casual Friday setting, wear high-waisted denim flares in a dark rinse with a cropped jacket with angular lines. For an even dressier “power suit” look, wear trouser flares with a neutral-colored button-down shirt, a wide format belt and a dark navy or black straight-cut blazer.Blazers can create a weekend-casual vibe, as well. Wear a long blazer over a vintage rock band t-shirt and add a pair of platform sandals into the mix for an edgier look.
 Tunics are loose-fitting blouses that are typically made with soft, fluid materials. When you pair a loose-fitting tunic that falls at about mid-thigh with a pair of flares, you can highlight your overall silhouette and create the illusion of height. Shop for tunics in colorful styles and with interesting patterns for a flowy, feminine look. Floral patterns emphasize the feminine side of this look even more, but if you aren’t going for an overly girly look, opt for other types of patterns.Wear a vibrant tunic with a floral pattern with a pair of cropped flares and platform pumps for a feminine vibe.
Choose a tunic in a bright, solid color to create a similar look with less emphasis on gender.
 Get a chic but casual look by wearing a pair of loose-fitting, well-worn flares with a half-tucked button-down or tunic shirt. To keep things simple, choose a shirt in a basic neutral, like white. Roll up the sleeves to the elbows, toss on a cross-body bag and step into a pair of flats for a nonchalant yet fashionable European look.In this scenario, faded and distressed denim flares are flattering and don’t create an overly retro vibe.

