 Add multiple pause events along the timeline of the video, and set them to short durations to slow down the video. Choose the areas where you add the pauses to mainly be empty or silent areas of the video, for example between sentences. This can be useful to allow the viewer time to read and view other instructional or informational content you added to your video using the other types of events.

In cases where you need to give the viewer a warning about the following content in the video. For example, to warn the viewer of spoilers coming ahead, or when the following content contains violent scenes that should not be watched by children. In such cases you can add a pause event and set its duration to 0 so that it will pause the video indefinitely. You can then add a text event containing your warning. You should make sure the start time of the text event is the same as; or before the start time of the pause event.

In cases where you want to give the user a choice of continuing or jumping to another video. For example, if you're creating a series of instructional videos on a certain topic and the series is incremental in level (each episode/lesson targets a more advanced topic than the one before). It might be useful if, after the first few seconds of each video, you add a pause and display a popup event that asks the viewer whether they want to skip to the next lesson, episode. The popup itself should be a link to the next video. If the viewer decides he/she wants to continue this video, they just wait for the 2 or 3 seconds pause duration.

If you are creating an instructional video that requires the viewer to repeat a certain action a set amount of times. Here's an example:

Sports and exercises instructional videos. Especially ones created as a "do-while-you-watch" video. In such cases, shoot the action once. Then, in Popcorn, add a loop event spanning the interval of the action and set the number of loops to the desired number of times. You should however, say something about how many times the action should be repeated before the loop begins. You can also add a text event at the end of the loop saying that this action should be repeated X times.


If you're creating a video that includes a twist at the end of a certain scene and you're not sure everyone watching will get that twist the first time. For example, a kid doing something totally unexpected while playing with his parents that takes a very short time. In such cases, you can add a text event right after the twist happens saying something in the lines of "let's see that again, this time, concentrate on the child in the right corner1". You then add a loop event spanning the whole event.
 For example, if your video contains violent scenes, you can provide viewer with two links, one for children, where you add a skip event spanning the violent scene, and one for adults that doesn't include the skip event. Another case is when the video contains spoilers that you want to remove.

