 Google Inbox can sort incoming messages into labels based on what the email is about or who it is from. New messages in a label can then be grouped, or "bundled", in your inbox. When you receive a new message in a bundled label, the bundle will be moved to the top of your inbox.


Bundles make organizing your incoming messages much simpler, and let you see at a glance what your new messages are about.
Google Inbox automatically bundles certain types of messages into the Travel, Purchases, Finance, Social, Updates, Forums, and Promos labels.;
, Bundles will appear in your inbox based on their delivery time settings. Tapping the bundle will show all of the new messages that are in it.


Depending on the content of your bundle, you may be able to scroll right and left to see everything in the bundle.
These instructions work the same for the browser version of Google Inbox.
 Your bundled labels will be listed first, followed by your unbundled labels.


Labels that are unbundled will show each new message with that label as it arrives.
 After you're finished with a message, you can swipe it to the right or tap the checkmark to mark it as Done. This will hide it from the inbox.
 You can mark all of the messages in a bundle as done by "Sweeping" the bundle. Swipe the bundle to the right in your inbox or tap the Sweep button when the bundle is open to mark every message in the bundle as Done. This will hide the bundle from the inbox (until a new message in the bundle is received)

,, You can do this by selecting a bundle from your Inbox, or by opening the Google Inbox menu and selecting any of your bundled or unbundled labels.



Click here for instructions on creating new labels.
 It looks like a gear at the top of the screen.
 Every label can be bundled in your inbox. This will group all incoming messages that match the label under the label's name in your inbox.


Tap the "Bundle message's in inbox" slider to turn bundling ON or OFF.
 This option only appears when bundling is switched off.
 You can set your bundled messages to only appear once a day or once a week, which can be useful for messages that don't require immediate action.


By default, bundled messages will appear in your inbox as soon as they are received.
 Tap the notifications slider ON or OFF to toggle your notification settings. If notifications are off, your phone will not alert you when a new message in the bundle is received.
 By adding new messages to the appropriate bundle, your bundles will become more effective.


Open a message you want to add to a bundle, or select multiple messages.
Tap the menu button at the top of the screen.
Select the bundle you want to move the message(s) into.
New messages from those senders will be automatically added to that bundle.
 If you find a message that doesn't belong in a bundle, removing it will help prevent future similar messages from being bundled improperly.


Open the message you want to move out of the bundle.
Tap the menu button at the top of the screen.
Tap "Remove from Label".

