 Speaking sympathetically with someone about eating disorders involves a great deal of active listening. Allow them to tell you what they want to say without any disruptive interjections.


Let them know that you are really listening by making eye contact and by giving other verbal and physical cues (nodding your head, offering verbal tokens of agreement, etc.).
 Don’t abandon them after they’ve discussed their problem with you. You shouldn’t just leave them to get on with it on their own after they have divulged this information. Eating disorders are a very serious thing.

Don't go around spreading their secret unless you think they are in serious danger. Respect their privacy and emotions as long as you feel like they aren’t seriously hurting themselves.
 Try not to go out to restaurants with the person too much as eating out is often difficult and uncomfortable for someone with an eating disorder.


When you take them somewhere, try to consider ahead of time whether or not food will be present and if you think it will trigger them.
 Let the person know that you're there for them, in any aspect, and not just for things relating to the disorder. Tell the person that you are available if they need to talk – whether it is about the eating disorder or anything else in their life.People with eating disorders need to feel loved and supported for them to have a good chance at recovery.
 Remember that they are not just an eating disorder. So many times others will treat someone with an eating disorder as if they are simply diseased and no longer functioning. But people with eating disorders are still people, so make sure you treat them that way.When someone is suffering from a condition like this, it can be even more painful when people treat you differently or can’t seem to see past the illness.
 Not all people who have an eating disorder look the same, which may make it easy for some people to deny that the problem is serious. However, keep in mind that it is the person’s disordered behavior that is the problem.

Try to let go of any ideas about what you think the person should look like and just listen to what they have to say.
 Eating disorders are diseases that usually need professional help to work through and overcome. It is something that this person will probably deal with for the rest of their life, so it will be good for them to have a support system that includes a medical professional to help them through their recovery.A counselor can help advise the person on methods for treating their eating disorder. They can also give tips on how to get through rough patches or just listen objectively and supportively to the person’s feelings about themselves and their eating disorder.

