 The fitting of the vest is very important to successfully wearing a menswear-inspired vest. Since these are typically placed in women’s wardrobes from family members and boyfriends, it’s important that your vest fits before incorporating in into your wardrobe. Put on a t-shirt or sweater and try on the vest.


The important aspects to pay attention to are the shoulders and the width. The shoulders shouldn’t extend over your shoulder line. The width of the vest, when buttoned, should fit without feeling floppy. A good fitting vest should be a little snug, but not uncomfortable.The vest shouldn’t extend, lengthwise, past your belt line.
 There are several retail chains that sell menswear vests. You can also receive or borrow vests from family and friends. Thrift stores will also have a big selection of vests. Browse through one of these retail clothing stores for a menswear-inspired vest that will be found in the women's section:


Express, Old Navy, and Steve & Barry's are all good places to find one.
 You should have a vague idea of which colors you often wear. If you’re unsure, browse through your wardrobe. Take note of certain clothes or outfits that you especially enjoy wearing. Take a few of your favorite tops and bottoms out and lay them on the bed.


This will help you create a visual of how the vest will fit into your favorite outfits.
 Complementary colors are colors that are opposite to each other on the color wheel. After sorting through your clothes, you can pick out a vest that matches your clothes and tastes based off the complementing colors. Look at a color wheel to determine which colors are complementary; for example:


A yellow top would benefit from a violet or a reddish violet vest. A blue vest would complement an orange or reddish orange top., Another easy way to match your vest with your outfits is by combining neutral colors. Neutral colors are colors that do not attract too much attention from others. While this sounds boring, it is a good way to look sleek and subtle. The easiest way to match your outfits is by using a monochromatic scheme, which means everything is the same color. Here are a list of neutral colors:


Black
Beige
Taupe
Olive, Analogous colors are a combination of colors that are directly next to each other on the color wheel. This is a great way to achieve a harmonious mood. An analogous combination would be red, purple, and blue or orange, red, and purple.


You can use two analogous colors if you want to stay subtle.
Analogous color combinations becomes more lively with contrasts between them like shade, tone, or tint.