 Be interested in your child’s life, and check in with them on a regular basis. Ask questions like what they’re working on in school, how their friends are, and what’s been getting under their skin lately.Give your child your full attention when you talk with them. Kids know when you’re tuning them out or just pretending to be interested.
Don’t try to force your child to talk to you if they don’t want to, but do let them know that you’re available whenever they want to share something.;
, To have a close relationship with your child, it’s important to do more than just talk with them. Find some activities you can do together on a regular basis, such as cooking a meal, going for a walk, or working on a hobby you share. Use your time together to catch up and bond over shared interests.As you spend time with your child, make sure that you are modeling good behaviors for them. Avoid fighting with or criticizing your spouse when your child is around.
 Let your child know that you’re rooting for them, and offer sincere praise when they do something well. Don’t just focus on their achievements and skills – notice their positive personality traits like kindness, generosity, and helpfulness, too.For instance, you could say something like, “Jessica, I’m impressed that you stayed to help Maria clean up after her birthday party. That was thoughtful of you.”
Try to avoid criticizing your child as well. If they do something wrong, point out the behavior and then explain why it is not acceptable.
 Your behavior at home could be inadvertently influencing bullying in your child. If you're a parent who thinks children must be controlled by adults, you might use excessive disciplinary approaches. As a result, your child comes to believe that they must do the same to get their way.Observe your behaviors and take note of any excessive control techniques. Instead of trying to control your child, focus on teaching them to control themselves by helping them identify problem behaviors and come up with reasonable solutions on their own.
 Build up your child’s confidence by letting them try new things and solve their own problems. Ask them to take on household tasks that reflect their skills and interests.