 It shouldn't be that hard to master if you've already beaten every other song.


The guitar break and solo A. You cannot beat this song if you can't get at least 70-80% on these parts. You must be in the high green after this part if you want to succeed because you are about to play...
Solos B and C. The hardest section so far in the Guitar Hero universe, this monster of a solo is probably going to be the reason for your future arthritis. There is no real technique for this part (except tapping, but if you are just trying to squeak by the song, it's not a good idea) except button mashing and strumming-speed. You will probably want to consistently get 60% on this part before you move on.
Solo F and Bridge. Once you hit the blue note of freedom, you should pass the song, but if you fail at this last hard part, you will be kicking yourself in the face. Once again strumming speed is important in the bridge.
Hammer-Ons and Pull-offs. Jordan has a lot of these especially in the beginning. Play the tutorial to learn how to do them.;
, When you hit the ascending scale slide your finger up from green to red so you can hit the B-O-B notes.
Break - I prefer a 123-123-123 fingering on this, and I strum every 3 notes. 123-123-234 also works pretty well.
Solo A - There are two ways to do this. Either a) pull off every note as shown and strum every three notes. or b) play 4 notes at a time to ensure that you hit every note when the notes skip. Also holding lower notes so you can focus on the high notes might help, but it will require more practice.
Solo B - This will mostly consist of button mashing and ultra-fast strumming, but try to hit the extended trills because that is the easiest part.
Solo C - Strum slightly slower that solo B (maybe a little bit less than Misirlou speed). Again, there isn't much of a technique here except try to hit as many notes as you can.
Bridge - Hold green the whole time. If you prefer, you can hammer-on the note after the two quick green notes. Strumming speed is slower than you probably think. Experiment until you find it.



Save your star power until solo B. Do not activate your star power until your rock meter is in the blinking red. Get through the first break in solo B before you use your star power. This activation may require using the select button.
Once you hit the Blue Note of Freedom, You have to start saving up your star power again for Solo F and the Bridge. There are a few star power phrases in the bridge but chances are you won't hit them. If you activate star power in the middle of Solo F you should be able to knock out most of the Bridge.

