;
, For stranded wiring you'll want to twist the exposed strands back into a single cord. Remove 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) from one end and an inch or so of insulation from the other end.
 Attach an alligator clip to other end of the wire. Secure the connection by crimping it w/ pliers.
 Secure it in place with some electrical tape.
 Tighten the tube's diameter to a width that can accommodate the batteries with a snug fit. Secure the tube's width by folding up the bottom end and stapling it shut at the crease. Put a rubber band around the top of the tube.
 Position the wire so that the alligator clip sticks out the top of the cardboard tube - you can use the rubber band to hold the clip in place. Insert the remaining batteries into the tube in the same order (-+;-+;-+;-+) as the first one.
 The V2 cartridge's shown in the pictures have female connectors. You can improvise a male connector by wrapping a screw (which will be the center terminal) with insulating tape and then cutting a "T" shaped piece of sheet metal and bending it to fit between the cartridge's outer terminal and around the taped core of the center terminal. So long as the center terminal (in this case the screw or nail) is electrically insulated from the outer ring it'll work fine. Also shown is the male connector from an NJOY cartridge being used as a female to male adaptor for the V2 cartridge.
 To use the ecig, just touch the cartridge's center lead (the screw) to the positive terminal of the battery at the top of the cardboard tube when you draw on the cartridge mouthpiece. It makes a distinct sizzling noise. But don't allow it to contact the battery terminal when not in use - the filament inside the cartridge will overheat. Nor should you allow the alligator clip itself to contact the top battery since that will short the circuit. Make adjustments such as strategically tearing the cardboard, bending the wire, and moving the rubber band such that the cartridge's central shaft does not normally touch the battery at the top of the tube.

