 Some infections and diseases can be prevented with proper vaccinations. If you get the vaccinations you need each year, you can avoid catching certain infections, such as the flu. The flu can lead to serious complications, especially if you are trying to recover from a surgery or other serious health condition.Many adults do not have the vaccinations against hepatitis B and pneumococcal disease (which can cause pneumonia). If you have not had these vaccines, speak with your doctor;
, Doctors are aware that patients have concerns about contracting infections in the hospital, and they should be willing to talk to you about it. For instance, if you're going to have surgery, ask about how the hospital lowers the risk that you'll get an infection.Tell your doctor if you've been sick recently, as that can increase your chance of infection. If your doctor knows of your illness, the hospital can take extra steps to help prevent infection.In some cases, the surgery will need to be delayed until the infection is treated and brought under control, or else it can spread to the surgical site.Also, ask if you can be tested for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Many people carry this bacteria, but it can be introduced into your system when you have a surgery or are in the hospital, which can lead to a dangerous infection. If you test positive, your doctor and staff can work harder to prevent infection. You should have the test done at least a week before you enter the hospital., If you have a scheduled surgery or hospital stay, getting as healthy as possible before going in can help you fight off infection. One big step you can take is to stop smoking, as that can increase your chance of infection.Also, try exercising and eating healthily to boost your immune system and be at a healthy weight.
Monitor your blood sugar if you're a diabetic. If you keep your sugars in range, it can help you fight off infection.
 For at least three days before your hospital stay, shower once or twice a day with chlorhexidine soap. This soap is an antibacterial soap that can help remove bacteria from your skin before you enter the hospital. Often, infections are introduced to your body by bacteria on your own skin, so removing some of it can help prevent infection.You can usually find this soap over-the-counter at most pharmacies or from online stores. If you can't find it, ask your doctor about it.

