 Before you begin, you should have an introductory understanding of yoga and its benefits. You should generally view yoga as more than just a series of stretches and poses; it is also meant to inspire a high level of consciousness in the practitioner.;
, The Four Limbed Staff pose is part of a broader sequence known as the sun salutation. This series is designed to energize your body for the new day and awaken your mind. Approach this pose with a clear mind; you are supposed to open yourself up to the possibilities of the new day.
 Yoga should never make you feel like you are in pain. While your muscles might be flexed and tested, you should never feel like you have ripped or pulled a muscle. If you start to feel sharp pain or a pinching sensation, stop the exercise.
 The four-limbed staff position is a relatively advanced yoga pose. You have to have a strong set of core muscles in order to practice it successfully.


If you cannot hold this pose, you can consider substituting in the Cobra Pose or the Locust Pose, which strengthen a similar set of muscles but don't put as much pressure on your core., You will need a place where you can fully extend into a plank position. Use a yoga mat in order to protect your joints from the hard surface of the floor.


If you are in a crowded space, such as a packed yoga class, make sure you have enough room to hold the pose. You will need the entire length of the mat.
 This position will prepare your transition to the plank-like position of pose. It will also give you time to adjust to to horizontal position of the pose.


Hold this pose for for 5 seconds in order to prepare for the transition into the Four Limbed Staff Pose.
Be sure not to transition out of this pose too quickly. You need to use these preparatory steps to maintain your balance in a horizontal position.
 Bend your knees slightly so that your palms are resting flat on the ground.


Look up slowly. If you snap your eyes up too quickly, blood will rush to your head and you might get dizzy.
 In order to do this, first lower your torso. Bend your knees and step your right foot all the way back. Follow with your left foot.


Ensure that your back and legs form a straight line. Your wrists should be directly below your shoulders; don't put them out in front of you.
As you move your legs backward, be sure to push your chest forward with the same amount of force. If you do not balance your weight between your chest and your legs, this will throw off your alignment.You might be tempted to stick your tailbone up to the ceiling or to dip your lower back down to the floor. Avoid doing this as it will disrupt your alignment. Instead keep your tailbone tucked in so you are properly centered above the ground.
 Your body should be parallel to the ground. Pull your belly button up towards your spine. Keep your shoulders parallel with your elbows.


Tuck your chin in slightly so your head and neck are aligned with your torso.
Make sure your arms do not stick out, perpendicular to your body. This will put an inappropriate amount of stress on your neck.
Try to hold the post for 10-30 seconds in order to fully strengthen and develop your muscles.
 Lay your arms out by your sides and rest for several breaths.

