 Ask your readers to get involved. If the readers feel like the site owner is interested in them, they will be more likely to continue coming back. Calls to action engage the reader, and helps keep them on the page. Calls to action may include asking the reader to write in with responses, sound off in the comments, or visit a site.
 Comments are a great way to stay in touch with your readers. Respond to good comments on your articles, and use the comment space to ask questions. Taking a few minutes each day to respond to the most well thought out comments will do wonders for your community.
 Stay connected with other blogs that relate to yours. Leave comments on their posts and interact with the communities. Don’t hawk your site, but allow people to find their way to it.
 Guest posts are a great way to drive traffic between related blogs, and allow you to gain readers that might not normally make it to your site. Be sure to allow any guest posters to link back to their own site, and share any guest posts the same as you would your own posts.
 A forum is a place for your site’s community to gather together and discuss everything from your site to anything else. Active forums are also a great way to become more visible in searches. See this guide for details on creating your own forum.


As your site grows, you may need to appoint moderators to your forum. If a community grows toxic, it can have a negative effect on the traffic to your site. A good moderation policy is always important for online communities.
 Besides using links, you must make use of numerous other ways to increase web traffic. There a lot of ways you can advertise your site, both online and offline:


If you have money, consider pay per click. The big search engines like Google, Yahoo, Microsoft provide advertising packages. But find out first how to limit your expenditure to the level you want.
Go beyond the electronic medium and into the print medium. Advertise in local newspapers, business brochures, magazines, nationwide publications and mail-drop literature. And don't forget the perennial favorite, the good old Yellow Pages™ - printed version naturally!
Small business cards left in cafés, on signboards, exchanged at meetings etc.
Use local resources such as clubs, libraries and community centers for non-profit website awareness raising.
Use word of mouth. Tell everyone you know about your website, give out business cards to passers-by in the street, and so on. You might even want to run a guerrilla marketing program!
Use your car, especially if your website is area-specific (e.g. a website detailing local events or selling local services). Get some vinyl decals or bumper stickers created and turn your car into a moving advertisement, literally driving traffic to your web site!

