 If you have been diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus, you may need additional prenatal care visits throughout your pregnancy so that your physician or healthcare team can teach you how to take care of your new condition.


If you have never had gestational diabetes before, following a new dietary, exercise, and medical regimen may be confusing and difficult. Having gestational diabetes means you must pay special attention to everything you eat, and learn how to manage your diet so that your blood sugar stays within a healthy range. Your healthcare team can help you learn the essentials for managing your gestational diabetes.
Gestational diabetes places your baby at a higher risk for certain birth complications (such as jaundice, hypoglycemia, Type 2 diabetes, and prematurity), and it also may place you at a higher risk for a medically necessary C-section, high blood pressure, and future obesity or diabetes. Your healthcare providers will want to monitor you closely to prevent as many of these complications as possible.
In some cases, your healthcare provider may recommend medication in addition to a healthy diet, exercise, and regular blood glucose monitoring.;
, Gestational diabetes requires regular checks of the amount of sugar in your blood.


Your doctor may want you to check your own blood sugar multiple times per day. He or she may teach you how to use a blood glucose monitor that requires you to prick your finger.
If your blood glucose level improves significantly from your diet and exercise routine during pregnancy, your doctor may reduce the frequency with which you have to monitor your blood sugar. '
Tell your delivery team about your gestational diabetes so that they can take charge of monitoring your blood sugar and the blood sugar level of your baby during and after delivery. Your blood glucose level will likely return to normal shortly after birth, but many healthcare providers prefer to monitor your blood sugar for several months postpartum to detect any risks or problems.



When you are diagnosed with gestational diabetes, your health provider should offer you a nutritional consultation or dietary coaching session. A dietitian or nutritionist with experience in diabetic nutrition should be able to provide you with sample meal plans.
Eat plenty of whole grains (think whole wheat bread instead of white bread), lean protein, low-fat dairy, and vegetables. Starchy foods like potatoes, cookies, and cakes can make blood sugar spike, which is dangerous for you and for the baby, so limit your intake or avoid them altogether. Also eat only limited amounts of fruit, and avoid sugary drinks like soda, juice, energy drinks, and sports drinks.
 This is important whether or not you exercised before you became pregnant.


One of the most effective ways to control blood glucose levels is to engage in regular physical activity. If you have little experience exercising or if you are uncomfortable doing significant activity, try starting with regular walks. Even short periods of walking and stretching can help regulate your blood sugar.
If you are already an avid walker, consider adding additional exercise to your daily routine. Low-impact activities, such as swimming or riding a stationary bike, can help boost the benefits of your exercise routine by encouraging your body to improve its regulation of blood glucose.



Friends and family will be essential to helping you follow your diet and exercise regimen while keeping your stress levels low. Gestational diabetes can be frustrating and scary, and a supportive group of friends and relatives can help you manage the stress so that you can focus on taking care of yourself and your baby.
Because gestational diabetes mellitus requires certain major lifestyle changes, invite a friend or family member to participate in the changes with you. Walking with a neighbor or the baby’s father can help relieve stress and improve health for both of you, and adopting a diet low in simple carbohydrates can be a positive dietary change for the entire family. Use your health condition and your pregnancy as a source of encouragement for making positive changes in your own and your loved ones’ health.
If you have questions or concerns, remember that your healthcare team is there to support you. Call their office or schedule a visit if you are having trouble coping with your condition or if you need additional assistance on managing your diet, exercise requirements, or blood glucose monitoring.
Use online resources to help manage your condition. Websites specializing in the treatment of gestational diabetes and the prevention of future health complications can provide important information. Many websites also offer sample meal plans, Internet gestational diabetes support groups, medical advice, simple exercise routines, and tips on what to expect during delivery and beyond.

