 Heat 1 cup (236 ml) of whole milk to 110 degrees F (40 C). Pour it into a mixing bowl and sprinkle 2 1/4 teaspoons (1 packet or 7 g) of active dry yeast and 1/2 teaspoon of sugar over the milk. Whisk the mixture a little and let it rest for 5 minutes.If the yeast has activated properly, the mixture will look a little frothy or foamy after 5 minutes. If it hasn't frothed at all, you will need to start again. Ensure that your active yeast hasn't expired.
 While you can mix the dough by hand, it's easier to use a stand mixer. Turn the mixer on to low and stir in:2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature
2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons dried rosemary
2 teaspoons dried basil
2 teaspoons dried parsley
1 teaspoon garlic powder (or 1 1/2 teaspoons minced garlic)
2 cups (250 g) of the bread flour

, Beat the dough for one minute on low and stir in the last one cup (125 g) of bread flour. Beat it for another minute as the dough comes together. The dough should begin to pull away from the sides of the bowl and form a shaggy mass.If the dough is still too sticky and clings to the sides, add one tablespoon of flour at a time until it pulls away.
 Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and dump the dough onto it. Knead the dough for 2 minutes. The dough should become smooth and elastic.You can knead the dough any way you like. A good starter method is to use the palm of your hand to push the dough away from you. Fold the dough back over and turn the dough 45 degrees. Push it away from you again. Continue pushing, folding, and turning.
 Spray a large bowl with cooking spray and roll the dough in it, so the dough is completely coated in oil. You should also spray a sheet of plastic wrap and lay it over the bowl with the dough. Let the dough rest in a warm place for about 2 hours. It should double in volume.Proving, or resting the dough, just lets the yeast expand, so your dough rises.
 Remove the plastic wrap and dump the dough onto a floured surface. Punch down right in the middle of the dough, so any air trapped in the dough is released. Use a bench scraper or knife to divide the dough into 12 pieces.Each piece should be about the size of a golf ball.
 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Spray a 10 to 12-inch (25 to 30-cm) skillet with cooking spray and place the rolls in it. Melt the last 2 tablespoons of butter in a small prep bowl and dip a pastry brush in it. Brush the rolls with the melted butter and sprinkle the tops with coarse sea salt. Lay the plastic wrap on top of the rolls and let them prove for 30 to 45 minutes. They should double in volume.Just set the same greased plastic wrap that you used before over the skillet. You don't need to cover the skillet tightly or the wrap may stick to the dough.
 Remove the plastic wrap and put the skillet in the oven. Bake the rolls for 25 to 28 minutes. They should become golden brown. Carefully remove them from the oven and serve them with leftover melted butter.You can store the leftover rolls in the refrigerator for up to one week. You can also freeze them in an airtight container for up to three months.

