 Walk into your freshman year with your head held high, unafraid and willing to start this new chapter! The future is in your hands!;
, Developing a relationship with your teachers is an important thing because when you're wrapping up your high school career you will need those connections. If you seem eager they are also more likely to give you some useful advice for homework projects and exam revision.

Make sure to introduce yourself after the first class; let them know you are excited for their course and for this school year.
 There is no better way to feel connected to your school than by being a part of it! By joining something in your school you meet new people with a common interest and without even realizing it, you will have made a bond that could last a lifetime.
 You do not want to be that student at the end of the semester who has to beg, borrow and steal for those extra few points. Chances are, if you're keeping up with homework and studying you'll do just fine.
 Your teachers became educators to make a positive difference in your life. They do not want to see you fail, let them know you are struggling and need help. It is better to ask for help now than retake a course later!

, Right now, it may not seem all the rage to be decked out all of spirit week, but trust those who no longer have done it, they end up being some of the greatest weeks of your four years in high school. You will develop more positive feelings towards your school by showing you are proud to be a (insert mascot here).
 Don't be the teenager who sits inside playing video games or watches TV all night on the weekends. Find your friends, go out and have fun. Your years in high school are not merely defined by what you do in the classroom; a lot of your memories should include the things you did with your friends. You know, those crazy things that you can only get away with when you're under 18.
 There will be points during your high school career where you want to cry, pull your hair out and possibly just drop out of school all together. But if you learn to laugh it off, everything will be okay. The truth is, high school can be emotionally draining. Between school work, drama and just growing up, you will be spread so thin at times; however, it's important to keep in mind that it won't last forever. Smile and learn to laugh.
 Pete Rose once said "you owe it to yourself to be the best you possibly can be." Sure, he was talking baseball, but it is so apparent in high school. If you do not constantly push yourself, you will never realise your true potential.

By senior year you will realise that you know practically nothing about life because you are only just getting started.
By challenging yourself, you can be the best version of yourself and that is an important lesson that can carry you throughout your lifetime. Because maybe you don't know much about life, but you may be a pro at chem, music, or English. The only way to know is to try to find out.
 Each year of high school gets a little tougher. Both in and out of the classroom. You're growing up! You get your braces off, then you get your permit, you take those dreaded SAT/ACT tests and all of a sudden you are applying to college. You may feel like you're drowning... but that is totally normal. But just recognize the fact that you're doing it. You're alive, you're here and you are still swinging.

