 Your body’s level of estrogen drops significantly during and after menopause, stopping your periods and causing vaginal atrophy – drying and thinning of the walls of your vagina. Thus, the most common way to improve vaginal dryness is by replacing lost estrogen. Using estrogen may not be safe for some women, however. Discuss your issue with your doctor or OB/GYN so they can ask you your health history and do an exam.You can also have low estrogen if you’ve had your ovaries removed or had chemotherapy cancer treatment.
You shouldn’t use estrogen if you have or ever had breast cancer or endometrial cancer.
Don’t use estrogen if you have undiagnosed vaginal bleeding.
 Replace estrogen locally by using an estrogen cream like Estrace or Premarin. Insert the cream into your vagina with an applicator. Use it every day for 1-2 weeks, then 1-3 times per week – or however your doctor suggests you use it.Estrogen also comes in tablet form, like Vagifem. Insert the tablet into your vagina with an applicator daily for two weeks, then twice a week thereafter for as long as you need it.
Vaginal estrogen is considered safe for long-term use., If you don’t want to use the cream, there are other options. Try an estrogen ring like Estring – a flexible ring that you insert into your vagina that releases estrogen to the local tissues. If inserting it is challenging, ask your doctor to do it for you. The ring only needs to be changed every three months.You can leave the ring in place during sex.
 Prasterone, or dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), is a non-estrogen vaginal suppository. Insert the capsule into your vagina daily. This can be a good option if you want to use local vaginal therapy but want to avoid estrogen., The medication ospemifene (Osphena) isn’t estrogen, but it’s similar to it and it acts similarly in your vagina. This pill can help improve vaginal dryness.You may have hot flashes as a side effect.
This medication can increase your risk for blood clots or cancer of the uterus, and you shouldn’t use it if you have or have ever had breast cancer. Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this medication., HRT involves taking estrogen supplements by mouth so that the level of estrogen in your whole body increases, not just in and around your vagina. This can be helpful if you have severe symptoms of menopause like hot flashes. However, it’s more likely to cause side effects and can increase your risk for some cancers.HRT is available as a prescription in pill form, as well as a patch, an under-the-skin implant, or a gel you put on your skin.
Weigh the risks and benefits of HRT with your doctor.

