 Only consider this if your hamster has come in contact with a toxic substance that can't be spot cleaned, and you can't bring it immediately to the vet. It is not uncommon for hamsters to die from being bathed, either by drowning or because they got sick after the bath.Some situations that might warrant a bath include:


It fell in something that was potentially dangerous or toxic such as neat disinfectant, white spirit, corrosive substances such as an acid, nail polisher remover
The coat got covered in something that would be toxic or cause a stomach upset if the animal groomed and swallowed it (non-food substances such as those mentioned, or chocolate, jam, honey)
The hamster was covered in something really sticky which could irritate the skin (chewing gum that could not be removed by spot cleaning or cutting fur) or that would cause a bowel obstruction if the hamster chewed it off the skin (blu tac, putty, wax) or a substance that would damage the skin such as urine

, If you absolutely must bathe your hamster as a last resort, get a bowl and fill it with a couple centimeters of lukewarm water., Moisten your hamster, taking care to keep the water away from her face. You can also use a cloth or an old toothbrush with soft bristles to gently clean the hamster. Again, make sure not to get water on or near the hamster's face. , If water alone will not remove the toxic or sticky substance, you can use a very small amount of the mildest unscented pet shampoo you can find. Be very careful to keep the shampoo and water away from your hamster's face.
 If you used any shampoo, be sure to use plain lukewarm water to rinse the hamster off and completely remove any shampoo residue., Place your hamster on top of a dry towel and use the other end of the towel or a second towel to gently pat your pet dry. If you rub, be sure to do so very gently in the direction of its fur.
 Make sure to get most of the water off before putting your hamster back in its cage to sleep off its agitation. Make sure your hamster has plenty of substrate to dry itself on and to keep it warm.

