 Part of getting a new dog to listen to you is to give it a name and teach your dog this new name. To begin, start by getting your dog’s attention through positive reinforcement. Say your dog’s name and then give it a treat. This will help your dog associate its name with a positive reward. After a few days of this, start transitioning from treats to praise so that the positive reinforcement is still there.When your dog is not paying attention and you say its name, it should turn toward you. In these situations, say “yes!” and give the dog a treat or praise.;
, Start small with basic commands and try to practice perfecting these. Don’t get too ambitious in the beginning. It may just confuse your dog and make it harder for your dog to listen to you in the future.Consider starting with the “sit” command. This is typically an easy one for new dogs to learn, and a good one to build on with other commands.
 Your dog will have a hard time learning to listen to you if there are too many other things happening around them. Try to work on training your dog in a quiet place where there are few distractions.Try working in a room away from the rest of your family. Or work in a quiet park or other outdoor space (like your backyard).
 Start with a basic “sit” command, by pressing firmly, but not super hard, on the dog's rear end. Say "sit" as you do this.After a couple of days of doing this, try it with a hand motion. If the dog doesn't listen, it doesn't know the word.
Eventually you will be able to make your dog sit without hand motions.
 Follow these steps again with more advanced commands. As your dog masters one task, move on to another one. This will keep your dog learning, listening to you, and looking to you for commands.For example, once your dog learns how to sit and you have practiced it repeatedly, start teaching your dog how to come. This new command will build on the old one.
 Don’t get lazy with your training. Be sure to stay on top of your training and practice it daily with your dog. Being consistent and doing things over and over will help your dog learn to listen to you more than anything.If you have certain rules or commands, make sure you stick to them all the time. For example, if you don’t want your dog to get on the bed, never let it get up there. Don’t get lazy one day or decide you want to cuddle with your dog and make an exception. This will only confuse your dog and make it wonder what you want and when to listen to you.

