 Find a fun type of penmanship (check out dafont.com) and use it! Practice it, writing the whole alphabet in capitals and lowercase. You can also write the sentence, "the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog", which uses every letter in the English alphabet.


If you want to write a sentimental or sincere note, use your normal handwriting or a more sophisticated or plain penmanship.
Practice in your preferred writing utensil. Whether you'll use pencil, marker, pen, Sharpie, etc. you should work on the handwriting with that utensil. Otherwise, it may not appear as you originally thought it would.

There's more differences in writing with marker than with Sharpie than you'd think!

;
, From whatever type of writing utensil you've chosen, pick some nice colors that go together. Being colorful is part of writing a fun note to your friend, especially if your note doesn't want to come across as too serious. Being colorful (and maybe even obnoxious with them) is part of the excitement!


For bright colors, you can use purple, pink, sky blue, lime green, and baby blue.
For dark colors, you can use maroon, blue, purple, brown, green, silver, and gold.
 Put "Hey!" "Hello!" "Heyyy!" "What's up?" "Hi-hi!", etc. If you're close with the person, you can even give her pet names, with introductions such as "Hey there, Angel!" "How are you, gorgeous?" "Hey babe!" "Hello xoxo" "Hey there, love <3" etc. Have a great greeting that matches your letter.


For a serious note, start with, "How are you?" "Keep your chin up, beautiful" "Guess who cares?" "Guess who loves you?" "It only gets better xoxo" "You fine?" "Hey lovely", etc.
 Mention her best features and recognize funny moments. If you have a topic, stay on track. Show your meaning on certain words with cursive, capitals, etc. Let her know you care and enjoy her company. Have fun writing, most importantly!


Don't put down anything you'll regret. Even if they don't notice or care, it'll hurt you.
 Write some words big, in all capitals, in cursive, italics, bold, and other things. Put a funny remark on the page, but thinly put a line through it. Add lots of exclamation points or question marks when necessary.
 Use quotes or important notes. Be her role model through a letter, in case you ever have to be apart. Remind her that she's special, and somebody important to you who shouldn't blend with the crowd.


If she's not overly-sensitive and you're very close, you might be able to nudge at a small flaw of hers (always recover with a compliment or quote afterward).
 End with a quote, an inspiration piece, a saying, a casual remark, a funny joke, or an inside joke. Something that you come up with. Sign the letter, with a final closing such as "love" "sincerely" "yours" "forever" "always" "anytime" etc.


Have a signature. Whether it's your name in cursive or a heart, xoxo, a note in the P.S., etc. End every single note from there on with this signature.

