 Walleye fish are found in different areas depending on the season and type of location. Walleye change their habits based on their spawning schedules. In spring, you can find walleye along sandy shallow areas 3-10 feet from the shore of lakes and rivers. Fish at a depth of about 3-8 feet, depending on the depth of the body of water. You can also find them in the river current. Look for sand near rocky embankments, tree stumps, or other objects in the water. Walleye spawn near these areas, especially in early spring.


You are most likely going to catch smaller males near the spawning beds during this time of year. Females go farther down to hide from the sun and other fish. If you want to catch larger females, you need to fish a little deeper, 10-15 feet into the water.
Walleye are school fish, so they travel in groups. Once you catch one walleye, you are likely to catch another., Once the weather and water start to warm up, walleye go deeper into the water or hide in thick weeds. You can also look for islands with gravel patches, rocky drop offs, or areas near the mouth of a river. During the summer, especially when it gets really hot, the walleye will most likely be found 15-35 feet deep. They only come to the shoreline at night to feed.


Some of the smaller walleye will be in shallower areas, usually the smaller males., Fishing for walleye in the fall can be frustrating, but it can be done. Due to the decrease in temperature and the dying vegetation in the water, walleye move away from the shoreline and go deeper into the water. Look upstream around deep pools or back moving currents if you are fishing for walleye in rivers. In lakes, walleye go into the middle areas far away from shore and stay around 10-25 feet deep.


If you are fishing in lakes, you may need a depth finder to help you locate where the walleye are congregating.
Nights during the fall bring large female walleye out of the water. Between 10:00 pm and 3:00 am, walleye can be found along rocky shoals around 2-3 feet deep.Although you can fish for walleye in the winter, the fish are mostly inactive. It is much harder to catch them this time of year. Considering there is a great population of them in the northern United States as well, winter can get extremely harsh. This is especially the case in parts of Canada and along the great lakes.

