 The first step in determining whether your dog is healthy enough to travel begins in your vet’s office. Make an appointment with your vet and let them know the location, duration, and mode of travel. They will then be able to perform the necessary exams and tests to determine if your senior dog is healthy enough to travel.;
, Senior dogs are more likely to suffer from chronic conditions that might affect their ability to travel healthfully. Talk to your vet about your senior dog’s chronic condition and whether or not it is safe for your pet to travel. Common chronic conditions in older dogs that can complicate travel include, but are not limited to:


Arthritis
Heart disease
Obesity

, Aging dogs often experience canine cognitive dysfunction, sometimes referred to as dog dementia. Traveling with a dog who is experiencing cognitive dysfunction should be carefully considered with the help of your veterinarian. Symptoms of canine cognitive dysfunction include:Wandering aimlessly
Urinating indoors
Defecating indoors
Extreme agitation
Anxiety

, While motion sickness is a condition that more typically affects younger dogs, it can also impact senior dogs. Traveling with a senior dog who suffers from motion sickness can be challenging. If your senior dog displays these symptoms of motion sickness on local or long distance car rides, you should reconsider traveling long distances via ground or air with him. Signs of motion sickness in dogs include:Inactivity
Uneasiness
Yawning
Whining
Vomiting
Excessive drooling
Licking or smacking of the lips

, Before deciding to travel with your aging canine friend, you should monitor him for common signs of illness. These can be signs of serious medical conditions and are an indicator that your senior dog may not be healthy enough to travel. Seek medical attention if your pet is exhibits symptoms such as:Vomiting
Diarrhea
Lack of appetite
Decreased activity
Blood in the stool
Urinating less or more frequently than normal
Coughing
Hair loss
Itchy skin
Difficulty rising
Stiffness while walking

