 These leashes, which are comprised of a long cord (15 – 30 feet or 4.6 – 9 meters) rolled around a spool inside a handle, allow you to lengthen, shorten, and lock them with the push of a button. They also allow your dog freedom, because the cord will release as they walk away and retract as they return. Because you will have little control over your pet when using these, they cannot be used for training.Trainers recommend that retractable leashes only be used with mature dogs who have already been trained on a regular leash.
They may teach your dog that it is okay to pull away.Sometimes the retractable cords are thin and snap easily, so they often are not as safe as conventional leashes.
If you drop the handle while the cord is extended, it may quickly retract to your dog's collar, which may harm or frighten your dog.
 If you live in the city, a 4-foot (1.2-meter) leash will give you enough length to let your dog wander a bit but also stay safe. Dog owners who live in the suburbs may be happy with a 6-foot (1.8-meter) lead, which is the most common length for leashes.Short pull tab leashes, ranging between 10 and 12 inches (25 and 30 cm), are useful for controlling your dog as you take them in and out of the car., Long line leashes are very long, up to 60 feet (18.3 meters), and are useful for training your dog to “come” from increasingly greater distances. You should only use these in a large field or yard.Remember to keep the long line rope to your dog’s side instead of between his legs.Loop the line around your hand and wear a glove to protect your skin. The loop will help serve as a break so that you can minimize rope burn if your dog suddenly takes off., You will be able to hold one leash in your hand that attaches to a ring on a coupler. Two short leashes will then extend from that and attach to each dog’s collar.If you are walking two dogs of different heights, choose an adjustable coupler, so your tall dog doesn’t drag your shorter one., Larger dogs require wider leashes than smaller ones. A 3/8” (.95 cm) leash is good for a smaller dog, as thick ones can be too heavy for them.Additionally, a thicker leash is good if your dog tends to chew on the leash or pull away often.