 If you are worried about having a baby, your partner might be, too. Talk through your mutual anxieties in a clear and honest way. This can improve communication in the long-term and help you work through issues regarding the arrival of your newborn.Don’t be afraid to ask your partner questions like, “Do you think this will change our relationship?” or “Are you nervous about our newborn’s arrival?”
Be honest and open about your emotions when discussing the arrival of your newborn.
 Talking to other dads or other men who are preparing for the arrival of a newborn can help you better deal with your own emotions. Engage them in dialogue about what they’re feeling or what they felt prior to the birth of their newborn, and share your own emotional experience with them.There are a lot of websites and forums out there specifically targeted at dads-to-be. Run a word string like "preparing to be a dad" or "preparing for the arrival of a newborn" through your preferred search engine. You'll find a huge range of websites and online communities that can help.
 If you’re enrolled in a childbirth class, the nurses and educators who lead such classes might invite men who are preparing for the arrival of newborns to talk about specific concerns. Take advantage of these sessions, or schedule a private conversation with one of these professionals in order to allay any fears or specific questions you may have., Some dads-to-be feel nervous, scared, or overwhelmed as their baby’s due date draws near. If you’re one of them, that’s okay! Having those feelings is perfectly natural, and it doesn’t make you a bad person or mean you’ll be a bad father.If, in response to feelings of anxiety, you find yourself thinking negative thoughts about yourself such as, “I will not be a good father,” push back against them with an affirming thought like, “It is normal and natural to experience anxiety before a life-changing event like the birth of a newborn. I have no reason to feel ashamed of these feelings.”

