 An epidural is a regional anesthetic administered through a needle into your spine. A low dose of medicine is delivered continuously through a pump, with a button to self-administer more when you need it. It might add about an hour to your labor time, but make all of the hours much more manageable..


The old epidural could cause total numbness in the lower torso, causing many women to avoid it so they could experience the actual birth, but this is no longer usually an issue. Spinal headaches are also much less commonly a side effect now.
Doctors can administer an epidural even in later stages of labor, but it takes 10-20 minutes to start working. Women close to delivery may get a combined spinal-epidural, which adds a second shot lower in the spine that offers almost immediate relief. A spinal is only effective for about 2 ½ hours.
Spinal anesthesia may be recommended by your doctor instead of an epidural dependent upon progressing health and labor.
If you prefer not to use drugs for pain, you may want to ask your doctor to keep an epidural on your back-up plan in case cannot manage the pain on your own.
If you decide during your labor to take pain medication, your doctor may suggest a combined spinal-epidural to give you quick relief.
 Some women cannot get an epidural for medical reasons, and may need a narcotic pain reliever, such as stadol, nubain, morphine, or fentanyl. Opioids also relieve pain during labor and are usually administered as a single shot.These can also be given using a patient controlled pump. However, these medicines are not typically given if you will be delivering soon because they can affect the baby.


They may cause drowsiness in both mother and baby, since they affect the entire body.
All pain medications offered to ease labor discomfort are safe for the mother and her baby. Going over pros and cons of each one can help you make the best personal choice.
 Nitrous oxide functions as a safe analgesic (pain reliever) and anxiolytic (anxiety reducer) when used at a low dose during labor. In some countries, 50% nitrous oxide blended with 50% oxygen is given frequently to women in labor. It will not affect the baby in a negative way and it will allow you to remain alert during labor.Another benefit of nitrous oxide is that it is a short acting drug that you can control. If you do not like the effects, then you can discontinue use and the effects will wear off after about five minutes.
Be sure to consider the risks of this drug as well. While nitrous oxide is relatively safe, it does have some potential side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and putting you to sleep. Discuss the risks with your doctor before you decide if this might be a good option for you.

