 It’s important to see your doctor regularly if you suffer from asthma or asthma symptoms. This gives you and a doctor a chance to review your treatment and monitor progress. You should also visit your doctor if you’re having difficulty managing your symptoms or they get worse.Let your doctor know information such as how you feel, factors that make your asthma worse or better, and what you’ve been taking to manage your symptoms beyond medication.
 The foundation of most asthma management regimens is medication. Prescription medication can help you manage your asthma and prevent attacks.Depending on the severity of your asthma, your doctor may prescribe one or two types of oral and inhaled asthma medication. Many people take both types at the same time:


Anti-inflammatories to minimize swelling and cut down on mucus in your airways. Anti-inflammatories ease breathing.
Bronchodilators to relax the muscles around your airways. Bronchodilators increase your breathing rate. They also boost the amount of oxygen in your lungs., Anti-inflammatory medications are especially important for an individual with asthma. Taken orally or inhaled, these medications control inflammation, reduce swelling, and decrease mucus in your airways. Anti-inflammatories can help you manage or prevent asthma symptoms if taken daily.Your doctor may prescribe the following anti-inflammatories:Inhaled corticosteroids such as fluticasone, budesonide, ciclesonide, or mometasone. You generally need to use inhaled corticosteroids longer-term to get their full effect. These medications have few side effects.
Leukotriene modifiers such as montelukast, zafirlukast, or zileuton. Leukotriene modifiers can relieve asthma symptoms for up to 24 hours. Use these medications with care because they may cause psychological reactions such as agitation and aggression.
Cell stabilizers such as cromolyn sodium or nedocromil sodium., Your doctor may also prescribe a bronchodilator. These medications come in short or long-term formulations. Short-term bronchodilators, also known as rescue inhalers, ease symptoms and can stop asthma attacks.These include albuterol and levalbuterol. Ipratropium is another rescue inhaler that works quickly to relax your airway. Long-term bronchodilators can help you manage symptoms and prevent attacks.Your doctor may prescribe any of the follow bronchodilators to help manage your asthma:


Long-acting beta agonists such as salmeterol or formoterol.Beta agonists can expand your airways. They may increase your risk of a severe asthma attack, so considering taking beta agonists.
Combination inhalers such as fluticasone-salmeterol, or mometasone-formoterol
Anticholinergics such as theophylline., You may be able to manage asthma symptoms with allergy medications. This is especially true if your asthma is a result of allergies. Ask your doctor if taking allergy meds can help you manage your asthma.Try oral and nasal antihistamines such as montelukast and/or fluticasone nasal spray. They can decrease and/ or relieve your allergies and make asthma symptoms better. Your doctor can prescribe or recommend an over-the-counter antihistamine for you. Although, Benadryl is an antihistamine, it can cause a significant problem in asthmatics because it makes secretions sticky and this makes it harder to clear the airway. Consult your primary care provider about which medications you should avoid if you have asthma.
Consider regular allergy shots. They may minimize your body’s reaction to allergens that trigger your asthma in the long-term.
 Bronchial thermoplasty employs heat to limit the ability of airways to tighten. It is not a widely available treatment. Discuss if bronchial thermoplasty is option with your doctor if your asthma doesn’t improve with other treatments.Undergo that bronchial therapy in three outpatient hospital visits. This treatment heats your airways in order to decrease the smooth muscle in them. In turn, this contracts and limits your air intake.Bronchial thermoplasty can last for up to a year. You may need further treatments in the following years.