 Emotional outbursts are normal, due in part to the growing and developing brain. While an adolescent’s brain is intellectually on par with an adult’s, they lack the same emotional and impulse regulation management system that an adult brain has. This system is still maturing.Give your teenager some patience, as you understand that their brain, just like their brain as a baby and toddler, is still learning to regulate behavior.
The brain doesn’t finish developing until the early twenties., If you are finding your teenager’s emotional outbursts to be difficult to manage, or they seem abnormal to you, consider making an appointment with their doctor to make sure that everything is okay. Your doctor may suggest getting them evaluated for any mental health concerns. You may wish to get them evaluated if you have noticed:


A decrease in school performance.
Problems with attention, concentration, or memory.
Big changes in appetite, sleeping, or energy levels.
Frequent aggressive behavior or lashing out.
Crying, anxiety, or feelings of hopelessness.
Poor hygiene.
Physical symptoms, such as stomach aches or headaches., If you suspect your teenager is abusing alcohol or drugs, confront them with your suspicions. Even recreational drug or alcohol use can cause serious repercussions for a teen, from legal consequences to lasting effects on the brain.Make note of your child’s suspicious behavior; for example, times they came home smelling like smoke or alcohol, or staying out well past curfew. If you have prescriptions that have potential to be abused, count how many pills you have. Keep track of anything unusual and use this evidence to confront your child.
Bring your teen to the doctor and ask the doctor to do a drug screen. Your doctor can ask your child several questions about drug habits, assess their level of risk, and do a urine or blood screen., You may wish to have your teenager start seeing a counselor to help them understand their behavior, explore their feelings, and develop strategies for handling triggering situations. You could ask your doctor or your local health department for counselor recommendations.


Consider family therapy if you see the issues with your teenager to be problems that stem from family dynamic issues. You and your teenager, along with the rest of your family, may learn better ways to communicate with each other, as well as hash out any family concerns with a professional present., People of every age can benefit from learning calming techniques and learning better ways to take care of themselves when stressed. Consider discussing some strategies with your teen:


Teach some calming techniques to your teen, like meditation or yoga, or show them some favorite calming strategies of your own.
Talk to them about self-care. Self-care are activities that improve your physical, mental, or spiritual health. These activities are different for different people, but often include activities like exercise, taking time to yourself, or spending time in nature. Help your teenager find nourishing activities that help them feel better.