 It is important to remember to loosen, or break, the lug nuts before you jack up the vehicle. This way the weight of the vehicle is still on the wheels and it prevents them from spinning dangerously while you turn the lugs.
 Once the lugs have been loosened, it will be necessary to jack the care up so that the wheels can be removed. As mentioned above, this should be done on level concrete or some other hard, level surface. Some important things to remember when jacking up the care are:


Your service manual will recommend jacking points
The most common way to elevate the car is a floor jack, or trolley jack. If you are unsure how to use one visit Lift a Car Using a Trolley Jack.
You should use jack stands to stabilize the car. A good tutorial on jack stands can be found at Use Jack Stands.
If you have access to a hydraulic lift it will save you time.
 At this point, the lugs may be loose enough to remove by hand. If not, finish removing the lugs with the lug wrench or impact wrench. Once the lugs are removed, pull the wheel off of the wheelbase. If you are uncomfortable removing a wheel, read about how to Remove Lug Nuts and Tires.
 It is also good practice to mark the spot with chalk or markers.


When there's no protruding item, follow the above steps for locating a leak.
 This is done by inserting the tool in and out of the hole quickly. This also roughens the area so the fix will hold., Both of these pieces can be found in your tire repair kit. This is sometimes difficult and requires squeezing down one end to make it fit though the hole first., There should be roughly ½” of plug protruding from the tire.

If your kit came with an adhesive, such as rubber cement or glue, apply it to the plug before inserting. This will lubricate the plug, making it easier to push in. The adhesive will also promote a better seal., Before doing this, you should let any adhesives used dry for at least one minute.
 Use a tire gauge to check that the tire is at the manufacturer recommended air pressure.
 This will allow you to check the seal to make sure it is holding. If it isn't holding, add a little cement or retry using another plug.
 You should slide the wheel back onto the wheelbase and thread the lug nuts on tight enough to hold wheel in place while the car is still on the jackstands.
 Use the floor jack to lift the vehicle off of the jackstands. Remove the jackstands and lower the vehicle with the floor jack.
 Once the weight is back on the wheels, use a lug wrench or impact wrench to tighten the lugs to the proper torque specifications in your service manual. Be sure to tighten lugs in a star pattern.
 While a plug can provide more stability than tire sealants, it is not a forever solution. It is suggested that you replace the tire within the next 20,000 miles.