 It may sound a little obvious, but research is important. Understand what you are dealing with! It's okay. Gaining a slight understanding of the disorder can help you understand his needs, his mood and what is happening. Bipolar is poorly understood by a lot of people, and also presents itself at various levels of severity.


Moods can change drastically in a short space of time, from on top of the world to rock bottom, sometimes with no trigger. But the frequency and length of the different episodes depend on the severity of his disorder.
There is no cure for bipolar, but there are medications and other treatments designed to help control the disorder's effects. Some people have also learned to control the disorder without the use of any such treatments.;
, Space plays an imperative part while you're dating, and a man with bipolar is no exception.


A lot of women grow concerned when they don't get a reply to a text or a call the next day, but it's imperative to remember space. Being 'clingy' is unlikely to help, especially if he is having an episode. It's important to atone to his needs as well as yours, if he needs space, ensure he gets enough.
On the other hand, too much space can also cause problems. If he has a depressive episode, it's important to let him know you're there, showing you care could help more than you realize. Furthermore, too much space could give the impression that you don't care, causing the relationship to cease altogether.
Try to strike a balance in offering support but not forcing your opinions or advice upon him.
 Most people fear judgement; it's in our nature. It's incredibly important not to judge him or his disorder; it is essential that you support him any way you can, should he desire it. It is likely you will see many different sides of him, and be intense, emotional or 'heat of the moment' situations; judging him based on any of this would be incredibly unfair. Everyone has both good and bad sides, but chances are during times such as these you will see a side of him he allows very few people to see. It can be incredibly difficult for him. Learn to either embrace it or take it with a pinch of salt; it's up to you.


"Let he who has sinned cast the first stone". Nobody has the right to judge another if it would make them a hypocrite.
 Be prepared for this one. Nobody with bipolar disorder is the same, well nobody on earth is the same, but spontaneity happens, so get ready for it. This step may never affect you; his spontaneous outbursts may never affect you, but it's wise to be prepared for the unexpected. If he does come up with a sudden idea that may seem a little out of the blue, be patient with it. Give it a few days before discussing it again; it may have been a fairly fleeting thought that crossed his mind or a goal he genuinely wishes to achieve.
 This step is simple and more so a chance to reiterate the importance of the previous steps. If he hasn't called, send him a text in a little while. If he hasn't asked you on a date this week, maybe he's not feeling up to it. If he hasn't opened up about his disorder, he'll do so when he's ready. But remember, he's a guy; they're all different, but many have the same habits. They'll call when they remember, take you out if they're not with the lads and talk when they want to. Patience is required, sometimes a lot of it, but it'll be worth it.
 Now, this too is a crucial step. Although the above is all about him, never forget yourself. Don't get walked all over. He may have bipolar, but that doesn't mean you come last; you're just as important as he is, and if your relationship is going to thrive, you both have to work on it. You have the right to space when you need it too, you have the right to propose outrageous ideas, or have a bad day/week. Relationships are all about equality, neither should be more important than the other, you deserve respect and support just as much as he does.

