 Several days before attempting to catch a cat, leave a dish of food in the area where you have seen it.Dry food will work, but smelly, wet food such as tuna and canned cat food might be especially attractive to the cat. Keep replenishing the food supply, and the cat will be more trusting and likely to visit the area.
 Humane live traps, which will contain the cat without harming it, are available from animal supply stores and online retailers. You might also be able to borrow one from a local animal shelter.Look for a lightweight but sturdy one with two doors—a trap door and a release door.This will allow you to leave one door open to lure the cat in, and another to let it out safely.


A live trap trap should include detailed instructions on how to set it and to release the animal. Make sure that you understand exactly how to work the trap before you attempt to use it to catch a cat.
You can line the bottom of the trap with a towel or old t-shirt to make it more comfortable for the cat.
 A cat will be drawn to food and enter the trap. Smelly, wet food such as tuna, sardines, canned cat foot, and moist pieces of chicken will be most attractive to cats.Catnip and valerian are also irresistible to many cats.
 Position your trap in the “set” position and place it in an area where you have seen the cat.Place your bait in the trap and wait nearby for the cat to appear.


If you are trying to trap a cat in a public place, leave a sign on or near the trap so that others will know what is going on.
Never leave a trap unattended for more than 20-30 minutes, in case another animal accidentally is trapped.
If the cat is not trapped, try again another day with fresh bait.
 Get a laser pointer, and sit far enough away from the trap that the cat will not notice you. Wait for the cat to move near the trap, and try to make the cat chase the laser pointer into the trap., As soon as the cat is trapped, move it to an indoor location.Covering the trap with a blanket or towel can help calm the animal.Wearing gloves and long sleeves can help protect you from the cat’s claws., Most animal advocacy groups recommend the policy of TNR (trap, neuter, and release) for feral and stray cats.This is considered a humane way of controlling stray cat populations. You can ask your vet or an animal shelter to spay or neuter your cat, and then release it back outdoors once it has recovered. You can even continue to feed the stray.

