 NBC is the main US broadcaster for the 2016 Rio Olympics. If your cable subscription includes access to NBC or any of its NBCUniversal channels, you can use your cable login info to stream all Olympics coverage live from the NBC website.Visit http://www.nbcolympics.com/ to get started. The first time you view Olympic coverage on the site, click "Sign In" under the video and enter your cable login info.


In some cases, NBC will detect your cable service from your network and log you in automatically.
If you do not have a cable subscription, you can still access 30 minutes of coverage, plus 5 additional minutes every day. Extra features such as athlete interviews are available to everyone for free.See below for alternatives that provide full access.;
, You can also use your cable subscription login to use the NBC Sports app. This offers live streaming and video on the following devices:iPhone, iPad, or IPod Touch running iOS 7.0+
Android 4.0+
Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile
AppleTV, Roku devices
If you're only interested in Olympics coverage, you can download the NBC Olympics app for iOS or Android., This internet TV service is available throughout the whole US, and does not require a cable subscription. Take advantage of the seven day free trial, then sign up for a monthly subscription if you're hooked.Before signing up, check the fine print. Make sure it works on your device, and that the plan includes your favorite events. Some coverage such as the Golf Channel may cost extra.
 Sling TV is only available in select urban areas. It includes most live coverage, but no on-demand video. Sling also offers a seven-day free trial, so if you sign up for it after your Vue trial expires, you can watch the whole Games for free. Choose the Sling Blue plan for maximum Olympics coverage., Visit http://www.nbcolympics.com/live-stream-schedule to see upcoming coverage. Explore the top menu links for additional options, including on-demand video if your subscription allows it.

To view the Spanish coverage, click En Español in the top right corner of the page.
 If you have the right kind of TV (one with HDMI inputs) and the right kind of computer (outputs for visual and audio, preferably an HDMI output), then you can connect your computer to your television and watch the Olympic coverage on your big screen. Follow general instructions here and get Mac instructions here.
 If you can't watch the Olympics coverage, try these steps:If your login info doesn't work, visit your cable service provider's website and look for a "forgot your password" link on the login screen. Alternatively, contact your cable service provider customer support.

Update your browser to the latest version. NBC recommends Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, or Chrome.Update Adobe Flash Player.

