 Make sure to hand wash your shoes with a shoe foam cleanser or baking soda instead of throwing them into the washing machine. Using the machine can warp your shoes by putting stress on the arches and soles and can damage them over the long run.Suede and leather are both special types of shoes and shouldn't be hand washed.



To wash suede shoes, use a suede brush or suede eraser.
To clean leather shoes use polish or saddle soap.
 Dirt and debris not only look unpleasing, but they can also actually damage your shoes over a long period. Make sure to hand wash your shoes regularly and keep them clean. Instead of waiting for dirt and mud to harden from a hike or walk, make sure to clean your shoes when you get home., Water and humidity add to the damage on leather or suede shoes. To protect them from rainfall or other wet conditions, protect them by spraying a layer of water protector over them before going out into the elements.Leather protectant spray can be purchased online or at many retail shoe locations.
 When you begin to feel your sole or heel getting soft or holes begin forming on the sole of your shoes, you should take them to get professionally fixed.Replacing the critical part of your shoe should be reserved for nicer, more expensive shoes because the work can range anywhere from $40 to $80. A cobbler can reinforce your heels, outsoles, and toes. Reinforcing your shoes will add another layer of protection to the most vulnerable pieces of your shoe. As an alternative, you can also purchase a sole protector and attach it to your shoe yourself to add another layer of protection for your shoe
As a quick fix before taking them to a cobbler, you can apply a strong glue to hold your soles or side panels onto your shoe.Options, like Shoe Goo, is made specifically for the purpose of keeping worn shoes together.Taking your shoes to a cobbler for reinforcement can cost anywhere from $5 to more than $100., If you want your expensive leather shoes to retain their shape and look, you need to shine and polish them regularly. Apply leather lotion to your shoes with an old rag or t-shirt whenever you notice there is a scuff or scrape.Shoes that are worn more often should also be polished more often.


As a general rule of thumb, shining your shoes once a week will keep them looking new.A cheap and easy fix to hide scuffs and scrapes on black shoes is to use a black magic marker on them.