 As you build friendships with people, you should tell them what you need. Tell them that you need them to be patient and understanding with you as you fight depression. Let them know that you may not always be up to socializing, but that you still want to be friends.Let them know that if you haven’t contacted them in awhile, they can reach out to you. Tell them that a text or call would be appreciated.
You can say, “My depression may make me not want to do anything. I may ignore your calls. Don’t give up on me. Send me a text to let me know you’re thinking of me, and I will call you when I feel better.”

, Since you are depressed, there will be times you will struggle or be unable to do what you want. You may not be able to socialize or leave the house. Your medication may leave you with unwanted side effects. Because of this, set realistic expectations with your friends and yourself.Put your well-being first. If you are unable to do something, don’t be too hard on yourself.
Do small things with your friends if you must. Remind yourself that it is okay to take small steps in the right direction.
 When choosing friends, make them carefully. Befriend people who are kind, positive, and who are understanding of your needs. Some people are negative and not supportive of those with difficulties or mental illnesses. As you meet people and form friendships, pursue those who make you feel good about yourself.Try to limit your interaction with negative people. They can bring you down further and worsen your depression symptoms. Try to find people who will lift you up.
 You may feel depressed or emotionally drained after a social situation. You may feel like you have failed, which makes you feel depressed or worsens your symptoms. Try not to let your attempts to socialize and make friends make you more depressed. Accept that sometimes you have bad nights or people don’t become friends.If someone cancels on you, don’t get depressed or upset. Remember that people have lives and other engagements.
Try to manage your depression by participating in an activity you enjoy. You can also try to replace your negative thoughts with positive ones, such as, “The person didn’t cancel on me because of me. The person had a good reason. They are still my friend.”

