 A lot of famous poets, such as Walt Whitman, initially published themselves. This can be a great outlet for you if you're unsure you want to go a traditional publishing route. However, you do not want to waste time and money on self publishing if your work is not ready. Read over your poetry collection and try to be honest with yourself. Is this work ready for publication? Would you be happy putting this work out into the world?Seek input from others. Have trusted friends, or any colleagues you have from college or an MFA program, read through your collection. Ask them if they think it's polished and professional, and whether they would pay for a book like this. If you get lukewarm feedback, you may want to reconsider self publishing. Try to work on your poetry for a few more months before publishing your book.
It may also be worth your time to hire a proofreader. Self-published books do not go through as strict an editorial process, and many writers find it difficult to catch their own errors. Careful proofreading is important, as a work with grammatical errors can reflect poorly on you as a writer.
 If you think your work is ready, you'll need to find an outlet through which to self publish. There are a variety of publishers that allow writers to self publish their own works for a small fee. Assess what your budget is, and explore a variety of options.Self-publishing services will print however many copies of your book that you want, for a fee. Print-on-demand services will take a PDF copy of your manuscript, for a fee, and print copies of your book when a potential reader places an order. You are completely responsible for marketing and selling your book with these kinds of companies.
In addition to browsing the costs from various companies, consider other costs. Marketing your book may cost money. If you're unable to do graphic design on your own, you will need to pay a graphic designer to design your cover.
 Once you've selected a route for self-publishing, assemble your materials. The process of assembling a self-published manuscript is more or less the same as the process of assembling a manuscript that's being sent to a publisher. You want to make sure the poems work together in a cohesive manner, and that all the poems speak to the overall theme of the collection. However, there are some unique considerations when it comes to self-publishing.You need to have some kind of cover art for your collection. If you do not know how to design a cover on your own, you will either have to hire a graphic designer or have a friend help you.
You will have to figure out how to format the book properly for the publishing company you're sending it to. You can check guidelines online.
Self-published collections are usually not edited. You will want to make sure you edit all your content carefully to make sure your manuscript is free of spelling and grammatical errors.
 Once you've completed formatting, proofreading, and designing your collection, send it in to your chosen company. You will have to pay a fee. If you're printing multiple copies rather than doing print-by-demand, that fee will be higher.Once you send in your material, you should receive a copy of your book of poetry within a certain timeframe outlined by the company. Once you receive your book, you will have a book of poetry to share with your friends and loved ones.

