 Describe your condition in the simplest terms at first. You can add more detail as the information soaks in, but try not to overwhelm everyone. Briefly explain what bipolar disorder is. Try to stay grounded in science as much as possible.Say, “I’m pretty sure you have noticed that something has been up with me. My doctor diagnosed me with bipolar disorder. It’s a brain disorder that makes me feel very high at times and very low at others.”

, It won’t help to give a general picture of bipolar disorder if this picture doesn’t relate to you. Make sure you explain your condition based on your very own experience of it. Use examples that are relevant to you.For instance, say something like “When I feel manic, I don’t need any sleep. I talk fast and feel very excited. When I am depressed, I sleep for days. I don’t eat and I can barely drag myself out of bed, I’m so tired.”
You can help your listener relate to your condition by asking about a time they felt depressed or down, for example. You can let them know that you feel something similar, but the strength of the feeling might be multiplied many times over. It will help them put themselves in your shoes.
 Not everyone in your social circle will have a thorough understanding of mental illness. Tailor your explanations to the group you are addressing, touching on the basics that they may witness.

Unless you have children of your own, you might not choose to confide in a young person.
However, some people with lower education levels may have trouble understanding your condition. Being careful how you describe bipolar disorder can mitigate any stigma associated with this disorder., Be upfront and honest with your loved ones. Don’t shrug off your symptoms or send the message that “It’s no big deal.” You may not want to share the very worst of bipolar disorder, but you should let them know that you will need their support. Spell out what that means to you.For instance, say, “There is no cure for bipolar disorder. This is something I will deal with for the rest of my life. Because I care about you, I want you to know what’s going on with me and how you can help. First and foremost, I ask that you be patient with me…”

