 Find a company that you consider offers good value and is reliable. Read the terms and conditions, as well as finding feedback about the company off the site.;
, Some companies will charge you for this, while some will not. This will likely influence your decision.
 It will probably look like this: "Your Name, Street Address, Town, ZIP code, State, Variable symbol". For example, your forwarding address would look like this:


Jerry X, 9896 NW 19th PL Sunrise, 33322 Florida - MP9123. The code "MP9123" is the variable number and you have to add this to your shipping address every time that you order something online so that the Mail forwarding company can recognizes the packages that belong to you.
 If the online store does not accept your credit card, you can use service called Assisted Purchase. Most of the Mail forwarding companies offer this service where you pay them upfront with your credit card, then they shop according to your instructions. This service is also used if the online retailer forces you to see the local version of their website instead of its American version, usually with lower prices and a different range of products.
 Once you've purchased items and they reach your personal mailbox, the parcel forwarding company will notify you by email.
 The company will give you a quote for this service that consists of their fees and the actual shipping costs. Shipping costs depend on the size and weight of the box, on the destination country and the speed of the delivery. If you wait, sea mail is often the cheapest option, especially for heavier items.
 Such services can include: Contents check, photo documentation of the contents, repackaging of the box to meet a better price level of shipping cost or "consolidation". Consolidation is when you put together more packages. Imagine you bought three pairs of shoes from one store and two t-shirts from another retailer. Do you need the shoe boxes? No. Can you put all these items to one bigger box? Yes, you can. The shipping costs can go rapidly down if you use consolidation service and forward one package instead of two. Many companies will help you consolidate your packages and choose the best shipping method, so that you save on shipping as much as you can.
 This is where you state what the contents of the package consist of. Good mail forwarding companies will guide you through filling out this form.
 After you pay, your package will be sent to your home address. You will be given the tracking number by which you can always check the location of your package on the way to your home.

