 This could be a sports club, like hockey or basketball, a craft club like a sewing group or a painting group, or even a dance club that specializes in the jive or the twerk.


Think of an activity you enjoy doing, but aren’t necessarily the best at. Look up a recreational club in your area and sign up. Focus on setting goals and improving your skills. This could be shooting better free throws, sewing a quilt, or learning the two step.
Chart your progress in a journal or diary to keep track of your improvement.
Placing yourself in a social situation where there is an activity you can perform with others helps to break the ice. It will also help to build your self esteem, with the support and guidance of others.
 Toastmaster International is a club that focuses on improving your communication and leadership skills. They have over 300,000 members and 14,650 clubs in 126 countries.As a member of the Toastmasters, you will prepare and give a speech about something you feel passionate about to the other members in the club. You will also receive feedback, guidance, and support from your peers to help you become a confident and strong leader.
Toastmasters is also a great chance to share your personal journey or story, and learn from others. Peer mentorship, where other members support each other, also plays a big role in Toastmasters.
Find the Toastmasters club in your area by searching online: http://www.toastmasters.org/My-Toastmasters.
 Meetups are a great way to interact with other like minded individuals. It is also an easy way to change up your daily routine without having to travel to another city to meet new people and have new conversations.


The website, meetup.com, offers different organized meetup groups, right in the area where you live. There are meetups with beer drinkers, coffee connoisseurs, singles and newcomers to the city, and even a group that focuses on spiritual questions. No matter your interests, you will likely find a group you might want to be a part of listed on the site.
There are also meetup groups organized through sites like Craigslist, or on social media sites like Facebook.

