 If your debit card or cash cannot cover the expense, don’t buy it. This may mean going without buying new items for several months (anything from outfits to electronics). However, if you truly want to live within your means and free yourself from credit card debt, you'll need to adhere to spending within––or preferably below––your means. Other money-saving ideas include:


Brew coffee at home and/or brown bag it for lunch. If your morning latte was part of your routine, you can most likely save a significant amount of money just by having your coffee at home or bringing your lunch to work. If you don't believe this, place the same amount of money it costs for that daily treat into a jar each day. Add it up at the end of the week. Multiply it by 52 weeks a year. And you will be convinced that this money soon adds up!
Carpool with friends to work or school. With gas prices on the rise, carpooling is more popular than ever. Carpoolers can slash their gas budget and wear and tear on their vehicle, which saves at the pump and the auto shop.
Go vintage. Hit the secondhand and thrift stores and make what was once old into something new again. The great revival of craft, DIY and restoration is making it not only acceptable but desirable to be fixing things up from the past to make them work for your future. There are plenty of great library books and free online articles on recycling old stuff into new goodies, so you don't even need to fork out any money to find out how!
Find homemade food alternatives for food you used to purchase when out. Perhaps there's an undiscovered baker, fast food chef or soul food cook within you that's waiting to burst forth. Now's your chance to find out.
 This may mean cutting out Friday night dinners at your favorite restaurant but in the long run, you will be in better financial shape (you might even get a little healthier if your favorite weekly splurge was a calorie-laden feast!). Living on cash means you need to reorient your expectations about payments for things, placing the essentials at the top and non-essentials last in the queue. It may feel depriving at first, but this feeling changes when you start to savor the things you can afford and realize that instant buying ability tends to lead to poor choices and clutter. In a short space of time, you will discover a great sense of liberty in being able to cover your expenses and treats with cash and not have to pay for them later.


Time your bills with the arrival of your paycheck. If you are living paycheck to paycheck (now that you cannot charge many items), make sure you can cover all your primary bills first by writing down the dates they are due as compared to when you get paid.
Apply surplus cash after your bills are paid to cover credit card expenses. Consider food, gas and other necessary living expenses before paying your credit card bills. Also, if possible start saving through either an IRA or a high interest CD.
 This means sending more than the minimum required amount to your credit card company. The best way to get out from underneath credit card debit is to pay as much as you can each month.


Set aside a specific amount each month to send to your credit card company(s). Consider how long it'll take you to pay off each card, taking interest into consideration.
Look for balance transfer offers to lower your interest rate. One way you can reduce your overall total is to take advantage of balance transfer promotions through your financial institution. However, inquire about transfer fees and teaser rates to ensure you will receive the same low rate for the life of the loan.
Ask your credit card company for a lower interest rate. It never hurts to ask, plus you should also ask that the annual fee be waived. Tell the credit card company that you plan to transfer your (massive) balance to another card and then see what they can do for you.
 Spending cash most of the time returns a keen sense of just how many hours of your labor it takes to earn an item and you soon become less willing to part with cash for poor quality or over-hyped fads. Thinking about how money is used and valued in your own life will let you face the financial truths rather than wish them away. There are plenty of excellent books and articles on good financial management––find one that has a style you like and start practicing some of its ideas to stay credit card debt-free.


Be aware that speed is what our societies worship. Wanting things now and getting things done now is marketed as a sign of being hip, while it's implied that going slowly is uncool. Yet, it's never uncool to think carefully, decrease your debt and resist unnecessary purchases. Slow down, earn what you buy and really appreciate it.

