 Popular software used by professionals, such as Adobe Flash, Photoshop, and Toon Boom Studios, cost hundreds of dollars.Save your money for now and start with a simple app like Animation Creator HD or Animation Desk Cloud, which are easy to use and only cost a few bucks. Familiarize yourself with its functions and features. Learn how to duplicate frames and manipulate the number of frames seen per second.
 Decide on a rate of frames that will be seen per second. Then perform each action that your characters enact and time yourself with a stopwatch to determine how many seconds it takes.. For each action performed, multiply the number of seconds it takes to complete by the number of frames seen per second to determine how many frames you’ll need to draw for each action.


Also determine how many frames each line of recorded dialogue will require to animate. If the dialogue is spoken at a normal speed from start to finish, simply check the timeline for each line. If one word or more is stretched out, however, check how long each syllable is prolonged. For example, imagine an announcer shouting, “Goooaaal!” at a soccer match; the shape of the announcer’s mouth will form the vowel sound for much longer than it will with the consonants.
 Use regular drawing paper to outline and color in the background for each scene.
 For each element that appears in the middle- or foreground of the first frame, lay an acetate sheet over the original design and trace the outline. Break it down into moving parts versus static parts and trace each separately on its own acetate sheet; for example, draw the base of a fan (static) on one sheet and the fan’s rotors (moving) on another. Then flip the sheet over and color in the outline on the back of the sheet., Secure your background to a rostrum with a small amount of blue tack. Layer your acetate sheets in order on top of it, from middle- to foreground. Mount a digital camera directly above, aiming down, and photograph.Take a test shot or two to make sure your camera is distanced far enough to capture the whole image.Choose a clean environment with controlled lighting for photographing. Avoid natural light, whose quality may change. Also avoid dusty or dirty environments, since particles may be trapped between acetate sheets and visible on camera., Reuse acetate sheets whose elements do not alter. Create new ones for elements that move from one frame to the next. Layer your sheets in order on top of your background and photograph. Repeat this step until the end of your shot.


Keep a checklist of elements for each frame. Double-check that all are present before photographing.
 Once a shot is complete, transfer your photos from your camera to your device. Create a new folder for each shot in your photo library and label each image numerically, in sequence, for easy reference (for example: “Scene 1; Frame 1,” “Scene 1: Frame 2,” etc.).
 For each shot, open a new file in your animation app. Import the first image from your photo library into the first frame. Add a second frame, import the second image, and repeat. Once you’re finished, export the file to your video library.
 Create a new movie in a video-editing program like iMovie. Import each shot and arrange in sequence. Import audio files for dialogue, music, and/or sound effects, and sync each to the video.

