 Only three states in the United States offer this legally distinct form of marriage. The couple should agree to obtain pre-marital counseling.


Proponents for covenant marriages argue that they create stronger, happier unions, while decreasing divorce rates. Opponents of covenant marriages argue that they are often forced upon their participants out of family obligation and reinforce gendered power structures.Despite its intent to decrease divorces, it is still fairly easy to get a divorce after obtaining a covenant marriage license. According to the state of Arizona, there are 8 different ways that a divorce can legally be granted in the case of a covenant marriage. These are: adultery, felony, physical separation for 1 year, sexual abuse, drug/alcohol abuse, or both spouses simply agree., Generally, a clergyman or marriage counselor trained in premarital counseling is required. They should know the state's requirements for a Covenant Marriage. The counseling sessions must include discussions of the couple's dedication and the limited grounds for divorce if marriage problems occur. The counselor will also give you a brochure published by the state of Arizona and will be able to answer any questions you may have.
 This statement needs to affirm that the couple received ample counseling and thoroughly understand the nature of a covenant marriage, as well as the restricted nature of divorce. Both spouses should sign the document. the original counselor should also sign the document in front of a notary. You'll need to have 2 forms of identification for the notary process., After you’ve obtained your notarized statement, applying for a covenant marriage license is the exact same as applying for a traditional license.


Fill out the paperwork. You can find the forms online and then you can submit them via mail or in person at a designated courthouse.
Pay the $76 fee. This is the same fee as a traditional marriage license.
It is possible to convert your marriage license to a covenant marriage license in Arizona. Your original license can be from any state. All the couple has to do is sign an affidavit and a “Declaration of Intent to Enter Into a Covenant Marriage” form at the Marriage License Office. Then they have to pay a fee of $26.50., Just like the traditional license, there is no waiting period and the license is good for 1 year. This means that you need to hold your wedding ceremony within the next year after acquiring your wedding license. If you get your license on January 1, then you have until December 31 to have it signed by an officiant.

