 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you see good moves to quickly get a Striped candy or other special candies? Can you easily clear out the jelly squares and the meringues?;
, Start by matching candies beside the meringue blocks to weaken and remove them. You will need two hits on these blocks to remove them. Go for possible combos involving four or five candies in a row if you can.
 Aim your hits near the same area as much as possible. Once you’ve penetrated the meringue blocks, candies can get inside the middle part with the jelly squares.
 With some candies inside the middle part, it will be easier to remove more of the meringue blocks. You will also be able to start removing some jelly squares in the process.
 With more meringue blocks freed up, the spaces can now be occupied by more candies. With more spaces on the board, you will be able to make more combos with the candies, and maybe generate some special candies too., Once you’ve cleared up some meringues, you will notice colored bombs dropping with the candies.
 If you cannot clear the bombs where they are, clear some candies below them so that they can fall down to the bigger area. When they get there, it will be easier to clear them by matching them with similar-colored candies.
 Bombs have timers on them. With each move, the timer goes down. Don’t panic yet! Bombs start counting from 15, so you have 15 moves before they exploded. Do not let it run out though, because once it does, it’s game over., Look for moves that will give you Striped candies. Bring the horizontally Striped candies to the bottom so that they can easily clear out the bottom row of jelly squares. Bring vertically Striped candies to the corners so that they can easily clear out the vertical columns of jelly squares.
 This can be harder to make, but not impossible. Look for opportunities to do so. Using the Wrapped candies as bombs can really make the jelly squares go away faster. Wrapped candies work best when used in the corners.
 If you can, put a Striped candy and a Wrapped candy together. The best place to have this combo is in the bottom row and near the vertical columns. If you’re lucky, you can get a lot of jelly squares this way.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. It’s always useful to have this special candy. It’s extra special if you can combine it with a Striped candy to do more damage so that you can clear out more jelly squares faster.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. Keep your focus on the jelly squares.