 The can should have a mouth approximately five to six inches across and a height of about seven to eight inches. The coffee can should have smooth sides which cannot be easily scaled by rodents. If using economy size coffee cans which are ten inches deep or more, place a small pad or bunched cloth at the bottom to prevent injury to the mouse you’ll catch.


You can use plastic or metal coffee cans. If using metal, though, ensure they aren’t ribbed with concentric rings which the mouse might use like a ladder to escape.
 Hold the paper in place using a rubber band wrapped around the rim of the can. Take an extendable blade and cut an “X” in the top of the construction paper, stopping about one inch from the edge of the can at each of the four lines.Tissue paper might also work in place of construction paper.
It is important to maintain the appearance that the papered-over coffee can is capable of supporting the mouse when it walks across it. Instead of cutting a solid “X”, you could try poking small, closely-spaced holes in an “X” shape across the surface of the paper.
 Lay a long ruler or paint stirring stick from the floor to the mouth of the coffee can. If necessary, affix the ruler or stick to the can with tape.Mice come in different sizes. If you find that your mice are unable to scamper up the thin ruler, consider placing two next to each other and taping them together to ensure easy access to the trap.
 Place the food -- cheese, a piece of candy, or bread -- along the edge of the coffee can directly opposite the point at which the ruler, paint stirring stick, or other ramp-like object you’ve affixed to the coffee can meets the can’s mouth.Do not select a bait food which is too heavy or gives lie to the illusion that the papered-over surface of the coffee can is stable.
Do not place the coffee can near a countertop or step stool from which the bait could be eaten from the far side of the ramp without passing over the construction paper.
 The mouse will run up the ruler to reach the food on the opposite side of the coffee can, then fall into the can when the apparently solid surface gives way beneath it. You’ll know the trap has been sprung if you see the bait you laid is no longer there, or if the construction paper has been partially torn. Check the can for the mouse.


Remove the ruler or makeshift ramp from the can and take the can to a location about five to ten miles from human habitation.Place the can on the ground and turn it sideways, allowing the mouse to exit.

