 Before you begin, pick a problem suited to your ability. If you have never bouldered before, start with the very easiest problem and work you're way up. With practice, you can progress very quickly in bouldering, at least initially.


One of the major mistakes beginners make is to just jump on the wall and start climbing, without planning their route. This quickly leads to getting stuck or falling from the wall.
It's important to understand that bouldering is as much a mental exercise as a physical one -- before you start climbing you need to examine the route and visualize the pat you are going to take.
Think about which holds you are going to use and in what order, think about the specific hand grabs and foot positions you will use, and think about how you can complete the problem as efficiently as possible. This is why it's called a problem -- it's something you need to use your brain to figure out!
Of course, some things things won't go as planned once you're on the wall -- a hold won't feel quite like you expected it to, or you won't be able to stretch quite as far as you thought -- so don't be afraid to improvise when your up there. Just stay calm and find a new route.
 Many people new to bouldering believe that a climber's most important physical asset is their upper body strength, but this is incorrect.


A good climber relies far more on their legs, which makes sense if you think about it.Your quadriceps are some of the largest, strongest muscles in your body, so it makes far more sense to utilize them than your comparatively puny biceps. Is it easier to do a pull up or a squat?
Keep the majority of your weight on your legs and use them to push yourself up as you move from hold to hold. Remember -- power and stability come from your legs. Your arms, on the other hand, should be used mainly for balance and for pulling yourself up as you push with your legs. Try to keep your arms as straight as possible as you climb -- this puts the load on your bones rather than your muscles., As a beginners climber, it's okay to grab the holds in whichever way feels most natural and comfortable for you. But as you progress, you'll need to learn how to use the hand holds in a specific way, using the correct finger and hand positioning, in order to tackle more advanced problems.


Crimping: Crimping is a method of grabbing an edge (a narrow, horizontal hold) or a sidepull (a vertical or diagonal edge) with your fingertips. Your fingertips should rest flat against the edge with your fingers arched over them. This is a fairly solid grip, but requires good finger strength.







Pinching: Pinching is a method of grabbing hand holds that protrude from the rock by pinching them between the thumb on one side and the fingers on the other. It can also be used when there are side-by-side pockets in the rock -- in this case the hold is similar to the finger position when holding a bowling ball.







Palming: Palming is a method used when there are no actual hand holds to grip onto, just the flat face of the wall or rock. You simply press your open hand against the wall, with your fingers together and the weight concentrated in the heel of your hand. Palming allows you to change foot position while your body weight is pressed into your palm. , A lot of first time boulderers tend to focus all of their concentration on their hands and neglect their feet, but foot position is extremely important for balance and stability. Some of the most common foot movements in bouldering include:


Toeing and edging: In bouldering, you will rarely have a hold large enough to accommodate your entire foot securely, so you need to get used to using individual parts of your feet. Toeing, as the name suggests, is when you grip a small hold with just your toes. This is where those tight shoes come in handy, as they will give you a better grip in small surfaces. In edging, you use either side of your foot to stand on small ledge-like holds.







Smearing: Smearing is a technique used when there is no clearly defined foothold. It involves pressing your foot (usually the ball) against a rough, sloping surface and pressing your weight into it as much as possible. Smearing can feel a little precarious, but as long as you stay relaxed and commit to the move fully.







Swapping feet: Another foot movement that's necessary for more advanced bouldering is swapping your feet. This is necessary when there is no room on a given hold for both of your feet and you need to replace one with the other in order to progress with the problem. There are two methods of achieving this: you can simply hop from one foot to the other, moving the necessary foot onto the hold while the other one is airborne, or you can slowly slide one foot one foot on to the hold while simultaneously sliding the other foot off., Falling is an inevitable part of bouldering -- whether it's an accidental fall after a failed grab or an intentional one from the top of a completed problem. Therefore, it's important to learn how to fall properly, to minimize the risk of injury.


If you're climbing outdoors with the use of a crash pad, try to predict the trajectory of your fall before you attempt the problem and position the crash pad accordingly. Don't push the crash pad right up against the rock wall -- you're far more likely to fall out from the wall than straight downwards.
Get into the habit of landing upright, bending your knees to absorb the shock and rolling sideways if necessary. Don't rely on the mat to absorb the impact of your fall, even in the climbing gym, as landing awkwardly could result in an injury, no matter how soft the landing.
If you're jumping from the top of a problem, remember to spot your landing first and make sure there's nobody directly underneath you that you could land on.
As a beginner, stay away from highballing (this is a bouldering term for climbing higher, riskier problems) Falling from a greater height significantly increases your chances of injury. Stick to lower, more horizontal problems and focus on improving your technique.

