 People’s outlooks and attitudes are influenced by the culture in which they grow up. This is an all but inevitable aspect of human psychology. However, this does not prevent you from being able to facilitate a diverse and inclusive environment in your classroom.If you’re students have different socioeconomic or racial backgrounds than you do, for instance, remind yourself that you may need to be sensitive to the fact that their attitudes and outlooks will likely differ from your own.
Say something along the lines of, "Some of us hold different beliefs and have different lifestyles than others in this room. That's entirely okay - and in fact, it means we can learn from one another. The important thing is that we always listen to one another with an open mind and a positive attitude."

, One of the most important components of an inclusive learning environment for younger children is your belief as an educator that all of your students are capable of success. In order to convey your belief in your students to them, articulate these beliefs specifically.Sometime early on in your time with a new class, say something along the lines of, “I know that each and every one of you is capable of learning what we will be going over together, and expect each of you to succeed.”

, If you will be teaching students from a culture you are unfamiliar with, it’s important to learn as much as you can about commonly held beliefs and ways of living in their communities. There are many ways to do so.


Aside from reading and other forms of research, talk to other teachers and educators in your area about resources and opportunities to increase your knowledge of the local community.
Especially if your students are older, try to participate in the community in which you teach by attending events outside of the school that they are involved in.
Helpful publications include Gloria Ladson-Billings’ The Dream Keepers: Successful Teachers of African American Children and Crossing Over to Canaan: The Journey of New Teachers in Diverse Classrooms, Jacqueline Jordan Irvine’s Educating Teachers for Diversity and Culturally Responsive Teaching, and Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed.