 The wooden kind from a restaurant will work, but not for any good length of time because they can snap easily, causing splinters to get caught in your hair and possibly even hurt you. There are smooth bamboo ones that you can buy that are much higher quality. You can also buy plastic ones, which tend to be the best and are inexpensive.


Whatever you decide to use, be sure the sticks are clean and new!
Metallic chopsticks are another option, although these are a little more difficult to find.
Check out the hair care aisles of your local drug and grocery stores - you'll be able to find a variety of different styles that you can experiment with.;
, Take care to get all of the tangles out before proceeding. If you have curly hair, use a pick to gently detangle any major knots and smooth it down before proceeding. Make sure to remove any hair accessories or bobby pins before starting the process.


Many women find that chopsticks hairstyles are difficult to achieve on freshly washed hair because clean hair can be very slippery. Whether this will affect you depends on the texture of your hair, but you may want to try this style on hair that hasn't been washed for a day or two., Lift up your hair (or the section of hair you want to tie up) and place the chopsticks underneath it, slanting them while positioning.
 Do there until there isn't any more hair left to wrap around. The amount of times you wind the hair will depend on how long your hair is.


A chignon is an ideal hairstyle for adding chopsticks in. In this case, make the chignon first, then push in the chopsticks for effect. For more information on creating a chignon, see How to style a classic chignon and How to style a chignon with a modern twist.
 This part may hurt slightly because the sticks pull your hair, but the final result should feel comfortable. If your final style is uncomfortable, it should be redone.
 You may want to put a few bobby pins in for additional security. Once you're certain it feels comfortable and in place, it's ready for finishing touches.
 If you're worried about the security of your style, try a short mist of hairspray all over the hairstyle. If you have bangs or short layers around the face, arrange them in the way you like best and give it all a short mist of hairspray to lock it in.