 To burn fat, it's important to get as much exercise as you can. Most people, however, don't have time to visit the gym every day. So, look for places in your daily routine where you can burn a few extra calories. Every little bit helps!


If your work allows it, walk around while you're doing things in the office. Take a walk on your lunch break.Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Bike to the office. Look at yard work as an opportunity to get some extra exercise in. Whatever works for you is fine, as long as it gets you to spend less time sitting and more time moving., The specialized equipment that gyms have will let you get more out of your workouts than you could just running around the block. Many gyms also offer classes or individual training programs to help you stay motivated.


Visit as often as you can, and try to get in a routine. Three days a week is a great goal if you have time.
 Core exercises like crunches are great for building up your abdominal muscles, but to burn up the fat underneath, you'll need to cardiovascular workouts like running, bicycling, swimming, etc. Anything that gets your heart rate up is burning calories.Keep up the pace. While any cardiovascular workout will burn calories, a high-intensity, fast paced workout will cause the release of growth hormones, which trigger the use of fat cells as fuel, and raise your metabolism for hours after the workout is over, extending the fat burn., Lifting weights and similar strength training not only builds muscle and burns fat, it also improves your sensitivity to insulin, helping your body process glucose more efficiently and store less of it as fat.Mix up which areas you are exercising, alternating between upper- and lower-body exercises. This will allow you to exercise all your muscles efficiently, without as much downtime in between sets.Try to target high intensity activity before low intensity activity and repeat a number of times during your workout. This will insure you maximize fat burn by following the biological sequence.
You can get the most out of your weight training and cardiovascular workouts if you mix them up as well. Some studies have suggested that doing some lifting a few minutes before a jog or bicycle ride will increase the calories you burn during the cardiovascular workout.Some people suggest interspersing short bursts of cardiovascular exercise throughout a strength training workout. For example, you can set down the weights to do sprints after 15 minutes of lifting, then return to your weights for another 15 minutes, and so on.Don't start too heavy. Lift weights that you can pick up comfortably, without straining yourself too much, and work your way up to larger weights. Otherwise, you may hurt yourself.
 Intervals are exercise routines that involve periods of intense exercise, followed by short rest periods. By keeping the level of intensity high, your body is forced to burn more oxygen than it takes in. To compensate, your metabolism will increase and remain high for a period after your workout is complete, so that your body can assimilate a greater amount of oxygen.Like a high-speed cardiovascular workout, this helps keep the fat burning going after the workout ends.
The most effective interval activities are those that exercise the whole body in a single exercise, like jumping jacks, lunges, hitting a tire with sledgehammer, and jumping rope. All of these should be done as quickly as possible. After a few minutes of activity, take a one minute rest, then do another interval., Once you've been doing a general exercise routine for a few weeks, you'll probably notice some areas of your body are shedding fat (or developing muscle) faster or more easily than others. At this point, it's a good idea to develop specialized routines to focus on the areas where the fat is taking longer to burn away.Some people find it's even a good idea to dedicate different days of the week to exercising certain areas. For example: Monday, focus on your arms and chest, on Tuesday, focus on your core, and on Wednesday, focus on your back and legs.
 Keeping to regular exercise regimen takes a lot of willpower, but to burn the fat and keep it off, you have to keep exercising and keep eating right.

