 Don't argue about the price, just look at your budget and decide what you need and want in life. No matter what your income or social class, you have at least some entertainment budget and you have choices in what to get for your necessities. When buying art, you support an artist in his or her pursuit of art, so every little bit counts. The following steps provide practical suggestions for purchases that support the arts.


Both fine art and artisan creations (crafts, chefs and arts that aren't seen as fine art) support the local economy as well as give you a higher quality of lifestyle. You may find you can afford more personal luxury after you know these artists and discover what you like most. They also need to eat, do their laundry, pay their rent and local taxes on everything, so they are also helping everyone else in the area keep their jobs by pouring your spending money into building a stronger community. In all of these things, follow your personal tastes.
Don't buy stuff you don't need or like just to support the arts. Specifically support the artists and artisans whose work you enjoy and collect more of it over the years as they grow artistically. Your collection will deepen as well as broaden and you'll be an important patron to these artists. It's a luxury, so the point is to indulge yourself and get the best of their work.;
, When deciding to go out for a show, consider tickets for live theater instead of a movie or an indie film rather than a first-run blockbuster. You're supporting new actors, directors, producers and live theatrical houses when you make these choices. If a favorite comes along go ahead and get the first run viewing but opt for a matinee to save money so you can also see the indie film. You'll have more variety in your viewing pleasure and your dates may find that you are more educated, sophisticated and intellectual than if you just go to the same movies everyone talks about.
 Collect real art within your budget. If you like artists you can't afford, consider smaller original pieces, sketches rather than paintings or archival limited edition prints. Then take care of your art collection by storing it in a cool, dark, dry place (attic, closet or other air conditioned indoor area).


Frame everything and look up basic art conservation for collectors. If you vary which artists you collect, the entire collection will appreciate in value. You may not know which of your collections will become super valuable by the artist's fame growing, but your kids and grandkids will have an incredible legacy if you spread that investment around -- and do it from the heart.
Buy the artwork you fall in love with. Then stash them if your tastes change because collectors or your kids may love them later.
 Very often discounts and bargains get taken out of the author's royalties. The author gets paid on the net, not on the gross value of the books printed. If it's print-on-demand and you discover independent authors you like, always purchase them direct from the author's website versus Amazon.


If you collect e-books from living authors, you won't need as many bookcases.
Don't feel bad about purchasing hardcover versions of paperbacks or e-books you liked and want to reread, that's a way to reduce your bookshelves to manageable.
 Again, do this within budget and focus it on your tastes. You may like Riverdance more than you like formal ballet, or you may prefer live theater off-off-Broadway types of productions. You may like concerts with big famous bands or symphony orchestras or opera. Yes, this includes live theatre as mentioned above or any type of performance art you enjoy.


Pay full price tickets to magicians and musicians.
When you pass a street performer, put some money into the performer's hat or tip box.
Buy CDs of independent musicians who self produce them, you may be launching a someday-famous band and have a collectible -- or just have a beloved CD of famous music. And if you download their music, pay for it––don't be a freeloader as the "free music" attitude has ruined the livelihood of many a struggling yet very talented musician.
Be polite and quiet during live performances. This is especially important in pubs that have Celtic music, as the Celtic tradition is very keen on respect for bards. Don't talk during live performances. You're not only distracting the audience who'd like to hear the music, you may be distracting the musicians too and throwing them off their stride.
 Why not celebrate your anniversary by hiring a live musician to serenade your spouse at a romantic dinner -- or have a romantic dinner at home with a musician performing that you both love? Any kind of holiday or personal event can become lavish if you have live music. Book them well in advance, talk to them in person after a concert and find out their rates.


Find out when the band's off season is and what causes it. You may wind up getting a bargain or a shorter wait time if you book them during a time of year they don't get many gigs. The opposite of tourist season is often good.
For the holidays, try to book the band early, so you're the one that gets them for your holiday party.
If you like variety, turn your annual music party into a "guess what the band is" event.
 Instead of going to an upscale shop where you'll pay a high price for fancy clothing, go to an artist who will fit it to your individual body much better, create it to suit your precise looks, complexion, style and taste, and support another type of independent artist. You will get more than your money's worth because a quality handmade original garment will last longer and if you pay for their best work, wear better than anything from even an expensive store. You can reduce the size of your wardrobe while raising its quality.


Buy handmade boots and shoes from leather crafters and artists. Again, they will be expensive but they'll fit better, look better and wear much longer than shoes and boots from stores.
If you like buying shoes often, find your favorite artisan and have new ones designed for you periodically for fun. You might start getting a "regular customer" discount working one on one with the artist instead of just purchasing something made by mass production to sell to thousands of others. Remember, your shoes are unique, unlike anyone else's. If they were made to fit your Christmas dress and you love them, maybe take them to your clothing designer next year to get a new Christmas dress inspired by the shoes. Artists sometimes work together on things like that. The more you know them, the more personal and unique their works are and the closer they come to your personal tastes.
 On a low budget, start with small silver and semiprecious stones. Once you're up in a fine jewelry bracket, you can pay for more elaborate workmanship and more expensive materials. Especially pay attention to their original pieces or commission original pieces. Buying the stock rings and necklaces they have on hand helps the artists to survive, but when you choose their best work or commission something unique that takes the best of their skills, you also feed their souls.
 Food is an art form, so is ambiance, these one-of-a-kind restaurants are sometimes a lot higher quality than chain restaurants. Once you find your favorites, you're likely to get personal attention and extra good service for a more enjoyable experience.
 No matter what it is, if a local artist makes it, you are getting originality and personal attention. Your entire home can become a collection of treasured, unique, beautiful objects. Many of those things will be higher quality than manufactured goods.
 Hire local landscapers to take care of your yard, unless you're a gardener. Find the ones who are artists, look at their other gardens, then give them some artistic freedom. Yes, the flowers in your yard and the landscaping can be artwork that is an expression of who you are and what you love.

