


Wear a wicking, snug-fitting under-layer to help keep you dry and warm.






Add 1 or 2 layers of insulating fleece, wool or synthetic materials. Avoid cotton, which gets wet and stays wet against your skin, robbing your body of heat.






Finish with a windproof, waterproof and breathable--or at least wind- and water-resistant--outer layer of both pants and jacket.






Don't forget to don warm gloves and socks that are loose enough to allow adequate circulation in your fingers and toes. You can layer your gloves and socks just like you layer the rest of your body, but try to limit yourself to about 2--or in extreme conditions, 3--layers.






Add a warm, insulated hat and an extra windproof, waterproof head layer--the hood on your jacket will do for the latter.






Sturdy, insulated shoes help keep your feet warm. Avoid wearing tennis shoes during a winter hike; the shoes will just turn into a soggy, squishy mess full of melted snow.





;
,,


Avalanches aren't random, and recognizing the elements that create ideal conditions for a natural or human-triggered avalanche helps you avoid them.
 These include:

Fire building






First aid






Digging snow caves and other emergency winter shelters






How to conduct an avalanche beacon search, and an avalanche probe search






How to navigate in the low visibility winter weather can cause.
 These include:

First aid kit






Headlamp






Fire-starting materials, including a lighter or waterproof matches






Emergency shelter (a bivvy sack or "space blanket" is a good start, although probably not enough on its own)






Knife






Whistle, mirror or other signaling device






Map and compass






Avalanche beacon, probe and shovel






Extra food







, Then stick to the plan.


Ask around for information about avalanche hazard on your chosen path.
Pay attention to not only avalanche hazard on the slope you're on as you travel, but the slopes above you and to the sides as well; avalanches can run a surprising distance past the foot of a mountain.
