 One of the most important ways to survive hotel living is to know when your family “togetherness” will end. Typically contractors may give you an end date, but will most likely be extended beyond that specific day.


Add at least one week onto the contractor’s end date. For your mental health, if your contractor tells you the job will only last one week, get it into your mind that you will out of the house for two.
Request a detailed written plan that lets you know what work should be done on which days. If you are having your kitchen gutted, knowing that day six is counter top day will let you know whether the team is on schedule or running behind when you check on the house.
Collect all contact numbers and information from the contractor. The contractor will be your best resource to getting back into the house. Having easy access to the company and the lead contractor will allow you to stay on top of the timeline.;
, Although you may be inclined to want to save money and stay in a cheap motel (most likely because the renovation is costing an arm and a leg), consider reserving a (or several) rooms at a nicer hotel. You don't need to check into the Ritz Carlton but keep in mind you will be staying there for more than one evening and your comfort will wane as the days/weeks plod on.


Consider booking a suite or a room with multiple rooms and a kitchen. The more like home you can make your new surroundings, the better. Numerous hotels have cropped up across the world aimed at busy executives or families on the go that contain a kitchen, numerous rooms and even an in-room washer and dryer.
Investigate renting a condo or a home. If you think you will be out of your home for more than a month, signing a short-term lease on a home or condo may be the best option. Not only will you be able to spread out more, you may end up saving money in the long run.
 While you may be used to packing “vacation” wear for hotel stays, keep in mind that you aren’t on vacation and will need the same items at the hotel as you do at home.


Avoid over packing, especially if you plan to stay close to home. Instead of bringing everything from formal evening attire to your swimsuit, keep in mind that you can run back and forth and grab items as you need them. Instead, pack for three to four days and then go home an repack. Also, if the weather or your mood changes, you can grab clothing as you need it and not end up with piles and piles of clothing all over the hotel room--too much clutter will send anyone to the funny farm.
Bring creature comforts to the hotel room. Especially for kids, bring favorite toys or stuffed animals to keep everyone comfortable and feeling as if they are at home. If you have a favorite book or if you knit, bring your hobby or reading materials along for long family evenings of togetherness.
If you book accommodations with a kitchen check to see if the kitchen comes equipped with everything you need. For example if you are a coffee drinker, make sure the kitchen comes with a coffee maker. If not, you may want to bring one from home.
 If everyone goes to work and school during the day, don’t slack off because you are staying at a hotel.


Create a morning routine chart. You may be living with only one bathroom so before the kids start fighting about who gets to take the first shower, establish ground rules such as a shower order (including specific times) and the amount of time allotted per shower.
Determine how long it will take you to get to your destination each morning. Most likely you know how long it will take to drive the kids to school from your home, but may be unfamiliar with traffic patterns and the amount of time from the hotel. Try a dry run and then pad travel time by 10 to 30 minutes depending on how far you are from your destination--who knows, maybe you are closer traveling from the hotel.
Establish a specific space for each family member. Since everyone will most likely not have their own room, allot a certain space within your accommodations to allow each family member to keep possessions and/or chill out.
Create a new routine. If you stay at home with the kids and typically spend time cleaning, decorating or gardening, consider creating a new routine so you don’t go stir crazy. Make lunch plans with friends, go to a movie, volunteer at your child’s school, schedule doctor appointments you put off, visit your home to check on the renovation or go to the gym. Sitting around the hotel room will make you go nuts so being busy is key.
 While it may not be financially feasible, taking a vacation from your hotel room can give you a new perspective. A quick getaway from your environment can mix up the monotony of being stuck in a hotel room, even though you will most likely be going from a hotel room to another.


Plan renovations around vacation. Kids on spring break? Schedule your renovation during your spring break vacation so you only have to spend a short amount of time in the hotel near home.
Consider breaking up the gang for a few days. Send the kids to the grandparents’ house or to stay with friends while you and your honey go on a weekend getaway.

