 It's easy to sell something on eBay, and it's a great way to move your product online. You will gain immediate access to a large buying audience.


Sign into the eBay site, and create an account. Just click “sell” at the top of the website’s home page, and sign in or register for a new account. Then, list what you want to sell, and add pictures. eBay allows you to add up to 10 photos. If you know your item's market value, choose the fixed price listing format, and provide your price. If your item is really unique or you aren't sure of its value, you could use an auction-style listing format. eBay has a quick listing tool that allows you to compare the pricing of similar products.
Choose a shipping option. eBay allows many shipping options. You can order USPS flat rate boxes and envelopes for free, schedule pick ups at home, or offer different shipping options.
Click "list it," and buyers will start seeing your product.
Once a buyer pays for your item, you need to ship it. You should leave positive feedback for your buyer if you plan on selling again. It builds loyal customers.
Collect your pay. Most buyers use PayPal to get paid by buyers on eBay. PayPal is an easy site to join. It allows you to electronically move money to your checking account or to request a check.
To increase your success on eBay, make sure you have a specific headline that contains the product name that people would actually search. You want to eliminate adjectives like amazing or wonderful. Include photos. They will help you sell your product. And put them on top so potential buys see them first.
 Many people find buyers for their products on Craigslist. All you have to do is go to the Craigslist website. You can select a site in your geographic area or other area you want to sell in, although you can only post your ad on one. Craigslist is free to post.


Include a photo. People are very suspicious of people trying to sell them things, especially online, so you’ll have better luck if they can see what you are offering. Make your photos look good. For example, you might want to clean up the product before photographing it.
Include a deadline. If you add some urgency to your add, such as saying it must be picked up by Friday, you will increase sales. Be careful when meeting buyers off Craigslist. Meet people in a public place, only, for your own safety. If you can’t meet in public (such as when you are selling a large household item), make sure to have one or more people with you when you meet the buyer. It’s a good idea to accept only cash. A strong headline is important to draw people in because your product may be competing with many others. Use keywords associated with your product that people are likely to search, and include the product’s brand name, and its condition. In the ad text, you need to give details about the product, including color, dimensions, and any issues, such as tears or other problems. Make sure to include contact information with the ad. You can use Craig’s List’s anonymous email service to protect your privacy and increase safety.
 Amazon.com is obviously a major mover of products online. However, you can sell your own stuff on Amazon, not just buy products from established companies. However, unlike eBay and Craigslist, you can only sell a product already listed on the Amazon site. For example, you can't sell an old antique if Amazon is not already selling the same product. Choose the category. There are many categories for selling on Amazon. You can choose professional sales categories for example. You need a professional selling account to sell in some categories, but not others. Amazon provides a chart to help you figure out which category your product falls under and whether you need approval to sell or a professional account. Find a selling plan you can afford. If you sell more than 40 items a month, Amazon recommends a professional account, which is more costly than an individual account. For an individual account and a seller of a few products, Amazon charges 99 cents per sale and a few other associated costs. Amazon does charge commissions for sales, and they usually range from 6 to 15 percent. To sell as a professional or individual, you need to create an account on Amazon’s website. You will need to enter your name if you are selling as an individual and you will be asked to provide a credit card to pay any fees. You will also be asked to create a display name.
Once you are registered, create a listing for your product. Select the condition, price, and shipping method. Click “manage orders” to see all orders. You can only sell a product that is already listed on Amazon’s site. So search for your product on the site, like typing in the ISBN number of a book you want to sell. Most products have a “sell on Amazon” button at their page, which you should click on if you want to sell a version of your own. , One important tip to increase sales on Amazon is to make sure people can find it when they search for a product like it. Most people find products on Amazon through typing in keywords in the search bar.


Plant keywords in your product title. That means you put words in the title that people would be likely to search if they were seeking your product. You can also add five search terms to your product, and you should add all five. For example a phone titled Nokia phone will probably place lower in searches than Nokia phone with bluetooth because the latter contains more keywords.

