 Within the body of the paper, the footnotes should be numbered using Arabic numbers after the punctuation mark used in the clause the note relates to.









All footnote numbers should be in superscript within the body of the text.
Example:

Preliminary research suggests that this matter could be of crucial significance within the field.1

Studies regarding this matter could be difficult to perform,2 but the effort may well be worth it.


Note that the only exceptions are the long dash and closing parentheses. When a long dash appears after a noted clause, the footnote number appears before the dash. Similarly, when the footnoted clause appears within parentheses, the footnote number should be included within the parentheses, as well.
Example:

The research is important3—whether these efforts are for personal or public gain has yet to be determined, though.
(Contradictory reports made in the past have already been proven inaccurate, as noted in the chart below.4)

;
, A footnote should be included on the bottom of the page that the related information appears on, and it should be labeled using the same Arabic number used to identify its corresponding clause within the body of the text.









Footnotes must begin four single-spaced lines, or two double-spaced lines, below the body of the main text on that page.
Footnotes should be double-spaced.
Each footnote should begin with a standard parenthetical indentation (five spaces). Only the first line is indented, though. All others are flush with the left margin.
Place the corresponding number after the first-line indentation, followed by a period and a single space. Begin the text of the footnote after that.
Examples:

1. See Smith, chapters 2 and 5, for a more detailed discussion on this concept.
2. Other research supports similar conclusions. See Jackson 64-72, Doe and Johnson 101-157.
3. Brown, who worked closely with Smith during these studies, agrees with Smith's process but disagrees with Smith's conclusions (Brown 54).
4. Note. From "Studies on Style," by J. Doe, 2007, Smart Journal, 11, p. 14. Copyright 2007 by Doe. Reprinted with permission.
 Do not restart your numbering at any point within the same paper. In other words, you should only have one footnote labeled "1," one footnote labeled "2," and so on.
 MLA discourages the use of footnotes within a paper, but some publishers may use the footnote system instead of using the more commonly accepted parenthetical citation system.









Do not cite the entire source within your footnotes. The bibliographic information provided in your footnotes should cover no more than the information usually covered by parenthetical citations.
The bibliographic information you need to include should be introduced within the context of a full sentence. At minimum, you should introduce the information by saying, "See..."
Conclude each citation with a period.
Example:

1. See Smith, chapters 2 and 5, for a more detailed discussion on this concept.
2. Other research supports similar conclusions. See Jackson 64-72, Doe and Johnson 101-157.
 The majority of your explanations and information should be included within the body of the paper, and the MLA style discourages long digressive notes. If you need to occasionally include brief information that strays too greatly from the main text, however, you can use a footnote to do so.









Each footnote should be phrased in a complete sentence. Avoid using footnotes that are more than one or two sentences in length.
Include information that would be helpful to the reader even though it does not fit within the body of the main text.
Example:

3. Brown, who worked closely with Smith during these studies, agrees with Smith's process but disagrees with Smith's conclusions (Brown 54).
 Content footnotes can be used when you have additional information that can benefit your readers even though that information does not fit in within the main body of your paper. Use these notes as infrequently as possible, however, since the APA style actively discourages the widespread use of footnotes.









Limit the contents of your footnote to one or two complete sentences. The total length should not exceed that of a small paragraph.
Keep the focus of your footnote brief and singular. In other words, only describe one subject, and do so as concisely as possible.
You can also use footnotes to direct readers to more detailed information that can be located within another source.
Example:

1. See Smith (2009), for a more detailed discussion on this concept.
2. Other research supports similar conclusions. See Jackson (1998), Doe and Johnson (2012).
3. Brown (2009), who worked closely with Smith during these studies, agrees with Smith's process but disagrees with Smith's conclusions.
 If you pull a direct quote that uses more than 500 words of published material, you need formal permission from the original author. This formal permission should be mentioned within a footnote.









Other violations of "Fair Use" copyright laws also require you to obtain formal permission from the author.
You also need to include a note regarding copyright if you reproduce a graphic, chart, or table from another source.
Such citations usually begin with the word "Note," written in italics.
Provide a full citation of the source according to APA specifics.
Example:

4. Note. From "Studies on Style," by J. Doe, 2007, Smart Journal, 11, p. 14. Copyright 2007 by Doe. Reprinted with permission.
 Unlike APA and MLA, Chicago style prefers the use of footnotes over parenthetical citations. The information corresponding to all of your in-text citations should be provided via footnotes.









Note that footnotes still appear at the bottom of the page the cited information appears on, and all basic footnote formatting rules still apply.
 You will need to include more than the author's name, page number, or published date within a footnote. The full citation must be provided. That includes the author's or authors' names and all information regarding the original published source.









Provide the authors' full names as they appear in the original source material. Do not replace full names with initials.
Note that a full citation must be used the first time you reference a text, but every time you mention the same published text after the first, a partial or abbreviated form should be used.
 When citing a book, you will need to provide the author's full name in first-name last-name format, followed by the title of the book in italics. The city of publication, publisher, and year published should be included in parentheses after that. If relevant, provide the page number of the source material last.









For two or three authors, each author should be listed in the order they are presented in on the original source material. For four or more authors, list the first author's name only, followed by the phrase, "et al."
Examples:

1. John Doe and Bob Smith, Interesting Book (New York: Wonderful Publisher, 2010), 32.
2. Rebecca Johnson, et al., Another Great Book (Chicago: Awesome Publisher, 2009), 102.


For subsequent references to the same text, shorten the citation to include only the last names, titles, and page numbers.
Examples:

3. Doe and Smith, Interesting Book, 98.
4. Johnson, et al., Another Great Book, 117.
 When citing an academic article, include the author's full name in first-name last-name format, the article title in quotation marks, and the journal name in italics. Follow this information with the volume number, issue number, year in parentheses, and page number.









Example:

Sue Rogers, "Clever Article," Very Important Journal 14, no. 3 (2011): 62.


When referring to the same article at a later place within the text, abbreviate your footnote to include only the last name, article title, and page number.
Example:

Rogers, "Clever Article," 84.



