 If you find that the noise can’t be resolved between just you and the other person, seek out resolution with the help of a third party. Sometimes a board member or apartment manager can help facilitate the conversation and avoid fueling the conflict between you and the neighbour.If your building doesn’t have mediation procedures, talk to your landlord or super about the noise complaints.
The super or landlord will act as the middle man and notify the neighbour of the complaints they’ve heard anonymously, sometimes with an official reprimand., Some areas have a non-emergency police option, 311. In areas without a 311 service, you can likely find a local, non-emergency phone number for your local police department (or sheriff’s office) by looking online.When you call 311 or your local non-emergency line, let the dispatcher know where you are exactly. If you are in an apartment complex, give the complete street address including the apartment number. Be prepared to give info about your entry code if your community is gated as well.Give a brief description of what is going on. Tell them what is currently happening. Say something like, “I’m trying to file a noise complaint on one of my neighbours who is having a party that is not in accordance with our community rules.”
If you want to remain anonymous to protect yourself against any potential retaliation, tell the operator that you don’t want to be contacted by the officers sent to the scene. The officers will contact your neighbour regarding the complaint, but will leave you out of it and not reveal your identity., If the issue can be or has been dealt between you, your neighbours, and your landlord, leave the police out if it. However, if you find that you have not had much success with dealing with things internally, call the cops.911 should be reserved for emergency situations, not a thump or two. Call the cops if there’s a loud party going on or if there is a band playing at all hours of the night.It is integral that the cops be called only in situations where the noise will still be going on at the time of their arrival. If not, contact 311 or your local non-emergency line, for non-emergency noise complaint situations., Legal action should be your last resort as a result of trying every possible way to reach a solution and not finding one. Use the notes you have taken during past indiscretions with your neighbours as supporting documents to build your civil case for small claims court.Sue your neighbour in court for money damages or as a court order for the neighbour to stop the noise, or “abate the nuisance”, which is what it’s referred to in legal terms.It might be difficult to sue for noise damage because determining damages is pretty subjective. If you still want to give it a try in small claims court, use your log that you should have been keeping from earlier steps. Show that there is excessive and disturbing noise on several occasions caused by the neighbour you’re suing.
Show that you have asked that he or she stop being noisy on several occasions and it hasn’t been resolved. Show evidence of police involvement and your interactions with your neighbour that have remained ineffective to resolving the issue of noise.

