 Though having a routine, from date night to movie night, can help establish the patterns that make a relationship meaningful and healthy, that doesn't mean that a routine is always fun. Mix things up from time to time by being completely spontaneous. Make an effort to not do the expected and ordinary thing all the time, and the girl will love hanging out with you even more.


Take a random weekend trip to a place you've never been before. Try food from a country you've never even heard of. Do a cartwheel in the middle of the street.
And don't underestimate the spontaneous hug, kiss, or compliment.
 If you want to sweep a girl off her feet, then you have to bring adventure and excitement to her life. This doesn't mean you have to go sky diving or climb Mount Everest, but it does mean that you should go out of your way to keep things exciting, pushing each other out of your comfort zones, and doing the things that you never thought you would do. Whatever you do that feels new, it will keep the girl's adrenaline pumping, and will keep making her excited about the relationship.


This could mean running a marathon together, learning to scuba dive, or even learning a new language.
When a new task is presented, have the "say yes" mentality, instead of saying "no" and thinking of all the reasons why it wouldn't be a good idea.
 You may ask, "What do her friends and family have to do with her?" Well, the short answer is -- everything. While you can start off a steamy and exciting romance without ever meeting her friends and family, if you want to be in it for the long haul, then you have to make the effort to get to know her friends and to be polite and kind when it comes to meeting her family.


Even if you don't quite hit it off with her friends right away, give them a chance. If you stick with the girl, it's likely they'll be a part of your life forever.
Sure, family events aren't always the most fun, but don't complain about it. If you really care about her, then you have to really care about her family -- even if you'd rather be watching the big game than hanging out at her uncle's birthday party.
 Though you may not think that maintaining your independence has anything to do with sweeping a girl off her feet, the opposite is true. If you want her to feel like you really care about her and that you can take her breath away, then you have to show it by letting her be her own person, and by doing your own thing from time to time. She will be wowed that you're not possessive or jealous enough to want to be around all of the time, and she'll like you even more for it.


If you both have your separate friends and interests and have parts of your relationship that don't intersect, your relationship will be stronger when you do spend time together.
 Once you've swept the girl off her feet, you've gotta keep "sweeping"'. You may be feeling like everything is going great and like there's no need to keep making your girl feel loved and special to her-- and you'd be dead wrong about it. You have to keep things fresh if you don't want the girl to lose interest. Bring her flowers, continue to compliment her every day, and find new activities that you can do together, like hiking or learning to cook to keep things excited and not boring.


If you already reached the "I love you" phase, make sure to say it at least once a day to keep showing that you care about her.

