 Maintaining a healthy weight often comes down to calories in and calories out. Use an online program or pen and paper to keep track of the number of calories that you consume on a daily basis. Try to stay as close to your ideal caloric target as possible. Dropping 500 calories a day can result in a 1 lb. weight loss per week.Watch your drinks! For example, a 12oz glass of sweet tea provides 88 calories, one 12oz can of Coca Cola provides 140 calories, and cocktails can include upwards of 500 calories per glass.Drinking just a few sweet beverage throughout the day can add a significant amount of calories and this may interfere with your diet goals.
 Skipping meals (especially breakfast) puts you at an energy disadvantage for the rest of the day. You may avoid calories from one meal, but you will likely binge on the next or make other unhealthy choices. Instead, pick specific times for meals and stick to them. If you have to push back a meal, eat a filling snack in the meantime.


Skipping breakfast can increase the risk of Type 2 diabetes, fatigue, and poor mental function., This is a creative and fun way to practice portion control. Scan the menu for a healthy option, such as grilled chicken tenders and applesauce, and order away. You will receive a balanced meal while saving money and calories.
 When your food arrives, go ahead and box up half of it to save for later. This will keep you from overeating and gives you enough for another meal the next day!, Eating slowly and methodically will allow you to watch for signs that you end the meal. Carefully chew your food and drink sips of water in between every bite. Resist the urge to clean your plate and don’t automatically order dessert-make sure that you are actually hungry. See How to Eat Slowly to Avoid Overeating.


It takes approximately 20 minutes for your brain to register and signal that you are full., Foods high in saturated fats and sugars are often cheaper, and thus more alluring, but do not be swayed from the healthy path! Instead of purchasing a pre-set meal, buy a group of healthy side items, such as carrot sticks and applesauce.Before you go to a restaurant, do some research to help you make good choices when you arrive. Go online to find their menu and nutritional information.
 Getting your meals delivered to your home is like receiving a gift every day. You can choose from a variety of options, including only certain meals or only particular foods, and this will keep food boredom at bay. Don’t hesitate to test out a number of companies before settling on a particular one.

