 Obtain admission into the arena by either using coins you've gained through quests (150 in-game coins) or by using real world dollars ($1.99 USD, €1.79 EUR, £1.49 GBP or R$4.50 BRL).;
, Choose one of three different hero classes. The three heroes presented are random each time you enter the arena, so choose one you are already familiar playing if possible.


Each hero has a special power that can be played during battle. Check what the hero’s power is before choosing.
 Choose one card from a set of three at a time until you have a deck of thirty cards. The cards can be any card from the chosen hero’s card list as well as the neutral card list. The cards are not restricted to collected cards and can include nearly any card in the game.


Build your deck around the first few cards you choose, keeping in mind your hero’s ability.
If you choose to build a high cost deck, include cards that can protect you while you build up mana to play those epic cards. Good cards to include are healing cards, creatures with taunt, armor cards, and weapons.
 There is no time limit while building your deck. By reading the cards now, you will be familiar with them when it is time to do battle.
 Don’t be nervous! You will be pitted against opponents of similar rank and skill as you. You won't be playing against a veteran arena player until you are ready.
 You have the option to discard and draw new cards at the beginning of each match.
 The timer is in effect at this point in the game, so don’t spend too long reading cards. You should be able to easily recognize them because you read them carefully while building your deck.
 Choosing a strategy early in the game and during deck building can go a long way towards winning repeatedly. You want to have a solid plan in place when you begin to play but also keep yourself open to changing strategies based on what you draw during any given turn.


The 1-2 Strategy: This deck has many cards that require one or two mana crystals. A good strategy is to play as many creatures as possible during any given turn. Keep some creatures in reserve to block. When attacking, try to hit the player directly instead of focusing on their minions.
High cost deck: In the early game you will need to rely on your hero ability and cards that protect or heal you until you gain enough mana crystals to play the higher cost cards in your hand. This style of play is an advanced technique. It probably shouldn’t be tried till you have played in the arena a few times.
Spells: Use this strategy to do direct damage or to buff/heal you and your minions. Damage spells are also effective at taking out creatures with taunt. Playing minions that increase spell damage with this deck can enable you to do devastating damage to your opponent and give them limited options to block.
 You will continue to play with the same deck until you either lose three times or cumulatively win 12 matches. If you need to stop after a match, you can come back to the arena to keep playing until you have won or lost the set amount of times. If you forfeit during a match, it will count towards your number of losses.
 Each win upgrades your key which you use to unlock your loot chest. Losses do not downgrade your key; only wins are factored in.


Don’t forget to go and open your packs if you got any!

