 If you feel like you want to lose weight, try journaling your thoughts and feelings. This can help you see where you are mentally with weight loss.


Weight loss requires you to be in the right mindset. You need to be ready to change, motivated and determined if you want to lose weight.Start a journal and write down how you feel about weight loss. How badly do you want to lose weight? Are you willing to give up some favorite foods to lose weight? Are you willing to start exercising to help you lose weight?
Also think about what type of diet you're willing to follow. If you're considering a crash diet or fad diet, that may mean you're not truly ready to put in the hard work it takes to lose weight safely.
For example, weight loss pills and other supplements don't require you to work hard at changing your diet and lifestyle. If you're only interested in this type of "diet", it doesn't seem like you're ready to change what you eat, reduce your portion sizes or begin to exercise.;
, Keeping track of each one in your journal will give you an idea of the extent of lifestyle changes you'll need to commit to. This will help you see a clear picture and give you direction when preparing for weight loss when you're ready.


Start making notes about your diet. What needs to change? Do you need to eat smaller portions? Do you need to give up your evening desserts? Do you need to cut down on soda or alcohol?
Also consider your lifestyle. Do you need to add in more physical activity? Do you need to purchase a scale to help you stay accountable? Do you need to find a support group to help encourage you during weight loss?
Knowing what needs to change will help you decide whether or not you're truly ready for safe weight loss.If you look at your list of things that need to change, but don't feel motivated to change them, you may not be ready for weight loss.
 Another exercise you can do is writing out a list of pros and cons of weight loss. This is a great way to see if weight loss is something you can do at this moment.


You may think there are only pros and advantages to weight loss. Although there are a lot, there may be plenty of disadvantages as well.
Pros to weight loss may include: fitting into smaller clothes, feeling more confident in yourself, reducing your risk of chronic disease, helping manage a chronic disease more easily, decreasing pain in your joints and back, being able to be more physically active, or joining your family on more outings and gatherings.
Cons to weight loss may include: having to limit a favorite food, having to be more active when your joints ache or you don't enjoy physical activity, having to be more consistent with your diet or dealing with the occasional set backs or slip ups during your diet. In addition, you might have to purchase new clothes or you live with a partner who doesn't want to lose weight and doesn't want to make healthy changes.
If your list of advantages to weight loss is bigger than the cons, you're probably ready for weight loss and have good motivation to support you.
 Even if you feel completely ready for weight loss, there may be some barriers in your life that could prevent you from being successful.Barriers to change are things in your life that can stop, stall or prevent you from realizing a goal (in this case, weight loss).
In general, everyone has some barriers. Some may be small and easily dealt with, while others may be large and very hard to overcome.
Small barriers may be: you don't have a scale to weigh yourself, you don't have measuring cups or a food scale to track portions, you don't belong to a gym or you don't enjoy a variety of fruits and vegetables.
Small barriers may be frustrating, but with planning and determination, you can overcome these. For example, you can purchase a scale or measuring cups to help you stay accountable. Or if you can't afford a gym membership, maybe you can drive to a local park to exercise or borrow some exercise DVDs from your local library.
Larger barriers that may be more difficult to overcome include: significant financial stress, you live in a household with others who have bad eating habits and do not want to change or you are home-bound or disabled and cannot be physically active.
 After giving weight loss some serious thought, rate your overall readiness to change. This can help you sum up your work and see if you should go ahead and attempt weight loss.Use a number scale to rate yourself. It goes from 1 to 10. One is "not ready to change at all" and 10 is "very ready to change and confident."
Start by rating your individual changes. For example, are you ready to make your portions smaller? Rate this from 1 to 10. Go through and rate everything to see where you're confident and where you're not.
Look at your overall ratings. Are they mostly low numbers or are they mostly high numbers? If your ratings are typically higher - like in the 6 to 10 range - you're ready for weight loss.
 When you've decided you're ready to make changes for weight loss, decide how much weight you need to lose. Consider talking to your doctor so he or she can help you determine what a healthy weight range is for you.


Make an appointment with your doctor or give them a call. Talk about your plan for weight loss and need for guidance on what a healthy weight range is for you.
Make sure to discuss how much weight you think you need to lose, how you're going to lose it and what diet plans (if any), you're choosing to follow.
Also ask if weight loss is safe and appropriate for you. You may not need to lose weight or your doctor may suggest only losing a minimal amount.
 One method of determining how much weight you should lose is figuring out your BMI. It's easiest to do this online and can quickly give you an idea of your excess body weight.


BMI or body mass index is a measure of body fat based on your height and weight.The higher the BMI, the more body fat you have and the more overweight you are.
The easiest method of determining your BMI is by using an online calculator. You input your weight and height and a value is determined for you.
If your BMI is between 19.9 to 24.9 you're at a healthy weight and do not necessarily need to lose weight.If your BMI is between 25 to 29.9 you're considered overweight and will generally be about 15 to 20 pounds overweight.
If your BMI is between 30.0 to 34.9 you're considered obese and will generally be about 40 to 50 pounds overweight.
If your BMI is over 35 you're considered morbidly obese and will need to lose a minimum of 50 pounds.
 Similar to BMI, your ideal body weight can also help determine how much weight you need to lose. You can also do this online, but the calculation is fairly easy to do on your own.


Your ideal body weight takes into consideration your gender and height. It produces a result that is generally accurate for most people.For women, follow this equation: 100 + 5 lb for every inch over 60 in
For men, follow this equation: 106 + 6 lb for every inch over 60 in
Once you've calculated your ideal body weight, subtract it from your current weight. This is the approximate amount of excess body weight you have.
 Regardless of how much weight you need to lose overall, its important to focus on losing it slowly and safely. This is the most sustainable type of weight loss.


Most health professionals do not recommend losing more than about one to two pounds total per week.This rate of weight loss may seem slow, but is the most realistic and easy to keep off in the long-term.
For example, if you determine that you need to lose 15 pounds, plan to spend about two to three months following a diet or structured meal plan.
If you don't feel like this rate is quick enough for you or are interested in trying a crash diet to lose weight faster, go back to square one and reassess your readiness to change.
 When you've decided you're ready to lose weight, you need to set realistic goals for yourself. This will help set you up for success long-term.


Your goals first need to be realistic for you.You need to be realistic about the amount of weight you want to lose, how fast you can lose it and your motivation to stay on track.
As mentioned, do not set a goal for more than one to two pounds per week. If you want to lose 10 pounds, losing that within two weeks is not a realistic goal.
Also make sure your goal is attainable. This might seem self explanatory, but if you're not truly ready for weight loss, setting a goal to lose a large amount of weight is most likely not attainable.
 To keep you motivated and encouraged the whole way, consider setting rewards for yourself.Each time you meet a goal, treat yourself to something fun.


Start by writing down all your goals - both big and small. There is no weight loss goal too small for a reward.
Do not choose food related rewards. You don't want to treat yourself to a dessert after losing your first 10 pounds. This can lead you astray.
Instead, pick non-food related rewards like: treating yourself to a manicure or massage, buying new workout clothes, downloading a new workout playlist, getting a new hair cut or buying a new pair of shoes.
 One important thing to do regardless of what type of diet you follow, is to start a food journal. This can not only help prepare you for weight loss, but help keep you accountable long-term.


Studies have shown that those who track their food regularly lose a significant amount more weight compared to those who don't. In addition, they're able to keep it off better long term.Download a food journaling app or keep a pen and paper version yourself. Either will work well. Track every meal, snack and beverage you consume each day.
Try starting your food journal before your actual diet starts. This is a good tool to help you see what changes you may need to make to your diet. If you're not truly ready to lose weight, making changes to your diet will seem too difficult.
 When you prepare to lose weight, it'll be helpful to write yourself or find a meal plan to follow. This gives you the blueprint of exactly what you're eating each and everyday.If you're not following a specific diet, write your own meal plan. Document what you're planning on having for each meal - breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks.
Make sure your meals either fit into a specified calorie or carbohydrate range depending on your diet of choice.
If you are following a specific type of diet (like Atkins or Weight Watchers), these diets generally come with meal plans. Download or print these out to follow during the week.

