 Type in "www.groupon.com" into your web browser, or click here to visit Groupon.com.;
, Click on "Sign In" in the upper right-hand corner of the website, and type in your account information.


If you don't have a Groupon account, click on "Sign Up" to create one. You will be prompted to type in your new account information.
 Navigate through the site's list of deals until you have found a one you want to give to someone.


You can find deals by browsing through the many featured category menus at the top of the website, or by using the search bar at the top of the page to find something more specific.
 A new page with the deal's information will appear.


Some featured deals will appear at the top of the home page as well as each category page. To see these deals, simply click on them, or click on the "View Deal" button.
 The "Give as a Gift" button is on the right-hand side below the green "Buy" button.


Not all Groupon deals are available for gifting.
Often times a deal will have different options. For example, a purchase of tickets to a sports game will have options that correspond to where the seats are. Make sure you select the correct option you wish to gift before continuing.
 A pop-up window will appear with the option to send a customized card to the gift's recipient.
 Type in the recipient's name, email address, and a short note into the corresponding fields.
 The "Continue to Checkout" button is at the bottom of the screen. This will bring you to the payment page.


You can print a customized card and voucher by selecting "Print" at the top of the window. Enter your desired message. After you complete your order, go to "My Groupons" under your account name in the top right corner of the screen. There will be a printable PDF available corresponding to your purchased deal.
 Type in your credit or debit card information in the corresponding text fields.
 Click on the green "Place Order" button on the right side of the screen to place your order.
 A confirmation letter will be sent to your email after your order has processed.


Groupon will send your gift to the recipient via email with instructions on how to use it. You will also receive a confirmation email once the Groupon deal has been delivered.
If you want to view, make changes, or check your order's status, you can do so by clicking on the "My Groupons" link on the confirmation page.

