 It is very easy to get hung up on events outside of your control — you missed that promotion, you never got a call back after that interview, management keeps giving you tight deadlines. Take a moment and breathe. All of these things are outside of your control. What is the use in dwelling on them? Instead, focus on things that you can affect.


Stress comes from external forces but also from things that we can control. Instead of worrying about the missed call-back, think about the interview and identify your weak points. Then, try to address those weaknesses.
Instead of fretting about management, try to organize your time better and more efficiently so that your deadlines aren’t as arduous.
Have you ever heard the phrase “be stoic”? The Stoics were a group of ancient philosophers who argued that we can’t find happiness in life in outward, insecure things, but rather should look to ourselves for inner strength. In order to be happy we should focus on the things that we can control, namely our minds, our behavior, and our will.When you feel stressed, remember to be stoic!

, Stop to recognize your small triumphs in life and reward yourself. After all, isn’t slow and steady progress better than none at all? Affirming these moments, even in a small way, will give you something to look forward to and remind you of your progress.You needn’t throw yourself a party, but treat yourself somehow after a milestone. Give yourself the evening off to read a good book, go out for ice cream, or pop open a bottle of champagne with your spouse.
Celebrations can do wonders for your levels of self-esteem and motivation. Even just a little pat on the back will boost your mood., Try to remember that every day, and each task of your daily routine, is only a small part of your life. You may feel down at a particular moment, or discouraged, but remember where you are on life’s road and how much effort you have spent to get there. Haven’t you achieved a lot? Widen your perspective a bit; it may improve your state of mind.Think of past accomplishments. Feeling subpar at work? What about the time that you won the employee of the year award? Perhaps recalling that you balance a professional life with the full demands of being a parent will also give a little perspective.
So you might not earn as much as you’d like, and you might not have a fancy car. What do you have? What are you thankful for? Try counting your blessing and writing them down. Focus on things that you are grateful to have. You might be surprised at the length of the list.