 In a nutshell, this is a person who uses modern communication technology, like text messaging, blogging, Twitter, and Facebook, to help bring about social change. It is also someone who uses the traditional means, such as writing a book, giving speeches, holding a protest rally, etc. In the 21st century, you have the opportunity to use the many means at your disposal to get the message across more broadly.;
, The best social activist is an informed one and it is only by having sound information that you will convince people that your cause is worthwhile. An informed social activist able to point out sound sources for information and facts will be trusted by other people. If you're scrambling for facts to back up your statements, you're not yet ready to promote the cause.


Use online search engines to research your cause. Also, read from a variety of sources; read the opposite side to what you consider is right so that you can understand the reasoning from those opposing your cause.
Research the best non-profits for your cause by using sites such as guidestar.
 Use social media to raise awareness of a wrong, an injustice or a problem. Tell a story in brief, clear words, so that it grips your readers quickly. Give them links to places where they can find more details if they would like; the more clued-in readers will need to read more before trusting the cause.


Even an anonymous Facebook group or a posting somewhere can spark a revolution if it hits the right note and exposes injustices. However, if you choose to remain anonymous, keep things polite and well researched, leaving links and images, etc. for people to find and verify what you're stating. You should also consider cloaking your IP address and other means by which people can work out who you are if you need to remain anonymous.
 Use hashtags — words or phrases prefixed with the “hash” or “pound” symbol — on Twitter to help spread, share, and organize information about a certain topic. Hashtags can be used to coordinate protests, update people about an ongoing crisis, and crowdsource information.
 Wikis are a great way to quickly share information and can also be used to organize events.
 Witnessing an injustice in person? Record it on your cell phone and post it to YouTube. You’ll need a YouTube account with a mobile setup that allows you to upload directly from your phone to your YouTube channel. Or provide a feed of events on the ground as they happen with a live video broadcasting app.
 The site Free.org started after a Canadian bookstore mogul read that an Iranian woman had been sentenced to death by stoning for adultery. The public pressure resulted in a stay of execution for the mother of 2.
 Email might not be the latest technology, but most political and business leaders are use email so it is one of the best ways to contact people in power.
 The donation is typically added to the user’s monthly phone bill.
 There are many online petition websites out there that can let you discover new causes or petitions related to your cause.
 Use websites such as Volunteer Match and idealist.org to find volunteer opportunities and internships related to your cause.

