 Clearly there was a reason you were dropped from the side and you'll need to work on remedying the reason before you can earn back your place on the team. Whether it's poor passing or being too unfit, focus on doing what you can to improve your performance.


If it's lack of fitness or a particular physical weakness, put together a training program that targets the areas you're not strong in.






If it's about lacking mental determination or stamina, you'll need to spend some time working on improving your confidence and belief in your abilities. You might find improving your visualization skills to be helpful.





;
, Even if you aren't the best at a lot of things that are involved in the game, doing even one thing better than anyone else can prove to others that you need to be on the team. If you're not the fastest bowler or the strongest batsman, make yourself the best fielder, the person with the most motivation or the best team-player.
 People who attend team meetings and practices, who become friends with other players or team members, or who perform fundraising and other non-game related tasks, show that they committed to the team, and that is the most important attribute no matter your skill.
 Since you've been dropped from the side, you'll need to work harder than anyone else on the team, so get in extra practices and read up about your sport frequently to keep ahead of the other players. Learn from the professionals in your sport by reading their biographies and about their wins – what moves, tactics, and thinking strategies are they using to make their game or sporting prowess much greater?

, Although being too obvious is probably a bad idea, make sure you show off your new skills at practices and make sure other team members can see you've improved.


Whenever there is a new round of try-outs or selections for your team, be sure to put down your name and go for it with the attitude that this is a fresh start.
 Nothing is more important than maintaining a good attitude, even when you may feel sour for being dropped. Remember to keep in there and never give up! If others are feeling tired or left out on your team, pep them up and show that great attitude off - you never know who might be watching.


If you make a fuss and behave petulantly after being dropped from the team, this can simply confirm to the coach and others that they made the right decision. On the other hand, if they see you taking it with good faith and tolerating the change in circumstances, all while trying to improve yourself, they'll be impressed by your tenacity and perseverance, as well as your ability to take hard knocks without losing it.
 If you are placed back into the side for a match, make sure you're on your best behaviour. Play every second like your coach or selector is watching and never give up. Without putting other players down, make sure that you shine the most out of them all and that it is clear you are perfect for the team by the end of the game.
 If you still aren't getting selected despite doing everything you can, consider trying out for another team, trying again next year, or if you are only playing for the exercise, consider joining a social league for your sport where everyone gets a game no matter your skill. It may not be that you aren't good enough, it may just have to do with the abundance of other players or other factors beyond your control. Think laterally rather than giving up.
 No matter what you do, keep at it. If you want it, you can work to it. You may feel that no one has seen your improvements, but more often than not you'll be surprised by that phone call asking if you're available for the game next weekend.

