 This is a fun spin on a typical messy bun or top knot.








Start by gathering your hair into a high ponytail and looping your hair through an elastic band or hair tie, with the ends sticking out.
Pull apart the bun to create two loops, which will be the two sides of the bow.
Use the ends to wrap between the two loops. This will create the illusion of a bow knot in the center.
Secure the bow bun with bobby pins and/or hair spray.
 This look involves leaving some of your hair down, creating a more relaxed style.








Take one small section of hair from either side of your head. The bigger the sections are, the bigger the bow will be, so decide how large or small you’d like the bow to be on your head.
Tie the two sections together with an elastic or hair tie to create a half ponytail. Don’t pull the ends through the elastic so there is a loop at the end of the tie.
Split the loop in half to create two smaller loops. Clip one loop aside for now with bobby pins.
Use your fingers to spread out the unclipped loop and push it flat against your head into a bow shape. Insert one bobby pin going from the top to the bottom and one going from the bottom to the top.
Repeat this same process for the other loop.
You should now have a bow shape.
Pick up the remaining ends of the ponytail and wrap them up and around the hair tie to hide it. Secure the ends with bobby pins tucked underneath the bow.
 This look creates two pigtails with bows and, best of all, does not require any pinning. However, you will need to have a tool call a Topsy Tailon hand or create one using the end of a fly swatter.








Part your hair into two equal sections on either side of your head. Secure each section with a hair tie so some hair covers your ears and the hair ties sit just below your jaw line.
Separate one section of hair so there are two equal sections and a thicker middle section. Try to make the two side sections of hair as even as possible as these will be the loops for the bow.
Clip off one of the side sections.
Take the Topsy Tail tool or your DIY version of the tool and place the stick end into the outermost layer of the hair tie. Twist the tool so the loop part is closest to your face.
Take one side section of hair and pull it through the loop part of the tool carefully. The section of hair should form a small loop. This is one half of the bow.
Pull the Topsy Tail tool through your hair to remove it and push the hair tie up to secure the section of hair so it stays in a nice, clean loop.
Repeat this process for the other side section of hair to create the other side of the bow. This time though, place the Topsy Tail tool so the loop side faces away from your face.
To hide the hair tie, place the tool in the center of the hair tie, take a section of hair from the front and loop it through the loop end of the tool. Pull the tool down and remove it. You should have a nice center bow tie.
Complete the same procedure on the other side of your hair so you have two pigtails with two bows. Fan out both bows to make them loop full. Use hair spray to keep the bows in place.

