 An angular box, like a shoebox, will create a more traditional house, while a round box, like a wine box, will create a turreted castle. Set the cover aside.;
, Also, cut out a front door. Invert the box onto a work surface.
 Attach crackers or cookies to make shingles for the roof.


You can make a cone-shaped roof by turning sugar ice cream cones upside down and gluing them to the cracker- or cookie-covered roof.
Trim squares out of the sides of your box cover. Doing this will create ramparts for the top of your turrets if you decide to build a castle. When you invert the box, glue the top of the cover to the "roof" of your house.
 Use hot glue to attach the items to the box, making sure to leave the windows clear.


Create a "stone" house by gluing small nuts, like acorns, to the outside of the house.
Build a "log cabin" by gluing thick pretzel sticks horizontally to the cardboard box.
 For example, you can:


Cover the exterior of the house with a thin layer of glue that will dry clear. Sprinkle the house in cinnamon or other colorful spices for a dash of color. Just skip the hot spices; you don't want to get those on your fingertips or in your eyes.
Decorate the outside of the house with glitter glue.
 Try some of these ideas:


Glue a heart-shaped cookie over the front door of the house.
Hot glue hard candies around the eaves of the house.
Outline the doors and windows with red hot candies that you've hot-glued to the edges. If you don't have any red hot candies, use unpopped popcorn kernels instead.



Invert your faerie house onto a "yard" made of flat cardboard, and glue dried banana chips over the surface of the cardboard.
Create a path to the door of your house using glue and either sliced almonds or hard candies.
Add foundation "bushes" to the bottom edges of your house by gluing colored cookies or dried fruit pieces around the bottom.
Build a fence using pretzels or any shape or size. If the pretzels won't stand up, you can glue them to a strip of thin cardboard for extra support.
 If you don't have a yard, put the house at the base of a tree on your property. Faeries are extremely grateful when they receive a gift made with such love, and you can expect that good things will happen.
