 No matter how sure you are that he’s the right one for you, if you have a nagging sense that something’s wrong, it might be. Not every love story is perfect, but the first step of a healthy relationship is honest evaluation.If your relationship can’t stand up to deliberate scrutiny, you are hiding yourself from facing the truth about it.
Talking to a friend may be helpful during this process. Many times, a friend will be able to help you see things about your relationship that you’ve avoided.;
, If you notice that your family avoids talking about your beau, and your friends keep their distance, this is a sign that you’re in love with the wrong person. These are people who care about you, and about your well being. Talk to them about their concerns.Try to listen without defending yourself or the person you’re in love with. It’s in your best interest to hear what they have to say, so keep quiet and listen while they talk to you.
Your friends and family will have noticed if the person you love hasn’t been treating you with respect.
 If you’re having trouble seeing what a realistic future would look like together, you probably already know that it’s time to move on. If you can’t realistically see your lives together in 5 or 10 years, it might be because you’re in love with the wrong person.Some people can be very fun to be with in the moment, but that doesn’t mean that you’re obligated to stay with the person forever. Sometimes it’s just the wrong time for a long-term commitment.
Another sign might be that you continually find yourself daydreaming about what your life might be like without the other person in it. In this case, it might be time to make that dream come true.
 Sometimes the person you love doesn’t love you back, and it’s up to you to accept this. It will be easier to accept when you realize that his lack of love has more to do with him and his life than it does with you. Maybe he’s become involved with drinking or drugs, or has problems with depression, or is upset or otherwise self-absorbed. Maybe he’s realized that he’s not in love with you, and there’s a chance he’s even told you this.If he’s consistently breaking his promises to you, not communicating his needs, and leaving you alone to wonder what you did wrong, these are all signs of rejection.
Try to realize that if this is the case, there’s really nothing you can do about it.

