 This is an inexpensive way to begin dabbling in the world of financial investments: you can start by investing as little as $100 in a low-minimum mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF). If you have very little disposable money but still would like to invest, this is a great place to start. Mutual funds offer more financial stability and less risk than comes with investing in individual stocks, and you could easily spread a $500 investment across five different funds.Some low-minimum funds like this are offered through large financial companies, such as Charles Schwab: for example, the Schwab Total Stock Market Index (SWTSX).
If there is a brokerage firm in your area, you may also want to contact the firm and ask which mutual funds or ETFs are available with a small initial investment.;
, A brokerage firm will play “middle man” so that you will not need to directly choose stocks yourself. Brokerage firms will also allow you are wide variety of investment choices, so that you can manage the level of risk and reward you’re willing to take. With many online brokerage firms, you can open an account with less than $1,000, and some open accounts for $500. So, depending on your financial situation after paying off bills and making student loan payment (if applicable), this investment method might be one to plan ahead for rather than to start immediately.If you’re interested in investing through an online brokerage firm, look at companies such as Charles Schwab, E*Trade, or TD Ameritrade.
Many reputable financial websites such as Barrons, NerdWallet, and Kiplinger also provide reviews and recommendations of online brokerage firms.
 These platforms—which often exist as smartphone apps in addition to their websites—will perform the same role as a brokerage firm. The investment platform will assess the level of risk that you’re willing to take in your financial investments, and then invest your money in mutual funds and EFTs, while advising you on which funds may provide more lucrative investment opportunities.If you’re interested in online investment platforms, check out options including Betterment, which requires a minimum monthly contribution of $100.
If you’d like to invest through an online platform, it would be financially wise to save up a year’s worth of monthly contributions (so at least $1,200) before beginning to invest. This way, you won’t find yourself investing money that you may end up needing for groceries or rent.

