 Bad things happen to good people, and you are only one of a number of people who have had a major setback.;
,


Read about the Bill Clinton saga at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4676259.

Check out Kobe Bryant's embarrassing affair at http://abcnews.go.com/US/Sports/story?id=90477&page=1.
 If you have done something wrong, illegal, immoral or something that in any way hurts someone else, try to come clean and address the issue. With that, also be prepared to face any consequences.


By addressing the issue yourself instead of allowing yourself to get caught puts you one step ahead of the game as well as ahead of anyone who will speak negatively about you.
Being willing to face any consequences will help you earn respect back because it shows that you care about your reputation.
Amends may not be monetary or mandatory, but they will help bridge you back to your family, friends, loved ones and fans.



Don't put anything in writing that you don't want to come back and haunt you.
Be mindful about what you say, even to family and friends. If you are already in hot water, having a rumor started because something that you said got misconstrued will not help in the slightest.
If you are being bothered by the media, choose one media outlet and tell your side of the story. Stick with "no comment" for the rest of the media unless there is an interview that you cannot turn down.
Make sure that your actions are reflecting the reputation that you want to regain. If you are trying to prove that you are not a drunk, don't be seen at a bar.



If you have a dependency issue, make sure that you are hitting the appropriate group for your recovery, e.g. Narcotics Anonymous, Gamblers Anonymous, Alcoholics Anonymous, etc.
When the time is right, quietly re-emerge and do something positive like volunteer work. Don't call attention to yourself, and try to do it under the radar. After time has passed, having someone leak it to the media won't hurt. But, you want to have enough experience under your belt to give the appearance that you are doing it for the right reasons and not to put on a show.
Consider public speaking to make an example of your mistakes and to teach others not to repeat them. A good example of this was T.I., who filmed the documentary style MTV show Road to Redemption.



Hopefully you learned your lesson from your public disgrace and will take this as an opportunity to turn over a new leaf. Don't simply act like you are doing good things, but actually try to be a kinder, gentler, more respectful person.
Walk the walk if you talk the talk. If you say that you are going to do all these good things, then make sure that you are taking action on your promises.

