 Start his day off on a positive note by letting him know how grateful you are for all he does for you. Use the words “thank you” and “I love you” when you speak to him so he leaves the house feeling appreciated and valued.You should also end the day by using “thank you” and “I love you” when you address him so he can wind down and head to bed knowing you care for him and value him. For example, if you know he has had a rough day at work, you may say: “I know today was hard but just remember, I love you and I am so thankful for all you do. I appreciate you.”
Another fun way to tell him how much you love and appreciate him is to write a quick note down on a sticky note and attach it to his car window or his bag so he reads it on his way out. This could give him the positive reinforcement he needs to start his day off right.;
, Brighten his day by sending him complimentary text messages randomly throughout the day. Keep them short and full of energy so he knows you are thinking about him and can get a jolt of positivity when he reads them.For example, you may send him a text like: “Thinking of you! I’m your #1 fan. Go get ‘em, tiger!” or “Through I don’t always say it, I appreciate your hard work and your ambition. I’m so happy we are on the same team.” Focus on a specific skill or ability you appreciate in your husband, for example, “You’re so skilled at your job and I feel honored to be married to you.”
You may also remind him that you have plans together that night and can look forward to spending quality time together. For example: “Can’t wait to spend time with you tonight! I appreciate every moment we spend together.”

, Sometimes, it can be comforting to hear your partner’s voice and have a quick chat during a busy day. Give your husband a lift by calling him at a random time during his work day and telling him that you love him and appreciate him.It could also be nice for him to receive a call from you when he is stressed or overwhelmed at work and needs a moment to rant or vent. Be willing to listen to his daily stresses and offer him a quick word of sympathy so he can get on with his day on a high note.
 Another way to make your husband’s day better is to make him laugh. If you come across a funny joke or video you know he might love, send it to him so he can watch it on his lunch break or during a free moment. It will give him a moment of laughter and make him feel you are thinking of him.You can also search online for a funny joke or video from a comedian or a show you know he loves. Even a short clip or an image can give him a good laugh and keep his energy positive and upbeat.
 Give him a nice surprise on his way to work by writing a short love note expressing how much you value and appreciate him and placing it in his jacket pocket. He will then find it at some point during the day and be pleasantly surprised.You can also spice up the love note by making it sexy and suggestive. Your husband will likely respond very positively to a fun and flirty note.

