 When it comes to precise definitions of which punishments are suitable and which aren't, parents' opinions differ; some parents opt for a strict approach, while others are more gentle. While there's no single right way to discipline a child, the suggestions in this section are intended as all-purpose tips that nearly all parents should find helpful. One example of a punishment that's suitable for all families is removing a misbehaving child's privileges. For instance, if a child's grades have been suffering because they haven't been doing their homework, you may want to restrict video game time to the weekends until they can show you a test with a grade of B+ or better.


To be clear, you'll only want to take away a child's privileges as a form of punishment, not their basic needs. Temporarily keeping a child from seeing their friends or watching TV is one thing, but keeping a child from sleeping, feeling loved, or getting adequate nutrition constitutes child abuse., In the real world, there are consequences for breaking the rules; if a grown-up does something wrong, they will often be forced to pay back the people they wronged in the form of community service, paying a fine, and so on. Show your child the consequences for bad behavior by making them work to get things back to the way they were (or better) before they misbehaved. This is an especially useful tactic for when the child causes property damage. For instance, if your child deliberately paints on your kitchen table, a good punishment would be making them go through the process of stripping, sanding, and varnishing the wood to get it looking like new again.
 Time-outs are somewhat controversial; to some, they're a weak, ineffective, coddling way to discipline a child, while others swear by them. While some parenting experts believe that time-outs aren't effective for all children, many believe that, when used correctly, time-outs can help an agitated child cool down and discourage bad behavior.Try experimenting with time-outs for minor infractions; if your child seems willing to behave after a quick time-out, they may be effective for you, but if he becomes more agitated or doesn't seem bothered by the punishment, you may want to use other tactics.


The amount of time spent in time-out should vary based on the child's age and the seriousness of the misbehavior. A good general rule for minor misbehavior like back-talking, not listening, and so on is about one minute of time-out for each year of the child's age.
 Adults can't afford to act shortsightedly or selfishly all the time. If a grown-up stays home from work to play video games, they may lose their job. Teach your children the importance of self-motivation by allowing them to suffer the natural consequences of their poor behavior. In other words, don't rescue them when they misbehave in a way that's against their own self-interest. For example, if a child won't stop playing to come eat dinner, just clean up the table when you're done with your meal and refuse to make more food afterward.This sort of approach helps children build the self-discipline that will help them succeed later in life.
 As children age, they start to form important social connections with their peers and begin to spend their free time with these people. Temporarily cutting a child off from these enjoyable social relationships is one way to discourage bad behavior, especially if the grounding keeps the child from attending something they deem is important, like a birthday party or dance. Like time-outs, however, some experts believe that grounding can be ineffective for certain types of children, so use your best judgement and be willing to change your strategy if you're not getting results.


Note that grounding should never be a permanent or semi-permanent condition. Keeping a child from forming mutually friendly relationships with others can affect their ability to function as adults and is usually considered a form of abuse.
 Though it's often overlooked, the power of a heartfelt, personal apology can be huge. For example, if your child tears up the neighbor's yard, playing tag with their friends, making them come over to the neighbor's house and apologize is a great punishment. For added effect, you may also want to make them spend the next Saturday helping to get the yard looking good again.


Making a child apologize to someone they've wronged face-to-face doesn't just force them to go through an unpleasant experience as a form of punishment, it also prepares them for an adult life in which they'll need to apologize for their mistakes to maintain healthy relationships. An in-person apology is also a very humbling, diminishing experience for a child to go through, which can help with out-of-control egos.
 Perhaps no topic in child discipline is more controversial than the use of corporal (physical) punishment. Some parents make a point of never raising a hand against their child, while, for more old-fashioned parents, spankings, paddlings, and even open-handed slaps for especially bad misbehavior are acceptable. If you do decide to use corporal punishment, reserve it for the most serious offenses. Relying on it too heavily can dull its effectiveness and, worse, teach children that it's acceptable to hurt people less powerful than them.


While it's every parent's job to decide the best way to discipline their own child, there is some evidence to suggest that relying too heavily on corporal punishment is a bad idea. For instance, some research associates corporal punishment in children with delinquency in adolescence and even violent behavior and emotional dysfunction in adulthood.