 It's natural to be worried, confused, and uncertain. A diagnosis is big news. Keep in mind that many negative things you have heard about autism are only one part of the picture, and big groups tend to exploit pity for money.It may be difficult at times, but it's going to be okay. Your child can have a happy life.


Autistic children, while different, are still children who have their own gifts and skills.These will become clearer and clearer as they grow up. Your child has a lot to offer.
Remember that most of the bad things you have heard about autism are negative stereotypes. These have carried over from past negative perceptions, when autistic people were dismissed and forced into damaging normalization programs. While some of this continues, we have come a long way, and knowledge and understanding have greatly improved the life of autistic people., If you act like the diagnosis is the end of the world, your child will see this and blame themselves.Save your most vulnerable moments for when your child is not around, and make it clear to them that you are not disappointed or burdened by them.Don't pass a negative view onto your child.Your job, as a parent, is to help them be their best. That means you need to learn how to get past emotional hang-ups, readjust your expectations, educate yourself on autism, and advocate for your child.
 They are probably feeling lost and confused too, and a little extra support will help them understand that your love for them hasn't changed. How you decide to do so will depend on the child: hugging them, telling them how much you love them, spending plenty of time playing blocks on the floor, etc.
 Parenting is an exhausting job already, and it can be especially difficult when you are trying to find resources for a disabled child. You don't need to do this alone. Find appropriate resources as early as possible, to help your child learn how to communicate well and have a fulfilling life. Having supports in the community will greatly enhance your child's capabilities, as well as your own well-being and happiness.


Look for therapies that will increase your child's coping abilities, and give them new skills. Avoid normalization or compliance therapies, as these will harm your child.Don't forget your own needs! See if there's a support group for parents that you can join, or a group that provides parenting advice catering to special needs. Your mental and emotional health are important both to your child and to yourself.
 Some parent groups provide support and understanding, but others trumpet martyrdom and paint autism as the enemy.The latter will scare you, and hurt your child.Carefully research a group to ensure that it is inclusive of autistic people, and that the autistic community supports it instead of protesting at its doors., Along with being cool and funny, autistic adults will help you visualize what your child will be like as an adult.They will also help your child's self-esteem by showing that autistic adults exist and are good people. They may also be able to offer insights into autism that no non-autistic therapist could.
 They may flap their hands in grocery stores. They may use sign language instead of speaking. They may speak in an idiosyncratic way, and you might have to try harder to understand them. However, this does not mean that your child will be incapable of loving you, finding fulfillment, and making a meaningful contribution to the world. Recognize that "different" is no lesser than "normal", and that it's okay if your child has special needs.
 (Your research from before will help you.) Look for books written by and about autistic people.


It's better to tell the child before they enter grade school, as being surrounded by their peers will quickly signal to them and to their classmates that they are different. If they don't know that they are autistic, they may feel confused about why they are unlike everyone else.Since accurate and accepting media about autism is hard to find, you can also point out characters who seem to display some characteristics (without an official diagnosis). For example, "Do you see how she loves computers and asks her friends to understand how others are feeling? I think she's kind of autistic, just like you!" Say this in a kind or goofy way, so your child knows that it's okay to be autistic. A few autistic role models (official or not) may greatly improve your child's self-esteem.
Older children and teens may benefit from reading articles on autism. You can direct them towards wikiHow articles such as Accept Your Autism or towards the autistic community online.
 Treat your child like an active participant, instead of the object of a project. Your child can help define and work towards your goals.


Brainstorm coping strategies with your child.

Be cautious about therapies. Therapies should be consensual and fun, and not based on normalization. Compliance therapies could hurt your childand leave them vulnerable to abuse.If you listen and respond with respect when your child says no, they will learn boundary-setting skills and ask for help when they need it.
 You do not need to put your child through 40 hours of therapy per week.You don't need to spend every minute hovering over them or micromanaging what they do.No one will die if your child learns to write a little late. Let your child be a child, and have time for relaxation and self-directed activity. Give yourself time to rest, relax, and stop obsessing over developmental timelines and "should"s and "shouldn't"s.It isn't good for your child, and it certainly isn't good for you.


If you find yourself getting too upset, stop. Take a deep breath. Say "I'm stressed and I need a break." Then take a minute to relax, ground yourself, and maybe use some of those coping skills that you want your child to learn. You don't need to have all the answers right away.
It's normal for autistic kids not to meet their milestones at the average times.Some milestones might come early, and some might come late. Throw out the standardized calendar, and instead focus on what your child can do, and on what they are ready to learn to do. Don't worry about what the next-door neighbor's kid is doing.
 Assuming that your child is competent and trying hardwill help them feel safe and behave well.Pushing them too hard will only hurt them.


Acknowledge that your child is different, and difference is okay. They are loved and valued, autism and all. Disability does not lessen human dignity.
The autistic community encourages the following as inclusive language: identity-first language ("autistic person" instead of "person with autism"),avoidance of arbitrary functioning labels (high vs. low functioning),no demonization of autism,recognition that it is a lifelong disability (symptoms can be treated, but autism cannot be "fixed"),and eschewing pitying language (e.g. "so brave" or "suffers from autism").Visit the sources to learn why this language is inclusive.
 It doesn't matter if your child spins in public. It doesn't matter if your child doesn't talk. It does not matter if your child has a ridiculously focused interest in bridges. What makes us human isn't just what's "normal". It's our kindness and love that matters most of all.

