 Getting rid of items you don’t need is essential to cleaning and organizing a living space. Grab three containers, or just create three piles: keep, donate, toss.


The living room is a communal space that tends to attract of a lot of junk from other rooms. Whether it’s plates from the kitchen or pillows from the bedroom.
Go through your living room and first take everything out of the room that doesn’t belong. Place those things in the correct room.
Place everything else into your three sections. Look at everything you have. Maybe you can donate or sell all of those DVDs that you never watch. Perhaps you realize that you haven’t used that lamp in the corner and don’t need it.
Don’t remove your items just yet, first you need to clear off all surfaces.
 Take everything off of all your surfaces. This means everything from the coasters to bigger items that you can easily move.


Having clean, clutter-free surfaces will make getting the proper cleaning done much easier and will help you organize.
Place each item that you remove from any surface, like your table and stands, into one of your three piles.
When deciding which pile to place an item in, think about the last time you used an item, and its purpose. Try to only keep frequently used and useful items.
You don’t have to get rid of something like a blanket or decoration piece. But take note of how many of one thing you have. You may want to store some of your blankets and pillows in a closet to keep your space clean.
 Adding some furniture that doubles as storage can greatly improve your living area. Is your coffee table scuffed from people putting feet on it? Do you have too many toys, blankets, pillows, and other items lying around everywhere? These are questions to consider when cleaning and organizing. You can get ottomans that serve as storage bins to tuck away those toys and blankets. These ottomans can also serve as a better footrest than your coffee table.
You can also purchase a cube organizer console to place along a wall that serves as cubby spaces for toys, blankets, and other objects.
If you’re feeling adventurous you can even install a wall mounted floating shelf near the top of your wall toward the ceiling. Place objects like extra blankets, books, or movies that you want but don’t use often. This keeps things out of the way but easy to access.
 With everything out in the open, it’s now time to clear out what you don’t use or need. Place these items in a trash bag to send off to the garbage or for donation.


The living room tends to be an area where a lot of old electronics end up. Notice what you use for entertainment. Do you have a bunch of DVDs or VHS tapes, players, or old stereo equipment you don't use? If you do, these are only collecting dust, it’s time to get rid of them.
If you have certain things you want to keep, like DVDs, that mounted shelf could be a great place for these items.
Remove everything that's not furniture from the room. Take your piles into another room for now so you can clean. And so you can see how nice your room looks without the clutter.
 Wires are another area that causes dust build up and can make a room look disorganized.


Go through all of your cords and wires and first make sure everything is connected and serves a purpose. Remove any that aren’t connected to anything.
If you don’t know what a stray wire or cord goes to, and don’t want to throw it away, wrap it up nicely and wrap a rubber a band around it. Then place it in a ziplock bag with others.
Group as many wires as you can together. Wires and cords that connect your TV, stereo, video games, etc, can usually be grouped together. Then grab a zip tie and tie the cords together. This makes your area look more organized and helps you hide the cords.
 Now it’s time to clean your cleared off surfaces and the floor. Dust first and wipe off every surface, then sweep, vacuum, and mop.


Dusting with a dust rag or dust wipes will pick up most of the dust from your surfaces but also cause some to flutter down to the floor. Don’t forget your ceiling fan and lamps. Also, make sure to dust behind your TV and consoles, and your Wi-Fi routers.
Sweep next to remove any fallen dust and get any dirt off the floor. Make sure to get every corner and under all your furniture, especially your couch and consoles.
Once you’ve swept away the cobwebs, vacuum to pick up anything else, and then mop the area to really clean it.
 Place all the items you wish to keep back into your living space.


Group similar items together and in areas where you are likely to use that item. Store your extra items like your blankets or pillows together but out of sight, either in a bin or a closet if you have one nearby.
If you have a floating couch, one that isn’t on a wall, you can add a storage council behind it to store your extra items as well.

