 It’s a good idea to have a routine physical that will assess your overall health. Your doctor may also order specific tests, such as a blood test that checks lead levels, a blood test that looks for thyroid disease, and a CT scan or MRI to check brain activity., Different types of doctors can offer different expertise.It may be helpful to visit more than one doctor to get a full diagnosis and treatment plan.


A psychiatrist is trained in diagnosing ADHD and is licensed to prescribe medication. This person may not be trained in counseling.
A psychologist is trained in diagnosing ADHD and is trained in counseling. This person is not licensed to prescribe medication in most states; however, psychologists in New Mexico, Louisiana, and Illinois can prescribe medication.Your family doctor is familiar with your medical history but may lack the specialized knowledge about ADHD. This person is also not trained in counseling.
 A psychiatrist or psychologist who specializes in ADHD issues can make the diagnosis for you about ADHD. This person will interview you to get a detailed idea of your past and current life experiences and challenges., Bring your health records to your appointment, as these may indicate certain health conditions that mimic symptoms of ADHD.Talk with your parents or other family members about your family medical history. ADHD can be genetic, so it is helpful for your doctor to know about your family's past medical issues.
 Many individuals with ADHD experience difficulty at work, including time management, focusing and managing projects. These challenges are often reflected in job performance reviews as well as the number and types of jobs you’ve held. Bring these records to your appointment.
 Your ADHD has likely been impacting you for years. You may have gotten poor grades or you may have frequently been in trouble in school. If you can find your old report cards and school records, bring them to your appointment. Go back as far as possible, even to elementary school.If you think your child has ADHD, bring his or her report cards and samples of school work to the appointment. The mental health professional may also request behavior reports from your child’s teachers., It can be extremely useful for the therapist to talk with other people about your possible ADHD. It might be hard for you to say that you’re constantly restless or that you have trouble concentrating., Many disorders mimic some of the symptoms of ADHD, contributing to misdiagnoses. Some of the conditions that may resemble ADHD include learning disabilities, anxiety disorders, psychotic disorders, epilepsy, thyroid dysfunction and sleep disorders. Talk with your doctor or mental health professional about whether you have any of these disorders.
 Comorbidity is the presence of two disorders in one patient.As if having an ADHD diagnosis isn’t challenging enough, one out of every five with ADHD is diagnosed with another serious disorder (depression and bipolar disorder are common partners). One-third of children with ADD also have a behavioral disorder (conduct disorder, oppositional defiance disorder). ADHD tends to pair up with learning disabilities and anxiety, too.