 The truth is, we're all afraid of change because it's unknown; even if the current situation is not what we like but at least we're used to it and we know how to handle it. What if we couldn't deal with the change? What if it wasn't like we thought?! So, The first step is to control your fear. Change is a risk we need to take to better ourselves and our lives.;
, Before letting go you must know why you're letting go. Remember the past, Think about your mistakes, learn from the experience, get rid of the bad memories and keep the good ones..Now close the past and get ready to start.
 A very important step...Think about the people in your life and make sure that you could define any relationship you have. If there's any unresolved issue, think about the way to resolve it or consider whether that relationship should end. Do not keep friends who might keep you repeating the negative patterns in your old life which do not serve you well. Just keep the supportive friendships. If you are starting over on your own, resolve any issues in any of your relationships so you don't have to dread the "what ifs". It is important to be emotionally, mentally, and physically clear and ready for your journey.
 Who are you? What are you doing right now? Is that what you really want to do? What do you prefer doing? What are your dreams, goals, and hopes? What are your talents or skills? Take your time to know who you really are and answer these questions. When life seems complicated, it can be simplified but to do this we need to start with ourselves and understand ourselves better. Be clear about who you are and where you stand. Be clear about what you really want.Then and only then, you'll see things clearly.
 Now you understand your past and your present. It's time to visualize your future. Make a list of what you want to change and start making steps. Try to make the steps easy and time-oriented. Make your list fun. this should be something that you would enjoy doing. Add things that would make you feel happy. Now you're ready to go.
 Go out there and make it right this time. It's a new chance in life. So, be ready for it. Trust yourself. Believe that you'll get there soon. Just wait and see.

