 When babies are newborns, being wrapped up in a blanket feels good, because it mimics the feeling of being inside the womb. Babies at this age still aren't very mobile, so they don't mind the feeling of a blanket wrapped around them. The best time to swaddle babies is when they are still infants, before they're able to turn over to their bellies. When your baby is old enough to turn over, it's time to stop swaddling.Babies learn how to flip over from their backs to their bellies at different times. After the first few months, pay careful attention to how much your baby is able to move around within the blanket. If he or she tends to move a lot, it might be time to stop swaddling.;
, Some babies really like the feeling of being swaddled, and you can tell because it calms them when they're upset and helps them go to sleep. Other babies don't like it as much, and will cry and resist the tension of the blanket. While swaddling is a technique that works for many babies, it's not something to force on your child; if your baby seems to prefer being free of the blanket, take it off.
 Since swaddling impedes motion, it can be detrimental to babies with dysplasia, a partial or full dislocation of the hip.If your baby has dysplasia, swaddling isn't recommended. Talk to your doctor about whether swaddling is healthy for your baby if he or she has another type of medical condition.
 A soft, thin blanket the size of a receiving blanket is a good option for swaddling. Larger blankets are too big, leaving too much unused material to create the swaddle properly and creating a suffocation hazard for the child.
 The blanket's tension should be taught, but not tight by any means. Swaddling a baby too tightly can cause him or her to overheat and lead to breathing problems. If you need help figuring out how tight the blanket should be, ask your doctor to demonstrate.
 Never lay a swaddled baby on his or her stomach, and stop swaddling babies once they're able to turn over. The stomach position can increase the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)., A carpeted floor is a good place. You can also use your lap or a couch, changing table or bed if you are monitoring at all times in order to prevent falls. Position the blanket so that it is a diamond with the bottom point facing you.
 Grasp the point of the corner furthest from you, and pull it down toward the center of the blanket about 8 inches (20.3 cm). Don't pull it all the way to the middle of the blanket. This top fold is where the baby's head will go.
 It's important to make sure the blanket won't cover the baby's mouth and nose.
 Pull a side of the diamond over the baby and tuck the corner underneath his or her body, underneath the arm. This will secure one arm but leave the arm from the side you just secured the blanket under free to move about.
 Make sure the baby's feet have room to move and aren't too confined. If you have excess blanket that would crowd or cover the baby's face, fold the corner down so the fold lands at the baby's chest, or you can wrap the blanket over the baby's shoulder on the unwrapped side.
 Wrap it over the baby and tuck the corner underneath. The swaddle will be as tight and secure as you wrap this last side. Though babies like the womb-like security of being snug in a swaddle, be careful to not make the swaddle so tight it is uncomfortable.

