 You're going to want to be honest when trying to sell your bird.


Does he/she bite?
Does he have a medical condition?
Would you recommend a home with children, or without?
What breed of bird is it?
How old? Things like these are good to consider, as you will no doubt want your bird to be in the best environment possible. Also be sure that your bird is free of health problems, or if the problem isn't able to be fixed and the bird must be on medication, make sure potential buyers are aware of this.;
, Look in the local pet shops or newspaper to find out the average price for a bird similar to yours. Decide on a price that you think is reasonable. Remember, you can always lower your price if he doesn't sell, but if you want to get rid of him quicker you might want to start out at a low price.
 Are people you know thinking of getting a bird? If so maybe you suggest they take a look at yours. This way, you will most likely still be able to visit your bird if you want.
 Word your ad so that you're being honest while highlighting your pet's good qualities. Try to keep it short and simple, to the point. If possible, include a picture of the bird you are trying to sell, so would-be buyers get an idea if he's what they're looking for. Also include a phone number and/or email address so they can reach you.
 If you have a computer available, try posting an add for your bird online. There are many sites you can use, such as kijiji.com or another advertising site. You can also do a Google search to find a site to post an ad on. Include the same information as you would on a written ad.
 You can print multiple copies on the computer, and put them up around town at local businesses or bulletin boards.
 Congratulations, you got a phone call from someone wanting to look at your bird! But wait, is this the right home? Make sure to ask questions and give the bird's details to make sure that bird and would-be bird owner are compatible. This saves you possibly having to take back the bird if things don't work out. Be sure that the potential buyer knows what to expect from the bird, to ensure the best possible future life for your bird.


Was the bird what the buyers were looking for? Did they agree on the price? Then you're all set! Arrange a time to drop off or have them pick up the bird and its belongings.

