 There are many nonprofit organizations dedicated to efforts to defend net neutrality. By donating money to them you can help support their efforts and expand their reach.Established nonprofit organizations typically provide many different methods for you to donate, whether you want to make a one-time donation or give the organization a little money each month.
Before you send money to an organization, use an external validation service to make sure the organization is legitimate and that your money will go to support efforts to defend net neutrality.
You can use any one of a number of charity evaluators online and run a search for reports by entering the name of the organization to which you want to donate.;
, Both nonprofit organizations and concerned individuals have created petitions that allow the public to band together and show their support for net neutrality. By signing these petitions you add your voice to the voices of others who defend net neutrality.You may be able to find petitions defending net neutrality at petition websites such as change.org. The White House also has a page where people can create and sign petitions.
By reading petitions and identifying the individuals or groups who started them, you also may find others to contact and network with to take further action to support your cause.
In addition to signing the petition, you also may have the option of signing up to a mailing list so you can receive updates and news about the status of the campaign and find out how the petition was received.
 Many nonprofit organizations and other grassroots leaders organize public events nationwide to raise awareness and send a message to lawmakers about the broad support for net neutrality.Nonprofit organizations and independent activists often use social media to spread the word about events and sign up participants.
You also may be able to find flyers for events on community bulletin boards, such as those often located at the public library or community center, or at universities.
Online meeting sites also have information about meetings in your area that you can sign up to attend or request an invitation from the event's organizers.
 The FCC, which regulates media and mass communications including the internet, allows public comments on regulations and other agency actions, as well as applications for mergers or acquisitions of media companies. You can file a comment using the agency's Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS) to express your support for net neutrality.To use the ECFS, simply choose a proceeding from the list provided on the FCC's ECFS website. You also can search for filings or proceedings that aren't listed.
Once you've found the proceeding for which you want to file a comment, click on the ECFS form to create your comment.
After you've finished, you have the opportunity to review and confirm your comment before you submit it. Once you submit your comment, you'll receive a confirmation number.
You can use your confirmation number to check the status of your comment at any time.
Keep in mind that comments are a matter of public record, so don't include any private, personal information.
In 2014, the FCC received more than 4 million public comments in favor of net neutrality, contributing to the decision to implement rules that would continue to protect net neutrality in the future.
 If there is pending legislation that threatens net neutrality, you can send letters to your elected representatives urging them to vote against the legislation and defend net neutrality.Contact information for your representatives is available on government websites. Typically you have the ability to search for the individual who represents you by entering your zip code.
Your letter can be as short as you want. If you're not confident about your own writing ability, you might want to use a script created by a nonprofit organization committed to defending net neutrality. You can always add a sentence or two to personalize the message.
If you want to write a longer, more personal letter, use the first paragraph to tell the member of congress a little about yourself and why the issue is so important to you.
Then explain the facts surrounding the bill or other action you're writing about and explain what you want the member of congress to do about it.
Close your letter by inviting the member of congress to contact you if he or she wants to discuss the matter further. Close with your signature and your preferred method of contact.
 In addition to sending written letters, you also may be able to sit down with your elected representative in person and ask him or her to pledge to defend net neutrality.Get the contact information for the representative's office scheduler. You call call the representative's home office in your state and get this information.
Contact the scheduler and request an appointment with the elected official. Don't be surprised if it takes several days or even weeks to get a response back. You may have to call or write the scheduler several times.
If the member of congress isn't available to talk to you, it may be possible for you to meet with a legislative staffer. If you have this opportunity, treat that person the same as you would the member of congress. He or she may be able to get you an in-person meeting with the member of congress when he or she is back in the district.
 Sending a letter to the editor can raise public awareness for net neutrality as well as send a message to government officials that their constituents care about a free and open internet.Check the newspaper's guidelines for submitting a letter. You may have to mail your letter or you may be able to send a letter online or through the newspaper's website.
Most newspapers have length and other formatting requirements, so make sure you follow them.
Try to reference current or recent events, and keep your tone professional and civil. Keep in mind that if the newspaper publishes your letter, it will be read by a wide variety of people – many of whom may not share the same values and interests as you, or may disagree with your point of view.
While many organizations have form letters you can use, it's best to make your letter as personal as possible and just use those letters as guides to make sure you hit the important points in your argument.
 You can write about net neutrality and various actions that threaten it yourself to raise awareness about these issues among the friends and family who follow you.If you're a strong writer and have a large online network of friends who follow your efforts, you may be able to raise awareness of net neutrality issues by creating your own content defending a free and open internet.
Consider focusing your efforts on a particular niche or group of people, and write posts discussing how their efforts and interests are advanced by net neutrality, or would be hurt if laws and regulations were passed that limited net neutrality.
Encourage those who support your blog or who follow your social media accounts to stand with you and fight to defend net neutrality by sharing your posts and telling others about your efforts.
 If you have the resources and ability, you may be able to help a nonprofit organization by working on an event in your area to increase public awareness for net neutrality issues.Working with an established nonprofit organization is perhaps the easiest way to organize an event, because the organization will have resources you can use and can help you get the word out about your event.
Organizing an event typically requires strong leadership skills and the ability to multi-task to cover all the bases and ensure your event stays on schedule.
You also will need a basic understanding of local laws and ordinances so you can make sure you've scheduled your event at an appropriate time and have all the permits you need for people to gather.
If you have a strong network of local support and believe you want to organize your own event, get together with a few leaders to evaluate the feasibility and set a plan in motion.
 Many nonprofit organizations that fight for net neutrality have weekly newsletters and other information that they send to their members, which can keep you up to date on any laws or other challenges threatening net neutrality.Typically when you donate to an organization you also have the option of becoming a member. Depending on how much you planned to donate, membership may be a slightly more expensive option, but the organization typically offers more benefits to members.
In addition to newsletters, you also may get gifts such as T-shirts or bumper stickers that you can use to advertise your dedication to defending net neutrality.
Some organizations also offer additional benefits for members, such as discounts on books or tickets to related events.
 Before you speak out against a regulation or piece of legislation that you've been told effects net neutrality, it's important to read it for yourself so you know exactly what it would do and how net neutrality would potentially be compromised.You can read the text of pending legislation and regulations on congressional and FCC websites.
Since sometimes these documents can be cumbersome to read, you also should seek out summaries of the important points to help you.
Organizations that defend net neutrality often produce documents about pending legislation called "white papers" and make these available on their websites free of charge.
 Most search engines allow you to set an alert so you will receive a notification whenever there are new results for a specific search. This can help you ensure that you know about any government actions affecting net neutrality as soon as possible.Since you typically have the ability to set multiple alerts, you can create new ones to monitor activity or news involving a specific regulation or bill, as well as broader searches that will capture any new information that concerns net neutrality.
If you're interested in updates from a specific organization, you can set up that organization's name or website as one of the filters in your search.
Search engines also allow you to specify how you will receive notifications of new search results, and how often you'd like to receive updates.
 Many of the organizations that defend net neutrality have accounts on social media websites such as Facebook and Twitter. Following these accounts not only helps you stay informed but also gives you an easy way to share information with others.In addition to sharing posts with your own network of friends or followers, you also can comment on the organization's posts and engage in conversations about net neutrality.
You also can browse the list of other users who follow the organization to find like-minded individuals you can connect with to help spread your own support network.

