 If you have naturally straight hair but you want to use your blow dryer to add some waves, you will need to add product, such as sea salt spray, to give it some texture and allow it to hold the waves. Try experimenting with different products to find one that works for your hair., While your hair is still very wet, use your blow dryer to dry the roots. Positioning it so the air pushes your hair up will create volume.

Try using the flat nozzle attachment on your blow dryer for this step, as it will focus more air on your roots.
You can also use duckbill clips to add some lift to your roots. Use them to clip up small sections of your hair, angling the clips towards the roots from underneath. This will give you added volume when your hair dries., With your hair partially dry, separate it into small sections and create braids all over your head. The smaller your braids, the tighter your waves will be.


This will work the best if you part your hair where you want it for your final style before you start braiding.
You can also try twisting your hair into small buns and pinning it up if you don't want to do braids.
 With your braids secured, continue blow drying your hair until it feels completely dry. Then remove your braids.

Your results will not be as good if your hair is not fully dry, so be thorough. Depending on the thickness of your hair, it will probably take between five and 10 minutes to dry completely.
You can use whichever heat and speed settings you want, but your hair will dry faster if it is on high.
 Using the diffuser attachment for your blow dryer on a cool, low speed setting, gently scrunch your hair. Depending on the texture of your hair, you may want to apply more texturizing spray and/or a finishing product to ward off frizz.


To scrunch your hair, simply grab a section of your hair in the palm of your free hand and close your fingers around it. This encourages waves to form. Start at the ends of your hair and work your way up.
You can also use the diffuser to scrunch by holding it at the ends of your hair and pushing your hair up towards the roots with it.

