 An easy way to add some new flavors to your morning cup of coffee is by adding ground spices directly into the coffee grounds before brewing. By doing this, some of the spices' flavors will infuse into the cup.


Popular options for this method are cinnamon, nutmeg, cardamom, and grated ginger. You can add cocoa powder for an easy take on a cafe mocha, or even cayenne pepper for some heat.
Adding a pumpkin pie spice mix to your coffee grounds can help you create the warm, nutty flavor of pumpkin-themed seasonal lattes served at specialty coffee shops.
Note that spices like nutmeg, ginger, and cardamom will provide the fullest flavor if they are freshly grated just before brewing.;
, Many people add milk or half-and-half to their coffee every day. To get a little more creative with coffee, try adding a product such as rice milk, soy milk, or almond milk. You might be surprised how much the taste imparted by these milks can transform your cup of coffee. Substituting these products for half-and-half may also help you cut down your fat intake.
 An enjoyable aspect of visiting specialty coffee shops is the option of flavoring your coffee with a number of different syrups. These syrups are easy to buy, however, and can be easily used in your morning cup. Major brands like Da Vinci Gourmet, Monin, and Torani can be purchased online in small quantities. Use these syrups along with coffee and milk to create adaptations of favorite drinks like vanilla or hazelnut lattes.
 Whipped cream is usually reserved for dessert toppings, but it can also play a starring role in your morning cup of coffee. Add a big, rich spoonful of whipped cream to the top of your coffee, where it can easily replace the taste of your usual milk and sugar.
 If you are looking to make your coffee into a creative evening libation, you can add any number of liqueurs or spirits to your cup. Irish cream, hazelnut, almond, and raspberry liqueurs all pair well with coffee. For a stiffer cup, consider mixing your coffee with Irish whiskey for an abbreviated take on the classic Irish coffee cocktail.
 The espresso that you get from your favorite speciality coffee shop requires an expensive machine to create, but a halfway-point between drip coffee and espresso can be prepared using a stove top espresso maker or "moka pot." This rich, intense brew can be savored on its own or mixed with milk and sweeteners to produce classics like cafe au lait and cafe latte.


Stove top espresso can be mixed in equal parts with regular brewed coffee for a homemade take on a popular drink known as a "black eye" or a "shot in the dark." This preparation provides a strong flavor and high caffeine content while still maintaining a brew strength suited for sipping.
You can pour stove top espresso over ice cream or other dessert foods for a preparation called an affogato. The bitterness of the coffee can contrast against and add depth to the sweetness of ice cream or cake.
 If you prefer coffee with a large portion of milk, you've likely already gotten into the habit of heating the milk in a saucepan. However, if you want to mimic the luxurious texture of perfectly steamed milk, you can purchase a small tool called a milk frother. Pouring hot milk into this pitcher and then agitating it for a few seconds will produce velvety, foamy milk that pairs perfectly with thick stove top espresso and flavored sweeteners.

