 Practice, experiment, keep your mind open on your journey to expert degustation. The wider the range of experience you can muster, the better you'll be able to sprinkle these experiences into your conversations to act and talk like a culinary student.;
, Attend trade shows and cooking festivals. Sit through the celebrity chef and in-store cooking demonstrations. Soak in the knowledge, and take notes on any unfamiliar terms used. Become familiar with a wide variety of styles, particularly anything you come across that has some flair that you'd feel comfortable adopting.
 The best way to act and talk like a culinary student is to imitate what they do best. So cook lots of things. Compare recipes and take notes. Research those notes you made at the trade shows and food festivals. Try new approaches, and enjoy it. Try the same recipe swapping out similar ingredients to compare the flavors, adapt recipes for what you have on hand, find out what you can substitute in a pinch, or discover how to fancify a recipe to impress.
 If you can't attend an actual culinary school, try community college, or private cooking classes. Even when travelling there are opportunities to learn about food everywhere.
 Talking the talk means learning, adopting the language in order to spew forth meaningful and insightful discussion on your next amuse bouche. Whenever you come across a culinary term you don't understand, look it up! If it's helpful, keep notes of these terms and their definitions. Practice using them naturally as you talk about food and recipes.
 If you are hoping to come across as a culinary student from a particular academy, find their second hand bookshops or if you can buy new book lists; imitate a student of a particular school by absorbing the same knowledge.
 Are there any chefs in your family? You could interview them on menu choices, food pairings, quiz them on why they choose a particular ingredient, have them describe the smells at the market. Even if they are not a chef, your sources for inspiration and description of food could come from an artist, or anyone with a unique perspective.
 Keep a diary, blog or some kind of record of your learnings. Record details like the foreign terms interpreted, and any interesting anecdotes about food. Refer back to these later so that you can remember details to bring up when discussing food or your recipes.
 Being a student of the culinary fields isn't only about the hard skills and knowledge you can gain but also about developing an ability to interpret and appreciate the sights, smells, tastes, and overall experience of the culinary arts. In order to act and talk like a student, embrace this imaginative side of the experience, and talk about your passion for food with energy and confidence.

