 Use medium-density fiberboard (MDF), 54x72-inch piece of green felt, bottom of two five gallon buckets, deck baluster, composite wood balusters, 2 inch PVC elbow pipe, 3 inch PVC pipe fitting, plastic drop cloth, green welcome mat or artificial turf, spray adhesive, wood glue, and cyanoacrylate glue that you can purchase at your local hardware store. MDF is smooth and easy to work with as it is a perfect flat surface for a golf ball to roll on.You may need added material if you want to create elaborate obstacles such as water hazards. This design has rough and a loop-de-loop.
 Take your sheet of MDF and line up your deck balusters so they fit flush around the edges. Use a miter box and backsaw to cut the balusters to fit exactly, corner to corner., Use wood glue on each baluster as you line them up against the edges of your MDF. There should be a few inches of space between the lines of wood glue so that you may dab fast-setting cyanoacrylate.The cyanoacrylate acts to clamp the balusters as the wood glue dries so make sure the balusters are lined up correctly as the cyanoacrylate sets.
 Close to one end of your MDF panel, mark of your hole slightly off-center. Make a hole at this mark with a drill fitted with 4-inch hole saw. Flip the panel over once the drill has poked through and continue cutting the hole from the other side to prevent the MDF from splintering., Clamp your piece of felt on a worktable so that it slightly stretches. Away from the felt, lay your MDF on plastic drop cloth and spray it with adhesive. Use long, even strokes to spread the adhesive throughout the entire hoard. Use adhesive on the felt as well., Make sure the felt is smooth and place the MDF at the center of the felt. Be sure to turn the MDF over without letting it touch the felt until you are sure that it is in the correct position before pressing it down.The balusters on the bottom of the panel and the hole will need a spray of adhesive. Allow everything to dry.
 Cut excess felt with a utility knife and a framing square. Cut 1 ½ inches from each direction as you hold the square corner to the panel corner. Cut the felt diagonally., You will need help to pull along all the sides in order to lift the felt evenly and wrap it over your balusters., Section off the felt in the hole by using scissors to cut as if you were cutting a pizza. Cover the sides of the hole by pulling up each wedge and wrapping it tightly. Cut off any excess felt once the felt is folded over and inside of the hole is covered., Create a two inch PVC pipe fitting using a hacksaw on the PVC pipe fitting. Once cut, drop the two inch tall fitting into the hole., Use the lengths of composite baluster to line your course. The balusters will stay in place for balls to bounce off them. You may also customize your hole by adjusting them. You may create corner bumpers by adding short angled pieces., Form some rough by cutting green welcome mat or artificial turf. Create obstacles by placing pieces around the course. You may glue them down or leave them separate so you can adjust with each play., Cut off the lower three inches from each of your two five gallon buckets. This should leave an inch band at the bottom of each bucket. Cut an opening in each circular piece. Create a channel by bringing the pieces together by lining up the open ends. Spread them apart to create your loop.Use duct tape to secure your loop once you have it adjusted to your preference, screw the sides down to angled pieces of composite baluster that create a block.

