 Disney’s vault system means putting certain movies on a moratorium so that they are not available for purchase or digital viewing until they are released from the vault. Generally, Disney puts movies in a seven-year vault hold and then releases them. Disney’s reasoning behind the release is that every seven years a new generation of 2 - 7 year old children comes of age and is ready to enjoy the films. Generally, two movies are released a year.Others believe that Disney’s vault system was created to create a scarcity. Because the scarcity encourages people to rush out and buy the DVDs and Blu-ray disks when they are released, since they’re not available all the time.;
, Not every movie goes in and out the vault system, and you have to know which movies you should be tracking to keep track of the vault. Currently, the movies included in the vault system are the following:Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Dumbo, Bambi ,Cinderella, Alice in Wonderland, Peter Pan, Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, One Hundred and One Dalmatians, The Jungle Book. The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin and The Lion King. Basically, it’s all the classics., Write down the name of the movie, its theater release date and DVD release dates. Also, track digital releases such as releases to iTunes and Amazon. When you purchase the rights or redeem a Digital HD Copy through Disney Movie Anywhere (DMA) you can continue to view your purchased titles even when they return to the vault and are no longer available to purchase. Track Diamond Editions, Special Releases and Blu-ray releases. They don’t usually release DVDs, Blu-rays and digital releases at the same time. So, you have to keep track.


For instance, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs was last released on Diamond Edition on October 6,2009 and in a DVD set on November 24,2009. However it was not released digitally or on Blu-ray. It went into the vault April 3rd, 2011 and is expected to be re-released on Blu-ray on February 2nd 2016 and on Digital HD and Disney Movies anywhere January 19th 2016 under the Signature collection.
Review disney.wikia.com to gather some Intel on the current movies in vault to get a head start on your spreadsheet.Another item to include in your chart is anticipated releases. Generally, Disney releases two movies from the vault a year. So, calculate when the movie went into vault by adding seven years. Then, include a column for anticipated releases.
For instance, Peter Pan went into the vault on April 30, 2014, so it is not expected to be released until 2021.