 Outgrown baby clothes can be sold right outside the family home. Of course, the money that is earned will not be near what was paid for the clothes when they were new, but some parents find the extra little bit of cash helpful.


In order to maximize the sales and possibly the profit, the family needs to be sure that the clothing is in the best condition. It should be clean which includes having no stains. The clothing should not show signs of wear and tear. They should also be free of wrinkles so that they look nicer.
The best rule of thumb for selling used baby clothing is to look at it from the buyer’s point of view and decide if it is in good enough shape to purchase.
 Another key aspect to selling baby clothes is how they are presented to the buyers. Tossing all of the baby clothes in boxes or containers does not make an appealing presentation.


At stores, the clothing is neatly folded and arranged on tables or hung on hangers, so the family should try to do something similar. If the clothes are folded and put on a table, they should be a bit spread out so that they are easier to look at.
Of course, the neatly arranged clothes on a table are likely to get disrupted, but it is not difficult to tidy them up throughout the yard sale time.
In order to simulate a store even more, it is also a great idea to have bags available. After a purchase is made, the family can put the bought clothes in the bag so they can be more easily carried by the buyers.
 Yard sales work for many families, but they can also be a disappointment if the sale location is off the main path and no one stops to look at the items.


In order to help get potential customers, the family can post signs in the neighborhood or even put an advertisement in a local newspaper. It is very important to include the address, date, and time span for the sale so that people know where and when it is.
If the location is on a small side street, it can be helpful to also list the name of the closest main street that connects to the side street.
 For a yard sale, the family determines the cost of the items they are selling, but often leave a bit of bargaining room for those customers that want to make a deal. Prices can either be on signs or on tags that are gently attached to the clothing.
 One major concern with selling the outgrown baby clothes in a yard sale is the weather. Advertising has to be done in advance in order to give customers a chance to plan ahead to come to the yard sale, but the weather isn’t known for certain very far in advance.


For areas where the weather often varies, a secondary date should be chosen for the sale and listed at the bottom of the advertisements.

