 There are many different kinds of mountain bikes. Each type specializes in a particular riding style. Based on what you will use your mountain bike for, decide whether you would like a cross country bike, trail bike, freeride bike, downhill bike, or trial/dirt jumping bike. If you are new to mountain biking and just want a general, standard mountain bike, choose a trail bike.Cross-Country Mountain Bikes - Cross-country bikes work well on cross-country trails, whether recreational or competitive. They are available as a full-suspension bike or a hardtail, which has front suspension only. They climb hills well, but aren’t as comfortable on the way back down.

Trail Mountain Bikes - Trail bikes are also known as "all-mountain bikes" because they work well for many applications. If you're looking for a multi-purpose mountain bike, this is the right type. It won’t be perfect for everything, but it can likely get the job done. This is a good mountain bike to start out on.

Freeride Mountain Bikes - Freeride bikes are full-suspension bikes that work well on aggressive trails with lots of jumps. They are tough bikes that will allow you to do stunts, but they aren’t the best for climbing hills.

Downhill Mountain Bikes - Downhill bikes are made to fly down hills. These bikes are always full-suspension and will handle very rough terrain. Their full-suspension will absorb big impacts when landing or cruising through rock gardens. But they aren’t great for going up large hills.

Dirt Jumping or Trial Bikes - Dirt jumping or trial bikes are of course made for dirt jumping! They also work very well at the skatepark. They are a specialized bike that is designed for going over obstacles. Hardtails are the most common, but full-suspension options also exist.;
, Suspension absorbs shock so that you don't feel all the bumps of the terrain. Bikes are available as full-suspension (dual suspension) or hardtail. Both are good for different reasons. Full-suspension will make your ride smoother, but it will also be more expensive.Full-suspension bikes have suspension in the front and the rear. This makes them a good all-around bike for a comfortable ride.
Hardtails only have suspension in the front. This makes the bike lighter so it is easier to climb hills, do jumps, and make quick maneuvers.
 Bike wheels come in 26”, 27.5” and 29”. 26” wheels used to be standard for adults because these tires are lightweight and maneuverable. But then bikes started offering 29” wheels because they allow you to cover more ground when traveling cross-country. They also go over bumps smoothly, but they are slower to accelerate and more difficult to maneuver. 27.5” wheels offer “the best of both worlds” because they roll over terrain more easily than 26” tires and are more maneuverable than 29” tires.27.5” tires are good for someone just starting out because they are a happy medium that will work well in most circumstances.
One inch equals 2.54 cm.
 There are many different types of frames, including aluminum, titanium, carbon, and steel. Aluminum is the most common standard frame type. It is durable and reasonably priced.Steel is strong and inexpensive, but it is heavier than aluminum.
Titanium is lightweight and very strong, but too expensive for most buyers, unless you are buying a very high-end bike.
Carbon is strong and lightweight, but it is more expensive to manufacture.
 Mountain bikes can have a single gear or up to 30 gears. To know how many you need, consider your fitness level and what type of terrain you will ride with your bike. If you will be climbing many hills and find hills challenging, you will need more gears. If you’re in very good shape or will only be riding flat terrain, you will need fewer gears.If you aren’t sure how many gears you need, try a 10-speed bike.
 These are the most common brakes on mountain bikes. Some entry level bikes will have rim brakes, but these don’t stop as well. Disc brakes can be hydraulic, which offer stronger braking without having to press the brake as hard, or cable-activated/mechanical, which will need manual adjusting., Mountain bikes are sized as small, medium, or large. Some are available in extra small or extra large. The sizes are pretty standard across brands. To get the best fit, go to a store and try out some bikes.For a men’s bike, small is for men under 5’8”, medium is for men from 5’7”-6’, large is for men from 6’1”-6’4”, and extra large is for men over 6’3”.
For a women’s bike, extra small is for women under 5’3”, small is for women 5’2”-5’7”, medium is for women 5’6”-5’11”, and large is for women 5’10”-6’2”.
For reference, 5 ft = 1.5 m; 5’6” = 1.7 m; 6 ft = 1.8 m.

