 Playpens are most useful for babies from about six to seven months old, just when they are beginning to crawl. However, you should feel free to buy a playpen before your baby reaches this age, so she can get used to it early.;
, Make a list of the reasons you would need a playpen. Where and when do you intend you use it? Is it just for use on vacation, or do you intend to use it at home too?


If you really feel like you would get use out of a playpen, go ahead and buy one. Otherwise it will just be taking up space in your home.
 Read more about the manufacturers to know if the playpen has passed all of the required safety standards.


Always check for JPMA. The playpen that you are going to buy and use must be JPMA Certified. This acronym stands for Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association.
Look for the JPMA seal which indicates that the product has been sample tested and has passed the standards for safe use., Although you might be able to find a second-hand playpen for considerably cheaper than a new one, it's very important that you inspect it thoroughly to ensure it fits all of the required safety measures.
 This will help you to safely set up the playpen. If you notice any missing parts or damage to the playpen, call the manufacturers immediately. You should also call them if you have questions or concerns.


Another important point is to make sure that the playpen you are using was not subjected for a recall.
 The minimum height requirement for the sides of the playpen is 20 inches (51 centimeters) above the floor. This will keep the baby safe inside.


If, when using the playpen, you notice that your baby can already climb out, discontinue use of playpen. This usually happens when your baby reaches a height of 34 inches (86 centimeters) or a weight of 30 pounds (14 kilograms).
 If the walls of the playpen are made from mesh, the holes or weave should be really small. The openings should not be larger than 1/4 inch (0.6 centimeters). This will prevent your baby from getting his small fingers (or any buttons on clothes or toys) stuck inside the holes.


Be aware that playpens with drop-side mesh must never be left in a lowered position, as the baby could be trapped between the mesh side and the floorboard.
Regularly check the mesh. It must be securely fastened to both the top rail and floor plate and it must not have any loose threads, breaks, holes, or tears to avoid strangulation. Replace or repair the damaged parts.
 The amount of space in between the slats should measure no more than 2 3/8 inches (5.08 centimeters or 60 mm) in width. This prevents the baby's head from becoming trapped, and possible strangulation.


Always check for loose or missing slats and make sure that all slats are securely fastened.
 The top rails of the playpen must be padded and must not have any rotating hinges. Corners, sides, and tops should also be padded. This will prevent your baby from getting possible bumps and bruises from hitting hard surfaces.


Also check for any sharp edges or hinges in the playpen. These can cut, scrape, or pinch your baby’s skin or fingers.
The top rails of the playpen should lock automatically when they are lifted into position.
 The mattress or pad at the bottom of the playpen should be at least 1 inch thick and should be sturdy and stable.


There must not be any gaps between the sides of the mattress and the playpen, as your baby could roll into the space between the mattress and the side of the playpen, which could be dangerous.
Remember that the mattress usually cannot be replaced as it will be very difficult to find a new mattress that fits the playpen correctly.
 Any locks must be securely fastened at all times to prevent them from collapsing while the baby is in the playpen, as this could cause serious injury.
 Ensure that there has been no damage due to wear and tear and make sure that no small parts of the playpen have come loose. Baby's like to explore by putting things in their mouth, so it's important to inspect the playpen regularly for potential choking hazards.
 Don't leave items like soft bedding, mattresses, folded quilts, pillows, and stuffed toys in the playpen with the baby, or at least not while the baby is unattended, as these items pose possible suffocation hazards might cause suffocation for your baby.


Soft bedding can also be a cause of SIDS or Sudden Infant Death Syndrome due to suffocation.Never leave or tie string toys in the playpen, as these pose a strangulation risk for your baby. For the same reason, do not also place the playpen near windows or blinds that have strings or cords.
 There must always be an adult supervising the baby while he is in the playpens. Playpens should only be used for short periods of time to keep the baby in one place (and prevent him from crawling or rolling off) while you are busy with certain tasks, such as preparing his baby food or getting dressed.

