 It's located at https://www.facebook.com/editor. Opening this page will direct you to the "Suggest Edits" page.


If you aren't already logged into Facebook, enter your email address (or phone number) and password, then click Log In.;
, You'll see these blue icons on the left side of the toolbar near the top of the Facebook page. Here, you'll see your editor level, the number of people your edits have helped, the overall accuracy of your edits, your badges, and the number of edits you've made today.
 This tab is to the right of the Suggest Edits tab in the top-left corner of the page.
 Here, you can see who among your friends has the most editor points.


You can organize this section by clicking Week, Month, or All time to view results from the pertinent time frames.
 It's right of the Community tab. This is where you can view all of the edits you've made in the following categories on the left side of the page:



Accepted - Edits you've suggested that have been accepted by Facebook.

Not Accepted - Edits you've suggested that have been rejected.

Pending - Edits you've suggested that have not yet been reviewed.

All - All editor activity on your account.
 It's in the top-left corner of the editor page, directly below the Facebook search bar.
 You'll see a window in the top-left side of the page with a location listed at the top, as well as at least one similarly named user-created location listed at the bottom, with the caption "Is this the same place?" or "Is this the same place as the one above?" on top of the user-created location. You have a few options here:


Click Yes to mark the user-created option as a duplicate location.
Click No to alert Facebook that the top location and the user-created location are different from one another.
Click Not a place to nominate the formal location for deletion.
Click Next either to skip the current question or to confirm your selected choice.
 Doing so will determine whether or not Facebook decides to differentiate between the formal location and the one you're editing in future search queries.


If you don't know, just click Next.
 It's the blue button at the bottom of the window. This will send your suggestion to Facebook and load a new suggestion.
 This is the white text field at the top of the page with "Search Facebook" written in it.
 As you type, you should see location suggestions appear beneath the search bar.
 You'll see it below the search bar. Doing so will open the location's business page.


If you don't see the location you wish to edit here, make sure your spelling is correct.
 It's below the photo banner at the top of page, to the right of the "Share" button.
 It's near the top of the drop-down menu.
 You can click anything on the "Suggest Edits" page.
 Do so in the text field that appears below the selected attribute (e.g., address, phone number, or email address).


If you're changing the location's name, edit the name at the bottom of the pop-out menu right of the "Suggest Edits" window.
Make sure you're adding relevant information when you make an edit.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the "Suggest Edits" window. Doing so will send your edit suggestion to Facebook for review. If the edit is accepted, you'll receive a notification and it will show up on your Places page.

