 The "right horse" doesn't need to be fancy, have great bloodlines, or even be well-schooled. It is most important that you and the horse get along, that the horse is capable of doing the job asked of him, and that you are able to handle his level of training. Good, sound, sane horses are available at every price, so don't break your budget on an expensive horse, especially when you are first starting.;
, If you already own a horse, find a discipline that he is capable of doing. If you will be purchasing a horse, you have a little more leeway. Research online about the many different horse sports available, and choose one that you and your equine partner will both enjoy.
 Even if you had read every single book about horses, you would still need a trainer to help you with riding, and especially with showing. A good trainer will train you, as well as the horse. Be sure they understand the discipline that you have chosen.
 A small, local show is often the best for your first time, because there is less stress on both you and the horse. Contact the show organizer, and explain that you have not competed before. They will be more than happy to guide you through the process.
 Give your horse a good bath the day before the show, making sure that all white markings are spotless. Groom the mane as your discipline requires: either braided, banded, clipped or natural.
 For most disciplines, you will need your saddle, saddle pad, girth, stirrups, bridle and reins. For some, you will need special equipment, like breast collars, martingales, double reins, and other things. Be sure to check with your sport's rulebook for the required equipment.
 For most English disciplines, you will need light-colored breeches, boots, a belt, a light-colored shirt, stock tie, pin, dark riding jacket and a helmet, while for most Western disciplines you will need riding pants, chaps, riding boots, a riding shirt, belt, buckle and hat. Don't forget to check your sport's rulebook for the specifics!

, Some show managers require you to arrive within a certain time bracket, while some don't mind if you come only for your class. Shows can run ahead of schedule, however, so come a few hours early!

,, Sometimes, the rings are open for use if you arrive early enough. Walk or ride your horse in the ring you are starting in, if possible, to get him accustomed to his new surroundings.
 Dab on some hoof oil or hoof polish. Wipe on highlighter or baby oil to your horse's muzzle and eye area. Spray his coat with a shining spray and brush through his mane and tail one more time.
 Have your friend help you pin your number on.
 Breathe, and don't get nervous. Don't drill your horse, either. Just do simple, relaxing exercises to help him warm up and relax.
 Visualize yourself riding perfectly, take a deep breath, and go!

, Judges love a genuine smile, not one that is plastered on. Enjoy yourself, and believe me, your smile will be genuine when you leave with a bright blue ribbon around your horse's neck!

, It is good to practice before the show so you know what you are doing.

