 You start a lawsuit by filing a complaint. You can find a form complaint at the Colorado Judicial Branch self-help website.Click on the area of law which applies to your case. For example, if you are suing for eviction, click on “Evictions & Foreclosures.”


If you are bringing a civil suit for money, then click on “Money Cases.” You will then need to choose a subcategory. The most common subcategories are “Cases for $15,000 or Less” and “Cases for More Than $15,000.”
If your case is worth $15,000 or less, then download the “Instructions for a County Court Civil Case (Money Demand)” (JDF 110), “County Civil Summons” (CRCCP 1), and “County Civil Complaint” (CRCCP 2). These “fill in the blank” forms will make filing your lawsuit easier.
If your case is worth more than $15,000, then you should download the “District Court Civil Cover Sheet” (JDF 601) and instructions (JDF 603), as well as the “District Court Civil Summons” (JDF 600). There is no form complaint available for District Court; however, you can use the “County Civil Complaint” as a template to see what information you should include. Download form CRCCP 2 in Word and revise it accordingly. Specifically, remember to change the name of the court.
 You will need to provide the information requested by each form.Either type the information or print neatly with blue or black ink.


Make several copies of each completed form. One copy will be for your records. The others will be for service on each of the defendants.
 You should take the completed forms and all of your copies to the court clerk and ask to file. Have the clerk stamp all of your copies with the date.


You will have to pay filing fees. In County and District courts, you will need to pay $97.00. If you demand a jury, then you will pay an additional $98.00.If you cannot afford the fees, then you must request and fill out a “Motion to Proceed without Payment of Filing Fees,” which is form JDF 205. Along with this motion, you must provide copies (not originals) of the previous three months’ bank statements (checking and savings) and three months of pay stubs or other proof of income., Each defendant must be given notice. Notice will consist of the summons and a copy of the complaint. You must serve notice at least 14 days before the date the defendant must answer or appear in court (see your summons).There is no reason to wait, so serve notice as soon as possible.


Service can be made by anyone 18 or older who is not a party to the case. You can also hire a private process server to make service. Look for process servers in the phone book under “Process Servers.”There is a fee of around $45-75 for each service.
The sheriff can also make service for you, which you can arrange with the court clerk. The sheriff’s fee should be comparable to a process server’s fee.
Give the server a copy of the “Affidavit of Service” (JDF 98) and have them fill it out. After service, the server will return the original summons and Affidavit to you.File the Affidavit and summons with the court clerk.

