 Established major media outlets have fact-checkers on staff and reporters witnessing events as they unfold. Because of this higher journalistic standard, they are the most reliable sources of news. Avoid outlets that comment on or debate news topics rather than actually report. Seek out factual reporting will allow you to form your own opinion of current events.


Examples of wires and newspapers that are good sources of reliable news include the Associated Press, Reuters, the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times, and the Guardian.Magazines to seek out for accurate reporting include the New Yorker, Forbes, and the Economist.TV stations to seek out for reliable reports include the BBC, ABC news, and NBC news.National Public Radio is a good source of high-quality radio news.
 Be skeptical of any websites that use very dramatic or political language to describe their mission. These sources are likely providing commentary or opinion rather than factual news reporting. A good news organization will usually provide information about its leadership and a statement of ethics., Look for a professional website where the address ends in .com or .org rather than .com.co. These URLs are not used by major news organizations. Some fake news outlets try to create URLs similar to those of a major news sources ending in .com.co to deceive readers. Looking at the end of the address will always provide one clue as to the quality of the source., Op-editorials or “op-eds” are opinion articles of high quality published by the newspaper. They do not reflect the newspaper’s own point of view, but often they are written by professors and other professionals with expertise on a news matter. If you want to get different perspectives on a news topic, seek out op-eds on both sides of the issue in a major newspaper, such as the Washington Post or New York Times.Op-eds are not news. They are opinions, but stepping into other perspectives can help you understand points of view that are different from your own.
 Avoid forming opinions about current events based on what’s in your social media feed. Not everyone who posts information checks to see if the source of their post is trustworthy before they share. Sometimes they post because a sensational headline excites them or makes them angry. Continue getting your news from sources that fact-check and do actual reporting.If you see a friend or loved one posting something from a website that’s untrustworthy, you might text them to let them know. You could say, “Did you know that Purple News doesn’t have a fact-checking department or reporters? It’s actually an opinion site.”

