 This article focuses on the three main eating disorders. According to the accepted psychiatric categorization system in the DSM-V, eating disorders include three main disorders: anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and binge-eating disorder.It's important to be aware that there are other types of eating disorders, too. If you have a difficult or unhappy relationship with food, speak with someone in the medical or therapy profession who can help to identify your particular problem.Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by not eating and excessive weight loss. For people with anorexia, the desire to lose weight becomes an all-consuming obsession. It has three main characteristics: the inability or refusal to have a healthy body weight, the fear of gaining weight, and a distorted body image.People with bulimia nervosa have recurrent binge eating obsessions and then use various purging methods, such as vomiting or laxative abuse, in order to keep themselves from gaining weight as a result of binge eating.
Binge-eating disorder occurs when a person eats large amounts of food impulsively. Unlike bulimia, people with a binge eating disorder do not purge afterwards, although they may diet sporadically because of guilt, self-hatred or shame.;
, There are a number of possible contributing risk factors associated with eating disorders. These may include: neurobiological and hereditary factors, low self-esteem, high anxiety, the desire to be perfect, the constant need to please people, troubled relationships, sexual or physical abuse, family conflict or the inability to express emotions.If you are interested in learning more about eating disorders, research these conditions on reputable sites such as the National Eating Disorders Association, the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders.
 There are many organizations, like those listed above, working to improve the knowledge of eating disorders and to help those suffering from such disorders. If you know someone or are caring for someone suffering from an eating disorder, making a donation can help to fight against eating disorders by improving the services offered and the dissemination of knowledge.
 Body-shaming is the act of being critical about your own or someone else's body. People may down themselves saying things like "I'll never be able to wear a bathing suit with this stomach." Individuals such as parents, sibling, and friends may also criticize others in front or behind their backs. For example, a mom might make a harsh comment to her daughter like "You won't find a date to prom if you don't drop a couple of pounds."Simply put, if you do not have something positive or encouraging to say about yourself or someone else, avoid saying anything at all. Words can hurt. You might be just kidding around but the people who are listening might take your words to heart.
Stand out against others (i.e. friends, family, co-workers, the media, etc.) who body-shame. And, make a choice to promote those who highlight something positive about all bodies.

