 If you already have MMD, you can go to step 2. Unless you only want to use Miku, the Multi Model version is recommended, which you can download here for free. Also, make sure you have some kind of video editor that lets you put music into pictures and stuff like that. (Ex. Windows Live Movie Maker, Windows Movie Maker, Sony Vegas, and etc.);
, Is it a love story? Is it a party? Killing? Randomness? Anything you can think of.
 There are two options:


Make a folder with the series name on it.
Keep the pictures in the MMD folder.
 Unless you're going to use the ones that come with MMD, go to Youtube or MikuMikuBeat. Store models in your downloads and make sure to put all of the other files that come in the folder in the downloads too. There are some people who make MMD models for you to download.
 Store pictures in the "Backgrounds" folder which is in the MMD folder, and store stages in the downloads. Now, if you want, get some accessories. Store them in the downloads.
 VOCALOID/Anime songs will be most likely fitting (they are in Japanese, but you may want to learn a little about anime to get the idea on what it's about). You can also find instrumental songs for download, but make sure they are a .wav file. You can turn mp3s into .wavs using Audacity, which you can download here.
 Click on "Load" under model manipulation to get out a model. It must be a PMD file. Start moving their bones however you want, to make it look like they are striking a pose, or taking a step, or whatever.
 Now name the picture. Say Ep for episode and pic for picture or p for part. Save it in the series folder you made. For example: Ep 1 pic 5.
 Put a picture in from your folder.
 If you don't want to use captions, you can also use your voice to voice them, but you'll have to make them lip sync between pictures.
,, If you're satisfied with it click "Save movie" and name it like this: MMD Episode . It should be a .WMV file.
 Be sure to delete the .WMV part of it. Also, if you're on Youtube, it will only take 10 minutes unless Youtube give you permission to make videos longer than 10 minutes. Metacafe only accepts 5 minutes.
