 According to the teachings of the Church, Mormon youth should not date before the age of 16. This is more of a custom than a hard rule, but it is a good standard to follow, as you will probably not be mature enough to effectively handle that kind of personal relationship before then. Even after that, the Church discourages youth from entering serious relationships before they are considering marriage., While the Church allows dating at 16, it discourages serious relationships until you both are older and considering marriage. Before that, you are encouraged to date, but not exclusively. This isn’t a hard rule, but it will influence the way both of you approach the relationship.Having similar expectations about the relationship’s possibilities will make your time together more meaningful and fun.


The right age for getting married varies depends for men and women. For men, this will likely come after completing your mission trip, so in your early 20s at the earliest. For girls, being the right age for marriage usually means graduating high school, if not later.
You should certainly still date even if you are not looking for a marriage partner. Dating in your teenage years will help you learn the kinds of things you value in another person. This can also be the basis for forming important friendships, and learning proper skills for social interaction., The Church encourages you to use dating as an opportunity to show your respect not just for others, but for yourself. Dress nicely, as the girl will appreciate the effort put into looking good for her, and encourage her to do the same., If you are not old enough to consider marriage, you should be careful about having a serious, exclusive relationship. Even if you are looking towards marriage, it can be better to hold off on more serious activities until a couple of dates to make sure you both feel the relationship is moving in the right direction.Avoid lots of physical contact early on. This means holding hands while walking around, or even kissing. Brief hugging is considered okay, but lingering contact, or forcing another person to hug you who doesn’t want to, is not appropriate. You don’t want to give one another, or other people, the idea that you are an exclusive couple.
This is especially true when you are around others. Public displays of affection (PDA) show a lack of self-control. It is also considered disrespectful to others, as they may be uncomfortable because of your open displays.
You should also be willing to date other people. The goal of dating at that age is to broaden your social circle and learn more about yourself. You should not be trying to be exclusive with one person, so go on dates with as many people as you can.
 In areas with lots of single Mormons of dating and marriageable age, the Church has established singles wards. You will be surrounded by single women, many of whom are probably interested in dating and marrying a Mormon, so take advantage.Currently, there is a shortage of men in LDS circles. Many men have begun leaving the Church in their early twenties as the mission has become more important. This means there will be plenty of girls in the singles ward looking for a date, and you can be pretty choosy if you’d like., While dating is a good time to get to know someone, if you are young it is better to go on group dates. This can keep the relationship from getting too exclusive, and spending time with more people can give you a wider variety of things to do.Even for more serious relationships, group dates can be a good way for you and your girlfriend to watch each other interact with different people. This can be a good way to learn more about your personalities.A group date is anything that you as a couple do with other couples. Make sure everyone involved is a couple, or at least is paired with someone. Otherwise you risk having an awkward mix between dating and hanging out, which can be uncomfortable for those involved.
 While you will be of the right age to date, the Church discourages you from trying to date someone while on your mission trip. Trying to maintain a long-distance relationship with someone at home or attempting to date someone you meet while on mission are both distractions. Your focus should be on promoting the Church and performing good works, and you won’t have time for a relationship.