 If your flight makes a stop, or you need to rely on a connecting flight to get to your destination, there is a greater chance for a delay.


Pay attention to weather. If a connecting flight cannot be avoided, make sure you are not connecting in the Midwest during winter, or in the Gulf region during hurricane season.;
, Most airports have less traffic on Tuesdays and Wednesdays than they do during the beginning or end of a week. The lighter number of flights means your flight has a better chance of not getting stuck in traffic on the runway or in the sky.
 Flight delays tend to have a ripple effect. Therefore, flying early will diminish your chance of being late.


Ask for an originator flight. Most people book flights online, but it might help to call the airline and ask for help. Originator flights are those that begin at a specific airport at a specific time. These are the first flights out, and are often not delayed.
Try not to book the last or latest flight available. If that is delayed, you run the risk of having to stay overnight at the airport, or having your flight canceled.
 Flying in and out of major hubs, such as Chicago O'Hare and LAX in Los Angeles increases the chance of delays. In Chicago, use Midway and in Los Angeles, try Burbank.


Access resources with the National Air Traffic Controllers. Check out www.avoiddelays.com, which rates each airport for its timely departures and on time arrivals. Travel and Leisure and other publications also maintain lists of the best and worst airports to use.
 Avoid holding up your own flight by keeping your trip from the check-in desk to the boarding gate as smooth as possible.


Pack carry-on luggage loosely so it is easily scanned and searched.
Take off your shoes, coat and metal accessories while waiting in line at security. Keep your identification and boarding pass handy.
 Thanksgiving week, spring break periods and the week between Christmas and New Year's Day are busier than usual, and the chance for delays increases.

