 It’s important to be affectionate and kind to your animal, and sometimes simply petting your dog can help reduce lots of stress and anxiety. You can also gently massage your dog to calm it—focus on massaging your dog’s pressure points: the feet, ears, and top of its head. This massage will sooth and calm your dog, much like people are soothed by a relaxing massage.Dogs are social animals and thrive on contact and affection. Make sure to spend at least 30 minutes each day—preferably more—petting your dog, playing with it, and spending time with the animal.
Be calm when you’re around your dog. Speak in a quiet and soothing voice, and pet the dog very calmly and slowly.
 Lots of different things can stress out a dog. If you’re traveling, or frequently absent, dogs can become anxious. Many breeds of dogs need to be reassured by humans regularly, or they’ll become stressed out.


Your dog will look to you for behavioral cues: be calm and assertive in situations the dog finds stressful. Your own nervous moods can transfer to your dog, so stay calm and your dog will mirror that mood., Like humans, dogs are greatly affected by their diets, and their moods can suffer as a result of poor nutrition. Commercial dog treats often contain additives and ingredients that can overstimulate a dogs system. Buy natural treats or make your own. If you choose to make your own treats, you can use oats, which give energy but through complex carbs that are slowly released.


Don’t’ feed dogs from the table. Dogs need a balanced diet, rich in protein, complex carbs, and vitamins, just like you do. Don’t feed them on treats and bones.
 If a dog is panting or drooling heavily, or eating lots of grass, this might be a sign that it’s sick or otherwise injured. Dogs that are ill will often struggle to sleep, and may pant heavily in the night. Make sure to pay close attention, so you don’t interpret signs of illness as regular nervousness.


Vomiting or diarrhea is common in dogs, and might just be a sign of nervousness, or that you need to change the dog’s diet. If it persists for more than two days, call your vet.

