 Hearthstone is an online trading card game (TCG) that is designed to allow players to enjoy the fun of TCG duels online. It is somewhat a toned-down Magic: The Gathering for its simple mechanics yet strategic approach to TCG.;
, For you to win in a Hearthstone duel, you must deplete your opponent’s hit points (HP) to zero.


If you depleted your deck, no problem. In Hearthstone, an empty deck does not result in defeat. Instead, you will just receive fatigue damage on each of your following turns.
 Hearthstone players will have heroes to choose from before they enter the duel. These heroes will each have a unique ability that will aid you in defeating your opponent. Hero abilities cost 2 mana.
 Hearthstone cards are divided into three categories: minions, spells, and weapons.


Hearthstone cards cost mana. They can only be used if you meet the exact amount of mana they require.
 Attacking your enemy is simple: you must first select the card you’d like to use for the attack; it may be a weapon, a spell, or a minion. After selecting your card, simply select the target of that attack. You can attack an enemy minion or the enemy hero directly.
 The name of your hero is Valeera Sanguinar, and she really means business! Her style is to bombard her enemy with damage and to finish off the match when her enemy least expects it. Her hero ability is to equip herself a weapon with one damage for two turns.


If you have no decent play on your turn, use your hero ability to damage your opponent instead with your equipped weapon.
The Rogue class is heavy on combos. Make sure to take advantage of this effect to increase the damage you deal your enemies. You can do so by playing a card first before playing the card with the combo effect. Some of the combo cards you should utilize are Cold Blood (+buff), Eviscerate (+damage) and SI:7 Agent(+damage effect).
 The play style popular for the Rogue is called Miracle Rogue because in order for this play style to work, it takes a lot of luck in drawing the cards. Really risky, but once you get the cards you need, you can already claim victory on the very next turn! It is very popular because of its burst attacks which catch your enemy off-guard for your powerful finisher.


Miracle Rogue relies heavily on one minion card, the Gadgetzan Auctioneer. Since Rogue spells cost insanely low (some even cost no mana), this allows you to draw lots of cards as you play spells while Gadgetzan Auctioneer is on the field.
Until Gadgetzan Auctioneer appears on your hand, keep your enemy busy with your hero ability, and use some of your removal spells if you feel like you are starting to get overwhelmed with strong enemy minions.
Ideally, you would want to get hold of Leeroy Jenkins and two Shadowstep cards to deliver the final blow on your opponent on the very next turn. A Cold Blood is a nice addition, too, for its buffing effect.
Summon Leeroy Jenkins, attack, use Shadowstep, summon Leeroy Jenkins again, and attack directly. It is best to use this if your opponent’s life is 12HP below so the game ends with this burst attack.
 Since Miracle Rogue relies heavily on the Gadgetzan Auctioneer and low-cost spells, there aren’t many minions included in this deck. However, the only Rogue-exclusive minion included in this deck still has damage effect.



SI:7 Agent is the minion that should be played after you play another card to take advantage of its combo effect. It deals 2 damage to any character when its combo is triggered.
 Not a lot of minions here, but of course the star of your deck is the Gadgetzan Auctioneer. The other minions are rather supporting casts to this elaborate play style.



Earthen Ring Farseer. This minion’s healing effect could buy you more time while waiting for your Gadgetzan Auctioneer. It has a decent HP to stay on the board for a couple of turns.

Azure Drake. Since you should be constantly drawing to fish for your elusive Gadgetzan Auctioneer, this minion can be very useful. It allows you to draw when it is summoned, and its spell damage boost can also be helpful when used with Fan of Knives and with other damaging spells.

Gadgetzan Auctioneer. Finally, the star of the deck! This minion allows you to draw a card every time you use a spell. So, with so many spells costing 2 mana and less—it’s raining cards when you have this minion on the board. After a few draws, you’d finally have the perfect finishing combo to defeat your opponent.
 Now, this is where the Rogue shines. It has a lot of low-cost spells that either buff, damage, or execute other cool effects. Again, reserve some spells, and use them when you already have Gadgetzan Auctioneer on your board for maximum effect.



Backstab. For no mana cost, you can deal 2 damage to an undamaged minion. Use this to remove low HP enemy minions.

Shadowstep. This spell costs zero mana, and it returns a friendly minion back to your hand. This minion now costs 2 less to summon. Imagine using this with Leeroy Jenkins! In short, this is very important for your final assault.

Preparation. You know that Rogue spells cost either so little or cost nothing like this spell, but this even stresses that advantage by making your next spell cast cost 3 less mana. This can be useful in using spells that are not as cheap. It virtually makes them zero cost to play!

Deadly Poison. This spell buffs your weapon’s attack for just one mana. It’s very useful for direct attacks and enemy minion removals with 3HP below.

Cold Blood. Another card with combo effect, use this spell’s combo and you‘ll be able to buff a minion’s attack by 4. Again, this can be useful on your burst attack with Leeroy Jenkins.

Conceal. The primary use of this spell is to put your Gadgetzan Auctioneer in stealth so it can’t be targeted by your opponent and can be used again on your next turn.

Blade Flurry. This deals damage to all enemy characters equal to your weapon’s attack value. Use this while your weapon has Deadly Poison for maximum effect.

Shiv. This spell deals one damage to any character plus it allows you to draw a card. A very nifty spell to damage enemy characters and to increase the chance of drawing your finishing cards.

Eviscerate. Another damaging spell that could deal up to 4 damage when its combo is utilized. Use this for stronger enemy minions or to damage your opponent directly.

Sap. This spell card could really save you in tight situations. It forcefully returns an enemy minion back to its owner. It’s a real lifesaver! Use it on enemy minions that are really strong such as legendaries.

Fan of Knives. Another area effect card that deals one damage to all enemy minions and, like Shiv, allows you to draw a card. This can be helpful in clearing your enemy’s side of the board.
 A couple of legendaries are important in completing the Miracle Rogue deck.



Bloodmage Thalnos. Again, it’s a low-cost legendary that boosts spell damage. It gels well with what this deck is all about: small drops with big effects!

Leeroy Jenkins. This, combined with Shadowstep spells, is the ideal finisher for this deck. This combo deals 18 damage in one turn! So the idea is to draw your deck until you find these essential cards for your final blow.

Edwin VanCleef. Another legendary that benefits from playing lots of cards in one turn is Edwin VanCleef. It gains 2/2 each time you play a card that turn! Top the turn with Conceal to this legendary, and your opponent will be worrying about it on your next turn for sure.

