 If you use a pillow protector for your down pillow, you'll want to remove it and wash it separately. You can typically wash your cover with the rest of your clothes if it's made of cotton. If the cover is made of a delicate material like silk you'll want to run it through a separate, delicate wash.If the cover is made of silk, make sure to air dry the cover instead of putting it in your dryer or it may shrink or get damaged.;
, Set your washing machine to the woolen or delicate setting. Select cold or warm water to prevent pillow shrinkage. Use the highest possible spin speed to remove as much moisture as you can out of the pillow.If you have the option, adjust the settings so that there are two rinse cycles.Running the pillows through two rinse cycles will fully remove all the detergent from the pillows.
Exposing your down pillow to hot water can cause it to shrink.
 If you have a top loading machine, add a cup (236.58 ml) of laundry detergent to the machine and run the cycle for 30 seconds. This should allow the detergent and water to mix together before you put your pillows in it. If you have a front load machine, pour a cup (236.58 ml) of laundry detergent into the detergent dispenser on the top of the machine.You can also add a 1/2 cup (118.294 ml) of oxygenated bleach to your laundry machine to make your pillows even whiter.
 If you have a top loading machine, press down on the pillows and get them fully saturated with water. If you have a front loading machine, you'll have to place the pillows in the machine before you start the cycle.Add two pillows to keep top load washing machines balanced.
Down pillows are buoyant and will float in the water if you have a top loading machine. Getting them fully saturated before starting the cycle will prevent this.
 Close the door on the washer and allow it to run through the cycle. If your laundry machine only has a single rinse cycle available, run it through two full washes to ensure that all of the detergent is rinsed from the pillow., Once the cycle is completed, your pillows will be saturated with water. Press down on them with a terry cloth to absorb the excess water.You'll want to do this inside your washer machine, or else water will get everywhere.
Do not wring or twist the pillow because you can destroy the feathers.
 Set your dryer to the tumble setting with no added heat. Tennis balls will help fluff your pillows while they dry. If your pillows are not dry by the end of the cycle, run another dryer cycle until they are free of moisture. 