 You can access it at steampowered.com.
, If the Mac version doesn't download, click the "Mac" link under the "Install Steam Now" button.
 Drag the Steam icon into your Applications folder. This will install the Steam client on your computer.
 Click Open to confirm that you want to run the program.
 When you run Steam for the first time, it will need to download update files. This may take a few minutes. Steam will occasionally install updates when you start it.
 If you have an account already, you can use it to log in when Steam finishes updating. If you don't have an account, you can create one for free by following the account creation prompts.


When creating a new account, you'll need to create a username. If the name you choose is already taken, you'll be given several alternatives, or you can try creating a different one. You'll also need a valid email address to confirm the account. This email address will be used if you need to reset your password in the future, and for SteamGuard verification.
If you already have an account, you'll likely be prompted for a SteamGuard verification code. You'll receive the code at your account's email address. This is to help protect against unauthorized access to your account.
 Depending on your account settings, you'll be taken to either the Store or the Library page when Steam starts. You can click the tabs along the top of the window to switch sections. Hover over the tabs to see the various subpages for each section.
 Uninstalled games will be grayed-out, while installed games will have white text.


Note that not all games on Steam support Mac. If you've purchased a lot of games on Steam in the past, you'll likely not see all of them in the Library window. When purchasing a game, make sure to look for the Apple logo and the "Mac OS X" section of the System Requirements in the Store page.
 You'll be informed of how large the game will be on your hard drive, and will be given the option to create shortcuts.


Note: The estimated download time is almost always incorrect. You will usually download faster than the indicated time.
 Depending on the size of the game and your internet speed, the download may take anywhere from minutes to many hours. You can monitor the progress in the list of your games. You can close Stem in the middle of a download and be able to pick up where you left off when you start back up.

