 Right-click the desktop and click “Personalize” from the context menu. This will open the “Settings/Personalization” menu.
 When you choose (highlight) the “Lock screen” section, the options for setting or changing the lock screen background becomes available in the right pane. A preview of the lock screen can be seen on top of the right pane.
 Below the preview pane is a choice box labeled “Background.” Click/tap the “Background” choice box and click/tap “Picture” from drop-down menu. When you select the “Pictures,” the “Choose your picture” option appears below the choice box.
 Below the “Choose your picture” label you will see four thumbnails of either the sample pictures provided by Windows 10 or the most recent pictures that you used as lock screen background. If you click/tap one of these, the picture automatically becomes your lock screen background. The preview pane will reflect your choice. If you’re satisfied with this, you only have to close the “Personalization” window and you’re done.
 If you want another picture for your Lock Screen background, click the “Browse” button located below the thumbnails. When you click/tap the “Browse” button, dialog box labeled “Open” will appear. By default, the “Open” dialog box opens to the “This PC>Pictures” folder. If the picture you want is not in the “This PC>Pictures” folder, navigate to the folder where your preferred picture is located by expanding/selecting the folders on the left pane and/or double-clicking (or double-tapping) the folders on the right pane.


When you have found the picture you want, click on it and then click “Choose picture” which is located at the bottom left part of the “Open” dialogue box. The dialogue box closes and your chosen picture will become the lock screen background.
 You can close it by clicking/tapping the “Close” button (×) at the upper right-hand corner of the window. You’re done.


There is no Fit option. The default Fit setting is “Fill” and you can’t change it. So you will have to carefully choose your picture so that even if portions of the left/right sides or the upper/lower sides are cropped (not visible in the screen), the background picture will still look nice. Or you can use a graphics program to edit the picture so that it will fit nicely into your lock screen.

