 While pedagogues used to hypothesize that children’s brains work best in the morning, recent research has concluded that every individual has a different circadian rhythm—that is, a different daily schedule when their body and brain work most efficiently.While you probably can’t adjust your child’s schooling to fit their natural rhythms, you can make sure that any at-home lessons or games take place when your child is feeling receptive and mentally sharp.


The best way to gauge your child’s receptiveness is through simple observation: when your child is smiling, laughing, or looks interested and alert, start introducing them to math games. Studies have shown that people learn more effectively and perform better at problem-solving tasks when they are experiencing positive emotions, so your child’s frame of mind is particularly important for getting them interested in educational games.In the same way, never try to force your child to participate in math games or lessons when they’re fussy, tired, or generally unruly. Not only will they learn poorly—if at all—but they’ll develop negative associations with the games and subjects you’re trying to teach going forward.;
, One of the best ways to start learning about fundamental mathematic principles is by playing with building blocks. These simple toys allow your children to start counting, measuring, and understanding geometrical shapes in a hands-on activity. The active nature of this game is particularly important, as countless studies have shown that children learn best through active, concrete experiences, games, and lessons, rather than through passive ones.Wood building blocks are the classic building block material which you probably remember from your own childhood, but you can also use plastic or ceramic blocks. Just be sure to check the label for a child-safe stamp which indicates that there are no harmful chemical paints or detachable features on the toy.
 Your child has probably already played with some kind of building block before, so they won’t be accustomed to using them in an organized task or game. Let them warm up by playing around with these familiar objects as they normally would for a few minutes before introducing them to the new game.
 Your child has probably already built several structures during their free play, but assigning a specific structure to them will develop what’s called “spatial thinking.” In this kind of thought process, they learn to think about design and shapes in relation to one another, as well as how to apply these plans or ideas to concrete materials.Make it a challenge by seeing whether you or your child can make the same structure more quickly, or who can make the tallest structure, use the most blocks, or incorporate the most shapes into it.


If you have little figurines such as plastic knights, dinosaurs, or animals, you can incorporate them into your game. For example, ask your child to build a sturdy new zoo enclosure for the giraffes and elephants, or have them put together a big castle and stable to house the knights and their horses.
 As your child builds their structure, have them identify the shapes and sizes of the blocks they’re using. This will help them learn geometric shapes and spatial vocabulary and concepts, such as ‘under,’ ‘behind,’ ‘above,’ and ‘within.’ It will also get them thinking about measurements and volume.For example, when your child selects some triangular and rectangular blocks for the roof the house they’re building, ask them what shapes they’ve picked and where they plan to put them.
Also have them begin thinking about measurements by asking them to compare different blocks’ sizes and to figure out how many blocks or figurines will fit within the structure.
 If your child is just starting out in their counting career, ask them after they’ve built their structure to count how many blocks they used, how many blocks are left out, and how many of each shape and size there are. If your child is a bit more advanced, ask them to use a prescribed number of blocks in their design: for example, challenge them to build a bridge using ten rectangular blocks, five cubes, and ten long sticks or struts.Once your child has a finished structure and has counted how many blocks it contains, you can practice some basic arithmetic. Pile some extra blocks on top or take away several blocks from the structure and then ask them how many blocks the new, ‘renovated’ model uses.
 One of the reasons building block games are such effective learning methods is that they allow the child to see and touch the products of their labor. They see and understand that they’ve created something that didn’t exist before, and thus feel pride and a sense of tangible accomplishment.