 Eating well is the single most important thing you can do to lose love handles. Eating fresh fruits and vegetables at every meal is a great way to decrease your belly fat storage. Fruits and vegetables contain a range of vitamins and nutrients your body needs to stay healthy. They're high in fiber and water and low in calories.


Start your day with a vegetable omelet or fruit and vegetable smoothie. Make sure every meal includes a substantial portion of fresh vegetables.
Vegetables that are in season are fresher and more nutritious than those that are not in season and have to be shipped from far away. Try to choose produce that was grown close to where you live.
 A diet with plenty of lean protein and healthy omega-3s and other good fats is essential when you're trying to lose love handles. Each meal should include a serving size of protein such as chicken, fish, or lean beef.


Cured meats like bacon, sausage, and lunch meats have preservatives and trans fats that contribute to fat storage, so avoid these and stick to lean, fresh meat.
There are plenty of vegetarian options for protein as well. Eggs, tofu, legumes, and certain leafy green vegetables contain high amounts of protein.
 Eating high-fiber foods makes you feel more full, and you're less likely to consume as many calories when your meals contain a high amount of fiber.Go for whole grains like oatmeal or quinoa, as well as fiber-rich fruits and vegetables, beans and nuts.
 Most snack foods, fast foods, and other factory-made food like white bread, canned soups and microwaveable dinners are laden with extra sugar, white flour, corn syrup, and hydrogenated oil, not to mention preservatives and food coloring. When you're trying to lose belly fat, it's best to avoid these types of foods as much as possible.


Do as much of your own cooking as you can. Try to prepare your meals fresh every day, even if your meal is as simple as a salad with a protein like grilled chicken or tofu.
Have healthy snacks like nuts, carrot sticks or sliced fruit on hand to eat in place of packaged snack foods.
Try making old-fashioned oats with fruit or a scrambled egg for breakfast. Avoid sugary breakfast bars; even the "diet" bars are full of sugar calories.
Soft drinks and other sugary drinks should also be avoided. Go for unsweetened herbal tea. If you love sweetener in your drinks, use agave.

