 Instead of wetting or steaming the hat, you could try molding it back into shape. You could moisten the towel for good measure. The moisture will help the straw relax even more. Basically, the towel is going to substitute for your head.


Now, put the straw hat on top of the rolled-up towel. Let it sit there for a while to help the straw hat reform into the right shape.You want to make sure that you roll the towel widely enough and that you put the hat as far into it as you can. The towel method is a good choice if you’re on vacation and don’t have access to other hat-sized objects.
You could also stuff the hat with tissue paper or with pieces of crumpled up newspaper., Instead of a towel, you could put a bowl inside the hat or any other round object that will snugly fit inside the hat. This should help it take a head-like shape again.


Weights, clips or strings can also be used to hold down the hat, so that it starts to take its original shape.You could use any round object for this purpose, but you want to make sure that it fits perfectly inside the hat’s crown or it won’t help.
If it’s too big, it could damage the hat or actually make it more misshapen. Any object that is the right shape to fit inside the hat's crown should work.
 Rest the brim of the hat wrong side up on the edge of an ironing board. Place a damp cloth onto the brim. Set the iron to a fairly hot temperature.


Press the iron around the brim over the damp cloth. Press very gently and quickly and do not let the iron rest on the brim. This is very important or you could burn the straw.
Rotate the brim to move it around in its entirety. Iron the tops. The tops require careful treatment depending on their style. Be very careful when using an iron on straw. If you don't put the damp cloth between the iron and straw, you could burn the hat.
Take care not to get the hat crushed or squashed again, as the straw is already weakened from the first squash. Each time the hat will become less resilient until the individual straws begin to snap and loosen.

