 Oftentimes, we miss opportunities presented to us. You can chalk this up to bad luck, but it may be a result of how you view the world. If you feel unattractive, for example, you may miss the fact the bartender serving you is flirting with you. People who see each new experience as a chance for good luck or good fortune are more likely to notice opportunities.Studies show chance encounters and lucky breaks happen to everyone over the course of a lifetime. However, lucky people are the people who take advantage of these encounters. If you go into every situation looking for potential opportunity, you're more likely to recognize good fortune.For example, say you have to attend a networking event. If you go into the situation viewing it as a burden, you'll be less likely to branch out and interact with others. If you go into the situation expecting to find good fortune, you'll talk, make connections, and may end up impressing a potential employer. In order to find lucky breaks, you need to be on the lookout.View every new experience as a chance for good fortune. If you're new to a city, for example, see taking your dog for a walk as an opportunity to meet new friends. If you're just starting school, see the review session after your science class as a chance to get to know your professor. Connections you make from day-to-day encounters can bring you good luck in your personal and professional life.;
, Those who are prone to good luck put their eggs in a variety of baskets. If you're open to new experiences, and say "Yes" to chances you are given, you're more likely to find good fortune. Try to take new opportunities as they come.


Curiosity and anxiety are usually the two emotions people experience when presented with a new opportunity. For many people, anxiety eventually wins out. While you may be wildly curious about a new job opening, you may find yourself quickly listing a thousand ways the new job could go wrong. You may convince yourself it's not worth applying.Try to silence the voice of anxiety when presented with a new opportunity. Do not give into worry over what may go wrong in a new situation. Instead, think to yourself, "This could be interesting to try. I'll give it a chance."Not every new chance you take will result in good fortune. However, your chance of good luck increases when you expose yourself to more things. Look at Steve Jobs, a famously fortunate entrepreneur. He audited a calligraphy course after dropping out of college. Later, he would use that knowledge for the design of many Apple products. While a new experience may not be directly related to your idea of success, opening yourself up to new experiences may pay off in unexpected ways down the road.
 In our modern era, a solid social network is vital to success. If you know a lot of different people, this can lead to good luck down the road. Studies show extroverted people tend to have higher rates of good luck and good fortune. Success, especially career success, often comes from networking. The bigger your social network, the higher your chance of catching a lucky break.There are many ways to meet people. You can join a club in your town or city. You can look online, on sites like MeetUp, to try and find groups related to your interests.
You should also get online. If you don't already have active social media accounts, build them. Many people build relationships with acquaintances through sites like Twitter and Facebook., Many people who view themselves as chronically unlucky stick to rigid routines. If you do the same thing every day, or every week, you may miss out on chance encounters and opportunities. Make an effort each week to break your routine slightly.


Variety increases your chance for random encounters, which can often lead to good fortune. If you only talk to your friends when going to a party, you'll miss out on the opportunity to meet new people, for example. Try to make room for variety in your life.Small changes, even ones not related to your goals, can alter your mindset. Simply, say, biking to work instead of driving can get your mind used to variety and change. If you keep making tiny changes each day, you may open yourself up to new things and new opportunities. This can increase your chance of finding good luck.