 Nuzlocke is where when one of your Pokémon faints, it's considered dead. Meaning that you will have to release it, or just keep it in a PC box but never use it again. And the final rule is one Pokémon per area. It doesn't matter if you made a faint by accident, or if you already caught it, first Pokémon you find in an area is that.
, Choose a reasonable starter Pokémon.

For example, if you are doing Nuzlocke challenge in Pokémon LeafGreen or FireRed, you must choose between Bulbasaur, Squirtle, and Charmander. Bulbasaur is kind of a Special Attack kind of guy and is considered as an easy Pokémon to start with. It can eliminate the first two gym leaders for that game, but that's for people who want an easy runner, or if they like Bulbasaur because they find it enjoyable.
Squirtle is a normal runner, which develops good defense other than the rest of the stats to begin with. Squirtle can take out Brock (first Gym Leader) and make it neutral to beat Misty (second Gym Leader).
Charmander is the hardest to start out with. It has good special attack and speed to begin with, but it will have some trouble between Misty, Brock, and is neutral to Lt. Surge (third Gym Leader). Charmander can be chosen by people who feel like they want a good challenge.
 This is major towards the Nuzlocke challenge. Potions, Super Potions, Hyper Potions, Max Potions, and Full Restores are needed to survive this challenge. As you can see, poison will bother you in the game, so stock up on Antidotes just in case your Pokémon is poisoned and it will die by the time you reach the Pokémon Center.

Other status healers are recommended also, Antidotes are just the items to save you. Revives and Max Revives will be useless when you are going to run through this challenge, since you can't resurrect your dead Pokémon. TMs and HMs are important if you have a Pokémon with a poor move pool.
In Pokémon Sun and Moon, there are no HMs, only TMs, so you won't have to go to a Move Deleter to get rid of HMs you don't want on your Pokémon.
 For example, you meet up with a Tangela. Very solid Pokémon to have with decent stats to have, but a poor move pool to have (move pools are the selections of moves the Pokémon learns by gaining levels). Diglet/Dugtrio have powerful moves to have in their move pool but very weak against HP and defense/special defense. This is one reason to think about the Pokémon. All Pokémon all have advantages and disadvantages to start with., All Pokémon teams go up to six Pokémon. And to go through Nuzlocke, you need to have a unique Pokémon team. If you start out with Mudkip (Hoenn Region), and it soon evolves to Swampert, making it extremely powerful Pokémon. Swampert is a Water/Ground type Pokémon and only has one weakness (Grass). Having more than three Pokémon that have Water/Ground doesn't make it easy, in fact, harder than you might think. A team like Swampert, Swellow, Minun, Numel, and so on. That makes it a unique Pokémon team because all the Pokémon have some sort of different type. Remember, you need to run into these Pokémon!, Nuzlocke will be a pain if you have Pokémon five levels lower than a Pokémon you are challenging. To raise more levels, you can either battle wild Pokémon over and over, or battle trainers you probably missed. Don't let the Pokémon faint, or it's going to the graveyard., When you reach a new area where wild Pokémon are available, the first Pokémon you encounter is the one you may catch. You may not catch any Pokémon in that area other than that first. You must release your Pokémon or place it into a PC Box if it faints; as it is counted as dead., You need Pokedollars to be able to buy healing Items and others, so you are going to need to battle a lot of Pokémon Trainers (Grind levels by going to Wild Pokémon first), and selling some of your items. You don't have to sell all of your items, but the one's you don't need. For example, you can sell Nuggets, Big Pearls, and Revives/Max Revives. Those you don't need to use during your journey., Enjoy playing Nuzlocke and good luck at it!