 Start with 8 squares of tissue paper in the colors you want. From a standard piece of wrapping tissue paper, you can usually make 8 squares that are 8 inches each, which will make a good size carnation, about the size of a regular carnation or a little larger., Use your hand to crumple up the paper into a loose ball. You can crumple all 8 layers at once. Basically, you want to create wrinkles in the paper to give it a similar effect to carnation petals. Un-crumple the paper, and separate out the layers., Once you've got the layers separated, start with one layer, and smooth it out. Pinch the ends slightly. As you do, try to create pleats across the middle. You don't want perfect pleats. Rather, you want the middle to just ruffle up a bit. Repeat for each layer.However, if you prefer, you can accordion each layer in perfect pleats for a slightly different effect., Now that you've ruffled each sheet, stack them together, one on top of each other. They don't have to match up perfectly--they just need to mostly align, though the ends are more important than the sides. These flowers are forgiving., With the pieces aligned, find the middle, lengthwise. Wrap floral wire around the middle. Fold the papers up away from wire. Use pliers to cinch the wire more tightly around the middle of the papers.If you don't have crafting wire, you can use ribbon, yarn, a twisty tie, or cord. However, with floral wire, you can make a stem for the carnation., About an inch above the floral wire, tie a piece of string around the flowers, gathering the two sides you folded up together. Cut off any excess string. About another inch or two above that, tie it again. Make sure you leave enough paper at the top to form the petals and the flower., Now you'll make the base of the flower with floral tape. Starting with the last place you tied, wrap the floral tape around the flower, and slowly spiral down, covering the other place you tied, too. Move on to the floral wire, covering the place you pinched. You can cover the whole wire down to the bottom or stop wrapping the floral tape near the base of the flower., Move back up to the top of the flower where the petals are. Make sure the petals are fluffed out into a carnation shape. Rearrange any petals that need it to make it look more like a carnation until all the petals are in place. Tie a ribbon around the wire if you are giving out the carnations individually.