 When you publish something online, you give the entire world access to your work. People can and will steal from you. If you are worried about plagiarism, then you should avoid publishing your work online.


Unfortunately, refusing to share online can also limit your ability to reach readers. You should think carefully before swearing off online publishing.;
, Think instead about sharing your work with friends and other people offline. For example, you can photocopy pages of a story and pass them around. Or you could save a PDF and then send that in an email chain.
 Effective marketing often requires that we share some of our work online. If you want to share online, then choose only excerpts. Keep the excerpt short and regularly monitor whether someone has copied your work.


If you share excerpts, then remember to include copyright notices. Including these notices won’t scare away every thief, but they will prevent some from taking your work.A standard copyright notice includes the letter “c” inside a circle, or the word “Copyright” or abbreviation “Copr.” You should also include the year you first published the work and your name as the copyright owner., DRM stands for “Digital Rights Management.” When you publish an eBook on Amazon, for example, you can choose to activate this feature. If you do, then the person who purchases the book cannot copy it.


Avoid publishing with Smashwords, since they do not use DRM on their publishing platform., You have a copyright in your work as soon as you write it down. This copyright gives you the ability to prevent someone from copying and distributing the work without your permission. However, you need to register your copyright with the U.S. Copyright office.


To register online, use the eCO system at the U.S. Copyright Office.You should first create an account by entering your personal information.You can watch a free tutorial at the Copyright Office. It is available in PDF or PowerPoint format.If you register online, you still need to give the Copyright Office a copy of the written work you are registering. This is called the “deposit copy.” In some situations, you can upload a copy electronically. However, you may have to mail the deposit copy to the Copyright Office.
 If you don’t want to register online, you can still register by completing an application and submitting it. To register a copyright for a written work, you should download Form TX, which can be used to register published and unpublished works.If you are trying to register a serial or a periodical, then use Form SE instead.
 You should type or print neatly using black ink. If you download the form, then you can type the information into the form and save it as a PDF. Form TX will ask for the following information:title of the work
previous or alternate titles
author’s name
author’s date of birth
year the work was completed
date and nation of first publication (if published)
information if the work was copyrighted before
name of person claiming copyright (typically the author)
name and address where correspondence should be sent

, Registration costs $35-55 if done online. You can pay with debit or credit card. If you register using a paper copy, then you will have to pay $85.If you are writing a check or money order, make payment to “Register of Copyrights.” You shouldn’t send cash., In addition to your application, you need to send the Copyright Office a “deposit copy” of the work. After assembling your application, make a copy for your records.


You should mail your application to Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559., Longer works, like books or plays, can be registered as soon as you complete them. However, you might regularly write shorter pieces, like essays or blog posts. Ideally, you should register this shorter work every three months.


At a minimum, you should register shorter works at least once a year.If you register multiple articles you have written using eCO online, then you will have to pay $55 to file a “standard application.”, Some blogging platforms have plugins you can install. When someone copies and pastes your work, then the plugin will send a link back to your work. These plugins are a great way to make sure that you get credit for your written work.WordPress, for example, has a plugin called Yoast SEO, which you can download.You should check with your blogging platform to see if they have something you could use that is equivalent.
 You can type in one or two sentences into Google to see if someone has copied your work.Although this searching strategy is somewhat random, you might be able to catch a few thieves this way.
 Visit the copyscape website.You can enter the URL for your website to see if the material on that page appears anywhere else on the Internet. Copyscape will report back with a list of results and the percent of your page that has been copied.


Copyscape is somewhat inconsistent. For example, performing the same search back to back can yield different results.However, it is a decent tool for identifying serious plagiarism.
 Once you have identified copied content on the Internet, you need to contact the thief and request that he or she remove the content. You can find the person who registered the website domain by visiting www.whois.net.


At whois, you need to enter the domain name where your copied material appears. You should be able to see who registered the domain and the name of the ISP.
Sometimes, the domain holder protects his or her identity when registering. In this situation, you will have to contact the domain registrar and work with them. Be prepared to show copies of your copyrighted work and the website that has copied it.
 Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, a website owner or the internet service provider that hosts the website can avoid legal liability for plagiarized material, but only if they remove the content after being notified. To properly draft a takedown notice, do the following:Identify the copyrighted work that has been infringed. If many different works were infringed, then provide a representative sample.
Identify where on the website the copied material appears. Provide a link if one is involved.
Provide your name and contact information.
State that you have a “good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.”
State that “under penalty of perjury” that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner.
Provide a physical signature or, if you send an email, an electronic signature.
 You need to send the notice to a designated agent for either the website or the ISP. You can find the agent’s name and contact information in the following ways:


A website should have its agent’s name posted on the website. Look at the “Contact Us” or “Terms and Conditions” link.
Find the agent using the Copyright Office’s DMCA Agent Directory.You should search for the name of the website owner or the ISP.
 The ISP or website owner should quickly remove the material you claim was stolen from you.Under the DMCA, the website owner or ISP removes the material first and then follows up with the person who posted it. This person then needs to prove that they are not infringing on your copyright.
 If the website or ISP doesn’t remove your content promptly, then you should consider bringing a lawsuit for copyright infringement. Lawsuits are expensive and therefore not appropriate for everyone. However, if you think the plagiarism has cost you money, then you should consider a lawsuit.


See Sue Someone Who Failed to Credit Your Work for more information.

