;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Like their cousins the Texas Longhorns, Cracker/Pineywoods cattle come in a wide variety of colours and colour patterns, from almost all white (with coloured points on the nose, eyes, ears and hooves) to red to yellow to black. Most cattle come in some sort of speckled pattern, but also come as roan, tiger-stripe and brindle, very similar to that of the Longhorn breed.

Body type and characteristics: Like Corrientes, Cracker cattle are small cattle (smaller than Longhorns) and generally a bit rangy, not overly beefy and big like the more modern beef breeds are (such as Limousins and Angus cattle). The mature weight of Scrub cows is usually under 900 lbs, with those of dwarf or "guinea" type animals being quite a bit smaller.

Head characteristics: Florida Crackers are horned, though the length of the horns are not as extreme as those in Texas Longhorn. However, the shapes can have interesting twists in aged cows and steers, from both horns curving out and down, to one curving to the side up and slightly forwards and the other curving down and in towards the head.

Other characteristics: Florida Crackers are very rugged and tough cattle, highly resistant to the heat, insects and humidity of Florida's long summers, and require very low inputs to grow and thrive. Heifers tend to come into puberty quite early, often before they are weaned, and consequently their fertility (as well as in other females of this breed) is excellent.

Quoted from the OSU Breeds of Livestock site: "In spite of importation of purebred breeds of northern European origin beginning as early as the 1850s, large numbers of Florida Cracker cattle were found until the mid-1950s but were then nearly wiped out through crossbreeding with Brahman, Hereford and Angus. Several herds of Cracker Cattle in Florida as well as similar types in Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia were preserved by families that appreciated their hardiness, heat tolerance and heritage. The State of Florida has been involved in preservation programs for Florida Cracker Cattle since 1970 and currently has herds maintained at four locations. In 1989 the Florida Cracker Cattle Breeders Association was formed to promote the preservation of Florida Cracker Cattle and over 400 animals were evaluated and registered to serve as foundation animals."



,, Take pictures of what you thought were Cracker Cattle, and compare them with pictures of Cracker Cattle on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

