 Set your own standards and then strive to achieve those standards
Set realistic and obtainable goals. It is the fastest way to raise your self esteem. When you set a goal and achieve it, you will feel that you have mastered your environment
Give and accept compliments. When you give sincere compliments, people like you better. When you accept compliments, it demonstrates a high self esteem
Ask and accept feedback from others. When people care about you enough to offer feedback, either positive or negative, you have the opportunity to grow
Take full responsibility for your actions. Empowered people with high self-esteem know they are responsible for their decisions and actions.
Use positive self-talk, because what you think about comes about
Remember, successful people have experienced failure. Successful people with high self esteem do not view failure as failure, but rather as an opportunity to learn how to do things differently.;
,


What is integrity? It is doing the right thing because it is the right thing to do
Because too often we get so focused on our own agenda, our own goals, or our own accomplishments that we forget to take time to verify if we are doing what is right along the way

,


There are many ways to apologize; it is a wonder why people find it so difficult to do so. For some reason, certain individuals refuse to say they are sorry for anything. It is as though they were giving up the deed to their homes. An apology can be useful in a business environment however we fail to utilize it. You would think that we only have a limited number of “I am Sorry” in our vocabulary. However, for many people, it seems as if I am sorry means I am wrong
To make a mistake is only human and when one makes an error that has unintentionally injured another, the polite thing to do is to apologize. If you stepped on a stranger’s toes, you would say “Oops, I am sorry, but if you say or do something that rubs your teammate the wrong way, are you as forthcoming with offering amends?
The problem with not being able to express remorse to a teammate is that they will start to feel like you don’t care about them. We all do and say stupid things at times, however if we are unwilling to take responsibility for our errors, it reflects poorly on our values as a person and as a team member.
There are numerous ways to express your heartfelt sorrow without groveling or making you feel that you are compromising your integrity.
Here are a few fun ways in saying you are sorry

Sorry, for a moment I was taken over by aliens
I don’t know what I was thinking, my brain froze, I apologize
Oh my goodness, forgive me; I just turned into a funny character


So the next time you put your foot in your mouth, show that you are not an unfeeling person and make an apology that comes from the soul.
 This is such a waste of time and energy. Unfortunately, for many people, the coldness of their deathbed will awaken them to the fact that they have wasted their lives away. By this time, it is far too late and the realization is quite painful. It will hit them that they were so busy surviving; they didn’t invest enough in personal growth, change or risk
These are a few suggestions that would aid you in the thriving process and thereby having no regrets at the end of your very, very, very long and illustrious life –

, This means that you put as much value into a Monday or Tuesday as you do into a weekend


Realize that 100% effort is the most you can give each day.
Live your life in the 2 minute drill – It is a mental discipline that narrows focus, compresses energy and jump starts your passion

