 Although you shouldn't necessarily bring your new pet home before you talk to your landlord, you should have a good idea of the kind of pet you want.


Certain kinds of animals may be prohibited, either by your lease or by state law. Check your state law before you decide to adopt an exotic pet, particularly animals such as weasels, raccoons, or foxes that are typically classified as wildlife rather than as domesticated animals.Additionally, some landlords have breed or size restrictions that could limit your ability to adopt certain dogs or cats.If you're thinking about getting a dog, you might consider obedience training. Especially if you have a relatively small apartment or rental unit, this can provide both you and your landlord with confidence that the animal will be well-behaved.Keep in mind that it's not illegal for a landlord to discriminate against certain breeds or types of animals allowed. Additionally, just because other tenants have pets doesn't mean the landlord has to allow you to have one too.;
, While your landlord is generally prohibited by the federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) from refusing to allow a service animal, he or she can prohibit pets without restriction.If you require the assistance of a service animal due to a documented disability, your animal is not classified as a "pet" and must be allowed regardless of your landlord's pet policy.Service animals are those who are trained to provide assistance directly related to their owners' disabilities. A seeing-eye dog is a common example of service animals covered under the ADA.Even if you don't have a qualified disability under the ADA, the federal Fair Housing Act (FHA) may require your landlord to allow your pet if you have a recognized condition such as depression and your health care provider has recommended the animal for emotional support and companionship.To fall under the FHA's requirements, you generally must have a documented and verifiable mental or psychiatric condition or disability. This typically means you should get a written letter from your psychiatrist or therapist detailing your need for emotional support and companionship from the animal., The lease you signed may have clauses regarding your landlord's process for adding a pet to your lease.


If your lease discusses pets, it may have restrictions regarding the types or numbers of pets you're allowed to have. Make sure the pet you plan to adopt fits within these restrictions.
Even if your lease clearly states that pets are not allowed, you may be able to make a case for a particular animal and get your landlord to agree to make an exception to the policy. However, keep in mind that you've already signed indicating your agreement to that restriction.Keep in mind that most leases will state that you cannot have a pet without the landlord's prior written permission. If you get a pet without first talking to your landlord, you could be evicted for violating your lease – even if most other tenants have pets themselves., Schedule a time when you can sit down and discuss your new pet with your landlord before you bring the animal home.It's important to talk to your landlord beforehand, since bringing an animal into your unit before you've signed a pet addendum probably will violate your current lease.Keep in mind that generally your current lease cannot be changed unless you do so in writing and it is signed by both you and your landlord.If your landlord is on the fence about whether to allow you to add a pet to your lease, you might consider inviting him or her to meet your new pet. Your landlord might be more willing to negotiate if he or she sees that the animal is clean and well-behaved.You also might consider offering to cover any damage your pet causes, or to pay for additional cleaning services when you move out.If your landlord doesn't allow pets, ask him or her why. If you know your landlord's concerns, you may be able to provide more specific accommodations., If your landlord requires you to pay an additional deposit or monthly pet rent, you have a right to know what types of damages that money is intended to cover.


Don't be afraid to negotiate the landlord's proposed payments. If you think they are exorbitant, you may be able to get them decreased.Learning the costs for which your landlord plans to use the money can help you negotiate lower rates. For example, if your landlord requires an additional pet deposit to cover potential costs of extermination, you may be able to get this amount reduced by agreeing to provide proof that your pet is regularly treated for common pests such as fleas.
Types of payments also may be negotiable. For example, your landlord may propose a non-refundable pet deposit, but you may be able to convince her to let you pay less, or to make the deposit refundable, provided you complete certain cleaning tasks such as steam-cleaning the carpet when you move out.
 Having a record of anything your landlord requires from you before you bring your new pet home protects both you and your landlord.


If you've negotiated anything with your landlord that differs from his or her standard pet policy, make sure you get that in writing as well. That way if the landlord later gives you a standard addendum to sign, you have something in writing to back up your claim that the two of you negotiated different terms.
 If your landlord agrees to let you have a pet, any requirements should be embodied in a written addendum to your lease.Don't let your landlord intimidate you or keep you from reading the addendum before you sign it. Once you both sign the addendum it will be legally enforceable, so you are perfectly within your rights to read it and understand it before you sign.If you see anything in the addendum that wasn't previously discussed, ask about it. It may be a mistake, but if so, it should be corrected before you sign the addendum. For example, you may have negotiated a lower pet deposit than the landlord normally charges, but he forgot to change the standard form to reflect that agreement before he gave it to you.
Make sure your new pet is correctly identified in the addendum by breed or type, species, age, gender, and size.If your original lease contains a "no pets" clause, make sure that clause is specifically referenced in the addendum. You also may want to have your landlord cross out and initial the clause in your original lease to indicate it is no longer effective.If you've signed a written lease and your landlord does not provide you with a written addendum to add your pet to your lease, the original lease has not been changed. In this situation, you may want to draft your own addendum and provide it to your landlord to sign.
To draft your own addendum, simply reference your original lease, for example by saying "This addendum applies to the lease entered between Tenant and Landlord on ." Then outline the agreement exactly as you and your landlord have discussed, including details about your pet and the amounts you will pay (if any) for the privilege of keeping your pet in your unit, as well as any responsibilities such as cleaning up after your pet that you agree to undertake under the addendum.For example, you might write "Landlord agrees to allow Tenant to keep one dog, a Chihuahua named Spike, in her unit for the remainder of the lease. Tenant has paid an additional $200 refundable damage deposit and will pay $10 a month in pet rent. Tenant agrees to keep Spike on a leash when he is outside and to clean up his droppings appropriately.", Since your landlord's understanding of the addendum's provisions may differ from what you believe they say, getting your landlord's explanation ensures you're both on the same page.


If you and your landlord disagree on the meaning of a particular clause or passage, repeat his or her words back to make sure you understand. For example, you could say something like "What I hear you saying is that this requires me to keep my pet in a crate or on a leash whenever it is outside the apartment." This ensures you fully understand the landlord's requirements and your responsibilities under the addendum.
 Your landlord may require the payment of an additional security deposit, monthly pet fees in addition to your regular rent, or both.


If an additional security deposit is required, make sure the addendum specifies the damages this money is intended to cover and whether it is refundable., The written addendum must be signed and dated by both you and your landlord to be valid.After you and your landlord have signed the addendum, your landlord cannot change his or her mind later and decide pets are no longer allowed as long as your lease is still in effect.When you and your landlord have signed, make sure you get at least one copy of the addendum for your records.
 Even if your landlord doesn't strictly require it, you want to make sure the animal is in good health and isn't going to carry fleas or other pests into your home.


If you've adopted a dog or cat, have the animal spayed or neutered if this hasn't already been done. Even if the landlord doesn't require it, doing so will minimize potential damage to the property and demonstrate that you're a responsible pet owner.Get a letter from the vet stating that your pet has been treated for pests and is up-to-date on all vaccines., Your landlord may require proof of state-required vaccinations such as rabies before your animal is allowed on the property.


Some types of pets may require specific licenses or inoculation to comply with your state and local ordinances or health codes.Most states require dogs, cats, and some other animals to receive regular rabies vaccinations.Your landlord may require proof of those vaccinations for his or her records.
If you're required to provide your landlord with vaccination or license statements, give him or her a copy – keep the original for your own records. You also should ask for a written statement from your landlord acknowledging receipt of any required documentation regarding your pet.
 If your landlord requires renter's insurance, you may have to raise your liability coverage for certain types of pets.


For example, if there are concerns or reason to fear that the pet might injure someone, you may be required to include that animal on your liability insurance or carry additional insurance to protect the landlord in the event he or she is sued.If you don't already have renter's insurance, you may be required to purchase it if you want to add a pet to your lease., To avoid violating your lease, make sure you comply with any requirements set forth in the addendum.


Typically your landlord cannot change the rules while the lease contract remains in effect. If your landlord states that your pet is a nuisance, or attempts to charge additional fees or add requirements that weren't included in the addendum you signed, you may want to consult an attorney to help you protect your legal rights as a tenant.Many animal welfare organizations such as local branches of the SPCA or the Humane Society offer services for landlords and tenants, including free mediation services to help resolve disputes over pets.Avoid complaints while you live there by taking care of your pet and cleaning up after it. For example, if you take you dog outside, make sure you pick up the animal's droppings and place them in a dumpster or trash can rather than leaving them on the ground where a neighbor could step in them.
Remember that regardless of any specific rules contained in the addendum, your lease generally requires you to be a good tenant and respect your neighbors. Your pet is not allowed to disturb the health, safety, or quiet enjoyment of other tenants anymore than you are.