 In addition to helping you to navigate the roads, GPS systems and cell phone apps can alert you to where traffic is happening on all roads in your area. If your car has a GPS system installed, read through the help guide or user’s manual to learn how to use the traffic-information function.


Try using a cell phone app that displays up-to-the-minute traffic information, such as Google Mapsor Waze.Driving while using a cell phone is dangerous, and is illegal in many cities. Only use traffic information apps if you are a passenger in the vehicle, or when parked if you’re the driver.
 Most cities where traffic is a problem should have traffic reports available through local radio stations. In larger cities, these can be broadcast as often as every ten minutes during rush hour or peak hours. Check these reports while driving to help you decide whether to take an alternate route.


Radio traffic reports are most frequently found on AM news stations.
 During highway driving, if you notice traffic slowing down ahead of you, try changing to the right-hand lane. This lane is often more open than the other lanes in slow-moving traffic.


In countries with left-hand traffic, it should be the left-hand lane that is more open as traffic slows.
Avoid changing lanes once traffic has slowed. There will be less space to maneuver in, and accidents can occur more easily, which of course only contributes to congestion.
 If you’re driving on the highway through an area with a high number of interchanges, try to stay in the center or left-hand lanes (or right-hand lanes in countries with left-hand traffic). The right-hand lanes (or left-hand lanes in countries with left-hand traffic) can fill up quickly with vehicles entering the highway from entrance ramps. Leaving the merging lane open also allows these vehicles to enter traffic easier.


Some interchanges have entrance ramps that connect with left-hand lanes (or right-hand lanes in countries with left-hand traffic), so be alert to merging lanes opening up on the opposite side as well.
 In city streets with two lanes in each direction, try to stay in the right lane (or the left lane in countries with left-hand traffic) to avoid having to stop for cars waiting to make a left turn from the left-hand lane (or a right turn from the right-hand lane in countries with left-hand traffic).


Watch for buses in the curbside lane, since they may make frequent stops to pick up and drop off passengers. The non-curbside lane may be quicker in this case.
Whatever you do, make an attempt to pick a lane and stay in it, since changing lanes frequently will increase your chances for an accident.

