 Regular sized wine and spirits bottle of approximately 750 milliliters (25.4  fl oz) work best. Purchasing enough bottles to decorate a bottle tree can be very expensive, so try to reuse as many as you can. You can even make a recycling drive for old glass bottles.;
, In the folklore associated with bottle trees, blue is the best color for deterring spirits. Sky vodka bottles can be combined with almost any other color of bottle for a multi-colored bottle tree., Unless you want to advertise your favorite drink, you can remove the labels by soaking them in a mixture of vinegar and water. Remove stubborn labels with Goo Gone, or a similar orange cleaner. The place where the label was may be sticky so you should clean it thoroughly until the glue is completely gone.
 Traditionally, bottles were placed over the dead branches of a tree; however, your landscaping will determine if this is possible, or if you need to make a metal tree.
 Garden bottle trees that hold between 10 and 30 bottles are available on Amazon and eBay for $20 to $100.
 If you want a statement piece, then investing in an elaborate design will make sense. If you don’t want to spend upwards of $500, opt to make it yourself.
 Dig a hole in your yard and pour a concrete base. Insert the post into the ground and allow it to dry.


Screw holes around each side of the tree intermittently. Use a drill at a downward angle, ensuring you extend each hole at least three inches (7.5cm) inward.
Insert metal rods of six inches to one and a half feet (0.2 to 0.5m).
You can purchase metal reinforcing rods at a home or hardware store.
Make sure each of these rods is secure before continuing to the next one.
 Recently, this has become a very popular choice because of its durability in all climates.Purchase 10 to 20 lengths of rebar from a construction recycling yard, a steel business or a large hardware store. The rebar should be 3/8-inch to ½-inch (1 to 1.3cm) rebar. They can be at different lengths to mimic branches.


Purchase a metal collar in which you can encircle your rebar branches or plan to weld the rebar together.
Rent a conduit bender if you want to bend the rebar dramatically.
Drive stakes into the holes where the rebar will go. Then, drive the rebar into the ground with a stake hammer.
Weld your rebar together if you want to. Check that it is sturdy before decorating it.
 It should meet the bottom of the bottle to avoid blowing off in the wind.
 Add a bottle on each side to offset the weight of the bottles.
 You may need to cement the tree into place if the ground is not very compact.
 You can also train vines to grow up the center section of your tree.


If you want to create a cobalt blue bottle tree, but you don’t have enough blue bottles, start with easier to find green or brown bottles. Then, collect and replace them throughout the years.
 Although rebar and steel bottle trees are common, there is great variation in the look and size of bottle trees. Attach other glass or ornaments if you desire.