 Tomato juice can help cleanse your hair and balance its pH, which will help neutralize the chemical odor. You can use any tomato juice that you can find at your local grocery store, or you can manually squeeze the juice from the tomatoes at home. If you have blonde hair, be sure to buy canned diced tomatoes since the tomato juice may alter the color of your hair.


While in the shower, use enough tomato juice to cover your hair. Massage it into your hair and scalp with your fingertips. Leave it in for 10-20 minutes, and then rinse with warm water.Follow-up by washing your hair with a clarifying shampoo and conditioner. Rinse your hair again and let it dry.Tomato juice can be applied to your hair twice a week, but be aware that it can lighten your hair over time.Tomatoes are also an excellent source of vitamin A, which will help make your hair stronger and healthier., Like tomato juice, baking soda can help neutralize and absorb any odors lingering in your locks. Using a baking soda mix on your hair once a week to balance your hair’s pH and remove the chemical smell. Mix 3 parts baking soda with 1 part water; the amount of baking soda you use will depend on the length and thickness of your hair. Place the mixture on your wet hair and secure it beneath a shower cap. Leave the mixture on for 20-30 minutes before rinsing., The acidity of lemon juice can help lift the chemical smell from of your hair after a perm. Using a lemon juice rinse won’t stain your hair, so it is a particularly helpful rinse if you have light or blonde hair.


Use fresh lemons and squeeze about 3 cups of lemon juice, or enough to cover your hair. Apply the juice and massage it into your hair and scalp for 20 to 30 minutes. Rinse your hair with water. Wash with a clarifying shampoo and conditioner.You can repeat this process a for few days in a row if the smell is still present.Be sure not to overuse this rinse as it may cause a burning sensation on your scalp.Lemon juice can lighten your hair with continued use., Using apple cider vinegar on your hair can help cleanse balance your hair’s pH, which can help neutralize the smell. The vinegar smell may not be appealing, but it will disappear once your hair dries.Combine 1 cup of water with 4 tablespoons (59.1 ml) of apple cider vinegar. Pour the mixture over your hair after you have washed your hair with a clarifying shampoo and followed-up with a conditioner. Massage the mixture into your hair and scalp, and thoroughly rinse after 2 minutes.You can do an apple cider vinegar rinse as often as you wish, but it is recommended that you apply it once per week.