 You will want to start teaching your child good, healthy behaviors and responses to stimulus as early as you possibly can. When you see them developing bad behaviors, don’t let those behaviors slide or dismiss it as something that they’ll grow out of. Tell them that what they did was wrong or bad and then show them a better way to act.


You also want to always model good behavior, in order to help your child learn. When they catch you doing something “naughty”, let them put you in time out for a few minutes.;
, When your child does something right or well, you should reward that behavior. This is called positive reinforcement and teaches your child to associate good things happening with behaving well. If you focus on really using this kind of feedback most of the time, then your toddler should be much more inclined toward good behavior.


Positive reinforcement doesn’t need to be a treat like a piece of candy either (although you can do this sometimes). Positive reinforcement can be a hug, getting to sleeping in the bed with you, or getting to play their favorite game with you.
 The terrible twos are a normal part of child development that centers around testing boundaries and figuring out how to be an independent person. It is important that you use this time to set boundaries for your child and teach them that those boundaries are firm. If you do not do this, then your child is likely to have behavior problems for many years. Your child needs to know that when you tell them no or tell them to do something, you mean it. Negotiations means more arguments.


For example, let's say that you let little Jon have a dessert after finishing all his food. Now, he finishes almost all of his food except for a bite or two (probably the peas, right?). You should not compromise here and give him the dessert because he will try this again but finish even less of the food the next time.
Another example would be with bedtimes. Let's say that you have a rule that little Sara needs to be reading herself to sleep by 7:30 pm, right after finishing dinner and brushing her teeth. She should not be allowed to get distracted by her new toy that grandma brought over and interrupt her usual routine. The toy can wait until the morning, even if it means a tantrum now.
 One of the reasons why toddlers have such magnificent meltdowns at this time in their lives is because they have many feelings that they don’t know how to process or communicate. Imagine you had something making you really upset and you didn’t know how to fix it and you didn’t have anyone to talk to. You’d be pretty grumpy too! If you give your toddler a way to communicate their feelings and ask for the things they want, then they’ll be much better able to cope with these strong feelings.


Teach them the words for their most common problems and encourage them to say when they want something. “Are you thirsty? Are you hungry? Can you say ‘hungry’?”
One new practice is to teach toddlers sign language as early as possible. Even small infants can learn “baby sign”, which allows them to communicate when they’re hungry, tired, or want to play. Even for a toddler, words are very new and can be intimidating. Sign language is more natural and accessible and can significantly improve behavior problems.
 Many times when your toddler throws a tantrum, the reaction is because they didn’t get their way. This is another aspect of the normal desire to learn how to be independent. They should have choices and get to make those choices, since this helps them develop into confident, capable children. However, their choices are not always useful or good. Find ways and times when they can make choices, so that they feel like they have control in their life (even if they don't’).


For example, when they get dressed in the morning, give them the choice between two or three shirts that you pick out. Keep firm on the options that you originally give them. They’ll choose which shirt they want and you both come away from the discussion tear-free.
 One of the most important things you can do for your child at this age is to let them experience consequences. When they don't experience consequences early, it becomes difficult for them to realize that consequences are a normal part of life. By letting them understand cause and effect, you'll be setting them up for a lifetime of better decision making skills.


For example, your toddler refuses to put his shoes and coat on before going outside in the snow, let him just go outside. He'll be stuck in the car ride to daycare with cold, wet feet and will quickly learn that putting on shoes is the smarter idea and there will be no more fights in the morning over coats and shoes.
Another example is if your child is playing the "Throwing my bowl down from the table is the best" game. Instead of yelling at them and cleaning up the mess, make them clean up the mess every time they throw food over. They'll easily decide that that isn't nearly as much fun.
 It's tough to hear your child crying but a little crying can be really good for them, especially if they're faking (a common feature of tantrums). Toddlers are developing the skill to self-soothe: a crucial skill even for adults. When they become overwhelmed with emotions and you instantly make them feel better, they don't learn how to sort through those emotions on their own. By letting them cry for a little while first, they can start learning how to make themselves feel better.


For example, if they don't like the color bowl that you served their dinner in and they start crying, just ignore them. Let them cry. Put on some music or start singing to yourself to cover up the screaming and show them you're not bothered. As soon as they start to calm down, redirect them to a new activity or food item (like a cup of milk) to help them learn that life goes on.
However, if your child is crying because they’re scared or hurt, you should of course comfort them and show them that it’s okay because mum is here.
 You should never bribe a child to get them to do what you want. This teaches them a terrible behavior, which is that listening to you is negotiable. There will be many times when the temptation is strong but you should do whatever you can not to give in. Sometimes this means letting your child throw a tantrum in a grocery store and that's okay. The other customers will have a rough few minutes and go on with their lives but your child will learn good behavior for a lifetime.


For example, when they throw a fit in the store about wanting a candy bar, don't say that they can have cake when they get home if they stop crying. All this does is teach them that if they cry at the store, they'll quickly earn themselves a treat.
 When your child does do something bad, do not give them attention for that behavior. This teaches them that in order to get you attention, they need to be naughty. instead of acknowledging this behavior, even to yell at them, instead ignore them. When paired with hugs, kiss, and attention for good behavior, you child will quickly learn to behave.


A bad example would be: grabbing their hands and yelling at them for doing something wrong or making them sit next to you for misbehaving at church.
Instead, completely ignore them when they start tantruming. If you're at home put them in another room and then close the door. It doesn't need to be locked or slammed, it just needs to break contact. This will show the child that yelling is not the way to get your attention.
 Remember that to your toddler, the world is very big and pretty much 24/7 stress. Imagine how you feel when your boss makes a major change to how things work in your office. Now multiply that times thirty and imagine it happening every day for years. That's what it's like for your toddler. You have to be understanding and try not to overwhelm them with too many changes at once.


Introduce schedule, lifestyle, and home changes gradually. You should also try to keep to a routine. When you have a routine, your child knows what to expect as is better able to handle small and gradual changes, like learning to use the toilet.
For example, don't start potty training the same week they start at a new pre-school. In fact, waiting as much as a month before making another change can be necessary. Wait until they seem comfortable with one change before making another.
 If you have older children, you may be frustrated that your toddler doesn't do what the older child does or did. However, it's important to remember that your toddler hasn't learned those behaviors yet and won't be ready for them for awhile. Be ready to accommodate and work with their individual needs.


For example, your toddler will probably need to have a different bedtime routine than an older child. They will probably wake up earlier and should not be expected to quietly entertain themselves on a weekend morning while you try to sleep in.
 Another common trigger for tantrums in toddlers is issues with stimulation. When they get bored, they don't have the mental ability that adults do to keep themselves entertained. Be understanding of this and try to find ways to keep them stimulated while you're out and away from the toys that usually keep them occupied.


Keep a favored toy only for boredom emergencies, when you know you're both going to be stuck for awhile. This will keep your child entertained.
You want to avoid making them over stimulated too. Too much stimulation, especially right before bed, can be a bit much for them and lead to breakdowns. Having a bunch of your friends over, making a major scheduling change, or even letting them watch TV can leave your little one feeling lost.
 A lot of parents get themselves all twisted up in knots trying to be perfect. You get the image in your head from TV or magazines that there are certain things you have to do to parent right. But the thing is that life doesn't really work that way. Two year olds don't notice these little things and neither do well-adjusted adults. Just focus on loving you child.


Don't worry about Ava getting the velvet dress she got for Christmas dirty. Don't worry that your husband is looking slightly to the left in the family picture. Don't worry about making cupcakes for Ava's entire daycare class. These things can stand to be imperfect. What your child will remember happily when they look back on their experience of growing up is that you loved them and gave them hugs.
 When you have a toddler, you kind of have to shift your priorities around a little. You can't do everything. Some things will fall by the wayside, like your rock climbing class. Other priorities need to be adjusted because they don't mesh with life with a small child, like keeping your white carpets pristine. Just remember that keeping your child healthy and happy is what's really important right now. Carpets can be replaced but your child's first impressions of who you are and how you handle situations will stick with them forever.
 It's hard to see it now but when your two year old is sixteen and lighting the car on fire, you'll miss the days when they just had dramatic moments about putting a bowl on a table. If you learn to find the humor in the situation and embrace this time with your child, you'll have a much easier time staying sane.
 Find moms and dads that are also going through this same experience. When you have someone to talk to, someone who understands and maybe has even been through this before, you'll feel much stronger and stable. When you have a support network, you have people you can go to for help and that's very important for staying sane.


You can usually find groups for parents with young kids at your local community center but you can also find support groups online if you don't have the time to get out like that.
 Last but not least, you need some time to focus on not being a parent. It's easy to feel sometimes like that's all you are and all you can be, which can take a real toll on you mentally. Get some time away from your kids so that you can remember what it's like to be an independent person, just like your toddler does.


Spend some time with friends and do the kinds of things that you all used to do before you started having kids. Everyone can chip in to hire a few babysitters to take care of all the kids together, or you can make your own arrangements if your friends don't have kids.
You should also get some time with your partner and focus on loving each other being a couple, not just two people raising a kid. Go on a date or leave the kids with your parents for a weekend. This is very important for maintaining your relationship.

