 The first signs of your tadpoles' development into a full-grown frog will be the front legs (or arms) starting to bud. Soon thereafter, the mouthparts completely change. The tadpoles' gills stop functioning and their lungs start to work, so that they can breathe air. The skin changes from a smooth and slimy skin to a rougher, porous skin which allows air and water through.Internally, the tadpoles' intestinal tracks will change from the long intestine of a plant eater to the short intestine of a protein eater, which will comprise most of an adult frog's diet.
You'll see limbs containing a skeleton grow out of a body which had no limbs or bones, as the tail muscle and fin deteriorates and is reabsorbed by the body.
 As your tadpoles develop limbs, they'll be at risk of making their way out of the tank. You'll want to prevent this from happening, both for the safety of your fledgling frogs and for your human habitat!The best lid will be well-ventilated, in order to let in fresh air while still keeping your frogs safely inside.
A lid that attaches to the tank is best. Some commercial tanks come with snap-on lids, which work quite well.
 While you want to make sure your new frogs don't get out of their tank, you'll also want them the opportunity to climb from the water and use their developing lungs to breathe air. A fat stick or a wide rock that rests on the base of the tank is a good choice.Once the frog starts to use its lungs to breathe, it's unable to use its gills. Without some way to climb out of the water, the frog may drown.
Make sure the object is fixed, so that it can't move when the frog is on it.
 The common frog takes about 10 weeks to transition from tadpole to frog. At this point, the legs and lungs will have developed enough to allow the frog to emerge from the water.


These new frogs are known as "metamorphs". The metamorph will continue to have a small tail for a short time before it is absorbed by the rest of the body.
It will take the metamorph 2-3 years to reach breeding age.
 When your tadpoles have developed arms and legs, it's time to let them go back into the wild. Ideally, you'll be able to release your frogs back into the same area from which you took them. If you can't do this, make sure you're releasing them into an area in which the common frog is commonly found.If you aren't sure what variety of frog you've raised, check with an expert before releasing your frogs into the wild.
When you've identified your frogs, look at a frog guide to find out what habitat this species of frog typically prefers. Then locate a setting that will meet the needs of your new frogs.

