 Noticing your own acts of kindness can help you be more positive and feel happier.Help other people reach their goals. Offer your assistance if you see someone struggling. However, don’t over-exert yourself or this could make you stressed out and unproductive. Set healthy boundaries such as politely saying no when you don’t have time to help someone at the moment.
Service to others is a fantastic way to show kindness and positivity. You could volunteer at a homeless shelter, give household items or clothing to the needy, or donate money to a good cause.
Avoid offering someone help if they don’t want it; this can be annoying or frustrating.Try not to be overly sweet, this can come off as fake or not genuine.
Praise others. Give compliments. This is a great way to show your positivity.
 Being positive all of the time and about everything can be tiresome for others. Try to be realistic instead of overly optimistic in problem situations. People who are depressed may actually have a more realistic view of the situation.


Think logically in difficult situations. Instead of thinking, “This is going to turn out so well, I know it,” train yourself to think, “There is a chance this could go wrong, but I have hope that it will be okay.” Notice how the second thought is more realistic and accurate than the first, which tries to predict what will happen in the future.
 Pleasure and leisure activities are important to maintaining a sense of happiness and well-being.Propose positive activities such as: hiking, going to the beach, watching the sunset, or playing a sport.
Avoid harmful activities such as using drugs or alcohol excessively. Show others that being positive is natural and can be obtained without the use of substances.
 The more you get to know someone the more you will be able to identify what might be nice versus what might be annoying.


Notice the sensitivities of others and try to change your behavior if it will result in less annoyance. For example, some people might be annoyed by loud chewing, knuckle cracking, nail biting or other habits.
If you are unsure if you are annoying someone you can ask, “Is this annoying to you?” If you have a trusting and honest relationship the person will likely tell you the truth.

