 When you don't sleep well, your defense mechanisms can be compromised. This can make it harder to handle the symptoms of mild depression. Try going to bed earlier than normal to ensure that you get 7-8 hours of sleep every night. Sleep is a restorative activity that allows your body to heal itself. If you aren't getting enough sleep, talk to your doctor. She might prescribe sleep medication. You might also try changing your sleeping times.The inability to get to enough sleep can indicate depressive symptoms. If you have trouble getting to sleep, try listening to calm music before bed. Turn off your computer and phone at least 30 minutes before bedtime to give your eyes and brain a rest from the screen.
 Exercise may be an underutilized method for boosting mood. Studies suggest that exercise helps to elevate mood and prevent relapse.Aim to get 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.


Set attainable goals for yourself. No matter how easy you think a goal is to attain, attaining it gives you the experience of success early and the confidence needed to set your next goal. Start with a goal of walking 10 minutes per day for a couple of days during the week, then push yourself to do more, such as walking for 10 minutes every day for one week; then every day for one month; then the whole year. See how long you can keep your streak going.
The best part of exercise as a treatment for depression is that activities such as walking and running do not cost a lot of money.
Before starting a new exercise routine, talk with your doctor and/or a personal trainer to determine the best exercises for your fitness level.
Consider every exercise session as a treatment for your mood and a positive reflection of your will to improve., Light therapy, or exposing yourself to sunlight or light that mimics sunlight, can positively effect on your mood. Some research suggests that increased amounts of sunlight will increase your body’s levels of vitamin D.Try a dawn simulator. This is a timer mechanism that you attach to a lamp in your bedroom. The lamp will start to light up gradually 30-45 minutes before your scheduled wake-up time. Your brain will think that morning light is coming through the window and you may trick your body into feeling better.Get a light therapy box or lamp. This device emits simulated sunlight. Sit in front of a light therapy box for 30 minutes per day to get more light exposure.
 When you’re stressed, your body responds by releasing cortisol, a stress hormone. If you experience chronic stress, your body may overreact and not shut off the stress hormone release.Try to manage and reduce your stress so that your body has a chance to rejuvenate.



Try meditation to reduce stress.
Make a list of the things that stress you out. Try to minimize the number of stressors in your life.
 Gardening, walking and other outdoor activities can create beneficial effects. Getting out into green spaces and nature can lift your mood and help you if you’re feeling the effects of mild depression.Gardening and digging in the dirt can also create positive affects, thanks to anti-depressant microbes in soil that increase serotonin levels., Some people feel the effects of depression because of repressed creativity. The link between depression and creativity has been of great interest because some think it may be “the cost” of being a creative person rather than being a “necessary evil” of creativity. Depression may arise when a creative person finds it difficult to find an expressive outlet.