 This button is located in the upper left corner of the browser window.

A two-column drop-down menu will appear once you click the “Firefox” button.
 "History" is an option located toward the top of the right column of the Firefox menu.


Hovering over "History" will cause a second menu to pop out to the right of the current Firefox menu.
Note that if you are using Windows XP, you will click on the "Tools" menu instead of the "History" menu.
 This option is located around the middle of the "History" sub-menu.


Clicking on "Clear Recent History..." will cause a corresponding dialogue box to open.
 At the top of the "Clear Recent History" dialogue box is a setting labeled as "Time range to clear." Select "Everything" from the drop-down box located next to this option in order to clear all your cookies.






Selecting any other time frame will not erase all your cookies. It will only erase cookies that fall within that time frame, and any that were stored prior to that time frame will remain.
 Below this time range setting is a setting labeled "Details" with a downward arrow before it. Click on this down arrow to expand the details box.






The expanded box will display the types of stored Internet history that you can clear from this dialogue box.
 Select the check box next to “Cookies” within the expanded “Details” box in order to clear your cookies.


If you want to delete your cookies and nothing more, make sure that the other boxes are not checked.
You can clear your entire Internet history from this box if desired, however. Do so by making sure that the other options are all checked. The other types of Internet history you can check off are "Browsing & Download History," "Form & Search History," "Cache," "Active Logins," and "Site Preferences."

, This button is located at the bottom of the "Clear Recent History" dialogue box.


Once you click "Clear Now," your cookies will be removed and this dialogue box will close.
Note that this action is permanent and cannot be undone.

