 Think about the type of reptile you have. Does your reptile need water? What type of light does your reptile need? Is your reptile young? How large is the reptile expected to grow? Will the cage be kept inside or outside?The cage should resemble the reptile's natural habitat as much as possible.For example, a chameleon would need a tube cage.
Turtles, frogs, and some snakes will need water in the tank.
Some reptiles eat other insects and animals such as crickets and mice. Your cage needs to be able to accommodate those animals as well. You do not want those animals escaping into your home.;
, The materials you choose for the cage will depend on your budget and the needs of your reptile. Cages are typically made using screen or mesh, plastic or wooded, or acrylic or glass boxes.Also consider how often you will need to clean the cage.


Unless you have experience working with acrylic and glass, buy pre-cut panels. The panels can be attached together or you can attach the panels to a wood or plastic frame.Plastic cages are more expensive, last longer, and hold heat better than glass cages.Melamine, high pressure particle board with a decorative laminate coating, looks good, holds up well and is easy to clean, but it's heavy. Other options include a good grade of plywood or pre-cut shelving boards.
Walls can be made of wood, glass, transparent thermoplastic, or coated wire mesh.
Consider building a reptile cage out of existing items, such as an aquarium, old chest of drawers, entertainment center or a refrigerator with the door removed.
 Your reptile should have room to move around and hide in its cage. There should also be enough room to incorporate the necessary lighting, heating, and flooring. Most cages are rectangular in shape.


Small reptiles such as leopard geckos and garter snakes need two to six square feet of space.Medium sized reptiles such as pythons need six to eight square feet of space.
Small reptiles that move around a lot such as bearded dragons need eight to 32 square feet of space.Large reptiles such as iguanas, tortoises, and constrictors need a closet or room size for a cage., Wire mesh, pegboard, and holes are all ventilation options. For example, screen and mesh are needed for reptiles such as chameleons that need plenty of airflow. The ventilation you choose should be based on the needs of your reptile.


Ventilation holes should either be too small for the reptile to escape through or covered with wire mesh, hardware cloth, or black window screen. Don't use wire mesh in snake cages.
Pegboard is good if the reptile likes to rub its nose against things.
If you are concerned about the reptile's nails injuring the cage, you can use quarter-inch plastic coated hardware cloth.
 Once you have chosen the size of the cage and the materials you plan to use, make a sketch of the cage you plan to build. This will help you determine exactly what you need to buy, and help you develop a game plan for building the cage. Also measure the area where you plan on placing the cage to make sure that there will be enough room.Make a list of the tools that you will need such as a chisel, drill, saw, etc. Also gather any screws, hinges, glue, or adhesive that you may need.
Plan your approach to building the cage. Decide what pieces you will put together first. Will you use pre-cut materials or cut your own?

, Attach the walls of the cage using wood or glue. Plexiglass and wood will require screws. Create cut outs for ventilation as well. Construct a door for the cage and apply hinges or latches to the door frames.Doors should always open sideways or down. If you have to hold the door up with one hand, cleaning the cage or caring for your reptile will be more difficult.
Put the door in a place that allows you to reach all areas of the cage easily. A badly placed or sized door may make it more difficult for you to care for your reptile.
Do not place hinges on top of the door.
Make sure that all of the hinges, screws, lids, and doors are sturdy. You do not want your reptile to escape from the cage.
 Sand down any rough areas or sharp edges. Seal the bottom of the cage so substrate, water and excrement don't leak out. You can use non-toxic silicone sealant and a durable plastic sheeting. Cover the raw edges of any wire mesh inside the cage.


If you plan to paint or decorate the wood, stain bare wood and apply a topcoat, such as polyurethane, to protect it. Be sure to air it thoroughly afterward so fumes don't sicken your reptile.

