 You may have made this face when you were a little kid. Doing it now, in combination with yogic deep breathing, can fight smile lines as well as strengthening the muscles in your cheeks.On an inhale, suck in your cheeks and hold them in between your teeth. Then activate your muscles and try to smile while making a fish face.
Keep the rest of your face smooth and relaxed, your eyes open. Resist the urge to blink, and relax your cheeks only when your eyes start to water.
 This move is more of a yogic massage that can help you smooth and stretch the skin on your forehead to help fight forehead wrinkles. Before you start, take a few deep breaths and concentrate on relaxing the muscles in your forehead.Place both of your hands on your forehead with your fingers spread. On an inhale, push your skin gently as you slide your fingers out and down, toward your temples. Hold there as you exhale, then on an inhale gently release back to center. Exhale, then repeat.
Moving with your breath, complete eight repetitions of this move.
You can also smooth your eyebrows. Just place your pointer fingers on the outer edges of your eyebrows and slowly pull them away from each other, closing your eyelids. Repeat eight times, just as you did with the forehead smoother., This move is one of the simplest face yoga exercises, and one of the few that you can safely do without a mirror. The eyebrow lift while widen your eyes and smooth the skin in your upper eye area.All you have to do is raise your eyebrows as high as you can – as though you are surprised, or someone told you a shocking story. Close your eyes, keeping your eyebrows lifted.
Hold the lift for about 20 seconds, breathing deeply in through the nose and out through the mouth.
 This exercise is a little more difficult than the other face yoga exercises, but it can help fight crow's feet if done properly. Have patience, and practice in front of the mirror until you get the hang of it.The key to this exercise is to lift and release your lower eyelid without using any of the other muscles in your face. This can take practice. Once you're there, place your fingertips on the outer edges of your crow's feet and apply gentle pressure.
Avoid pulling or stretching your skin. Keep in mind the skin directly around your eyes is very sensitive. You may want to moisturize the skin around your eyes as well as your hands before attempting this exercise.

