 All of the financial information that you need, as well as information about the type of lease you're accounting for, will be spelled out in the lease agreement. Have that handy so that you can be sure you're accounting for everything correctly.


Specifically, you'll need the amount of the lease payment per payment period. For example, the lease might specify a payment of $500 per month or $1,000 per year.;
, You'll need to know a little bit, but not a lot, of legal jargon to properly account for the lease payments.


Lessor - That's the owner of the asset that's being leased. For example, if you own an apartment and you rent it out to somebody for a 12-month period, then you're the lessor in that situation.Lessee - That's the person who's rents assets from the lessor. Effectively, this is the person who gets to "use" the asset in question. For example, if you rent an apartment from somebody for a 12-month period, then you're the lessee in that situation., You'll account for the lease payments differently depending on whether the lease is an operating lease or a capital lease, so you'll need to understand the difference.


An operating lease occurs when the lease represents a true rental agreement. Most of the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the leased asset remain with the lessor, and the lessee does not have any way to purchase the asset. An operating lease represents an expense to the lessee and revenue to the lessor.A capital lease represents a material transfer of ownership. This means that the lessee has essentially purchased the asset from the lessor, and the rent payments are more accurately classified as a financing plan. A lease must be accounted for as a capital lease if any 1 of the following 4 conditions are true: the lessee will gain title of the asset at the end of the lease; the lessee will be able to purchase the asset for a price below market value at the end of the lease; the term (length of time) of the lease accounts for 75 percent or more of the useful life of the asset; and the net present value of all the rent payments equals 90 percent of more of the asset's market value., Remember, in the previous step you checked the lease agreement to determine payment and frequency (for example, $1,000 per year). That information will tell you how often you'll need to account for the payment (for example, monthly, annually, etc.).
 In the case of an operating lease, the lessor receives money while the lessee makes a payment. For example, in a lease agreement by which ABC Corporation leases a dozen large printers to XYZ Company for five years in exchange for rent payments of $1,000 each year, ABC Corporation earns money while XYZ Company records an expense.


In that case, ABC Corporation (the lessor) will debit Cash upon receipt of the payment for $1,000 and XYZ Company (the lessee) will debit rent expense for $1,000.
 Continuing with the example above, each company must balance its books with a credit equal to the amount of the debit.


In that case, ABC Corporation (the lessor) will credit Rent Revenue for $1,000. XYZ Corporation (the lessee), on the other hand, will credit Cash for $1,000.
 As with operating leases, there will be a payment frequency associated with capital leases. You'll need to know that frequency so that you can account for the payments at the right time.
 In the case of a capital lease, the lessee is effectively buying the assets with a payment plan. For example, consider a capital lease agreement by which ABC Corporation leases a dozen large printers to XYZ Company for five years in exchange for rent payments of $1,000 each year. At the end of that lease agreement, XYZ Company would own the printers and have no further obligations under the lease. That means the transaction should be accounted for like a sale.


In that case, ABC Corporation (the lessor) debits Lease Receivables (an asset) for $5,000 at the very beginning of the lease. That's the total amount of money that XYZ Company will pay ABC Corporation based on the terms of the lease. ABC Corporation also credits its Printers account (another asset) for $5,000 as well.
XYZ Company (the lessee), on the other hand, debits its Printers account (also an asset) for $5,000 at the very beginning of the lease. The company would also credit Lease Payable for $5,000 to keep the books in balance.
 Now that you have the accounts set up properly, you have to debit and credit each account with every payment. Recall that the payment terms are $1,000 per year.


ABC Corporation (the lessor) will debit Cash for $1,000 and credit Lease Receivables with each payment.
XYZ Company (the lessee) will debit Lease Payable for $1,000 and credit cash for $1,000 with each payment.

