 If you feel there are some small changes that you need or want to make in your life to be healthier, it wouldn't hurt to see your doctor prior to making any changes.


They can review your medical history, weight and let you know what changes might be the most beneficial to you.;
, Small goals are often the most appealing as they are the easiest to reach. If your goals are too high and you are unable to reach them in a timely manner, you may become discouraged. Set small goals that ultimately lead up to your larger goal. It will help provide you with the motivation to make and keep lifestyle changes.


When setting your goals make sure they are realistic, timely, and specific. These qualities make goals that are easier to meet in the long-term. For example, instead of a goal of "I want to boost my endurance," make your goal "I want to be able to swim five laps in my pool without needing to stop."
Also consider whether you need smaller goals to meet a larger, more long-term goal. For example, if you want to run five miles, you might make a goal to run a 5k (which is 3.1 miles) as an intermediary goal.
 Remember that too many lifestyle changes at once is a recipe for failure. It is important that you only try to implement so many changes at once. Think about what lifestyle changes you need to make in order to achieve your goals. If you don't think you'll be willing to make the lifestyle changes needed to meet your goal, revisit your goals and change them as needed.


Lifestyle changes are small changes in behavior that may result in improved health or well-being. Studies show that small lifestyle changes over long periods of time are more sustainable.Examples of lifestyle changes include: replacing desserts with fruit or taking the stairs instead of the elevator.
The lifestyle changes you want to make may also help you make, change, or come up with additional goals. For example, you might want to eat healthier. A goal could be to eat a fruit or vegetable every day.
 Even with small lifestyle changes, trying to accomplish multiple items at one time can be difficult and hard to keep up with.Assigning your lifestyle changes to an ordered timeline can help you be more successful. Try to note which changes you'll make first, second, third, etc.


After you've come up with your goals and the lifestyle changes to help you meet them, assign an order to your list. For example: Week 1: Give up soda; Week 2: Take the stairs instead of the elevator; Week 3: Go to bed earlier.
Continuously reevaluate your progress. If you notice one lifestyle change in particular is giving you trouble, rework your timeline to account for that. Give yourself time to make these changes a habit. Again, if you try to work on multiple items at one time, you may be less successful.
 It is much easier to stick to a plan when others know you're doing it. Get a support system and lean on them when necessary. Telling family, friends or coworkers about your new lifestyle changes may help keep you motivated.It's also helpful to surround yourself with people who are also on the same path as you making small lifestyle changes to help improve their health. You can bounce ideas off each other or work on similar goals at the same time.

