 There are some risk factors for ovarian cancer, but anyone with ovaries can get ovarian cancer, even without any risk factors.The fact is that most women who get ovarian cancer were not at a high risk.
 Ovarian cancer almost always occurs in women who are middle-aged or older.


Nearly ninety percent of women who develop ovarian cancer are over the age of 40, and the average age is about 60 years old., You are at a greater risk of developing ovarian cancer if someone in your family has had it, either on your mother or father's side. This might include your aunt, mother, or grandmother, or any other close female blood relative.In some cultures and generations, discussing cancer, especially cancers of the reproductive organs, may be taboo. If you think your family might not have told you about a family history of ovarian cancer, be sure to ask for information from family members who might know.
Hereditary syndromes include Lynch Syndrome, which increases the risk of ovarian cancer along with breast, colon, endometrium, and other cancer syndromes. Other hereditary cause of ovarian cancer are mutations in BRCA 1 and BRCA 2 this is the Breast-Ovarian Cancer Syndrome, and these mutations are under intense investigation by doctors and scientists as root causes of cancer.
 Certain medical conditions might put you at a greater risk of developing ovarian cancer. These include:if you have had breast, uterine, or colorectal cancer, or melanoma.
if you have endometriosis.
if you have taken estrogen by itself, without progesterone, for ten or more years; this can include Hormone Replacement Therapy.if you have a specific genetic mutation called BRCA1 or BRCA2, which is associated with Lynch Syndrome.
 There are other factors that seem to put women at a greater risk of developing ovarian cancer. These include:being Caucasian, especially from a North American, Northern European, or Ashkenazi Jewish background.never having had biological children.
having been overweight during early adulthood.