 The best novels allow you to sink into them, becoming engrossed in the world of the novel while the outside world drops away. Giving your full attention to a book is the best way to read and understand it, whether you're reading novels or textbooks. Novels, however, are often told in a unique way, meaning you need time to get accustomed to the speaker, the style, and the world of the story to fully grasp them. In general:


Avoid music with lyrics in it while you're reading.
Try to read in blocks, setting aside at least 30 minutes. It is very hard to keep track of things if you're constantly picking the book up and down.
Remove yourself from outside distractions, like a TV or lots of human activity.;
, While some of this may seem obvious, taking five minutes to answer the following questions will give you a great foundation to keep reading. These are the essential parts of the novel, and you need to grasp them before moving on to more difficult discussions:


What does the main character(s) want?
Who is telling the story?
Where and when is the story set? Be specific.
If you're struggling to get the basics, there is no harm in picking up a study guide or reading a plot summary on Wikipedia. This can help you grasp the basic concepts quickly and start looking for nuance.
 Novels are fictional, meaning that, except perhaps in the foreword, the narrator is also fictitious. Is the narrator a part of the story, or are they separate from it? Do they know everything, or just what certain character's know? Most importantly, can you trust the narrator? One of the biggest struggles for many readers is that they trust the narrator too much. Then, when they contradict themselves or make a mistake, it feels like the author made a mistake or that you don't understand the book. However, unreliable narrators are great clues into the meanings of a book -- after all, no real human could ever be a perfect narrator. In general, you should be cautious of any narrator who:


Seems drunk, high, or otherwise drugged (A Clockwork Orange).
Is mentally or socially impaired (The Sound and the Fury, Curious Incident of the Dog at Nighttime).
Has reasons to lie, often because of a crime or wrongdoing (Lolita)., Why is a novel being told the way it is? Is it written in letters, or journal entries, or normal narration? Does the author use big, intimidating words or straightforward, concise sentences? If you're confused, think for a moment about how the story is being told -- it often tells you something about what is being told.


Do you have distance between the events? Does the narrator seem to know what is going to happen, or are you along for the ride together?

, Take a moment to stop and reflect on the events in each chapter. What, exactly, changed from the beginning of the section to the end? Have characters grown? Has the plot thickened? Are you back where you started? Eventually, after you've finished 4-5 chapters, you'll notice that these little summaries form an outline of the novel.


Try and mark how characters change. Once you know how a character has changed throughout a chapter you can start to figure out why they've changed.
If it is not already, try and order the plot chronologically. Stories that are presented out of order, like The Iliad or Absalom! Absalom!" are often difficult because they are jumbled up, not because the actual plot is complicated., It is impossible to digest all of the complex thoughts, themes, and symbols in a novel all by yourself, especially if you're reading it once. Books should be shared and discussed, so try and convince someone else to read the book along with you. Have discussions at certain points in the book, then talk about it when you've both finished. Between the two (or three, or more) of you, this is often the best way to break down a complex novel without re-reading it., Novels are carefully constructed, and by noting the similarities between characters, chapters, and settings you can get a clue into the overall structure of the book. Just as important are moments that should be similar, but have changed for some reason, such as a character coming back home after a long time away. What things keep popping up in the book? Why do you think they're important?


In The Orphan Master's Son, the idea of movies, actors, and Hollywood shows up repeatedly in the protagonist's early life. This is crucial, but not until the last third of the book.
In The Great Gatsby, there is repeated mention of a blinking light off the coast, and blinking lights reappear several other times. All of these moments are linked by longing for something the character's cannot have., To truly understand and appreciate a novel, you need to consider the entire thing. Moments that fell flat or didn't make sense early on might gain new meaning by the end of the book. Sometimes, the last few pages can complete turn the meaning, plot, or theme of the book around, like in Fight Club or Atonement. Once you've finished a book, skim over your notes or the first chapter again -- do you get a new appreciation for the book?


What would you call the theme of the book? What, ultimately, is the book about?

, Ultimately, once a book is published, it is up for a reader to make their own "meaning" out of it. To get the most out of the book (and/or your papers), you need to inject your own personality into the reading. Do you agree with the themes? Do you think the author effectively made you sympathize with the characters, or did you hate them. You can have any opinion you want, but you need to back it up with evidence from the book.


Quotes, summaries, and your notes will form the basis of your case. Whether arguing with a friend or writing a term paper, you should always turn to novel for evidence.