 This will ensure that you are working with someone who understands the foreclosure market and can help you find listings in your price range. Realtors who have relationships with banks often know of listings that haven't come onto the database of foreclosures yet.


Get into contact with the financial institution to see which realtors they are working with, or search local foreclosure listings and see which realtors are managing the listings.;
, Once you’ve collected a list of names, call or email them and let them know that you are looking for a foreclosed home. Don't forget to specify your price range and what neighborhoods you want to stay in.Realtors who work with foreclosed properties also are more aware of the additional paperwork that comes with buying a foreclosed home.
 It is very important that you inspect the house to make sure that you will be able to afford all of the repairs necessary to make it livable. Foreclosed houses often sit empty for close to a year which means that there could be considerable damage done. Part Two explains what to look for.
 If you do not want to go the real estate broker route, you can find the properties yourself. Call around to local real estate agencies and ask about available foreclosed properties. Lenders that are selling properties at auction will also have information about the properties available to interested buyers.Search online for a list of foreclosed properties for sale. Sometimes, these databases will require a fee.
 This is a critical step if you are looking at a particular home. The title is the legal description of the propertyYou can find the title on a home by contacting the county clerk's office. The title has information on the estimated market value, the amount owed on the home, and any liens against the property.


The title also lets you know that the party offering the property for sale has the legal right to do so, so that you don't end up buying a house from someone who doesn't have the right to sell it.
 Foreclosure auctions can feel overwhelming if you are new to the house buying business. If you feel overwhelmed when attending a small scale auction that you are just observing, you may want to consider working with a realtor. However, take your time and learn how the auction system works--you can even ask someone to show you the ropes. This will help you to be successful when you go to purchase a home at your auction., When creating a budget, remember to take into account the repairs that the house will need. Visiting the home makes it much easier to decide what sort of repairs the house will need (see Part Two for what to look for). At an auction, sometimes bidders are required to pay the full amount on the property either by the close of auction of a few days afterwards, so knowing how much you are willing and able to spend will help you to determine whether to bid on a house or not.


Make sure that you stick to your budget and that you have enough money for both the house and the repairs necessary. If you plan to turn the house into a rental property, think about whether or not you can afford it if you don't find a tenant right away.
 You do not want to buy a house that you have not seen, especially if you are buying a foreclosed home at a low price. Most foreclosed houses will have sat empty for close to year while and will be sold as-is. It is very important to assess the damage and calculate whether you will be able to afford the repairs on top of the payment you will have to put down for the house., A foreclosure process usually takes a year or longer, so the property typically has not been properly repaired and kept up for at least a year. Have a professional inspector come in to see how much damage there is in the house and how much the repairs will cost.


The additional cost of repairs could cause the overall cost of owning the home to skyrocket.
 Aside from the major question of ‘is it safe?’ you should also find out what houses are worth in the area. Finding out this information will help you to keep your bid reasonable--you don’t want to pay an extra 50,000 when the houses in the area go for much less than what you are forced to bid at auction or are asked to pay by the realtor.You should also find out if it's an up and coming neighborhood where the property value will go up over time.
 Some states have foreclosure laws that allow owners to reclaim their properties even after it's been sold in an auction. During this redemption period, the owners may have 30 or 60 days to come up with the back mortgage payments. If they do, the house may not be yours even after you've purchased it. During this period, do not purchase anything for the property.
 Unless you are planning to pay for the entire cost of the property in cash, you will need a preapproval letter from a lender that describes how much money you can borrow. Getting prequalified allows you to buy a property faster and makes you more competitive if multiple people are bidding on the same property.
 The process for purchasing a foreclosed home can take longer because financial institutions make decisions slower than your average homeowner. If you're serious about a property, be patient after you submit the offer.
 Even if you buy the property in cash, you should purchase title insurance in order to reduce the risk of any liens on the property that you don't know about. If there is any problem with the title search, title insurance will get you reimbursed.