 Proactive is a three-step acne treatment system:


The first step is cleansing and exfoliating your face. The active ingredient, benzoyl peroxide (BPO), unplugs pores and kills bacteria.
The second step is targeting pores to treat existing acne and prevent future breakouts. It uses BPO to prevent oil production inside pores and kill the acne causing bacteria.
The third step is a hydrating lotion to treat skin while delivering acne medication where you need it most. The active ingredient, salicylic acid, promotes clean pores by allowing dead skin cells to slough off. This results in smaller pores and healthier skin.;
, Proactive is sold online at www.proactive.com. A one month supply of Proactive retails for $29.95.
 Proactive is designed for men and women from adolescence through adulthood with mild to moderate acne or hormone-induced outbreaks of acne.Proactive may also reduce redness, oily shine, and balance uneven skin tone.It can take four to six weeks before Proactive users see results.Some users may experience sensitivity to benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid, two of the active ingredients in Proactive products. Symptoms of an allergic reaction include itching, swelling and redness of the face or throat, hives, or difficulty breathing.In case of an allergic reaction, users should immediately discontinue use and seek medical assistance.
 If you have long hair, you'll want to keep it from getting in the way while cleaning your face.
 This is an important first step, as applying facial cleanser onto dry skin may cause irritation.


Using hot water may dry out your skin. Lukewarm is the ideal temperature to clean your face without causing irritation., Do not use a washcloth, as this can irritate your skin. Scrubbing your skin with the exfoliator may also irritate your skin.Use a small amount of exfoliator - about a coin-sized portion will be sufficient.
Gently massage the exfoliator into your skin for two to three minutes.
 Be sure to wash away all of the Skin-Smoothing Exfoliator, as leftover exfoliator may dry out your skin., For best results, avoid using a rough towel and do not scrub too roughly. Treat your newly-exfoliated skin gently.
 Morning and evening work best to stay on schedule. It's best not to use facial wash more than twice a day, as doing so may cause dry, irritated skin., You want to minimize spreading bacteria from your hands to your face.
 You want to be sure that you're using enough to cover your entire face.
 The lotion contains benzoyl peroxide, a safe and popular treatment for mild to moderate cases of acne and skin blemishes.You want to apply enough treatment lotion that it completely covers your face without leaving a gooey residue.
 Do not wash off the Pore-Targeting Treatment lotion. Let it completely dry before moving on to the third phase of Proactive treatment., It can be used immediately after the Skin-Smoothing Exfoliator every morning and evening.
 You can use more hydrator if you have a lot of dry skin.
 The Complexion-Perfecting Hydrator is made with salicylic acid, a common acne-treatment medication that prevents pimple-growth and skin blemishes.The salicylic acid is also paired with a moisturizing component that reduces redness and soothes irritated skin without leaving a greasy residue.
 Do not wash hydrator off your face.
 It can be used in conjunction with Skin-Smoothing Exfoliator and Pore-Targeting Treatment every morning and evening.

