 If you see a student getting bullied or hurt, help them out. As a leader, it is your responsibility to help defend students that cannot defend themselves. There are several ways to handle difficult situations between students.Separate the students immediately and ask if everyone is ok. By calming everyone down and diffusing the situation, students will be able to relax and explain what exactly happened.
Ask a teacher or staff for assistance if the situation is too big to handle on your own. Sometimes having an adult present is the only way that students will behave, so asking for help should always come to mind in difficult situations.
Encourage students to report any injustices to you or to school officials. If someone tells you about a specific situation, let a school counselor know so they can approach the student professionally.
 Students should feel safe in school, and you can do a lot to make your school a better environment for everyone. You have to remember that this isn’t a job just for you, but with school faculty as well. Suggest to have hall monitors to supervise students between classes. Hall monitors can help make sure that everything is running smoothly while everyone is going to class. In case there is a problem, a hall monitor can address it or let an instructor know about the issue.
Help post anti-bullying posters around the school. By doing this, students will be aware of how they act and treat each other. Putting reminders for everyone will see can help reduce bullying.
Come up with workshops or seminars to help students speak up if they are being bullied.
 Knowing what kind of problems your classmates have at school is important, especially students that are shy or do not like to speak up. Many students do not want to openly admit they have problems. It is your job to try and identify these issues.


Let students know that you are available to talk with them whenever they need to.
Tell students your locker number so they can leave anonymous notes with the issues that bother them. You will still receive the messages you need to see, but students will be able to avoid the confrontation that they might not want to face.
Guide students who are actively voicing their issues to help others students voice their own problems as well.

