 If you do not wish to make a string of beads but would rather attach charms or beads to a chain, then purchasing a chain will be very important. These come in a variety of sizes and can be further trimmed down with wire cutters or pliers.
 There are many different types of claps. You will have to choose what is best for your project, based on what type of jewelry it is as well as the size and weight of the string and beads. Clasps can also be chosen for aesthetic appeal or they can be left simple and downplayed.


Lobster clasp. The most common clasp for necklaces and bracelets in recent years, the lobster clasp is fairly strong and easy to use.
Toggle. Toggles are good for a more streamlined, modern look. They are especially appropriate for pieces with a chunky appearance. These are simple clasps which are easy to use but less secure than some others.
Barrel clasp. This is a very secure clasp which consists of two tube shapes pieces which screw together. It is best used on necklaces, however, as there is a certain level of dexterity involved in closing it.
Hook and eye. A simple clasp and one easily made yourself with the proper tools, the hook and eye consists of a hook and loop. This is less secure and best used on heavy necklaces which have the weight to hold the clasp closed.
 Frequently used in jewelry-making, beads can provide interest for a simple chain or they can be strung together to back up a more opulent pendant. Beads can be inexpensive or pricey depending on their material and they do come in a very wide range of materials.


Beads can be found in all colors and made from ranging materials: plastic, glass, wood, shell, bone, stone, clay, polymer, and a wide variety of other materials as well.
 You may wish to give your jewelry a bit of bling and use either real or fake gemstones. Be sure that if you plan to use stones, you have the proper setting with which to place it on your project. Gems can be relatively less expensive or highly expensive, depending on the size, type and quality of the stone.


Common gemstones used in jewelry include diamonds, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, amethyst, opal, and topaz.
 In order to string together beads, charms and pendants, you will need some sort of material that is appropriately strong and flexible. Depending on the weight of your item and how you intend it to be closed, you can use wire, elastic string, twine, fishing line, or any other number of materials.
 You will need larger gauge, much less flexible wire in order to make many components of jewelry items. Examples include chain rings, posts, connecting bars, and spacers. Be sure to check the gauge of wire before purchasing it to be sure that it is right for your project.
 You will want and need several tools in order to make moderate to complex pieces of jewelry. If your project requires working with any metal, tools will certainly be required. Be sure that your tools are high quality and sharp. Dull tools are a common way to hurt yourself.


Get a complete set of pliers. Many different types of pliers are required to create different aspects of jewelry pieces. These include nylon jaw pliers, round nose pliers, chain nose pliers, and bent chain nose pliers.
Scissors and wire cutters. Have tools appropriate and at hand for all of your cutting needs. Scissors should be used for fishing line and elastic string. Always use wire cutters for cutting wire, as attempting to use scissors will likely only end in injury.

