 Normal levels of anxiety may occur right before or during an event. You may feel stressed out or anxious because of the situation, and this is often normal. However, if you have an anxiety disorder, then you may be anxious for days or weeks leading up to an event. The time you spend feeling anxious may be much greater than the situation warrants.For example, if you are anxious about a job interview, it is normal if the anxiety occurs around the time of the interview. However, if you have an anxiety disorder, the anxiety may begin a week or so before the interview and it may also continue after the interview is over.;
, Normal anxiety happens when a stressor occurs around you. Because the threat goes away or your body becomes used to the situation, the anxiety eventually goes away. If you suffer from an anxiety disorder, you may experience anxiety due to a stressor, but it may feel like it never goes away.For example, if you have an exam, you may be anxious the night before the exam, then during the exam. You may even be a bit nervous afterwards. If you have an anxiety disorder, the anxious feelings may occur for weeks before you have the exam, then last way after the exam is over.
Anxiety due to an anxiety disorder can last for months.
 Anxiety occurs for many different reasons. Normal anxiety happens due to everyday situations. If you have an anxiety disorder, you may feel anxious for no discernible reason or due to something that may not be a big deal to others.You may feel normal anxiety because of an exam, a job interview, a first date, or an argument. If you have an anxiety disorder, small things, like going to the grocery store or answering the phone, may cause intense anxiety.
 Normal anxiety won’t keep you from doing anything that you want to do. Anxiety disorders often interfere with your life. You may cancel plans or avoid social situations. You may also skip work, class, or meetings due to your anxiety.You may avoid going places because you think people are going to judge you. You may also be afraid of being embarrassed or humiliated.
You may avoid a place or object because you have an irrational fear of it.
 Normal anxiety happens randomly, usually around a significant event in your life. If you have an anxiety disorder, you may experience anxiety often, even every day. You may feel anxiety when nothing is happening. The anxiety is a recurring event.You may start to feel anxiety about having anxiety. You may get nervous you’re going to have a panic attack, which causes anxiety.
You may feel fear or a feeling of doom for no reason.
 If you have an anxiety disorder, you may find yourself performing tasks or rituals, or experiencing images related to a traumatic event. Some anxiety disorders may cause you to undergo repetitive actions. Other disorders may cause you to have nightmares or flashbacks.For example, you may wash your hands over and over or have to check something a certain amount of times. You may have severe nightmares or flashbacks after experiencing a traumatic events.

