 Making eye contact shows that you have confidence. Also, when you make eye contact with someone, it shows that you’re interested in learning more about them. Make sure that you don’t hold eye contact for too long – about two seconds is a good length – lest you come off as creepy or intimidating., Animated people don’t leave much too the imagination because they are the center of attention. To be attractively mysterious, be calm, somewhat serious, and relatively even-keeled. Be the calm at the center of the storm, no matter how lively things are around you., You’re mysterious and intelligent. Because you won’t be talking about yourself much, you’ll need to learn about some topics that you can talk about at length. Not only does this keep the conversation away from your personal story, it shows that you’re passionate enough about a subject to learn it.Make sure that the topic is interesting and not polarizing. For example, presidential candidates might be interesting but they’re also polarizing. Instead, the impact of farm-produced fish on the environment is interesting and likely to not be very polarizing at all.
 Asking questions is an excellent way to be mysterious and attract people and serves a few purposes. It allows you to keep the conversation away from your personal details, it shows interest in another person, and, most of all, it allows that people to talk about themselves. People will think you’re especially interested in them and be flattered that you wanted to hear their story.Start off with simple questions like “where are you from originally?” or “where would you travel to if money was no object?” Listen to the answers and ask questions based on those answers, such as: “Oh, you’d like to travel to Paris? What is it about the City of Lights that you find attractive? Would you travel alone or with someone?”

, Just because you’re mysterious doesn’t mean that you can’t be charming. Make people smile. Smiling makes people feel good and it makes people instantly feel warmer toward the person that made them smile. Don’t be afraid to smile yourself, too. This shows a good-natured appreciation of life that is attractive to just about everyone.You don’t have to talk to someone to make them smile. When you’re making eye contact, give the other person a little smile and watch, they’ll return the favor.
 Just because you’re not going to spend much time talking about yourself doesn’t mean that you can’t direct the conversation. This works because changing topics fairly frequently shows your audience that you’re not only mysterious, but that you’re confident and knowledgeable about a variety of topics.Look for natural opportunities to change topics, which will come up typically in someone else’s response to something.
This is a great time to ask a question, which will direct the conversation in another direction.
 Depending on your gender, being mysterious can be a sign that you’re an alpha male or a flirty female, two archetypes that are attractive to almost everyone. Mysterious people exude confidence, and that confidence can be interpreted differently depending on your gender. What is fairly universal, though, regardless of gender, is that mysterious people are quietly in control, but not flamboyant of attention seeking.This idea refers back to the psychology of attraction, which posits that attraction is physiological and psychological, and that the two inform one another., When talking to someone, don’t tell them your life story. You’re not an open book. Instead, you’re mysterious and need to leave gaps in your story. That will encourage people to ask questions, think about what you’ve said, and fill in the gaps of your story with their imaginations.A great way to approach this idea is to only answer questions that you’re asked about yourself as opposed to simply offering up information. Even when you’re answering questions, give as little information as possible while still satisfying the questioner.
If someone asks you about your weekend, make some vague reply such as "I met up with some friends and we did some things in town." If they question you further, just say nothing and smile mysteriously.
 If you’re always available, you might seem eager and you certainly won’t appear mysterious. Instead, you want to be available occasionally, although usually not, which will make your attentions almost seem like a reward.This applies to phone calls, texts, video chats, and get-togethers. If your phone rings, let it go to voicemail. If you receive a text or direct message, don’t read it right away. If they suggest that you get together, don’t enthusiastically say yes. Check your calendar first. You’re mysterious when you’re often unavailable.
 You don’t want to stand out in a crowd because of your flashy clothes, bright colors, or loud patterns. Instead, you want to keep your clothing somewhat modest, but still different from everyone around you. Darker colors are more mysterious.If people around you tend to wear jeans, for example, consider wearing boot cut jeans. If everyone wears boots, consider loafers.
 Try to be more creative and think outside the box. Your love interest is attracted to your mysterious demeanor, and creativity is a sign of a confident, mysterious person. Creativity shows that you can be playful and disciplined and that you view the world from a unique perspective. Share that uniqueness with the object of your affection to maintain the mystery.Creativity doesn’t just mean artistic. You might not have an artistic bone in your body and that’s just fine. Be creative with your answers to people, your solutions to problems, or even how you spend time with your partner.
For example, rather than suggesting dinner and a movie, be creative and take your partner to a place they’ve never been, like a state park, for a picnic and bring a book of your favorite poems to read with them.
 Being unpredictable lends to your mysterious demeanor. This doesn’t mean that you should act of character with your love interest or confuse them. Even worse, hurt their feelings. Being unpredictable simply means defying your own routines and patterns every now and then. This will demonstrate that there are still some secrets up your sleeve and keep it interesting.For example, if you always grab a coffee on your way to work, decide to go for a jog instead one day.
Or, if you always wait for your love interest to call you, surprise them with a phone call.
 Your love interest is attracted to you and perhaps you’ve taken your relationship to another level. Remember, you can be mysterious and still reciprocate feelings and interest. People tend to feel more attracted to those who they feel are attracted to them, so reciprocate their interest in you.For example, you can still be mysterious and bring your love interest flowers or send a simple text that says, “thinking of you.” Small gestures mean a lot, especially from a mysterious person.

