 Check with your doctor to ensure that the following supplements and tools are right for you as you would not want any adverse effects. Ask for a prescription for prenatal vitamins or ask your doctor to recommend a good over the counter brand. Have IUD or other birth control device removed (if applicable, in not continue to cycle day 1).;
, Go shopping for the items listed in "things you will need." Start taking all daily supplements immediately (except for Guaifenesin until further notice). Stop all use of caffeine, alcohol, tobacco and non-medically necessary drugs. Time to put away the hot tub, if you have one. It decreases fertility in men and they cannot be used by women during pregnancy anyway.
 Set an alarm and wake up the same time every day and take your temp. Do not move or get out of bed until the thermometer has registered the temp (make sure to get at least 3, but preferably 6 hours of sleep before taking BBT).
 Follow the directions on the packaging.
 (Note: shortly after your period it will be extremely dry or non-existent; more information about charting CM at http://infertility.about.com/od/tryingtoconceive101/a/cervicalmucus.htm)

, Continue to check your cervical mucus. When it is clear and stretches between your fingers (like egg white) it is your most fertile mucus. Be sure to have sex on the days you have EWCM (Egg White Cervical Mucus) as well as on the day you get a positive OPK. Start taking Guaifenesin (200 mg 3x per day), and start doing the horizontal hula (missionary or doggy style positions are best for depositing the sperm closest to the cervix). Avoid using lubricants or saliva as these can both inhibit or kill sperm (if you must use a lubricant try actual egg whites or PreSeed). Also avoid oral sex because of the same issues with saliva. If you can, make sure she orgasms during or after ejaculation, as there is some proof that a woman’s orgasm can help ferry the sperm along through the cervix. Do this daily during suspected fertile days for the first cycle. You should lie down with your hips elevated for at least 20 mins after sex. If conception does not occur during the first cycle try switching to sex every other day, but being careful to have sex on the day of EWCM and positive OPK.
 If the temperature has remained high there is a possibility that you are pregnant, if not there is still a possibility, but you should probably expect to see aunt Flo around her regularly scheduled visitation time.
 If there is no sign of her after your expected cycle days three or four, take a home pregnancy test and hope for the best.
 At end of menses continue steps starting at CD 5 and follow instructions through CD 28. Repeat for cycle 3.

