 Your insurance cost is directly related to the year, make and model of your car. Newer, more expensive cars result in higher premiums and extended coverage requirements. Older, used cars do the opposite. If you are in the market for a car, don’t forget to factor in insurance costs.Once you’ve had your car for a while don’t forget to report reduced mileage. The wear and tear on your car or your changed driving habits could result in big savings for you.
You might want to consider splitting one car between multiple drivers. This is an especially good option if you are trying to off-set the cost of adding a teen driver to your policy., Most car insurance companies will pull your credit report when generating a final premium quote. If you have good credit, then use it to bargain for a lower rate. If you have bad or no credit, then be prepared to pay more or shop around for an agency that doesn’t emphasize credit as much.If your credit has been negatively impacted by an event beyond your control, such as a family death, you can ask your insurer to grant an extraordinary life circumstances exemption. This reduces the negative impact of your credit report., You are deemed a clean risk if you’ve been without a recent accident or claim. Insurance companies will pull an official copy of your driving record and they will assess it for potential risks. The better (or luckier) driver that you are, the lower your premiums will be. , Once you get in contact with an agent, ask them to list out all of their discount programs that you may qualify for. You might be surprised at the sheer number of cost cutting options that are available. Some offer demographic discounts for students, retirees, teachers, or government/public service employees.Some companies offer specific programs geared toward reducing the cost of teenage drivers. Ask your teen to keep good grades, attend an additional driver-safety class, or take another safety test in order to see potential savings.You can also get a substantial multi-policy discount for insuring you home, multiple car, life insurance, etc. all with one company. Ask about this to see if it is worthwhile.
 You can generally either pay your premiums by the month or in six-month or yearly chunks. If you pay in full, expect to see some sort of discount. You may even save more by setting up an automatic pull from your bank account. Most agencies will also accept payment in other forms including over the phone or even in person.Ask your insurer about a pay-as-you-drive discount program. This is often a good deal with cars that will be driven less than 20,000 miles (32,000 km) in a single year. Premiums go up or down depending on your mileage., Certain states offer low-cost or free auto insurance coverage to people who are residents with a lower income. Check the government website for your state to determine if this is an option for you. These are essentially risk-pooling ventures where the additional insured off-set the total cost of insuring.This can also be a good option for drivers who are unable to secure other coverage due to a poor driving record.