 Once the file is open, check the status bar (located at the bottom of the page) for the language the file is set. But there are times that the file is set in US language where in fact the word consistency is in British spelling.;
, 


British spelling uses "-ise," "-isa-," and "-isi-" for some words although usage of "-ize," "-iza-,' and "-izi-" is acceptable if the author has been consistent in the entire manuscript. US convention strictly uses "-ize," "-iza-,' and "-izi-."

For example,characterise, characterization, and characterizing rather than characterize, characterization, and characterizing.


Usage of "-or" for US  versus "-our" for British spelling.

For example, colour, endeavour, and rigour instead of color, endeavor, and rigor.


When the past tense, gerund, etc is formed, the final single consonant is spelled double regardless of stress, for example,modelled, channelled, and labelled. While in US spelling, the final consonant is doubled only if the stress is in the final consonant, for example, preferred, occurring, etc."-t" or "-ed" endings for the past tense of the verb. In British, use both forms of spelling, that is, spelled or spelt, while in US, "-ed" is the preferred form, for example, spelled.Use of "-ce" versus "-se" for some nouns. British spelling uses "-ce" for nouns like defence, licence, and practice but "-se" for the verb forms of these nouns, that is, defense, license, and practise. US uses both forms for the same spelling, for example, practice (noun or verb) and license (noun or verb).The suffix "-wards" is common in British, while "-ward" is more common in US spelling (e.g., toward vs. towards).Use of "-re" for UK, for example, centre and metre, while meter and center for US.Use of "-ph-" for UK, that is, sulphur, while sulfur in US.Usage of "ae" for UK, that is, haematology, while US uses "e," that is, hematology.UK convention generally uses "oe" like in manoeuvre and oedema, but US uses "e" like edema and maneuver. UK also uses "-ogue," while US uses "-og" (analogue, analog).
There are other word spellings distinct only in British spelling, like artifact, grey, leucocyte, among others. Make sure to check the dictionary for the right spelling.After checking the word usage count it one by one.



US spelling uses serial comma. A serial comma is a comma placed at the last item of a series, although usage of serial comma or oxford comma in British is now acceptable as long as the author has been consistent. For example, in the series apples, oranges, and lemons.



UK uses single quotes for emphasizing texts or to separate the quoted text, although the usage of double quotes is acceptable if the author is consistent. Take not also the period and comma are placed right after the closing quotation mark.
US spelling uses double quotes as standard. Periods and commas are placed before the closing quotation mark instead.
 and "e.g." 


British spelling does not place or set off "i.e." and "e.g." in the sentence. The comma only comes before it, for example: I want to buy fruits, i.e. apples, oranges and lemons (note no comma is placed after "i.e." The same applies for "e.g." in UK), while in US, for example, I want to buy fruits, i.e., apples, oranges, and lemons.
But always set off that is and for example with pairing commas when used in the sentence.



There are times that you can decide clearly whether the author is using US or British spelling. Try to check the author's affiliation if he was born in the UK or USA or born in the UK but raised in USA.



Once you have determined that the author is not using serial commas, consistent in using double quotes, and the number of words has been spelled in British spelling, set the file in UK convention. Click the language portion of the status bar, and set it to the correct spelling convention.



If the file is now set in US/UK, edit the words according to its convention. Use serial commas for US, retain if consistent in UK. Change single to double quotes if US, but retain double quotes in UK if consistent.
Use a standard dictionary for your spelling. Merriam-Webster Dictionary is preferable for US, while Oxford Dictionary in UK.

