 Because the bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ) argument comes up as a defense after someone has already made an age discrimination claim, getting a lawyer's assistance is crucial. In practice, judges only accept this argument as a justification for discrimination in rare circumstances.Look for an employment law attorney who has extensive experience defending employers against discrimination claims.
You may want to ask other business owners, or check with small-business organizations in your area, to find recommendations for attorneys that would represent you well.
Depending on your business, it may be important to find an attorney who has at least a passing familiarity with the requirements and demands of employees in your industry.
Another way to find the specialist you need is to look up employment discrimination cases in your area – especially age discrimination cases – and see who the employer's attorney was.
 Essentially, arguing that age is a BFOQ means that people over a certain age, as a group, cannot perform the job, often because deterioration of strength or senses renders workers over a certain age significantly less safe.


This is a very narrow argument, and typically comes into play with mandatory retirement ages – although it stands to reason that if you had a mandatory retirement age, people over that age would also be excluded from apprenticeship programs.
For example, the courts have upheld mandatory retirement ages for commercial airline pilots.
You'll have the best chance of getting a judge, jury, or administrative official to see your point of view if the qualification relates to some danger or safety risk that impacts the general public.
This was the case with commercial airline pilots, where the airlines had substantial evidence that older pilots were significantly less safe than younger pilots.
 To convince a judge or jury of your argument, you typically must have significant independent research, such as scientific studies, that reinforce your argument and reach the same conclusion regarding age.This is not a situation where eyewitness accounts are going to be very beneficial to you. Generally, you'll support a universal limit by proving that it's necessary across the board, not that particular individuals pose a problem.
By the same token, preference isn't enough to support a BFOQ argument. For example, if your employees prefer to take people significantly younger than them as apprentices, or are uncomfortable with an apprentice who is older.
While you may think it obvious that apprentices should be young so that they can be trained for a long career, this is not a sufficient reason to discriminate against older applicants for apprenticeship programs.
 In advance of any claim by any employee or potential employee, if you believe that age is a BFOQ, include your reasoning anytime you advertise for new applicants to your apprenticeship program.Explaining exactly why the age limit is there will discourage potential applicants from seeing the age limit listed in the job advertisement as an instance of age discrimination.
You also should include all applicable EEOC language to the effect that you do not engage in discrimination. You can find this language on the EEOC website.
Keep in mind that in most cases you aren't going to be able to make a compelling BFOQ argument for setting a maximum age limit for your apprentice program. It shouldn't matter, since traditionally students and recent graduates will be applying for these jobs – most people aren't contemplating a career change in their 50s.
However, you can use other methods to attract younger apprentices, such as marketing your program through a local university or community college, or providing college credit as an incentive (much like internships).
When you use these methods, be careful that there isn't any language in your job advertisement that could be interpreted as indicating a preference for younger apprentices, or discouraging adults over 40 from applying.

