 According to the tax code, you actually can take money from your retirement plan provided that you use it for income. However, you will need to take equal (or nearly equal) periodic payments.If you want to tap an employer-sponsored retirement plan, like a 401(k), then you must have ended your employment before withdrawing. However, you can withdraw from an IRA even if you are still employed.Once you start payments, you must continue taking at least one payment a year for five years or until you reach age 59 ½, whichever is longer. After that point, you can then stop taking withdrawals.For example, if you are aged 50, then you would need to take substantially equal periodic payments until age 59 ½. If you started taking equal periodic payments at age 57, then you would need to continue until age 62.
 The key to this approach is that you calculate distributions over the course of your life and then begin taking substantially equal distributions. This is not a technique for taking periodic withdrawals of differing amounts. The IRS has approved three different options for calculating payments over your lifetime. You will need a tax advisor to help calculate:Required Minimum Distribution (RMD). This will result in the smallest withdrawals. Also, the amount you receive will fluctuate every year. Accordingly, you will need to calculate the amount of the withdrawal each year.
Fixed amortization. You will receive a larger amount than with RMD. The amount you receive each year is fixed. You will only need to calculate this amount once.
Fixed annuitization. This also results in a larger annual withdrawal. You will receive a fixed amount each year. You only need to calculate once.
 If you want to take equal periodic payments, then you will need to meet with a tax advisor to calculate how much you can take. Your advisor will provide calculations for RMD, fixed amortization, and fixed annuitization approaches.


You have a limited ability to change your equal periodic payments once they start. Accordingly, you should meet with a professional who can help you calculate how much to withdraw., You should contact your plan provider and ask for a distribution form. Fill out the form and keep a copy for your records.
 You can’t stop the payments until you hit age 59 ½ or have received them for five years. If you try to stop payments early, you will be hit with the 10% tax.

