 Whether it's the beginning of the year or in the middle, your locker should be clean.


At the beginning of the year, it's a good idea to wipe down your locker with cleaning wipes, as you never know what was there before you.
In the middle of the year, clean out everything, scrub down your locker, and, if needed, get rid of the smell of your gym clothes. Hanging car air fresheners on the hooks help a lot with any such smell.;
, Keep things such as: Pictures of your best friends forever, books, binders, shelves, papers, mirror, whiteboard, etc., Make a spot for your books, backpack, coat, etc. Keep it all very neat so that it looks more put together and so there is room for decor. Lockers aren't exactly walk-in closets, so try to keep it organized. Never have a cluttered locker.
 Remove any unnecessary items before proceeding to the next phase (personalizing).
 Make sure you put things back where they belong. Even if you're rushed, try to take the time to put things in their correct spot. It won't help when you get to class and realize in your haste you grabbed your social studies binder instead of science.
 Make them cute so it represents your personality. You'll need hand sanitizer and band-aids, but not a whole first aid kit. If it is necessary for you, bring a small makeup bag. Always have a compact mirror in your locker.
 A sticker or picture will be nice to have. A colorful whiteboard or corkboard would be nice. Try to find the magnetic mini photo frames for lockers. They are available at office depot or office max usually.
 Since most schools don't allow anything permanent or anything on the outside of the locker door, these decorative things are a must. They cling to glass and if you work with them lockers and leave no residue.
 They are fun and easy to make, and don't cost a lot of money.
 Put your own magnets on the back of a mirror or buy a locker mirror at a store and put that on your locker door. You can get these locker mirrors at many "big box" office supply stores.
 This is an easy way to keep track of tests and write yourself notes. You can survey the board after every class period.
 These can be some that you drew, some that remind you of something great, or a combination of the two.
 This could be something like: The 70's, chocolate, Skittles, sparkly things, sports, racing, favorite colors, and so on. Maybe even puppies! However, this step is optional, as just colors or neatness make a nice look too.

