 For this honey-based body wash, you will need 2/3 cup (150 milliliters) of unscented liquid Castile soap, ¼ cup (56.25 milliliters) of raw honey, 2 teaspoons of oil, and 50 – 60 drops of essential oil. You will also need a container with a tight-fitting lid, such as a bottle, mason jar, or even an old body wash bottle.


You can use any natural oil, such as: castor, coconut, grape seed, jojoba, extra light olive, sesame, sunflower, or sweet almond.
For additional benefits, add 1 teaspoon of Vitamin E oil. It will not only moisturize and nourish your skin, but also help extend the shelf-life of your body wash.;
, If your container has a small mouth, such as a bottle or old body wash bottle, then you can put a funnel over the mouth first. This will make it easier to pour everything in and prevent any spills from happening.
 You will need 2 teaspoons of a natural oil. The type of oil you use will depend on what you have available and your preference. Different types of oils, however, are more beneficial to certain skin types, so you could consider using an oil that would be the most helpful for your skin. Here are some suggestions:If you have dry skin, consider using extra moisturizing oils, such as: almond, argan, avocado, canola, extra light olive oil, jojoba, and safflower oil.
If you have oily skin, consider using a lighter oil in your body wash, such as: grape seed, sesame, and sunflower oil.
If you have sensitive skin, use a nourishing oil such as: avocado, coconut, and flaxseed oil.
 You can use any type of essential oil you'd like, but keep in mind that certain scents may contrast with the honey and base oil that you use. Other oils, such as peppermint, are very strong and may require smaller amounts. Here are some oils and combinations that you can use:Combine 45 drops of lavender essential oil and 15 drops of geranium for a fragrant, floral blend.
Lavender is a classical scent that works well for all skin types. It may also help reduce stress and anxiety.
Geranium has a floral scent. It is especially great of oily and mature skin.
Chamomile has a delicate scent that pairs well with honey. It is ideal for sensitive skin.
Rosemary pairs well with lavender. It is refreshing and effective on acne.
For a refreshing blend, consider using grapefruit, lemon, orange, or sweet orange., You will need to do this for a few minutes until everything is mixed together.
 You can leave the bottle or jar as it is, or you can make it extra special by embellishing it with labels, twine, and other decorations. You can even make a large batch of body wash, put it into smaller containers, and distribute it as party favors. Here are some ideas:


Print out a label and stick it on the bottle or jar.
Make a mason jar extra cute by tying a piece of twine or ribbon around the lid.
Decorate the bottle or jar with stick-on gemstones.
Decorate the cork or lid. You can paint a jar lid with acrylic paint. You can also decorate your lid or cork by hot gluing rhinestones and fancy buttons onto it.
 You will have to shake the container each time before you use it, as the ingredients will settle.

