 Assault rifles are among the most used weapons, not only in CoD Ghosts but throughout the CoD franchise. They are well-rounded, flexible, and best used in mid-range firefights. Most certainly, these weapons are easy to use and beginner-friendly, too. As per the in-game descriptions, the assault rifles are:


SC-2010. Fully automatic. Redesigned barrel provides longer range with reduced recoil for higher accuracy.
SA-805. Fully automatic. Next generation modular weapon that is strong and versatile overall. Good range and accuracy.
AK-12. Fully automatic. Increased damage with an improved design for less recoil. Good damage and range.
FAD. Fully automatic. Highest rate of fire in its class, with moderate recoil, and average damage and range.
Remington R5. Fully automatic. High damage output and range combined with a reduced fire rate for stability.
MSBS. Three-Round burst allows for high damage output. Fast rate of fire in full auto.
Honey Badger. Fully automatic. Integrated Silencer keeps your shots off the radar.
ARX-160. Fully automatic. High rate of fire, reduced recoil for the first 3 rounds, and a Laser Sight for increased hip-fire accuracy.;
, There are various ways to effectively use assault rifles. It just all depends on how you use your weapon.


Moving around with an assault rifle is the best way to go. Keep your ammo full, keep track of your enemies, and start the hunt!
It is best equipped with Speed, Handling, and Stealth perks. When properly mixed, you can have yourself a stealthy killing machine.
Use attachments to enhance your weapon’s effectivity. You can add Foregrip for additional stability while firing. You can also add a Muzzle Break for an increase to the maximum effective range.
Use your radar to keep track of enemies especially when a Sat Com is in effect. Flank enemies at the edge of the map. Sneak your way up to the enemy and avoid attracting attention.
Raid in groups. Enemies will panic if they are ambushed so take this opportunity to eliminate some of them while they are in disarray. Remember, assault rifles are deadly in spraying multiple enemies.
Of all the assault rifles available, Honey Badger seems to be the best option, mostly because of its built-in silencer and decent damage rate. It is always best to go under the radar when eliminating enemies.
 Marksman rifles are popular because their range is at the middle of an assault and sniper rifles’ range. They deal a great deal of damage while you shoot from a safe distance, and with high accuracy, too. As per the in-game descriptions, the marksman rifles are:


IA-2: Semi-automatic. Strong and versatile overall.
MK14 EBR. Semi-automatic. Moderate recoil, highest damage per round in class.
MR-28. Semi-automatic. A built-in Foregrip lowers recoil. Shorter range with highest rate of fire in its class.
SVU. Semi-automatic. Effective at long range with moderate recoil.
 Since marksman rifles cater to short and long range shooting, it is important to know how you can use these weapons to their full potential.


When using marksman rifles, it is best to use the Stalker perk. It drastically makes your movement faster while aiming.
As for attachments, equip your weapon with a Force Grip for firing stability, just like the assault rifle. Depending on your play style, you can also attach a Burst Fire on your weapon to shoot bullets faster in just a single burst. With Force Grip attached, you don’t need to worry about as much recoil.
Most veteran players do quick-scoping, mainly because it’s a fast and effective way of killing an enemy even before it gets the chance to do anything. The IA-2 pulls off this move efficiently.
Try mixing the run-and-gun and sniper play-style when using a marksman rifle. This will confuse your enemies trying to figure out your pattern of play. Your weapon can be fatal regardless of your distance so you have the benefit of changing your pace.
When reaching a high-tier Kill Streak reward, it is advisable for you to play it safe first and wait for your final prey. Avoid roaming around to lessen the chances of you getting killed and cutting-off your Kill Streak.
Of all the marksman rifles on the list, the MK14 EBR boasts the most overall favorable stats. It may not provide the best mobility, but it sure deals the greatest damage. It could kill an enemy with one bullet to the head in a long distance shot.
 If you are into long range combat, then sniper rifles are the weapons that you should use. These weapons pact the highest damage, accuracy, and range of all the rifle classes in CoD Ghosts. As per the in-game descriptions, the sniper rifles are:


USR. Bolt-action. Deadly from waist up with faster handling. Recoil Compensator reduces kick with each kill.
L115. Bolt-action. Deadly from the knee up through center mass. Recoil Compensator reduces kick with each kill.
Lynx. Semi-automatic. Lower mobility, deadly from the knee up through center mass.
VKS. Semi-automatic. Integrated Silencer with highest ammo capacity and rate of fire in its class.
 There are certain techniques for how to become a pro sniper. Snipers are mostly independent players who kill at their own pace in their own space. That being said, it is important to know how to prepare yourself for the sniper role.


Use the Variable Zoom and Chrome Barrel attachments to put your damage, accuracy, and range at maximum. These are the attachments that are well-suited for ultra-long-range sniping.
Use Motion Sensor to be warned of enemies approaching. Snipers are usually immobile in a hidden spot so it is vital for you to know what’s happening in your blind spot.
Equip a burst secondary weapon just in case an enemy sneaks up on you from behind or you are forced to engage in a closed combat situation. Using a sniper rifle at close range is a no-no most of the time, unless your weapon is capable of quick-scoping like a marksman rifle.
Equip the Stealth perks so that your location won’t be revealed easily even if you land a killing shot. You may appear on the radar but with Ghost or Off the Grid perks, you are virtually invisible to the enemies.
Move away from the rest of your team mates and then find a well-hidden spot to camp from. From there, you can observe and wait until an enemy comes through your crosshair. After a kill, consider changing location so that the enemies will have a hard time searching for you.
L115 seems to be the best sniper rifle when it comes to overall performance. It extends its fatal shots from the knee up, thus giving it higher instant kill rate among its class.

