 Before you can support a dog charity, you need to find one that deserves your support. Start with your local community. Most cities and states have a registry of nonprofits, where you can find legitimate dog charities. When looking at a charity, it's good to find out if it has 501(3)c status, meaning it's registered as a nonprofit with the federal government.


Try a site like Charity Navigator to see what it has to say about the charity you want to support. Sites like these evaluate charities. You can also check with the Better Business Bureau Giving Alliance.If you have a vet for your own pets, you could ask what charities they support.;
, A simple way to help your favorite dog charity is to make a one-time donation of a set amount. Charities run on donations, so anything you can offer will be a help. Their dogs will thank you for the help you provide.Set up a regular donation. Another way to donate to your favorite dog charity is to set up a regular monthly donation. You can treat it like a bill that comes out of your check each month. Some charities have ways to set this up, but you can also just include it in your bills and mail a check each month.
Most charities take donations in a variety of ways. Often, you can donate online or by check.
Keep in mind that a donation to a non-profit is tax deductible, meaning you can use it as a deduction on your taxes.
 One way to help a dog charity is to include it as part of your will. If you don't have much extra cash now, leaving a bit after you die can still help the charity. Talk to your lawyer about including it as a bequest in your will., Most charities run their own fundraisers to raise funds. You may not even need to donate to participate. For instance, some fundraisers, such as 5K charity races, give you the chance to ask other people to sponsor you to walk or run in the race. You'll need to ask your friends and family to support you and the charity.Another example may be a phone campaign, where you make phone calls to ask for donations, or a letter campaign, where you help put together mail-outs asking for donations.
If you don't know how to approach your friends and family, try this approach: "Hi, I'm walking in the Homes for Dogs 5K to raise money for the charity. They help rehouse over 250 dogs per year, but they need help to keep running. Would you like to sponsor me for the 5K? Every little bit helps."

