 Write it down on music sheets and start analysing.
 Whether four bars are repeated or one note is repeated once or twice in a bar, reduce to one example., So, if you see a sequence of C E G, this is reduced to simultaneous chord, with G as top note.,

One exception: at the end of the analysis, you should have a falling sequence which starts a fifth or a third, possibly an octave, above the ending tonic note. This sequence will have 1 or 3 notes leading on down (if starting third or fifth above tonic), or two parts, octave, dominant, tonic, with first part 8 to 5 having leading notes 7, 6, and second part 5 to 1 having leading notes 4, 3, 2. But as long as you are not ready to reduce to this, any note coming between a lower and a higher note or between a higher or a lower one is eliminated. Sometimes this will give you an harpeggio, which can then be further reduced, according to step 3.
 C D C > C. And C B C > C. Even C B D C and C D B C are reduced to C. This is done even if the note involves chords of its own. See the parts on chords and bass., This is not per se a step, but a description of how next step should look when finished. Bass should end on a note an octave lower than tonic of end note in top voice. Before that it should make a bass progression, parts of which may obviously be repeated in the full version of whatever you are analysing. The basic bass progression should go from tonic over another chord to dominant (C D G, C E G, C F G) and then not over another chord back from dominant to tonic (G C). Steps can be inverted so that dominant is lower than tonic. Transition can then be directly down only (C B A G), or down to D or F before going back up to a lower G (C A F G, C A F D G).,
Basic bass progression should on tonic and dominant not include inversions of chords, but an inverted chord is usually one that can be eliminated in this step.
The basic bass progression can be identified not just by how it looks, but also by how it fits with basic descent in top voice. If top voice descends E, D, C, the bass C that starts will fit with E, the dominant G will fit with D, the ending C will fit with the ending C. The note in bass leading up to G (D, E or F) will fit with one of E or D. The top E can even be prolonged (!) so that it corresponds to start of bass G. If top voice descends an octave, there are two bass progressions. If top voice descends a fifth, there is a choice with either one or two. The above also applies if the melody is in minor.
 When you feel confident about how it is done, then only go on to part two.,,,