 Identity issues are quite common for college students, of whom about 8% have identity problems. The psychological effects of these issues can lead to things like depression, anger, loneliness, and hopelessness. If you’re having trouble navigating who you are, consider seeking some professional guidance.College campuses nowadays almost always have counseling or mental health services. Find out what your college has on offer and call or visit in person to find out more.
Consider making an appointment to talk with a licensed counselor, social worker, or psychologist. Keep in mind that these services are always confidential.
Counseling services can help you deal directly with issues like sexual or gender identity, or help you come to terms with spiritual crises. They can also help you cope with related issues like depression and confusion.;
, Many students grow up in a religious or spiritual tradition and are exposed in college to new and challenging ideas for the first time. It’s not uncommon to struggle to reconcile these new ideas with your spiritual beliefs and, for some, this can contribute to an identity crisis. If you’re in such a position, it’s important not to feel alone and to voice your concerns.You might consider talking to someone in your faith like a rabbi, an imam, a minister, or a priest. People with religious training can help you understand how your faith answers big questions about the world, God, suffering, who we are as people, and how we ought to live.
Many colleges also have chaplains for spiritual and pastoral care. Be aware that these figures are often non-denominational and sometimes even completely secular – they are there to help both religious and non-religious students.You could also consider talking to someone from outside of your faith for a sort of “second opinion.” This may be a good idea if your identity crisis stems from something that your own faith doesn’t accept, like an aspect of sexuality or gender or other beliefs.
 Seek out help from your friends and other people that you trust on campus, as well, if you’re dealing with a crisis of identity. Let them know that you are struggling. They may not be able to solve the issue, but they can at least offer love and support.


Tell a trusted friend that you are feeling confused and uncertain about yourself: for instance, “I feel sort of lost and have started to question some things about myself.” Your friends can especially offer support if your crisis is accompanied by depression.
You may also be able to reach out to family members, like siblings, parents, grandparents, aunts, and uncles. Trusted adults like professors, older students, or Residence Assistants might be another option.
 It is normal to struggle with your identity during adolescence and even into adulthood, and the process can take a long time.Try to be patient and recognize that what you are experiencing is normal. Some good ways to cope with this challenging time include:


Learning how to tune into your emotions and self-soothe using relaxation techniques. For example, if you are feeling anxious, then you could do some deep breathing or progressive muscle relaxation.
Taking breaks as needed. If being at college becomes too stressful during an identity crisis, then making a weekend trip home may be a good way to help yourself feel better. Try arranging a trip home once per month to get some support and comfort from your friends and family at home.

