 Read the stories of your favorite superheroes, but also read the adventures of other superheroes, particularly those who cross into other genres, such as detective fiction (Batman, the Elongated Man), science fiction (Green Lantern, the Legion of Superheroes) and fantasy (Thor, Doctor Strange). The more superhero characters you're familiar with, the better you know what's already been done and what makes a good superhero.


Note the level of characterization superheroes exhibit in both their costumed and secret identities. The Silver Age Flash, Barry Allen, has endured not just because of the Scarlet Speedster's super-speed and vibration abilities, but because Barry Allen has been portrayed as a dedicated police scientist and respected man who makes friends easily, despite his reputation as a lazy slowpoke.
Pay attention to how the stories are told, as well. Many of the techniques in prose writing have made their way into comic book stories. For example, in a 1970s Flash story in which the hero learns that his wife, Iris, was actually sent to the present as an infant by her 30th century parents, the comic opens with Flash talking with Superman and telling him the story in flashback. As Superman had been sent to Earth as an infant by his Kryptonian parents, his presence in the story foreshadows what Flash and the reader learn within its pages.;
, Some of the major comics publishers, such as Marvel and DC, do not presently accept unsolicited submissions other than through special programs or with the assistance of an agent. Smaller, independent comic book publishers, such as Image or Dark Horse, are more likely to be looking for submissions than the major comic book companies, giving you a better chance to get your superhero published - and are also more likely not to want to buy the rights to your character. You can learn which publishers accept submissions by visiting their Web sites or from publications such as "Writer's Market," "Locus" or the "Science Fiction Chronicle."

, Just as when submitting to a prose market, you must follow the guidelines laid down by the publisher to whom you're submitting your superhero for publication, whether in comic book or prose format. While the specifics vary among publishers, most comic book publishers are looking for a 1- to 3-page story synopsis, a complete script for the first issue of the hero's adventures and sample artwork, accompanied by a cover letter.


Your submission should be addressed to a specific named editor at the company to which you're submitting your superhero, and your description of your superhero and comic book should be brief and descriptive without making comparisons to other published works. For more advice on preparing a submission and cover letter, see a recent copy of "Writer's Market."

