 To help you feel less afraid during your doctor’s visit, carry a comfort item. Look for an item that makes you feel secure and calm. Carrying it with you can help you feel less afraid.This could be a stress ball that you squeeze in your pocket or a small stuffed animal that you hold during the visit. Stuffed animals, such as teddy bears, can be a good comfort item for children who are afraid of the doctor.
 To help you feel more comfortable, you can ask the doctor to agree to pause if you start to feel frightened. You may ask them before the appointment begins to listen to you if you say "pause" and to give you time to get comfortable before they resume the check up.


For example, you may say to the doctor, "Would you mind pausing if I say pause at all during the appointment?" or "Can you agree to pause for a moment if I say pause?"

, Some people find it helpful to do stress-releasing tactics like deep breathing and meditation. You may do this in the waiting room before your appointment or before you get in your car to drive to the appointment. Deep breathing and meditation can help to calm you down and feel less fearful of your doctor’s visit.Deep breathing can be done by taking deep inhales and exhales from your diaphragm. Hold the inhales for four counts and then exhale for four counts. Repeat this several times until you feel calm.
 If you think it will help you feel less fearful, get the doctor to explain their actions as they are doing them. This can help you feel more secure and in control of the situation. Your doctor will narrate their actions, such as tests on certain parts of your body, to put you at ease.For example, if your doctor is about to test your blood pressure, they may say, “I am now going to test your blood pressure. Are you ready?”
If you think that the doctor's explanations will make you more anxious, you might ask your doctor to share only what is necessary for you as a patient to know. You can say, "It might actually make me feel better if you didn't explain the procedure to me. Just let me know what is important for me to understand about my health."

