 You don’t have to fight your hair loss. Though they have a certain stigma, there is nothing wrong with hiding your hair loss with a wig or hairpiece. And if that’s not for you, consider embracing your hair loss with a hairstyle that suits you.


Choose a wig or hairpiece if you have lost a substantial amount of hair and want the look of a full head of hair. While both can be expensive, they offer an instant fix and, with bonding glue, can be worn like your natural hair.
Embracing your hair loss will cost you nothing, will let you stop fighting nature, and as Michael Jordan and Jason Statham show, can make you look pretty cool, too. If you want to stand out in a crowd, ditch the hairpiece and wig and go with a clean, trimmed look, or simply shave it all off.
 Unlike a full wig, a hairpiece (or toupee) covers only the particular area where you are missing hair. A well-made hairpiece will blend in with your natural hair to create the look of a full head of hair. Most hairpieces cost between $500 and $1500, and if bonded with glue, can be used while swimming or showering.For the impatient, a hairpiece offers an instant fix.
They also require a lot of maintenance, so if that’s not your thing, consider another option.
 Just like hairpieces, wigs can be bonded to your scalp with glue or tape so that you can wear them swimming or in the shower. Synthetic wigs cost between $30 and $500, while those made with real hair range from $800 to over $3,000. A well-made, well-fitted should be indistinguishable from your real hair.Wigs require regular cleaning, and for long-term use, you will want to have your wig regularly cleaned and styled by a specialist hairdresser, especially if the wig is made from real hair. If you’re not interested in constant maintenance, pick another option.
 If you are not interested in trying to re-grow your hair or nothing has worked, and if transplants or wigs are too expensive or simply not your thing, then you can embrace your hair loss with the right hairstyle. Skip the dreaded comb-over and try one of these instead:Disheveled – If your hair is just starting to thin, cutting it in uneven layers and mussing it about will give you a shaggy look that hides your thinning hair. Just don’t try this for too long. Once patches start showing up in your shaggy look, it’s time to go short.
The Roger Sterling – Named after the dapper “Mad Men” executive, this hairstyle is for those with a receding hairline but plenty of hair on top. It combines a short haircut with a part and short sides blended in with the top.
The Caesar – Inspired by the Roman emperor, this style involves short hair, with the bangs cut on a horizontal fringe and styled forward to help conceal a receding hairline.
Buzz cut – The contrast between long hair in some places and no hair in others is not a good one, so if you've lost a lot of hair, the best option is to keep it short. A buzz works particularly well for receding hairlines or bald patches. Think Jason Statham or Andre Agassi.
Clean-shaven – It works for Michael Jordan and Patrick Stewart. It can work for you. This look shows that you have fully embraced your baldness and makes you stand out. It also offers easy maintenance.

