 You don't want or need to get too deep into the weeds, but you should have an understanding of core design rules before you take the leap into designing your own cover.You might want to look at lists of good and bad book covers to get an understanding of what the good ones do right and what the bad ones do wrong.
This can give you a good idea of basic design principles like balance and contrast without having to do too much studying.
You also may be able to find design tutorials and videos online that will demonstrate some good design ideas you can incorporate into your cover.
 Typically doing graphic design requires having some sort of graphic design application on your computer, as well as a basic understanding of how to use it. Many software manufacturers offer short term licenses for their products.Most software companies offer basic tutorials online that will teach you how to use the program for free. You also may be able to take a class offered by your local public library.
Many graphic design applications are now licensed under a "software as a service" type arrangement. This may benefit you as they'll save your work to the cloud. Some of these applications also offer access to premium design elements and stock images.
Check your licensing agreement carefully, as well as the terms and conditions of the software's use. Make sure you have the right to use the software for commercial purposes.
 You typically can find templates online that can make it easier for you to arrange and place elements on your design page. Be careful to make sure any fonts or design elements you use are licensed for commercial use.These issues also arise if you use an online service to design your cover for you. Some of these services only provide limited rights to various elements of their designs.
If you decide to use a template or online service, read the terms and conditions carefully so you understand what aspects of your book cover you own.
Keep in mind that if you use an online service to create your book cover, the cover itself often is owned by the service you used, not you – even if you logged onto the service and created it.
Often if you use an online service you must purchase an additional license to exploit your creation commercially.
 If you create your own book cover (other than by using a "cover creator" service), you have a separate copyright in that design, and it must be registered separately from the copyright for the book itself. You will have to provide deposit copies of the cover design and pay registration fees.Go to the U.S. Copyright Office's website to register online and save on postage as well as registration fees.
On your application, the date you use should be the date you created your cover, not the date your self-published book is being released to the public.
Once your registration is complete, your copyright will last for your life plus 70 years.

