 See how satisfied they were with the contractor. If you don't have any friends who had that type of work done, look in another location, like NeedTo.com, Yelp, the Yellow Pages, or even Craig's List;
, On social media sites, reviews come up when you search for a service. You can also check with the Better Business Bureau (BBB)in your area. See if there are any unresolved complaints with a given contractor. Choose one that has no record of complaints, or one where the complaint was resolved to the consumer's satisfaction. Be aware that a new contractor or one that changed his legal name to dodge complaints may not have any record of complaints with the BBB, so it is important to follow all of these steps.
 Be sure to give the job details the same way with each contractor so you won't be comparing "apples and oranges". Get a list of references, that is recently completed jobs the contractor has done that are similar to yours.
 The best bid is not always the lowest, as the quality of materials may differ. Examine the proposals carefully.
 See how satisfied the customers were with the job. If there were complaints about the job, or the contractor was unable to give any references, consider the "second best" bid instead.
, Make sure that the contractor has liability insurance and that his employees are covered by workman's compensation. Ask questions about anything you don't understand, and don't be shy about asking for changes to the contract. You are the customer.


Make sure the contract lists specifics of your job. List brand names of supplies, type and quantity of items to be installed, etc. Will your contractor do the painting after something is installed or subcontract with somebody else, or leave you to secure the painting?
Include cleanup and debris removal in the contract.
Note any follow-up or guarantees the contract provides.
 The insurance companies give these out on a regular basis. Do not be timid to ask for it. It is the only sure proof of insurance no matter what is written on the truck!

, If he/she will be digging, make sure he/she checks underground utilities.
 If you decide to give a cash deposit, be sure to get a receipt.


On many projects there is no need to give a deposit. In any case, do not let the payments get ahead of the job. Payment should be done on a completed basis: say the job is 25% done (the contract should describe what that is), then pay 25%, etc. The only exception is for customized material which a contractor cannot return.

