 The bags should be double-wrapped (that is, place one sealed bag inside another before disposal). The bags should be approved for use with asbestos waste., Fold the polyethylene sheeting you used to protect the walls and floor. Once it’s folded up to a manageable size, roll it tightly. Fold again if necessary. Stuff the sheeting into a waste bag, seal it, then bag it again just as you did with the rest of the asbestos-containing debris., Using a damp cloth, wipe the floor, wall, counter, and other surfaces that may have come in contact with asbestos fibers. Do not use a vacuum or broom to clean asbestos. Doing so will only cause the fibers to scatter.If you’re cleaning asbestos from a roof, do not wipe down the surface of the roof if it creates a slipping hazard., Use a damp cloth to wipe down any tools you may have used to access or remove asbestos. Don’t re-use cleanup rags. When you use a rag to wipe something down, discard it., Take off your disposable gloves and coverall and put them in the bin with the asbestos you cleaned. Wash or wipe down any reusable gear like rubber boots and plastic protective eyewear. Leave your respirator on until everything is wiped down or enclosed appropriately in disposal bags., In most areas, you cannot just throw your asbestos-contaminated materials out in a rubbish skip or curbside bin. Instead, find an asbestos disposal facility nearby. To locate an asbestos disposal facility, contact your local environmental agency and ask for the location of such a facility.


Alternately, use the internet to search for one in your area. Just enter a word string like “asbestos disposal facility ” to identify locations you might be able to drop your asbestos-contaminated materials off., Once you’ve located a facility in your vicinity, contact them and find out when and how you can drop the materials off. Ask the facility personnel about their requirements when dropping off asbestos-contaminated materials.Some facilities have special labeling requirements for your bags.
You might also need to submit a form describing the nature and origins of the asbestos-contaminated material before the drop-off facility accepts it.
Transport the asbestos-contaminated material to the facility in a covered truck to prevent the accidental spillage of asbestos into the air.

