 Read everything you can. Never stop learning about the market. You can even practice with virtual money before actually investing. Once you’ve begun investing, you will need to keep up with market developments and research in the industries in which you invest. Watch your company's’ competitors closely. This can feel like being in school all the time, so think twice about stock trading if you're not willing to keep a close eye on the market.


Read the company’s annual report as well as the one they file with the SEC. This will give you important information about where the company might be going, and hint at possible problems on the horizon.
Read reliable sources of investment information like Standard and Poor’s reports, the Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg or Forbes.
 You’ll want to take some time just watching the market and learning how it works. Watch as stocks rise and fall, and observe the sorts of things which evoke market reactions. When you feel like you understand how the market works, then you can get your feet wet.
 Fully investigate their finances and make sure that they’re what they should be. Look for problems. If there’s a hint of trouble, seriously reconsider.


You will need to look at their earnings, sales, debt, and equity. Sales, earnings, and equity should be going up over time. Debt should be going down.
You will also want to look at their price-earnings ratio, price-to-sales ratio, return-on- equity, earnings, and ratio of total debt to total assets. These will give you an even deeper feel for a company than just looking at earnings and debt.
 Safe investments are in those things which people need and will continue to need, things like oil, food, medicine, and certain technologies.
 The safer way to make money investing is to gain it slowly over time. Stocks which rise very quickly can fall just as quickly. Especially when you first start trading and you’re trying to understand the market, look for companies which have a long, stable history that shows no sign of faltering.

