 A warm oil wash, performed once a week, is great for overall hair health and getting straighter, smoother locks naturally. You want an oil that is warm to the touch, but not hot. To make an oil wash.


Heat some light non-sticky hair oil to lukewarm temperature. Try olive, avocado, or coconut oil for the best results.
Add a dollop of honey (the size of your fingertip for shoulder-length hair) and a little bit of glycerin in the oil.
Mix well and apply. Massage on both scalp and the entire length of your hair.
Wash your hair with a mild shampoo after 2 hours or so of the oil bath. You may want to wear a shower cap in the interim to prevent dripping., This works best for large curls or wavy hair. Get a handful of big hair clips (duck bill clips work best) and pin the hair back together. It will look silly, but letting your hair dry straight will slowly train those curls to relax. Pull as much behind your head as possible, using 3-5 clips to hold your locks straight each night after you shower., The following regimen will work for just about any curly hair type. However, you should know that the results will only last as long as your regiment does. Curly hair is going to naturally curl when left alone. But, if you don't leave it alone:


Shampoo and condition with a "smoothing" shampoo, found at most stores.
Blot your hair dry lightly.
Apply a small dollop of leave-in conditioner to the roots.
Detangle your hair by combing through with a wide-toothed comb.
Blow-dry your hair, brushing it lightly as you do, and aiming the heat away from your scalp.
Apply a heat-protection spray to protect your hair from the incoming heat.
Use a straightening iron to straighten out your curls., Regular heat treatment will straighten your hair, but that is because it is damaging it. Over time, you'll notice it may thin a bit, or become dry and straw-like. There is nothing wrong with this. Just know it is the trade-off for training coiled or curly hair.


Want to get your curls back? Simply start styling curls again. Cut out the heat, get a mousse or gel for curls, and use regular conditioner to get your hair back on track.