 Go to the software’s , and click the “Download” button for your computer.


K9 Web Protection works for both Windows and Mac.
 Go to the K9 Web Protection User License Form, fill it up with the necessary information. Once you’re done, click the “Request License” button.


The license will be sent to your email address. You will need it when you run the installation.
The user license is free for home use only.
 Execute the setup file and run the installation. When prompted, enter the user license that was sent to your email address. Click the “Next” button to proceed.
 For your protection and security, you need to create an administrator password for K9 Web Protection. This password is required whenever you will configure something with the software or if you need to uninstall it.


Type in your password in the fields provided, and click the “Next” button to continue.
Do not share this with anyone, especially your kids.
 Click the “Reboot” option from the last screen of the installation, then click “Finish.”


Your computer needs to be restarted in order for the software to complete its installation. Once your computer comes back on, K9 Web Protection should be running.
 Look for its shortcut on your desktop and run it. Your default web browser will open and bring you to K9 Web Protection’s administration page.


Click the Setup menu to start customizing it for your computer. You will be asked to enter your administrator password. Do so.
 The first item on the Setup menu is “Web Categories to Block.” Click on this, and you will be shown six different levels of blocking your web browsers. Click the option to be set for your computer.


By default, it’s set to the Default option, which protects against all adult content, security threats, illegal activity, sex-related sites, and online community sites. With this, you’re protected against porn.
 Click the “Logout” button on the top right corner of the admin page. You will be logged out, and your changes will take effect.


As long as K9 Web Protection is running, you’re safe from porn while you use the Internet on any web browser on your computer, including Google Chrome.

