 An important part of coping with hyperacusis is educating yourself about this condition so you are better able to deal with it and pursue treatment options. While it’s a good idea to also conduct your own research from reputable websites and publications and talk with medical professionals about hyperacusis, here are a few points to keep in mind:Hyperacusis is often described as having a reduced tolerance for everyday or ordinary sounds.
It is considered a rare condition, with an estimated 1 in 50,000 people experiencing hyperacusis.
The condition can occur suddenly or worsen over time.
Hyperacusis affects both children and adults.
Some people report that only one ear was initially affected, but most individuals experience hyperacusis in both ears.;
, The main symptom of hyperacusis is an increased and very painful sensitivity to noises that other people are not affected by. People with hyperacusis often find these types of noises excruciating and unbearable:Clanking silverware and dishes.
Barking dogs.
Automobile noises.
Alarms, sirens, and bells.
Loud music and musical instruments.
Machinery, electronic noises, equipment, and household appliances.
Screaming, whistling, laughter, clapping, and shouting.
People with hyperacusis also commonly suffer from tinnitus, or ringing, buzzing, humming, or beating in their ears.Because it can be so painful to interact with people and the outside world, individuals with this condition often experience anxiety and feelings of isolation, which can make it challenging to cope with hyperacusis., While there’s much we don’t know about hyperacusis, recognizing potential risk factors and common causes of this condition will help you better understand and cope. It can also be useful to know about potential causes and triggers so you are prepared when doctors ask you detailed questions about your case history. Here are some of the common conditions and risk factors associated with hyperacusis:Noise injury or acoustic trauma such as an airbag explosion, gunshot, fireworks, or other loud noise.
Head injury, neck injury, or whiplash.
Chronic ear infections.
Post-traumatic-stress disorder (PTSD).
Migraines.
Autoimmune disorders.
Autism.
Down’s syndrome.
Reaction to central nervous system surgeries or certain types of medications.
Lyme disease, a bacterial infection spread by tick bites.
Addison’s disease, a disease that affects the adrenal glands.
Meniere’s disease, a disorder of the inner ear.
 People suffering from hyperacusis often find the process of diagnosis and treatment frustrating because there is much we don’t know about this condition. It’s hard for doctors to determine what exactly caused the condition, and there is no single test to diagnose hyperacusis.There are other auditory conditions that can affect your hearing and have symptoms similar to hyperacusis or even in addition to hyperacusis. This is why it is important to work with medical professionals who will also be able to rule out, diagnose, or treat whatever conditions you might be experiencing., Since there’s a lot scientists and researchers don’t know about hyperacusis and much of the research on it is recent or ongoing, some doctors and medical professionals you deal with might be insensitive and dismissive about this condition.
 In spite of the challenges, it’s important to work with medical professionals if you believe you might be dealing with hyperacusis. To cope with this condition, you need to receive an accurate diagnosis and information about treatment plans.Since there is no single test to determine whether someone has hyperacusis, you might have to work with several different doctors and undergo numerous tests.
Usually, people with hyperacusis are first referred to an ear doctor or ENT who performs a thorough examination to rule out other potential causes.
A doctor of audiology or a hearing disorders specialist usually administers audiological assessments to evaluate whether someone might have hyperacusis. One of the most common tests is a LDL test or loudness discomfort level test, which compares your loudness discomfort level against the normal range for human ears.

