 Remove the blinds from their setting and take them down. The correct way to do this will vary depending on the type of blinds you have. It is necessary to take down fabric blinds in order to clean them because they will usually require more than a simple wipe down to clear away stains.Most of the time, blind settings and mountings will be fairly simple to figure out, but some types may be more complicated than others. If you’re uncertain how to remove your blinds, consult a professional.
Fabric blinds may need to be deep-cleaned more frequently than smoother varieties because their porous surfaces trap dirt and stains and don’t wipe clean as easily.
 Unfurl one-piece blinds and stretch them out. If you have fabric Venetian or “accordion”-style folding blinds, close or extend them but keep them from bunching or twisting to preserve their shape. Place the blinds on a broad, flat surface. Remove loose dust with a vacuum or dry duster.Use a vacuum with a brush head attachment to dust the blinds before cleaning them with soap and water.
 Fill the sink with warm water. Mix in a small amount of mild dish detergent. Soak a microfiber towel or washcloth in the soapy water and wring out the excess. Go over the spots on the blinds where dirt and grime have accumulated using a light blotting, wiping motion. Don’t scour the blinds, as this can harm the fabric.If the blinds you’re attempting to clean are brightly colored or made of a temperamental material, perform a color test by dabbing the fabric with the corner of a wet paper towel to see if the colors bleed before you clean them. If significant bleeding occurs, you may need to have them treated professionally.
Make sure the towel you’re using isn’t too wet when you begin wiping down the blinds. Too much moisture might oversaturate and damage the fabric., Lay out the damp blinds flat on the floor after cleaning them. Allow them to sit overnight or as long as it takes for them to dry completely. You may be able to speed up the drying process by leaving them in direct sunlight, turning placing them under a ceiling fan or keeping them sandwiched between two bath towels to help wick out the remaining water.Don’t wring out wet blinds by hand. This can cause the fabric to stretch or wrinkle.
Fabric blinds can be ironed to straight out wrinkles before you rehang them. When ironing folding blinds, take extra care to keep the creases even.

