 The first step to writing your documentary is to educate yourself about your subject as much as you can. Use books, online writings, and especially primary sources (which have the benefit of providing information directly from the people involved in the subject of your documentary) to become an expert on the people, places, and things your documentary is about. Knowing all about your subject makes it much easier to find a compelling "angle" for your documentary to take. In addition, having a good knowledge of your reference material will allow you to know what information you want to present in your documentary (and the sources you should attribute it to).


If you're unsure of where to start, try going to a local university and contacting a professor who's an expert in the subject of your documentary. Though they may not know everything you want to find out about your subject, they will usually be able to tell you where to look to find this information.
 In their own way, documentaries tell stories with characters, settings, and plots, just like narrative films. Your documentary should have a beginning, middle, and end that work together to convey some sort of logical message or "point" to the audience. In short, your audience should tell a "story" as directly and efficiently as possible. This requires deciding what order to present the information in your documentary to the audience.


For example, if you're making a documentary about the drug trade between the U.S. and Mexico, you might want to start by establishing a background for your documentary — discussing the creation of the U.S.'s War on Drugs policy, for instance, or showing the path a package of cocaine takes from South America through Central America and Mexico to the United States. You probably wouldn't want to start with an interview with a stuffy professor — just like a normal movie, a documentary should aim to hook the viewer off the bat.
 Though documentaries don't generally have scripts, they should be well-planned. Having a basic storyboard for the story you want to tell with your documentary can help you plan and schedule your shooting and give you a sense of purpose and direction. A storyboard can also help you visualize the sorts of shots you'll want to use for your documentary. Like an ordinary movie, documentaries can use visual storytelling techniques to make their point to the audience.


While a storyboard can be a great tool for a documentary filmmaker, it's worth noting that, for some documentaries, some of your footage may come from events that spontaneously occur in front of you. Be open to the possibility of shooting footage without a plan — surprise moments that are captured on camera can make a documentary.
 Like ordinary films, most documentaries need a schedule to ensure that shooting stays on-track and that all of the goals the filmmakers are aiming to achieve are met. Your schedule should incorporate any traveling you'll need to do to complete your filming as well as an outline of any important events you'll need to be present at.


Your schedule should also definitely include a timeline for any interviews you hope to conduct. You'll need to contact the people you want to interview as early as possible to have the best chance of getting their time, so plan the interviews out well in advance of when you plan to begin shooting.
 One part of a documentary that is scripted is any sort of narration in the movie. Voice-over narrators need a script that clearly and efficiently explains the information that the documentary can't convey visually. Even textual narration without a voice-over needs to scripted in advance so that your editor or animator will know what to include in the text.
 Some documentaries, especially those about historical figures or events, will include re-enactment segments featuring actors. If these re-enactments include any dialog, the actors will need scripts in advance so that they can practice their line delivery. If there isn't any dialog in your re-enactments, your actors will still need stage directions, which you'll need to write as well.
 Don't be afraid to cut anything that doesn't help your documentary prove its point as effectively as possible. If your audience is bored by your film, it will be less receptive to the message you're trying to convey and may "tune out". Keep your documentary as short, snappy, and to-the-point as possible. Anything you edit out can be included in your film's "deleted scenes" on the DVD release, so be picky about what to include and what not to include!


Note that documentaries don't necessarily have to be feature-length. With the internet, documentaries that are too short for a theatrical run can still be offered as streaming or downloadable video, ensuring your film still reaches an audience.

