 Once your college or graduate school applications are in, it can be hard to stay motivated to keep your grades up. However, you still need to make sure you graduate. If you stop doing your homework or attending class, you could fail.Failing a class often means you’ll need to attend summer school. And that’s the last way you want to have to spend your summer vacation.;
, A university may have already accepted you, but that’s based on the GPA they saw on your transcripts. Many universities include a clause in their acceptance letters that stipulates that you must keep your grades up as a condition of admission.If a school accepted you partly based on your performance on a sports team or in another extracurricular activity, you’ll need to stay active in that through the end of the year or season.
Even if you don't plan to go to a university right now, you may one day. Keep your grades up until the end of the year to ensure a good GPA on your transcript.
 This might be a difficult one, but it’s important. For many students, parents will be footing at least part of the bill for college. They’ve supported you until now, and will hopefully continue to be a source of support. One way to show your gratitude is to show dedication to your studies.You and your parents will likely disagree on how you should balance your time as a senior.
You can say something like, “I know that me keeping my grades up is important to you. It’s important to me, too. I am really grateful for how much you have supported me through my education. I’m definitely going to keep up with my studies until graduation, but I’m sure you’ll understand that I want to have a little bit of freedom and fun, too. This is the last year that I’ll be able to spend time with my friends all together.”

, The time between now and graduation may seem like forever, but it’s not. Keep your eye on the prize and remember that the year will be over before you know it. It might be surprising, but actually focusing on your work and deciding to care about it can make it more pleasurable and can make the time pass more quickly.Throw mini parties with your friends to mark each month or quarter that passes. You’re now that much closer to graduation day.
Think about it this way: you made it through three other years. This one has to end eventually, too.
 The people you surround yourself with have a big influence on how you spend your time. Make sure that the friends you spend the most time with are good influences on you. That way, you can support each other in staying on task.


Plan work parties with your friends, or make plans to go celebrate or relax once you've finished a big assignment.
Friends who aren't good influences can be fun, too. However, don't get sucked into their bad habits.

