 The antenna consists of a short wooden dowel, three metal washers, and a single wooden ball. Use hot glue to attach the wooden ball to the top of the dowel. Slide the three washers onto the dowel from the bottom, positioning them so that they start 2 inches (5 cm) below the wooden ball and end in the middle of the dowel.


The wooden dowel should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in diameter. Trim the dowel so that it is about 8 inches (20.3 cm) long






The center gap of your washers should also be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in diameter. The washers need to have a snug fit on the dowel. If necessary, however, you can hold them in place on the dowel by applying a small dot of glue to the underside of each washer.






The diameter of the wooden ball should be about 3/4 to 1 inch (1.9 to 2.5 cm).
 Use the dome-shaped plastic lid from a milkshake or other frozen drink.Find a small wooden circle that is large enough to fit over the top opening of the lid. Apply a ring of hot glue to the top opening of the lid, then press the wooden circle on top of that glue.
 Once the antenna and its base are both dry, apply hot glue to the bottom of the antenna rod. Stick this glue spot in the direct center of the wooden circle on top of your base.


Let the entire structure dry completely before moving onto the next step.
 Find gold or copper metallic spray paint.Coat the outside of the antenna structure, including both the base and the antenna itself.


You should spray paint the structure in a well-ventilated area. It's also a good idea to spread out plastic sheeting or newspaper below the structure to prevent spray paint from staining your work surface.






You do not need to paint the inside of the base.
Let the paint dry completely. This could take 12 to 24 hours, depending on the paint you use and the climate you are working in.
 Find a clear plastic container large enough to safely put over your head.Turn the container upside-down. Center the bottom of the antenna base over the center of the container and glue it in place.


A recycled container that once contained cheese puffs or cheese balls is usually a good choice. Regardless of the container type, however, you need to make sure that your head can fit inside and that the opening is very large. If the opening is too small, the helmet might get stuck on your head or may restrict your air too severely.
 Cut a length of metallic gold ribbon large enough to wrap around the container. Use a thin line of hot glue to adhere the ribbon to the container.


Place the ribbon 1 inch (2.5 cm) or less from the container's opening.
 Use sharp scissors or a knife to cut the tubing to this size.


Use black flex tubing with a diameter of 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so.
 Apply a generous line of hot glue around the mouth of the container. Press the tubing into this glue, winding the tubing around the mouth until the two ends meet.


Trim off any excess tubing.
 Once everything dries, the helmet should be ready to wear.

