 You will need one piece to cover the machine from front to back and two pieces to cover the sides.


The main piece needs to be as wide as the width of the sewing machine, plus an added 1 inch (2.5 cm) for a seam allowance. The piece also needs to equal an amount twice as long as the height of the sewing machine, plus the depth of the sewing machine, plus a 1 inch (2.5 cm) seam allowance (height + height + depth + 1 inch ).
Both side pieces need to be as tall as the height of the sewing machine and as wide as the depth of the sewing machine. Add 1 inch (2.5 cm) to both measurements for a seam allowance.
 Lay the large piece flat in front of you, right side up, with the long sides positioned on the top and bottom. Use a tape measure to find the exact center of both the top and bottom edges.


Mark the center with a straight pin, fabric pencil, or chalk.
 Place one of the shorter side pieces on the table, right side down, so that the shorter sides are on the top and bottom. Mark the center of the top edge, then line up this center with the top center mark of the large piece of fabric. Pin the pieces together.


You'll do essentially the same thing with the other side piece. Place the piece right side down on the table, but this time, mark the center of the bottom edge. Line this center mark up with the bottom center mark of the large piece of fabric and pin the two pieces together.
 Move the arrangement over to your sewing machine. Sew straight across the top edge of the top side piece with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance, joining it to the main body piece in the process.


Do not sew the entire top edge of the side piece. Instead, leave a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of fabric free on either side. This loose fabric will be used later when you sew the sides of the side piece to the sides of the body piece.
Repeat this process with the bottom side piece, sewing along the bottom edge with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance. Leave 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) on either side of this edge, as well.
 Use scissors to carefully cut a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) line into the main body piece, directly along the outside edges of your top side piece.


Repeat this step along the bottom edge of the body, positioning the cuts just outside of the bottom side piece.
 Fold the fabric so that the right side of the top side piece meets with the upper right edge of the main body piece. Pin the edges together, then stitch them together with a straight stitch on your sewing machine. Use a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance.


Repeat this with the bottom side piece. Fold the fabric so that the right side of the bottom side piece meets the lower right edge of the main body piece. Pin, then sew, the edges together with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance.
 Fold the fabric so that the left side of the top side piece meets with the upper left edge of your main body piece. Pin the two edges together, then sew them together using a straight stitch and a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance.


Repeat this step with the bottom side piece, as well. Fold the fabric so that the left side of the bottom left piece lines up with the lower left edge of the main body piece. Pin, then sew in place using a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance.
 At this point, the cover should be inside out; if not, then turn it inside out now. Fold the bottom edge up by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) all the way around the cover. Pin it in place, then stitch the hem down with your sewing machine.


When the hem is finished, turn the cover right side out.
 The cover should slide over the top of your sewing machine for a snug fit, but you should not have to struggle or squeeze it on.


The completion of this step marks the end of the project.

