 Wherever you live in the world, teach your kids your family’s traditions at a young age. There is something about Christmas time that is absolutely magical to children.br>

, You can do this by reading to them, telling them stories before bedtime, or watching Christmas movies with them. A great idea is to buy a book about all the Christmas traditions around the world. This will give your children an opportunity to learn about other cultures’ traditions.
 Explain who Santa is and how he is going to come visit your house. To really help your children's belief in Santa, help them leave cookies out for Santa on Christmas Eve. When they are asleep, eat the cookies, leaving some crumbs as evidence and drink the milk (if any was left out.) If your child leaves Santa a note, create a note from 'Santa' thanking your child or answering questions that he or she may have asked. Make sure you write the letter in a different handwriting than your normal one.


You can also leave carrots out for the flying reindeer. Have your kids leave carrots out for the reindeer and when they’re asleep, nibble on the carrots, leaving some gnawed pieces behind as evidence.
 Whip up a batch of sugar cookies or gingerbread cookies and have your children decorate them (heck, you can decorate them too!) Your kids will love making their cookies into colorful, delicious creations.
 Once you have put up the Christmas tree and wrapped it in lights, gather your family together to decorate it. If your children are very little, help them along by lifting them up. Assign them special ornaments that they get to put up on the tree.
 If this is part of your Christmas tradition, your children will love the anticipation of hanging their stockings by the fire and waiting for Santa. A cute idea is, when your children are asleep, to fill their stockings and then take them off the hearth and leave them at the foot of their bed. In the morning, ask them to bring their stockings into your room and you can all open your stocking gifts on your bed.

