 Once your LLC is created, you will have to file a registration each year and pay a fee of $50. The first one is due between January 1 and April 1 of the year following the creation of the LLC. The following registrations are due at the same time in subsequent years.You can pay these fees and register online at https://ecorp.sos.ga.gov/.
 The next step in the process is to apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service. This is required if your LLC has more than one member or if you plan to hire employees. If you are the sole owner of your LLC, you may also wish to obtain an EIN so that you can be taxed as a corporation, rather than as a sole proprietorship.EINs may be obtained for free by contacting the IRS by phone or by visiting their website here.
 Because Georgia LLCs are required to file income tax returns, they will have to register with the Georgia Department of Revenue. To register, you must complete the state tax registration application form CRF-002. You'll need the following information to do so:


Your Social Security Number or your LLC's EIN
Your LLC's address
Commencement dates for accounts
Contact information for managers of your LLC, Depending on the location of your LLC and your type of business, you may have to file for additional permits and licenses from the state and local governments.For example, a restaurant would need health and safety permits. Fees will also vary based upon what type of permits and licenses you need.To find out what licenses and permits you need, check out the Small Business Administration's guide here.
You can also contact your local Chamber of Commerce to find out about these requirements., You may also be required to have workers compensation insurance and general liability insurance, depending on your type of business. Contact your local Chamber of Commerce or the Small Business Administration to learn which types of insurance you are required to have. You can also consult with a lawyer in your area.