 By knowing your dog’s size, i.e., small, medium, or large, and weight, you can find a costume that fits your dog appropriately. Costumes that are too small can impair circulation and movement, and can cause your dog to overheat. On the other hand, costumes that are too big can cause your dog to stumble or become tangled.Try to avoid costumes with long capes. Your dog can trip or become tangled in the cape.
 Is your dog a protector or an explorer? Does your dog love to eat? Is your dog goofy or bossy? Pick a costume that reflects your dog’s personality. If your dog is a protector, dress it up as a police officer or comic book hero, like Batman or Superman.If your dog loves eating, dress it up as a hot dog or a pumpkin.
Dress your dog up as a pirate or a sailor if it loves to explore.
 Themes are fun, and allow you and your dog to enjoy Halloween together. Some common examples of themes are Batman and Robin, a hot dog and ketchup/mustard, Beauty and the Beast, Star Wars themed costumes, and other famous duos.
 You will need to buy a t-shirt (the size depends on the size of your dog), felt cloth, marker, glue, scissors, and any other materials you will need to make your desired costume. First, cut the sleeves off of the t-shirt. Then, draw and cut any patterns from the felt cloth. Finally, glue the patterns to the t-shirt to make your design.For example, if you decide to dress your dog up as a stegosaurus, you will need to buy a green t-shirt and brown felt cloth. Fit the t-shirt on your dog. Then take it off to cut the sleeves. Outline the stegosaurus' plates on the brown felt cloth, and cut them out. To complete the outfit, glue the plates on the back of the t-shirt.
Try to avoid gluing any small objects to the costume that your dog could choke on.
 Before the big night, it is important that you dress your dog in the costume multiple times. This way, you can see how your dog reacts to the costume, and if it fits properly. If your dog shows signs of pacing or excessive panting, paws or claws at the costume, or refuses to move, then the costume is causing undue stress on your dog.If the costume stresses out your dog, opt to accessorize your dog instead. For example, you can buy a matching leash and collar that reflects a particular theme, a head band, or a bow tie for your dog to wear.