 An kindness habit doesn’t mean that you have to go out and donate tons of money or give up your life to a cause. You can easily do many acts of kindness every day on a smaller scale. In many ways, this is a great way to spread kindness everywhere you go.For example, hold the door open for someone. Smile at a stranger. Pay the toll for someone behind you. Ask someone in customer service that you see often how they are doing. These small things can make a huge difference.;
, Appreciating someone for something they have done is an easy way to show kindness towards someone. This takes little planning or effort on your part. It just takes a bit of awareness to force the words out of your mouth.When someone does something for you, whether it is at work or in a business, you should say, “Thank you” or “I appreciate it.”

, An easy way to start building your habit of kindness is to smile at people. Smiling doesn’t require you to say anything or do much of anything. With some practice, smiling will become reflex. Practice smiling at everyone you pass, both strangers and familiar faces.If you don’t feel happy or cheerful one day, that’s okay. You can still smile to spread kindness despite your mood. In fact, it may help improve your mood, as studies show smiling — even forced or fake — can increase happiness., You can spread kindness by extending your help to someone doing a task, especially if it's something like a chore. You can ask if they need help or surprise them by completing the task as a surprise. This act of kindness can lessen responsibility and brighten someone’s day.For example, you may do the dishes or cook dinner for your spouse or roommate before they get home. You might offer to carry someone’s groceries, or perhaps you mow your neighbor’s lawn at the same time you do your own.
 Sometimes, kindness may mean going outside your comfort zone to be there for someone you care about. You may choose to be kind to a friend or family member by going out of your way to help them with a problem, to be with them during a difficult time, or to do something for them.For example, if your friend is sad, you might give up your evening plans to go be with them because they need your support. Or you might help a family member problem solve until you find a solution. Going the extra mile for loved ones is an act of kindness.
 You may also show kindness through physical touch. For example, you may hug someone, shake someone’s hand, pat someone on the back or shoulder, or hold someone’s hand when they are scared or upset. These small gestures can mean a lot to someone.Make sure to use caution with touch. Not everyone likes physical contact. Touching someone, especially hugging or holding their hand, may not be appropriate in every situation.
 Making the time to include people in your life is a way to be kind. Find time to meet friends for lunch or dinner, or go visit a family member you don’t see often. If someone comes to you a lot, go see them instead.Taking time out of your day to see someone is a large act of kindness that can be easily achieved.
 Respect is another way you can spread kindness. This means treating everyone the same and how you want to be treated. This should be regardless of people’s job title, ethnicity, culture, religion, sexuality, or socio-economic status.Treating everyone with respect and positivity no matter your differences is one of the best way to spread kindness.

