 Before you begin the adoption process, you should determine if you are really ready for a pet dog. Think about your current living conditions and ask a few questions. For example, is your living situation stable? And, are you ready to commit to a pet for the next 10-12 years? Do you have the time and energy for the daily needs of a dog?Try to plan your adoption for when you have free time to get your pet settled in. Avoid adopting a dog right before leaving on vacation.;
, Give some thought to the extra pet expenses and make sure they will not bust your budget. This includes dog food, treats, toys, bedding, training class, grooming, boarding and/or pet sitting, as well as unforeseen expenses like an occasional vet visit. Many people return pets to the shelter because they cannot afford the added expenses. Make sure you know the financial responsibilities ahead of time.On average, a new pet will cost you at least $1,000 in the first year and $500 each subsequent year you own it.
 Make sure that others in your home are on board, before you actually adopt. You may want to bring roommates, parents, children, spouses or partners with you to the shelter, so that they can be a part of this fun process. If you rent, be sure to contact your landlord about their policies. Aldo, if you already have a dog, bring them along to make sure that they are friendly with the new dog.Consider if anyone living with you is allergic to dogs.
 Once you have evaluated your resources and checked with the people in your life, you will want to think about what kind of dog you are looking for. Various breeds of dogs need different levels of care. For example, some dogs need more exercise and outdoor time than other breeds. Research the specifications of different breeds and determine a dog type that will work for you.Certain dogs, like pit bulls, may be prohibited in certain communities and may make it difficult to find homeowners insurance. If you are considering a pit bull, check with your shelter about any local laws before you buy your pet.
For example, a Basset Hound might be a bad choice if you intend for it to be your running partner.
 If you are new to owning a dog, you may want to try it out before you dive in. Consider dog-sitting for friends and family members or borrowing someone’s dog for a few days. This will give you a give idea of whether or not you are ready for the responsibilities of dog ownership.

