 These include butter, fast foods, fried foods, whipped coffee drinks, and candies.;
, These come from nuts, seeds, legumes (e.g., peanuts and soybeans), and fish, which provides a special kind of polyunsaturated fat called omega-3 fatty acids. Polyunsaturated fats provide essential fatty acids but are less healthful than monounsaturated fats due to their multiple double bonds.
, Reduce meat consumption. Meat is high in calories, lacks antioxidants and fiber, and contains saturated fat, animal protein, and cholesterol. Base meals around lean chicken and fish or use meat substitutes, made with soy or vegetable proteins. Include plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables with meals, which are low in calories (due to their water and fiber content) and abundant in antioxidants. Numerous studies show that eating fruits and vegetables is associated with lower body weight. For one hundred calories, you could eat an entire pound of vegetables. An entire cup of whole or sliced strawberries has only about fifty calories., Refining grains removes the antioxidants and fiber, which may help you to feel fuller. These include brown rice, barley, millet, and buckwheat. Check labels on breads and pastas. Some foods made with whole grains contain some refined grains as well. Try to select foods that are 100% whole grain.



Drink 100% fruit and vegetable juice. One 8-ounce cup of 100% fruit or vegetable juice contributes two servings of fruits or vegetables. Drinking 100% juice will help to avoid added sugars, which contribute calories with no antioxidants. You may have seen bottles of fruit juice or V8 beverages touting "40% less sugar" or "50% less sugar" or even greater sugar reduction. You may be tempted to try these beverages as part of your weight-loss plan, but it is not possible to remove natural fruit and vegetable sugars. See one complex approach being tested out by Chinese researchers. They are using cultures (like those in yogurt) to break down some of the sugars in juice, but they are not magically pulling the sugar out of the solution. If a company in America ever finds a way to do that, it will proudly put "100% juice" on the front of the label.
Beware of all fruit or vegetable juices that say "reduced sugar" or "less sugar." These either 1) contain added sugars, which have been reduced in this version of the product or 2) have been watered down to reduce the amount of sugar. However, you should choose juices that say "no sugar added"; these are 100% juice with only natural sugars. One example of the "low sugar," watered-down juices is Mott's for Tots. Mott's refers to it on its website as "prediluted" juices (such as apple) with "purified water."Mott's Vice President of Marketing said, "oms will appreciate the time saved mixing juice and water. With Mott's for Tots, we've added natural flavors to give kids the taste they love, and a boost of Vitamin C, an important nutrient for growing kids."Too often it is forgotten that it is the antioxidants in juices that are the real contribution, not the vitamin C.
Find the Nutrition Facts for any of these "low sugar" fruit juices, and above you will find the percentage of juice. Check any of these products, and you will see that these are watered down juices...sold at full price...to consumers acting in good faith to improve their health. There is no need to worry about natural sugars; these do not raise blood sugar levels any more quickly than other kinds of carbohydrates, including complex carbohydrates.
If you want fewer calories, choose the types of juices that naturally contain less sugar. A cup of strawberry juice contains just 71 Calories.A cup of watermelon juice has just 76 Calories.You can also increase the volume of food that you eat in a day by eating whole fruit (which also provides fiber, usually missing from juice). Vegetable juice provides a great deal of nutrition for very few calories. Many vegetable juices (including V8) have only about fifty calories per cup, fewer calories than skimmed milk (about eighty or ninety calories). Beware of V-Lite, a recently introduced "version" of V8 vegetable juice, which is 60% vegetable juice.,


Soymilk and soy yogurt are rich in legume antioxidants.
Almond milk is touted as being high in antioxidants, but few almonds are used to make it. For example, a serving of almonds (22 whole kernels) contains 20% DV of magnesium and 37% DV of manganese; a cup of almond milk contains only 4% DV of magnesium and 6% DV of manganese. A serving of almonds provides six grams of protein; a cup of almond milk provides only one gram.Almond milk contains seven grams of sugar, contributing about half of its calories.You can make a smoothie with fresh fruit, yogurt, and ice. It combines the goodness of fruit with the goodness of dairy, which includes a source of calcium. You can easily prepare a beautiful strawberry smoothie for just ninety calories.
Some water beverages (e.g., "acai-blueberry-pomegranate" and "sync" brands of Vitamin Water) contain extracted antioxidants and are available in very-low-calorie or zero-calorie versions (e.g., 10-calorie Vitamin Waters).
Drink tea or coffee, which are very rich sources of antioxidants and contain almost no calories naturally.
 They contain higher levels of antioxidants. These include dark green vegetables, blueberries, blackberries, purple grapes and cranberries., It is creamy white in color and can be bought from a farm. It is rich in antioxidants and adds flavor. You can also use fruit juice in tea in place of sugar for additional nutrients and antioxidants.

