 It’s important that you purchase all the required reading for your classes. Bring a copy of your reading-materials list to the school bookstore, and check off each subject you buy the books for one by one. When you are finished, double check to ensure you haven’t missed any.Your teacher will not provide any materials they’ve asked you to secure. It’s also unlikely you can “borrow” a book from the teacher, as you might have been able to in high school.
Consulting your syllabi, organize your schoolbooks at home in the chronological order you will need them. You’ll be ready to read your way through the year and won’t struggle to find a title when you need it.;
, While at the bookstore, purchase a calendar that extends many months out, so you can keep track of dorm events, exams, papers and thesis presentations. Choose a planner that’s easy to carry with you and has plenty of space to create notes.While digital planners are available, a paper planner enables you to see tasks for many months at a time at a glance. Many digital planners show a marker to indicate you have something a given day, but require you to click further to see relevant details. A paper planner, however analog, shows you all events and relevant notes easily.
Put important syllabi dates in your calendar before you start classes. You can hit the ground running and see what will be due right away, while everyone else is still getting oriented., Look over your syllabi and take stock of the basic school supplies you will need to complete the assignments listed, such as binders, pens, dividers, and notepaper. Make a list, checking off any you already own. Purchase any you don’t have from an office supply store, such as OfficeMax or Staples.


Color coding can help keep your materials for different subjects better organized. Simply assign a color to each subject and purchase a binder, notebook, etc. for that class in that color. It will make keeping track of your notes and materials easier if you always know where to look.
Get a sheet of stickers in each color as well. You can code handouts, too, so you know at a glance what subject they belong to.

