 Seeing the world is part of being a global citizen. You don’t have to travel far to learn about other parts of the world. You can drive to the next town, state, or even country, if you live in an area where it is possible to do so. The important thing is that you observe and interact with the land, people, and local culture., It is enough to teach others in your community, but it is also an option to teach abroad. You can volunteer to teach abroad, or be paid to teach in another country. There are many programs out there that you can apply to to teach in the destination of your choice. Some programs require a specific degree, but others do not.The JET Programme is an organization that sends teachers to Japan to teach English.
The TEFL program sends teachers to speak English in several countries.
 You can volunteer to teach, but there are plenty of other options to volunteer if teaching is not your thing. Volunteering is great way to help others while enriching your own knowledge of other cultures. You can volunteer to work on a farm, build schools in developing countries, or spread your religion to others.The WWOOF programs sends volunteers to work on organic farms all over the world.
Global Vision International is a program that has volunteer and internship opportunities all over the world in a range of programs, like animal care and education.
International Volunteer HQ has programs all over the world in childcare, medical care, etc.
Keep in mind that most volunteer programs require a fee.
 Traveling abroad can be expensive, but it is possible if you save your money over time and budget well. To spend less on travel, take low-cost airlines, buses, or trains. Avoid staying in expensive hotels. Instead, stay in an Airbnb apartment, or consider Couchsurfing, a website that offers a free place to stay. Shop at the local grocery store instead of eating out for every meal. You don’t have to travel extravagantly to get the most out of an experience abroad.Only stay in situations that you feel comfortable with. Connect through certified websites, and leave any situation that makes you feel uncomfortable.

