 Laminate them and make a chart. Create your binder or buy a working PECS binder.


For children with poor fine motor skills, use thicker paper and larger cards. These will be easier for them to handle, and harder for them to break.
Also consider the child's sight when choosing the size of the pictures and binders. For example, larger cards may benefit long-sighted children or those who struggle with focussing on small objects.;
, Pick a time when your child is cheerful and their needs are met. If they're fidgety, have them sit on an exercise ball, or give them their favorite stim toy to manipulate as they look at the cards. Equally if they are tired or not able to concentrate, come back to it at a later time.


Choose cards that correspond to their routine. For example, if they will eat a snack soon, choose a picture of the snack they will be eating. If it'll be playtime soon, choose a picture of a game or activity you know the child will want to engage with.
, The child may figure it out by themselves, or they may need a little help at first. If the child seems confused, here are ways to help them understand:


Explain it. A nonverbal child may understand words very well. For example: "These cards can help you show me what you're thinking. This way, you can tell me what you want."
Use the objects as props. Put the banana card on a banana, the doll card on the doll, et cetera. When the child reaches for the food they want, show them the card, and help them understand that the card corresponds to the object. Then give them the object.
Write a brief story in which a child needs something and uses the picture exchange to get it. Illustrate it with clip art and read it before bedtime.
 (This exchange shows that he or she wants that food, toy or to engage in that activity)


If the child taps the card, pick up the card and show it to them. This will encourage them to hand you the card in the future (since this will be a better way to get your attention).
 That is a small portion of the food, the object for a few minutes, or play a round of the game. This helps them understand that the card and the item correspond to each other.


For food, once they've eaten it, ask "More?" Try prompting them with the card again, so they will select it again if they want more.
Repeat the process with different cards, representing new choices and activities. This will help them "get the hang of it."

, Demonstrate how to take cards in and out of the binder, and show them where you keep it. This way, whenever they need something, they will go find the card and bring it to you.


Let them see you bringing out the binder when you are going to offer them something. It will encourage them to get the binder themselves.
Once they have mastered the basics, try adding cards that go beyond objects (e.g. "Daddy" or "Pain").
If you can't give them something, explain why. For example, if they pull out the "Sister" card, explain "She's still at school. She'll come home at 3:00, when you have your snack, and you can see her then." This helps them understand, and lets them know that you care what they have to say.

