 If you just spilled soda in your car, act immediately by diluting the stain. Pour cool water over the entire stain, wetting but not drenching the stain. Then blot it with a clean cloth.Adding water keeps the stain at the surface of the upholstery and prevents it from setting.
Blot the stain as opposed to rubbing it. Blotting encourages the stain to lift, whereas rubbing can force the stain deeper into the upholstery.
If the stain is old, still add water to the stain and blot briefly before turning to other methods. Just blotting alone won't eliminate an old stain, but it is still a good way of loosening the stain so that you can tackle it with other, more powerful methods.;
, Cleaning with baking soda is a highly effective method of removing many kinds of stains, including soda stains. Combine ¼ cup (59.15 ml) of baking soda with 1 cup (236.59 ml) of warm water and mix until you achieve a white paste., After you have mixed up the baking soda paste, use a toothbrush to apply it to the stain. Use gentle brushing motions to apply it to the entire stained area. Leave the paste on the stain for a half an hour. A toothbrush is a great tool to use because its bristles help to work the baking soda paste into the fabric. Leaving it to sit for a half an hour also helps the baking soda to penetrate the upholstery.
 After a half an hour, use a clean cloth to gently blot the stain. Use dabbing motions to lift up both the soda and the baking soda paste from the upholstery.
 The baking soda paste should have worked to lift up some or all of the soda stain. If the stain is still present, make another cleaning solution by mixing ¼ cup (1.23 ml) of vinegar, a few squirts of dish detergent, and about 3 tablespoons (44.37 ml) of warm water in a spray bottle., Use the spray bottle to spray the vinegar solution onto the stain. Both vinegar and dish detergent are powerful cleaning agents that help to lift stains. Vinegar is also quite effective for removing soda stains containing bright dyes, such as grape or orange soda., After you spray the stain, use a stiff-bristled brush, such as a nailbrush, to work the cleaning solution into the stain. You can use a toothbrush if you don’t have any other type of brush. After brushing, let the solution sit on the stain for 15 minutes.After 15 minutes, use a dry towel to gently dab at the stain. Dabbing should lift the stain as well as any excess moisture from the cleaning solution., If the baking soda and vinegar solutions didn’t fully remove the soda stain, you will have to try a more potent cleaning solution. Glass cleaner is a very powerful cleaner that is effective on upholstery and carpeting as well as on glass. To use glass cleaner, pour enough of it on the stain to completely cover it, then let it soak for about five minutes., This will remove the glass cleaner and soda. Your stain should be completely gone! Wet the cloth, then blot at the area you were treating to lift up any cleaning solution excess.