 High-quality sunglasses with polycarbonate lenses will likely set you back $70–140. This may seem like a steep price tag, but cheaper sunglasses will not provide the same level of eye- and skin-protection for your toddler. A higher-quality pair of sunglasses will contain optometry-grade lenses which will not distort the child’s vision, and will also offer increased durability.Be wary of cheap sunglasses (such as those at mall kiosks) that sell for $3-5 (or less). While these may have a sticker which reads “Blocks UV rays,” this claim is dubious unless it specifies a percentage of UV rays blocked.
The frames and lenses of lower-quality sunglasses will also be made from cheaper material, so your toddler will likely go through several pairs. Higher-quality glasses will have more durability and longevity.
 Since your toddler will be the one wearing the sunglasses, it’s logical to let him or her play a role in the selection process. Toddlers may be drawn to brightly colored frames, or a certain style of glasses that they find appealing. Urge your child to look in a nearby mirror and see how they look in the sunglasses. It’s important to respect your child’s opinion, as they’ll be more likely to wear sunglasses that they chose themselves.After you’ve purchased the sunglasses, remind your toddler that their glasses need to be worn every time the child is outside.
You can model this behavior yourself: wear a pair of sunglasses whenever you’re outside, and the toddler will be more likely to wear theirs.
 If your child wears glasses every day for their vision, you can consider purchasing a pair of prescription sunglasses. These will have the same prescription as the toddler’s regular glasses, and will help shield their eyes and decrease glare when outside. The prescription glasses will also offer UV protection, which regular eye glasses do not provide.Bear in mind that prescription sunglasses can be pricey. If you’re worried that your toddler may break the glasses immediately you could substitute a pair of regular sunglasses. This shouldn’t bother your toddler, as long as they do not already need a strong prescription to compensate for their vision.

