 During most trials, you will continue to see your primary care physician in addition to the medical visits during the study.Have your doctor do a physical or check-up to make sure that you have no new, hidden disorders. During this visit, tell your doctor that you plan to start volunteering for medical studies. The doctor may be recommend you to certain studies. They can also tell you, based on your medical history, what kind of study would be ideal for you. It is important to have this conversation with your primary healthcare physician.
 If you suffer from a particular medical condition, you may be able to find a study that will treat the problem with new techniques. If you are a healthy subject, you can volunteer as part of a control group. Find out what types of studies may be interested in participants with your profile. Look to your family history. If someone in your family has a disease and you don't, you still may prove valuable to researchers. Some common medical conditions that are studied include:


Alzheimer’s Disease
Cancer
High blood pressure
AIDS/HIV
Weight loss
Mental Health
Smoking
Heart conditions, Different types of trials require different levels of intervention. Some trials will require you to report to the research center frequently where others will simply ask you to submit a form with your medical information periodically. Understand how much work you are willing to put into the trial. There are two primary types of trials that researchers use to conduct research.



Clinical Trial: These are medical trials wherein researches put participants through a new drug regimen or medical procedure. Patients are carefully monitored for improvement in their condition and for side effects.

Observational Study: These are studies where researchers follow the daily lives of participants over a long period of time. These are often to determine environmental causes of disease, the impact of diet and exercise on health, or the long-term effects of particular medications., Each study has specific guidelines for the type of participant that they need. These guidelines may include age, gender, race, medical history, family medical history, and current medication usage.


Inclusion criteria are the specific qualities researchers want in a participant
Exclusion criteria are the specific qualities they do not want in a participant, Most of the time clinical trials offer some form of compensation and are paid for by the organization that is conducting the trial. However, some trials may require payment. Some insurance plans do not cover you if you are volunteering for medical trials. Others only cover trials that are deemed “medically necessary” or that fulfill certain rigorous scientific standards. You will have to have the trial approved by your insurance plan to make sure that any extra care costs are paid., If you are seeking to test a new medication or medical procedure, there will be many risks involved. The research team may identify some of these risks up front, although there will be some risks they cannot foresee. Read over the advertisement carefully, and see what they label as risks. Call them if possible to ask them about risks as well as potential benefits.


For example, if you are suffering from a rare condition, you may find a trial testing new experimental medication that can help you. While there may be many risks, you may find that the low cost of healthcare and the potential improvement of your health are worth the risk.
Medical trials must be approved and monitored by an institutional review board (IRB). The IRB ensures that you are informed of all risks and that your rights are protected during the trial. Clinical trials must inform you of their IRB status. If they are not IRB approved, you should not apply.