 Door problems are usually easier to identify than rotation problems. The door of the unit may close unevenly or it may not have sufficient clearance at the top, bottom, or sides of the cabinet.


If the door does not close completely, or if it closes unevenly, you'll need to adjust the doors until they are centered correctly within the frame.
When the top or bottom clearance is insufficient, you'll notice the gaps at both sides of the door will be unequal.
When the side clearance is insufficient, the door will appear crooked. Additionally, the gaps around it will but unequal.
 Open the door and locate the collar at the top of the unit. For many models, this part will be made of white plastic. Use a Phillips-head screwdriver to loosen the screw on this collar.Loosen the screw by one full counterclockwise rotation. Even loosened, the screw should remain in its position in the collar.
 Using both hands, carefully rotate the entire shelf unit and door in a counterclockwise direction. Continue until the collar hits the catch latch located at the back of the ceiling bracket.Turn the Lazy Susan slowly. Listen for a slight click. This is a signal that you've reached the catch latch.
Once you hit the catch latch, the collar should be properly aligned with the spring. You should feel a slight resistance to additional counterclockwise turning.
 Gradually rotate the door in a clockwise direction until it reaches the exact center-front. If possible, take a step back and check the alignment from a distance. Make sure the door is precisely in place before moving on.The plastic collar should remain fixed in place as you rotate the door, so it may be difficult to step away. Have a friend or family member help you evaluate the door position, in these cases.
If you accidentally rotate past the center-front position, continue rotating the door in a clockwise direction. Do not rotate it counterclockwise until after you finish setting it.
 Carefully and slowly rotate the entire assembly in a counterclockwise direction. Continue turning the assembly until the collar screw faces you. The door and collar should maintain their alignment as you turn the assembly.It may help you to maintain the position of the collar and door by marking their correct positions with a piece of painter’s tape, masking tape, or something similar.
 Tighten the collar screw back into its original position. The door should now be properly aligned and fixed into place. Give the Lazy Susan a few spins to check that everything works correctly, and your door adjustment is finished.To prevent the collar from twisting out of place while it’s fastened, you may need to hold it in place as the screw is tightened.

