 Get tested regularly for STIs (Sexually Transmitted Infections) or STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) if you are sexually active. The term STI and STD are interchangeable. The term STI is the more accurate medical term.There are many different types of STIs. Each STI has its own specific test. You’ll need to talk to your healthcare provider about which test is right for you. Get an STI test. In the United States, it is commonly recommended to get tested for syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and HIV if you are sexually active. Testing for STDs varies depending on what you are being tested for.Since tests are different depending on the STI, you will have to say the name of each STI that you would like to be tested for.
Get tested regularly if you are sexually active. New sex partners can cause new exposure to STIs. If you often have new sex partners, get tested every three to six months., Talking about sexually transmitted disease can make people uncomfortable. Observe your date’s mood and behavior. If they appear to be calm and receptive to your questions, it may be a good time bring up STIs. You should also be in a good mood and emotionally ready to talk. Avoid talking about STIs when you or your date are tired, in a rush, or otherwise distracted., Bring up the topic when you are in a quiet and private location. Make sure you have time to discuss details if necessary.Try saying, “I was tested for syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia and HIV six months ago. When was the last time you were tested?” It is important to know if and when your date has been tested. Frequent testing (every three to six months) is recommended if you often have new sexual partners.If you have an STI, be sure to talk to your date about it. Prepare to explain accurate information. Know the risks for your sexual partner and learn of ways to prevent the passing of infections.
 Regardless of whether you or your date have an STI, you may want to use barriers as an extra safety precaution. There are many physical barriers that can be used during oral, vaginal, or anal sex to avoid the passing of disease through bodily fluids.Common physical barriers include the male condom, the female condom, and dental dams. All are effective for preventing the spread of STIs.Decide on what method you are most comfortable using and check with your date.


Condoms are commonly used as barriers for oral, vaginal, and anal sex. They are fairly easy to use, safe, and effective when used properly. Use condoms every single time you have sex. You must use condoms (and other physical barriers) for the full duration of skin to skin contact. Do not wait to put a condom on after you have already started having sex, and do not remove a condom before you are finished having sex.Note that physical barriers do not always protect against the passing of STIs. Some STIs can be passed via contact with skin or saliva. Condoms, for example, do not fully cover areas which may be affected by and STI, and are, therefore, not 100% effective.