 If you are considering getting a hypoallergenic dog it is probably because you, or someone in your family, is allergic to dogs. When you are around dogs your eyes are watery or itchy, your nose runs, you sneeze a lot, or your skin even turns red and bumpy. In order to decide whether the allergy is severe enough to limit your dog choices, you should assess those allergies and make sure they are associated with dogs.Get allergy testing done by your physician. This testing usually consists of skin pricks and the application of small amounts of dog allergens. If you are allergic, your skin will react. This will tell you definitively whether or not you are allergic to dogs and whether you need to consider adopting only a hypoallergenic breed of dog.
 Hypoallergenic dogs are different from other dogs in that they produce less dander. No dog will be 100% hypoallergenic, meaning that it doesn't produce any allergens, but certain breeds have non-shedding coats that produce drastically less dander.Hypoallergenic breeds do not shed their coats. This means that dander, which is attached to pet hair, does not get released out into the environment as much as it would with a dog that sheds.
Hypoallergenic dogs do require a bit of work to maintain. Because they don't have shedding fur, they must be groomed routinely. Without grooming, a hypoallergenic dog's hair can get overgrown and matted.
 In order to so see if your allergies are so strong that they even emerge around a hypoallergenic dog, you should spend some time with one. If you know a friend who has one, ask to spend some time with their dog. You may even be able to contact a local dog club that focuses on a breed of hypoallergenic dogs and see if anyone will let you meet their dog.In order to really see if you are allergic to a hypoallergenic dog you will need to spend some time with them indoors. If you only hang out with one outside, you may not get the full impact they can give when in a contained space.
 Some people who are only slightly allergic to dogs can eventually adjust to any dog that they bring into their homes. However, if you are severely allergic or don't want to risk not adjusting to a dog you are allergic to, then you should likely get a hypoallergenic dog. However, it is your decision to weigh and decide on.If you are having a hard time deciding, try making a list of pros and cons. This list could include how the lack of allergens will help you, whether or not you like the looks and temperament of hypoallergenic dogs, whether you are willing to take anti-allergy medications indefinitely, and the potential cost of getting a specific breed of dog.

