 On the surface, each day of your life appears to consist of thousands of moments where different things happen.Yet if you look more deeply, is there not only one moment, ever? Is life ever not this moment? This one moment, now, is the only thing you can never escape from. The one constant factor in your life. No matter what happens. No matter how much your life changes. One thing is certain. Its always now. Since there is no escape from the now, why not welcome it, become friendly with it.


Regardless of the form of the present; doesn't matter how bad it looks, like some illness, disastrous life situation, torturous job etc. What is the problem with this moment? You are reading 'this' now. Your problems are no more than psychological burden of past and future. Read Know Your True Self to learn more.
 When you are one with life then everything around you becomes friendly because you are in alignment with it; so become one with the greater whole by allowing the flow of life within and with-out. That's when creative and intelligent action in response to your problems arise, from deep with in you.This action is in alignment with the totality of the universe. For example, if you have a torturous job, you might find yourself walking out of there or you might find yourself in a state of acceptance. Either way you would be at peace. Read Know Your True Self for more depth.
 The deeper you go into the now, the more and more thoughts and emotions will come as if they must be dealt with immediately. As for ego, present moment is the greatest enemy because it gets most of its food from past and future. As it thinks dwelling on past and future will somehow dissolve the pain, which is delusional and short-sighted. Plus, to ego mental noise is 'familiar', despite how dysfunctional it is. That's why it is often seen people stuck in dysfunctional relationships with no apparent intention of getting out. Its cause doesn't matter how dysfunctional it is, at least its familiar. This is one of the reasons ego dislikes or ignores the present moment because it adheres to the known, and unknown(the now), to ego, is dangerous.


The moment you missed the present moment, thoughts will take you over. So an intense alertness is needed. Use these thoughts as a cue to go deeper into the now. For example, when you catch yourself lost in thinking, become more aware of the present moment 'anchors' like your inner body, breathing, sense perceptions, etc.
Alternatively, you can be there as a witnessing presence in the background by letting the automatic thoughts(hypnotic voice in your head) and emotions come and go.Awareness also helps to gather evidence to see that most of our thinking is repetitive and futile. Read Stay Rooted in Being and Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) for more insight.
It's very efficient to keep a balance or combination of above practices, depending upon the degree of awareness in you at that moment. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
 Instead of escaping from the pain, go deeper into it and feel it fully. Its like when you take attention away from your emotions and thoughts, they continue to guide your behavior like hypnotic spells. Its cause there is no escape; the only way is through. So keep putting your attention on your deep negative emotions(pain body). Don't let it rise up and turn into thinking. Being aware of your breath at the same time helps a lot. Also, be aware that 'going deeper into your pain' doesn't become a mental concept. It is highly recommended to read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth., "Why am I getting these thoughts or emotions?", "Why am I not doing this?", "Why did I do that?". Futile conditioned reactions to reactions and so on. It's a dreadful dysfunction that most of humanity is suffering to a varying degrees. Plus, its so common that we think that its normal.

Just like you cannot fight the darkness, you cannot fight unconsciousness. So invite the light of presence to become aware of these unconscious or unobserved thoughts, patterns and emotions within you. Watching is enough. As when you are watching, naturally, a different dimension of consciousness emerges through you. Far more intelligent than human mind.
Surrender comes when you don't ask 'why is this happening to me'? Because you live in the totality of the universe where all events and forms are interconnected.Here's a pointer: "I am never upset for the reason I think" Course of miracles.

