 Some fish tolerate human presence more than others and some fish are not shy about coming close. Koi, Black Ghost Knife fish, and Goldfish are three very good examples of very sociable fish that live in harmony with humans that are very happy to get close, and will often take food from a human hand.;
, Whether it is going to be your own pond, your aquarium tank or even a local park, it is important to choose one place that you will always treat as your "feeding spot". The feeding spot should be free of sudden noises (such as splashing water), sudden movements (such as other humans walking by) and too much light/shade contrast.
 At first, just throw the fish food into the water and observe the fish as they eat. Make your presence obvious (that is, don't move away). The first fish to eat will be those that are bravest. Their determination to eat will encourage the less courageous to come along later. You may need to repeat this process of the fish just getting used to your presence several times.
 After a few tries with you standing close to the fish, start to stretch out your hand towards them. Leave it hovering above them for a short time as they feed, so that they can see it.
 One way to observe their familiarity with you is when you see the fish getting excited by your presence, as they have come to associate your being around with receiving food. Do this at the same time as your other attempts at getting the fish used to you, with the same food and in the same place as before.
 Release some of the food into the water and leave your hand outstretched with some food still in it. Wait for the boldest fish to come close. Again, this may take several attempts before the fish feel comfortable enough to share from your hand.
 If you want to continue feeding your fish by hand, practice it regularly so that they remain friendly towards you and are not scared by your hand. It remains important to keep a regular method so that the fish are not spooked; this is less a problem once koi are trained but might be a problem with smaller, more delicate fish.

