 Do this calmly and with good facts supporting your defense. You don't want to argue or ram things down their throats but you do want to make it clear that you've done the research and that you are serious about your choice. In particular, get the low-down on health and veganism - this is most likely to worry parents and cause them to react in less-than-helpful ways.;
, For example, if your parents are serving dinner and they ask you if you'd like some chicken, milk, or salmon in a "hint, hint" way, thereby ignoring that you have told them already about your choice, simply decline. Do not whine, argue or leave the table in a huff. In merely declining, there are no strings attached.
 There is a difference between defending yourself calmly and acting defensively and rising to bite at every morsel of teasing offered to you. If siblings make fun of you and tease you with meat and other non-vegan products, you have many options. You can ignore the jibes and eventually the fun will disappear for them. You could respond by explaining that it is just a personal choice; if you say this simply, end it there. If you want to bore them, go into great details in a sort of monologue that they will be anxious to escape from. Anything you do, the goal is to get them to stop and to begin respecting you. If you have supportive parents, ask them to assist you in calming teasing siblings. Overall, a family that has respect for each other should not find it difficult to be respectful in this situation.
 If people try to anger, irritate or tease you at school, work or elsewhere about your veganism, including taunting you by saying that meat, dairy, and fish tastes so good and that you don't know what you're missing out on, you can also choose to just ignore them or you can discuss the merits of being vegan with them. It also helps to have one or two famous vegans to quote as proof of healthy vegans, for example, Moby of music fame or Gwyneth Paltrow, the actress. Wikipedia has a list of famous vegans you can learn by heart. It also helps to find famous sports people who thrive on a vegan diet, such as tri-athlete Brendan Frazier or Ed Templeton, professional skateboarder.
 If you want to impress the omnivores, give them some delicious vegan food. Not only will it prove that vegan food's all right, it'll also help to build a shared sense of understanding and enjoyment. People rarely knock back a meal or snack that has been made with love, care and attention. And one of the age-old tricks of many a vegetarian and vegan is not to reveal the ingredients until after the compliments. That way, it's a little harder for the naysayers to take back their enjoyment! Always make good use of flavors, spices and herbs when cooking for non-converts as it is taste that you are seeking to convince about here.
 If they are teasing you because they feel personally threatened by your choice or because they really fear for your health, ask for one night of their time to talk through the issues of being vegan. Use reputable websites that have information about teens and vegan diets to assist you to present your information. Perhaps do this after the meal that you have made in the step just before. Some websites are listed below. There are also some excellent feature films, documentaries and videos that your family may be willing to watch with you to get a better understanding of some of the issues involved (for example, Forks Over Knives, Earthlings or the Intelligence Squared debate that recently took place in Australia, entitled "Should Meat Be Off the Menu?").

