 The best way to encourage a healthy tongue is to have a healthy mouth. Adopting good dental habits will protect your tongue as well as your gums and teeth. Make these skills a daily habit:


Brush your teeth twice a day. Use a soft or medium bristled toothbrush, and brush for at least two minutes at a time.You can also use an electric toothbrush, but always make sure you improve your brushing technique so you can maintain healthy gums.
Floss at least once a day. Use 18 inches of floss, and work the floss around each individual tooth.Rinse with water or mouthwash after flossing. If you suffer from dry mouth, use an alcohol free mouthwash.Rinse dentures after eating, and brush them at least once a day to reduce the amount of bacteria which may cause mouth ulcers or other mucosal irritation.If flossing is painful or difficult, you can use a water flosser instead, such as a waterpik. A flushes out the spaces between your teeth and around your gums with water. You can add mouthwash to the water used for the waterpik for increased protection against bacteria. They're just as effective, if not more, than traditional flossing.;
, When you brush your teeth as normal, you should also brush your tongue to remove bacteria that can cause tooth decay or bad breath. Using a brush with soft to medium bristles, move your toothbrush gently across the top surface of your tongue going from back to front.If brushing your tongue provokes your gag reflex, you can try leaning your head forward as you brush. You might also want to use a smaller toothbrush to minimize your discomfort.If you have a sore in your mouth, be careful as you brush. Avoid brushing the sore itself, and do not use a toothpaste containing sodium lauryl sulfate. Sores will normally go away on their own., Tongue scrapers are plastic tools sold in drug stores and pharmacies that remove the top coating of bacteria and plaque from your tongue. Use it once a day after you brush your teeth. Start in the back of your tongue, and gently pull the scraper forward. Rinse it off afterwards using tap water, mouthwash or even a saline solution.Avoid scraping your tongue if you have a mouth sore on your tongue. Wait until the sore heals before you scrape again.
 Your dentist can give your mouth a deep cleaning that will help prevent infections and bacterial growth. They can also diagnose infections and problems early. To keep your tongue healthy and clean, schedule a visit with your dentist at least once or twice a year.

