 Your team’s attorney will send you a Notice of Breach to inform you that you have broken some term in your player contract. The Notice should identify the contract terms you broke and how you broke them.Read this notice closely so that you understand what you have been accused of. Generally, you can breach a player’s contract in the following ways:


You engaged in dangerous off-field activities. Teams want to limit injuries off-field, so they will often prevent you from snowboarding, sky diving, riding a motorcycle, etc.You broke the law. Player contracts often have “catch-all” provisions that prohibit you from doing anything that would embarrass the team. This can include breaking the law or simply being arrested, for example for domestic violence.
You’re out of shape. Many contracts require that you keep yourself in peak physical condition throughout the season.
You didn’t play hard. Contracts also usually require that you play to the best of your abilities and skills and that you follow the coach’s instructions.;
, The contract is the most important piece of evidence. You should find your copy and read it. Make sure that the team is interpreting the contract’s terms fairly.


For example, you may be sued for breaching a vague provision about playing hard during a match. You may think that you played as hard as you could.
Look to see what evidence the team has in support of their claim that you didn’t play as hard as you could.
 You should get a lawyer’s advice about how to respond to the Notice of Breach. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you should hire one. Defending against this kind of lawsuit is very difficult, and you will need an expert’s advice. Ask other players if they would recommend their lawyer and then call to schedule a consultation.


At the consultation, you should show the lawyer your Notice of Breach and any other relevant documents that you have.Ask the lawyer about their fee structure.Most lawyers continue to bill their services hourly. However, you might be able to arrange a fixed fee agreement, where you pay the lawyer a lump sum for his or her help.
 You have the option of settling your contract dispute without going to court. The Notice of Breach should include what the team wants you to do to fix (“cure”) the breach.Read the Notice again to check what the team has proposed. You shouldn’t treat the team’s recommended cure as set in stone. Instead, it could be the opening offer in a negotiation process.


Your lawyer will handle negotiations. However, you should feel free to offer your advice. Talk to your lawyer before negotiations to decide what is the most you are willing to give up to settle the dispute. For example, you may be willing to cancel your contract but not pay the team money.
Your lawyer has an ethical obligation to inform you of any settlement offer before accepting it.If you don’t want to attend negotiation talks in person, then let your lawyer know where you can be reached to talk about potential settlement offers.
 If you can’t negotiate a settlement with the team, then you have a couple of options. You should talk these over with your lawyer to see which is best for you.


Do nothing. You can pretend as if nothing has happened. In this situation, the team will have to go ahead and sue you in court.Give the team what it wants. You can make the dispute go away by doing whatever it is the team wants. For example, they might want to cancel your contract. If you agree, then you and the team could both sign a “mutual rescission agreement.”

, If the team goes ahead and sues you, then it will file a “complaint” in court. This document will be similar to the Notice of Breach. It will explain to the judge how you broke your contract. It will also identify the remedy the team wants, such as for you to pay them money., You can defend against the breach of contract claim by showing how you actually did everything you were supposed to do. For example, you might be sued because you are out of shape. However, you could have been out of shape because you were sick.


In this situation, get evidence of your illness: doctor or hospital records, samples of medicines you were prescribed, etc.
 You formally answer the complaint by filing an “answer” in which you respond to every allegation raised in the complaint. If you fail to respond to an allegation, then the court will consider it admitted.


Your lawyer will also raise any “affirmative defenses” if they apply. One common affirmative defense is that the team waited too long to sue you. This is called violating the “statute of limitations.” If the team waited too long, you can get the case dismissed., It is pretty standard in a contract lawsuit for a defendant to raise counterclaims. Basically, you respond to the team’s lawsuit by turning around and suing them in response. Typically, you will argue that the team also breached your contract and actually owes you money.


In your counterclaim, your lawyer will explain the circumstances that led you to believe the team stopped performing its obligations. For example, the team might have stopped paying you.
 Once you have completed the answer, you need to file it with the court.Your lawyer should handle this. He or she will make several copies and file the original with the court clerk.


Ask for a copy of every document your lawyer files.
 You have to notify the team that you have responded to their lawsuit. You can do this by sending a copy of your answer to the team’s general counsel.Your lawyer should handle serving the answer.


Generally, your lawyer will hire a private process server to make hand delivery. Depending on where you are located, a process server costs $45-75 per service.Your lawyer will charge you for the costs.
 The defense you push at trial will depend on the circumstances of your dispute. Many standard contract defenses won’t apply. For example, you can’t claim you’re a minor or that the contract wasn’t in writing. However, you could raise other defenses:


You did fulfill the contract. The best defense is that there was no breach. You will need to present evidence to support your belief that you fulfilled the contract.
The team repudiated the contract. You can also claim that the team refused to perform its obligations, thus repudiating the contract. The repudiation can be expressed or implied by conduct. If the team signals that they won’t perform their obligations, then you are relieved from performing your own.The team waived some provision of the contract. A coach or member of the team’s administration might have told you that it was okay to do something. You could claim that this was a waiver that altered the contract. Waivers can be written or oral., Each lawsuit has a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” During discovery, you can get information from the team so that you will know what evidence will be presented at trial. For example, the team might have a witness who saw you snowboarding when your contract prohibits dangerous off-field activities. Your lawyer will uncover useful information by using the following discovery techniques:Requests for documents. Your lawyer can get a copy of any document that might be helpful to your case. For example, your lawyer could request any documents the team believes proves that you breached the contract. If the team has pictures of you engaging in dangerous activity, then your lawyer can get copies.

Interrogatories. These are written questions that the team has to answer under oath. You can get basic information using interrogatories, such as the name of anyone who has information about the lawsuit.

Requests for admission. These help narrow down the issues in dispute. Your lawyer sends the team a list of facts and asks the team to admit to them. The team will probably deny most of them. If the team forgets to respond, then the judge might consider those facts admitted.
 Another part of discovery is the taking of “depositions.” In a deposition, you will meet with the team’s lawyer, probably at the lawyer’s office, to answer questions under oath. The questions will be recorded by a court reporter or possibly videotaped. Anything you say during the deposition could be raised later at trial, so you should prepare extensively with your lawyer.Do a practice deposition. Your lawyer should have a good idea of what kinds of questions will be asked. For example, if you are sued for engaging in dangerous activity off the field, then the team’s lawyer will try to get you to admit to engaging in that activity. You should work with your lawyer about how to answer these questions.
You have to tell the truth in a deposition. If you don’t, you’ll commit perjury.
You should get a good night’s sleep before the deposition. They tend to drag on and people’s nerves can fray.
If at any time during the deposition you want to confer with your lawyer, then just speak up. Say, “I think I want to talk to my lawyer.”, After discovery ends, you could try to win the case without going to trial by filing a motion for summary judgment. With this motion, you state that a trial would be pointless since there are no meaningful (“material”) facts in dispute and that you are entitled to judgment on the law.The team will also probably file a motion for summary judgment, so your lawyer will have to respond to the team’s motion as well.
If either side wins its summary judgment motion, then there is no trial, though the loser could appeal that decision.
Most likely, neither side will win and the judge will schedule a trial date.
 You should prepare extensively for your trial testimony. You could lose your case depending on what you say at trial. For example, if you accidentally admit that you broke the contract, then you will likely lose the lawsuit. Remember the following tips when testifying:Listen to the question so that you understand it before answering. Ask the lawyer to clarify the question if you don’t understand it.
Don’t guess. Also be careful about providing estimates.
Think before answering. You should pause for several seconds and think about your answer.
Don’t look to your lawyer for help on cross-examination. Instead, sit up straight and make eye contact with the team’s lawyer. Face the jury when answering.
 You should trust your lawyer’s experience. He or she will find the most helpful witnesses and then present them to the jury. However, you should feel free to give your lawyer any advice that you have.


Bring a notepad and pen so that you can write down notes as you sit at the table during the trial.
 The judge will read the jury their instructions and then let them withdraw to deliberate.If you had a bench trial instead of a jury, then the judge should deliver the verdict after closing arguments.
 Talk with your lawyer about whether you should appeal. Appeals are heard by a higher court, usually made up of three judges, who check to see if the trial judge made any mistakes.For example, the judge might have let someone testify to gossip or second-hand information. In this situation, the appellate court can order a new trial.


Talk with your lawyer about whether an appeal is in your best interest. They can take a long time –over a year or more.
You need to make a decision quickly about whether to appeal. Usually, courts give you only 30 days or so to file your Notice of Appeal. After the trial, schedule a meeting with your lawyer where you can talk about what happened and what next steps to take.

