 The circle map in the right hand corner of your screen will give you a bird's eye view of what is happening around you.


Yellow dots are NPCs (non-player characters) or monsters.
Red dots are items on the ground. They could be anything from bones to things dropped from players & monsters. Many items, such as bowls and runes, have re-spawn places; meaning that if they are taken by someone, they come back at the same point after a certain amount of time.
White dots are players. The white square represents your own character, while white circles are other players in the game.
Green dots are players in your friend's list.;
, As a new player, you will be unfamiliar with your surroundings. That's what maps are for! Use the one you are given during the tutorial until you can easily find your way around. You'll be surprised at how helpful a good map can be!

, Just like the real world, money makes the RuneScape world go around. You can sell just about anything you catch or make to stores, other players, or at the Grand Exchange. A good way to practice is killing chickens in Lumbridge.
 The general store will buy just about anything, but if you try to sell a cooked chicken to "Bob's Brilliant Axes", you'll be out of luck. If you get an item a specialty shop will buy, you might be able to get a better price for it there than at the general store.
 You can sell or trade items to other players in the game, but always be sure you do not get ripped off. A good way to check is to swiftly double check the official RuneScape Grand Exchange webpage, located through here. Know that prices do change every day, especially on items that are in demand. You may also find that for certain items, higher-level players will pay even more than the normal prices. It's definitely worth looking out for opportunities like this.
 The more skilled you are at a craft, the more money you can make by selling the things you create by cooking, crafting, mining, or other skills.
 North of Varrock is the wilderness, where players can attack the other. If you're new, some players might lure you into the wilderness so they can attack you. Don't go unless you are prepared and it's good advice to leave any equipment that you don't want to lose in the bank.
 Death occurs when a player loses all of their life points. Respawn points are typically Lumbridge, Edgeville, or other cities if you have completed quests. At any time, a player can choose up to 3 items that they are carrying at the moment to keep with them after they respawn. All other items, worn or in the inventory, will be dropped on the ground and can be available to any player that is present.
 If you do not need something you have, bank it. It's wise to keep majority or all of your money in your bank if you are not buying or selling items.

