 Sleep deprivation is a common source of stress, and can result in short tempers and overly-emotional responses to everyday situations. Taking care of yourself involves getting plenty of rest. If you're not getting enough sleep, it will be harder to change patterns of overreaction.Avoid caffeine if it interferes with your sleep. Caffeine is found in sodas, coffee, teas, and other beverages. If you're drinking a beverage, make sure it doesn't contain caffeine.
Feeling tired increases your stress level, and may cause you to think irrationally.
If you can't alter your sleep schedule, try to include rest and relaxation times as a part of your daily schedule. Short naps may help.
 If you're hungry, you're more likely to overreact. Include healthy, regular meals throughout your day. Make sure to eat a healthy breakfast with lots of protein and avoid hidden sugars in breakfast foods.Avoid junk foods, sugary foods or other foods that may result in rapid elevation of blood sugar. Sugary snacks contribute to stress.
 Exercise helps emotional regulation, and brings about a more positive mood. 30 minutes of moderate exercise at least 5 times per week has been shown to have benefits for mood regulation.Aerobic exercises, such as swimming, walking, running or cycling, use the lungs and heart. Include aerobic exercises as part of your workout routine no matter what other exercises you choose to include. If you can't spare 30 minutes per day, start with a shorter time period. Even 10-15 minutes will bring improvement.Strength training, such as weight lifting or resistance training, helps strengthen bones as well as muscles.
Flexibility exercises, such as stretching and yoga, help prevent injury. Yoga helps address anxiety and stress, and is highly recommended for those trying to avoid overreacting.
 When someone isn't aware of their feelings until they're already overreacting, it can be difficult to change. The trick is to become aware of your emotions before they're too big. Learn to identify within yourself the precursors to being overly reactive.Signs may be physical, such as a stiff neck or rapid heartbeat.
Naming the feeling means that you're able to employ both sides of your brain in developing coping strategies.
The more aware you become of your own internal reactions, the less likely you will be to become overwhelmed by them.

