 For many teachers, the mark of a good student isn’t being the smartest person in the class, but being the one who is willing to put in effort. Pay attention to your teacher, takes notes in class, and don’t be afraid to raise your hand and answer questions.If you are having a hard time keeping up with your teacher while taking notes, ask after class if you can have a copy of their lecture notes or the lecture presentation.
Don’t worry about copying notes down exactly as your teacher says them. Instead, take notes that make sense to you. This may mean copying full sentences, getting down key words, dates, and formulas, or even drawing or doodling.
If there is something you didn’t understand from class, ask your teacher if you can meet with them during lunch or after class to get clarification.;
, Your teachers are people, too, and they deserve the same courtesy you would show anyone else. Maintain good manners in the classroom by making eye contact when your teacher speaks directly to you, saying please and thank you, asking to be excused, and following the classroom code of conduct.Pay attention to the way your teacher asks you to address them. Some may prefer Mr. or Ms., while others might choose to go by a title like Dr. if they have earned a PhD.
Take a close look at your classroom’s code of conduct, which should be outlined in your course syllabus. Follow it as closely as you can. Do not, for example, ask for your teacher’s permission to leave the class if they state in there that they prefer you simply go and not interrupt the class.
 When there is something you do not understand or want to clarify, don’t be afraid to ask questions. Try to avoid asking facts that you can find in your book, such as dates or formulas, but do speak up if you want to further review class concepts, such as why that date was significant or how to use that formula.Never be afraid to ask because you think your question isn’t intelligent or valuable. Chances are, if you don’t understand, there is someone else in the class that wants clarification, too.
Asking questions relevant to the lesson material shows your teacher you are actually listening and trying to engage with the class materials.
 Be active in class discussions. If your teacher asks a question and you know the answer, raise your hand. If you do not agree with what someone, even your teacher, says, do not be afraid to explain your reasoning, but do so politely and respectfully.Participate in class, but do not do so to the detriment of your classmates. Avoid shouting out answers or speaking up every time the teacher addresses the class. Allow your peers the opportunity to speak, too.
Don’t just answer questions. Be willing to volunteer for demonstrations and for class activities, as well.
Ask your teacher if they need any assistance running errands for the class or department. This may include making copies before or after class, or helping your teacher get supplies from other classrooms.

