 Before you give birth, you need to decide who you want to help you with the delivery. You can choose a physician that specializes in births, called an obstetrician, a family medicine doctor, or you can choose a midwife. All are professionals who have experience with childbirth. Make sure you choose an obstetrician, physician, or midwife who is comfortable with natural childbirth and who will listen to your wishes.


Set up interviews to talk to of few of each to determine who seems like your best choice. Ask about his or her experience, by whom he or she is certified, and what he or she would do under emergency circumstances.
Midwives often have professional relationships with hospitals and with obstetricians, so the majority of them are safe and will have your best interest in mind. If a midwife decides that either you or your baby would be better served in a hospital setting, she will let you know. If you are looking for a midwife, try the online database run by the American College of Nurse-Midwives.;
, You also need to find a birth coach. Often times this will be your partner, husband, or wife, but it can be a friend or relative such as your mom or your sister. Make sure whomever you choose makes you comfortable and will be able to support you during the hard road to childbirth.


You may also want to make sure the birthing coach has the same views about your natural child birth as possible., In addition to a birthing coach, or instead of, look into finding a doula, a labor and delivery coach that will stay with you before, during, and directly after the delivery. To find the right doula for you, ask your obstetrician, midwife, local birthing center representatives, friends, family, or other expectant mothers for recommendations. Once you find a few recommendations, meet with each of the doulas, see if she or he meets your criteria for a labor coach, and make sure you get along.


You can also find a doula through an international search on the DONA International website, the oldest association of doulas in the world., To understand more about what will happen during natural childbirth, do some research. Talk to new moms, check out pregnancy support groups, and talk to birthing educators. This will help quiet your fears and give you vital resources to turn to when you have questions about your delivery as it approaches.


The people you talk to may also have recommendations of good doctors or midwives who are experienced in natural childbirth.