 A common question that some companies may ask is, "What do you know about us?"Take a look at the company website, and look at related news on the company. Having an understanding of things like what they do, their company culture, their values, and competitive advantages will enable you to cater your responses to fit what they are looking for.


Being specific about the company will show the interviewer that you did your research and are serious about the job.
Find things about the company that align with your personal interests. For instance, if you're interested in sustainability, see if the company you're applying to has a sustainability initiative and read about it.
You don't need to memorize things like when the company was founded or specific details that don't go towards your position. While having this knowledge may impress an employer, concentrating on memorizing this information will give you less time to prepare for more critical aspects of the interview.
 Preparation will allow you to have a good idea of how to respond to the most commonly asked interview questions. Not preparing could increase your anxiety on the interview and cause your answers to be confusing and not concise. Record your answers by writing them down or typing them out in a word processor.


The most common interview questions include, "Why do you want the job?" "What are your strengths and weaknesses?" and "Can you complete the tasks and duties of the job?"Other questions may include, "Tell me about your past experience," "What is your biggest accomplishment?" "Are you a team player?" "Why should I hire you?" and "Why are you the best person for this position?", Don't memorize answers verbatim; instead, get the general idea from the answers that you've recorded. Allow your answers to flow naturally by practicing with someone beforehand. Try to work on your tone by staying positive and matter-of-fact. Raising your pitch at the end of a sentence could show a lack of confidence, while a very low or monotone pitch may make you seem uninterested.


Eliminate the amount you say "uh," "um," and "like."If you forget an answer to a question, refer back to your answers. Keep in mind that you won't be able to use your notes for an in-person interview.
Ask whoever is helping you practice to provide feedback after the faux interview.
 Typically an employer will ask you if you have any questions for them at the end of the interview. Take this opportunity to ask questions about your job or the operations at the company. Get specific and try to incorporate things that were explained during the interview. Not asking any questions shows a lack of interest and could hurt your chances of getting the job.You could ask a question like, "So you said that I'd be writing headlines for new articles. Do you know what industry I'd be writing about?"
Avoid asking questions about benefits packages or salaries before an official offer is made or the employer specifically asks you for salary requirements.
 Employers will want to see that you're put together and organized. Your dress and appearance will be the first impression that you give to a prospective employer, and could influence their decision when hiring you. Always dress up and try to wear your best clothes even if the position is not in an office setting.


Avoid loud and flashy colors and any clothing that has text.
When in doubt, always dress more conservatively., Reading the job application or listing will refresh your memory. It's essentially what the employer is looking for and contains the essential skills and experience that you should have. Reading it again will also give you the opportunity to spot details about the job that you may have missed when you applied initially.

