 This will bring up a list of browser extensions — also called “add-ons” — from which you may choose. For more specific search results, include the name of your specific browser in your search.


For example, if you use Safari, type “YouTube to MP3 browser extension Safari” into your search engine.
 You will likely have a lot of extensions to choose from — many of them will be free. Extensions may vary in ease of use, MP3 quality, and the level of privacy (i.e. lack of spyware) they provide. To ensure that you’re choosing a high-quality and reputable extension, search its name plus “reviews” to see what other users have said about it.


Ultimately you’ll want something that will not slow down your browser too much, and that won’t place any malware or unwanted software on your computer.
Signs that you’ve downloaded malware include pop-up ads and spam; your home page changing to a site you don’t recognize; and being redirected to unfamiliar pages., Many browser extensions have multiple versions to suit different browsers. Ensure that you download the correct extension for your browser — this includes ensuring that your browser version is compatible with the extension.


The process for checking your browser version will differ depending on which operating system (i.e. Windows, Mac or Linux) and which browser you're using. If you are unsure of how to check your browser version, type “how to check <browser name> version <operating system name>” into your search engine.For example, with Safari on a Mac, you would ensure that you have a browser window open, then click on the word “Safari” in the upper left corner of your desktop, next to the apple icon. This would open a drop-down menu, and you would choose the first option, “About Safari,” from the menu, which would then open a small pop-up window with the browser details — including the version number.
 Clicking “download” on the extension page will start the installation process. Specific extensions will have slightly different installation processes, so just follow the installation wizard.


You may need to restart your browser once you’ve finished installing the extension, so ensure that you’ve bookmarked or otherwise noted any webpages you have open that you would like to return to.
 The plugin should now show up somewhere around the video — it will likely appear above or below the video, but some extensions also appear in the upper right-hand corner of the video.


If you have any difficulty finding the extension, go to the extension site (from which you downloaded the extension) and read the instructions/look at screenshots to see where the extension buttons should show up on your YouTube video page.
 Click on the extension button to convert the video to MP3. This will download an MP3 file from the video on to your computer.
 Unless you’ve specified otherwise, the extension will likely download the MP3 file into your computer’s “Downloads” folder, but this isn’t always the case.


If you’re unsure of where the file will go, consult your extension’s instruction page. A good extension should have a solid help page.
 Once you’ve downloaded the MP3 file you should be able to open it and listen to it in a media player (for example, Windows Media Player or iTunes) and/or add it to your music library.

