 When you are actively engaged in an activity you enjoy, your thought will not be focused on your past.Fill your life with activities and people that take your mind off of your past. Find a new hobby (e.g. arts, crafts, sports, reading, etc.), spend time with family and friends, read a book, or watch a movie. Do any activity that you enjoy and that makes you feel good about yourself.


Make enjoyable activities a regular part of your life.
Activities that require your complete attention (e.g. cooking a meal, doing a crossword puzzle) or force you to focus on something other than yourself (e.g. taking care of a pet, babysitting a child, etc.) are particularly helpful for shifting your focus.
 Exercise releases your endorphins (i.e. feel good hormones) and stimulates your nervous system. Try to exercise for 30 minutes or more each day. Exercise that engages both your arms and legs (e.g. walking, running, swimming, dancing, etc.) is best.Focus on your body and how it moves as you exercise.
Listen to music that you enjoy while you exercise.
Try working out with friends and make it a social activity.
 You may find that certain things cause you to dwell on your past. Listening to a certain type of music, visiting certain places, or watching certain types of movies, etc may cause you to think about your past. Changing some of these behaviors can help you move on.

For example, if sad or slow-tempo music causes you to think of your past, change the type of music that you listen to.
If you notice that you tend to dwell on your past before you go to bed, change your routine by reading or journaling before bed.
These changes may or may not be permanent. You may be able to do some of these things again once you stop thinking about your past so much.
 If you keep looking towards the future, you will not have time to focus on your past. Make a list of things that you are grateful for, that you are looking forward to doing, and things that you would like to do. Include things that are already planned and make new plans.Your future plans do not have to be extravagant. It could be as simple as going to dinner with a friend next week.
When you make plans for your future, write down everything you need to accomplish those goals.
Focus on your strengths and things that you like about yourself.

