 Use a simple two-step to find the beats in your favorite songs. Then you can be more confident finding the beat in the dance floor.Start with your feet together. Step your right foot to the side, then bring it back to center. Then do the same on the left with your left foot. Repeat until you feel that you can do it with confidence.
If your steps are not lining up with louder drumbeats, it is likely that you are off the beat. Listen to the music for a moment, then start again, stepping on the louder parts of the beat.;
, This requires less movement than the two-step, but a little bit more style. Start with your feet apart. Stomp your right foot. Then bring your shoulders to the right and spin your left foot on its toe so that your heel hits the floor to the right of it. As you hit your left heel on the floor, snap your fingers. Then repeat on the left side.
 Flip or comb through your hair. Then shake your shoulders. Move your hips and then end with a step.


A lot of dance music is written in four, meaning that you count up to four or eight, and then change tactics. You can spend one beat on each move, but spending two beats is easier. This means that you hair comb for two beats, shake your shoulders for two beats, move your hips for two beats, and then two step for the last two.
 In general, you can get away with a two-step on any dance floor. However, you may not know what to do with your arms. It is essential that you check the crowd around you to get the general feeling, however there are a few general rules you can follow.


Techno and EDM music is accompanied by fist pumping, or arm-pumping. Do whatever feels good with your hand, but pump your shoulder and elbow on each beat. Pop music is accompanied by arms in the air, often around the hair, or waving. Occasionally they move down the body. Hip hop music usually involves quick movements of the arms and hands from side to side. Women may choose to bring them above their heads, but usually they remain around the torso. Trance music is accompanied by very improvised, flowing arm movements.
 Part of dancing is acting as well.You don’t need to smile the whole time, as this can look forced. Instead, raise your eyebrows slightly and think about the corners of your mouth going upward.


If you are too nervous to have fun, you can look like you are having fun. Sometimes this can actually have the effect of easing your nerves-- your muscles are in an “I’m having fun” configuration, and send the signal to your brain that you are having fun.
 If you attach words to the movements that you make, you will be more likely to remember them. They will also relate to the music that your dance is set to. This creates a new way of thinking about movement. Your movements will often correspond to the mood and tone of the music. If the music is getting quieter, your movements might be getting smaller or lower to the ground. If there is a lot of percussion, you are probably making energetic movements.
 Breathing deeply before you have to dance or go onstage will bring more oxygen to your brain. This will reduce your anxiety. Avoid hyperventilating, or breathing quickly. Take slow, even breaths.
 You may imagine the space that you take up while dancing as a bubble that encompasses your head and length of your arms. As you dance, try to stretch or push at the edges of this bubble. These movements will make you appear more confident, because they will be large and dynamic. Don’t try to “punch through” your bubble, or make any sudden huge movements. Just go a little bit further out than usual.
 If it's a bit difficult in the beginning, dance somewhere inconspicuous. Once you feel more brave, you can work your way to where more people are.


Some people prefer the all-in approach, where you go in to the most crowded part of the dance floor no matter how scared you are. Do whatever makes you comfortable.
 It is easier to dance confidently if you don’t feel alone.


Trade dance moves with your friends. Do something, and then get them to join in with you-- or if they start to do something, join in with them.
 Don't concentrate on the people around you - just dance.


A good way to go about this is to think, “They are too busy worrying about themselves to look at me”. This is always true. When you are dancing in front of people, you are much more worried about how you look than how they look. The same is true for everyone else.
 When you feel self conscious, turn to your friends for help. If you talk to them about feeling nervous, it will take some of the pressure off of you to perform.


It may seem odd, but admitting that you are afraid can sometimes help with feeling afraid. You don’t have to feel uncomfortable in addition to being nervous. Laughing about your nervousness can be an incredible relief. , Self talk is the term for what you say to yourself when you are examining your own behavior. Sometimes it can be a comparison to someone else, and oftentimes it is negative. For example, “She’s such a great dancer. I wish I could dance like that. I’m so dull and boring.”


Instead of going a negative direction, go in a positive one. “She’s such a great dancer. I’m glad I get to see her being herself, it’s so inspirational. I’m going to try to be myself too.”

, Don’t get so caught up in being beautiful or the best that you can’t have fun.


Silly moves like the sprinkler and the shopping cart are just as fun as more mainstream moves like the Dougie. Have fun, and confidence will follow.

