 Bacteria feed on the sweat and skin cells that accumulate on your body throughout the day – that’s what causes body odor. Shower or bathe every day and use a mild soap to wash off the day’s dirt.Especially wash and carefully dry your feet, face, hands, armpits, and bottom.In addition to your daily bath or shower, take one after you exercise or get sweaty to keep skin clean.It doesn’t really matter if you shower at night or in the morning; this is personal preference.
Don't use soap to clean your private parts; this will disturb your natural chemical balance down there. Clean around your inner thighs and around your vulva with mild soap, but just wash the outer and inner parts of your vulva (the exterior part of your vagina) with warm water.Your vagina is good at cleaning itself with natural discharge (the clear fluid that comes from your vagina).Deodorant and perfume do not replace daily bathing or showering.;
, Shampoo your hair 2-3 times a week. Washing your hair too often removes the natural oil and can make your hair dry.Choose shampoo and conditioner that’s right for you – whether your hair is dry, oily, frizzy, straight, or curly, there are many products that you can try.Wet your hair with warm water. Pour a quarter-size amount of shampoo into your palm and massage it (not too hard) into your scalp and down to the tips of your hair. Wash the shampoo out then apply conditioner, using more for dry hair and less for oily hair. Let it sit in your hair for a few minutes while you clean your body, then rinse it out well.
If your hair gets oily near your scalp after a day or two, wash your hair daily or every other day using a mild shampoo. Use conditioner only on the tips of your hair, not on your scalp. Use “non-greasy” or “oil-free” styling products., Use warm water and a gentle, non-abrasive cleanser to wash your face in the morning and before bed. Use just your fingertips to massage the cleanser onto your skin – using a washcloth or sponge can be irritating. Don’t scrub your skin hard. Rinse with warm water, and pat (don’t rub) your skin dry with a clean towel. Avoid products that exfoliate your skin or contain alcohol. Don’t use regular soap. These products are too harsh for your face.
If your skin is flaky, itchy, or dry, apply a dime-size amount of face moisturizer. If your skin feels irritated a lot or gets oily easily, use products for sensitive skin.
Also, wash your face after working out or sweating.
 You don’t necessarily have to wash your clothes every time you wear them, but always wear clothes without stains, wrinkles, and smells on them. If you get your clothes dirty or sweat in them, wash them before wearing them again. Wear fresh underwear and a fresh bra every day.Change your bed sheets every week, or more often if you sweat a lot during the night. Change your pillowcases weekly or every 2-3 days if you have oily skin.
 You should wash your hands regularly throughout the day, but especially after using the bathroom, after sneezing or coughing, before making or touching food, and after touching things that lots of other people have touched (for example, after handling money – think about how many people touch money!)


Wet your hands with warm water, then lather soap in your hands for at least 20 seconds – be sure to wash your wrists, in between your fingers, and under your nails. Rinse your hands well then dry them with a paper towel, and turn off the water with the paper towel., Make a mini-hygiene kit to keep in your purse or backpack. Bring a packet of breath mints, gum, or a small bottle of mouthwash for after meals. Pack a small travel mirror, hand sanitizer, deodorant, a pack of Kleenex, and a small comb for everyday use.
 If you’re sick, it’s important to practice good hygiene to protect others. Cover your mouth when you cough or sneeze. Wash your hands a lot, especially after coughing or sneezing. If you’re vomiting or have a fever, stay home and away from others.