 If you do not have a yeast infection but take over-the-counter (OTC) medications for one, then you can cause resistant candida to breed, making you more prone to infection later on. It is best to see your doctor first and allow her to perform a physical examination to determine if the infection is candida or something else.


Your doctor will likely begin with a vulvovaginal inspection to examine the area for a whitish discharge and redness around the area (erythema).While a man can technically get a genital yeast infection, they’re extremely rare. You should still begin by seeing your doctor to determine the cause of any genital abnormalities.;
, After the physical exam, your doctor may want to run a specific diagnostic test to confirm the diagnosis. Common diagnostic tests include slides, cultures, and pH tests.If your doctor prepares a slide, then she’ll look for particular structures of yeast formation under a microscope.
A culture of the discharge will isolate it and determine the cause via lab work.
A pH test determines if the normal vaginal pH of four has been altered since candida usually results in a lower pH.
 OTC medication is available to clear up the infection. These anti-fungal creams, ointments, or tablets usually require between one- and three-day regimens to clear the infection. Always follow the specific manufacturer’s instructions for the medication. Common options include:Butoconazole (Gynazole-1)
Clotrimazole (Gyne-Lotrimin)
Miconazole (Monistat 3)
Terconazole (Terazol 3)
Common side effects include minor burning or irritation., Your doctor will likely recommend an OTC option, but she may also prescribe you a medication, especially in complicated or recurrent cases.The oral anti-fungal medication fluconazole (Diflucan) is a common prescription options.Your doctor may also prescribe this in combination with a seven- to fourteen-day regimen of applying vaginal ointments or creams.
 Underwear provide a breeding ground for candida infections. During the course of the infection, stick to cotton underwear, which breathe more than other materials. You should also change your underwear every twenty-four hours or even more often if possible.Note that normal laundering in hot water has not always proven effective at sterilizing underwear with candida present in the fabric. Studies have shown that laundering the underwear and then microwaving the moist material for five minutes on high reduced the risk of prolonging or reintroducing the infection.Ensure that the material is microwave safe before trying. Laundering and then ironing the material is another option., Lubes, condoms, and even your partner's natural bacteria can make your infection worse or cause it to begin with. Refrain from sex, including oral sex, until you have cleared your infection., Many women develop a yeast infection due to taking antibiotics for a completely unrelated problem. By reducing the occurrence of naturally present bacteria, the antibiotics allow the candida to thrive.It is important to finish the course of antibiotics despite causing a test infection. Often the resurgence of the natural bacteria after finishing the antibiotics is all it takes to clear the yeast infection.
 In addition to antibiotics, certain other medications and conditions can cause or prolong yeast infections. High doses of estrogen from birth control pills or hormone therapy can lead to increases in yeast infections, for instance.Consult with your doctor about the best course or action for changing a medication that may be responsible for a yeast infection.
 For chronic or recurrent cases of genital candida infection, your doctor may prescribe a medication routine as opposed to a single course. This option may include taking a medication once a week for up to six months rather than over the course of only several days.