 There are many effective ways to prevent getting sick. However, most people will still suffer from the occasional cold or flu. If you are ill, get plenty of rest.Most adults need between 7-9 hours of sleep each night. When you are sick, don't be afraid to try to get a few extra hours.
Resting can help your body heal. If you are sick, try going to bed earlier than usual.
If you have a cold, sleeping can be difficult. Try to rest propped up on a couple of pillows. A humidifier may also help you breathe more easily.
 Although experts are still debating, there is evidence that zinc can help speed your recovery. If you have a cold, taking a zinc supplement can help you feel back to normal a day or two faster. Talk to your doctor before taking any supplements.You can purchase zinc at most drug stores. Make sure to follow the directions on the package and take the correct dose.
Try chicken soup. Preliminary research suggests that chicken soup does have properties to help you recover from a cold.
Chicken soup acts as an anti-inflammatory. It also helps speed the movement of mucus.
 Many people believe that essential oils have healing properties. If you have a cold or flu, you can use certain oils to speed your recovery. Just make sure to properly apply the oils.Make a mixture of peppermint, rosemary, eucalyptus, and lemon oils. Mix a few drops of each with water to dilute. You can inhale this healing scent directly from the bottle.
You can also put this mixture in a spray bottle and spritz around your home. This is also a great mix of oils to place in your diffuser.
Alternatively, you can apply the oils directly to your chest before bedtime. Just make sure to mix with a carrier oil, such as olive or grapeseed. Add about 12 drops of essential oil to each ounce of carrier oil.
 Fluids can help you to avoid dehydration. This will help speed the healing process. Fluids can also help move the mucus out of your body. Extra hydration can also help you to avoid pain from a headache or sore throat. Water is always your best bet, but there are plenty of other helpful fluids, too.Drink extra water while you are sick. Juice and clear broths can also help you to stay hydrated.
Avoid alcohol and sodas. Those beverages can lead to dehydration.
If your throat is sore, try adding some lemon and honey to your water. You can also use this method with warm tea.
 Over the counter products can help you to feel better when you have a cold or other illness. Pain relievers can reduce your fever and help soothe a headache or sore throat. Adults can have Advil, Ibuprofen, or Tylenol.Make sure to follow the dosage instructions on the package. Ask a pharmacist if you have questions.
Remember that children under 3 should never take aspirin. Talk to your doctor about the correct dosage for a younger child.
You can also try an over the counter cough medication. Ask your pharmacist which one will be best for your symptoms.

