 There are two important factors to produce clear ice: water quality and freezing method.


Water has trapped gas particles and impurities in it that lead to that cloudy appearance. Removing the gases and impurities is the first step to achieving clear ice; therefore pure, distilled water is needed.
The second crucial step to achieving clear ice is the freezing method. In the freezer, a sphere will freeze from all sides to the center, this traps impurities/gases inside the ball and is another reason for the clearer ice.;
,


It is simply a hollow silicon ball with a small hole, about a fingertip size, so you can fill it with water through it. And the mold can be broken into two halves in order to get the ice ball out after the water freezes.
 Placing the mold on a rack in a freezer will freeze the water equally from all sides.


Attach the wooden sticks to one another, using the wires and the craft glue. The rack should be suitable to hold the molds; they should NOT pass through it, but stay hung on it. Make sure to measure the length of the sticks comparing to the size of the pot and the molds to do this step accurately. The pictures shown will help you understand this part well.



This will allow for the mold's fill-hole to be submerged under the water of the pot.
 You need enough so fill holes on mold can be submerged but also allow the mold to be partially above water.



Simply boil the water, let sit, and do it again. This step is necessary to get a clear and pure ice crystal. Distilled water has no minerals and impurities in it; it has only water molecules. And the double boiling method remove trapped gases from the water. Those are two important factors to get a clear ice ball.



Directly after filling the mold place your thumb over the fill hole to prevent any air from entering.
Place the mold upside down so that fill hole faces down into the stand.
 Do not release your thumb from the fill hole until it is submerged to ensure no air enters.



The molds need to be upside down and submerged in water to prevent air from entering the molds, and building a rack like the one in the picture will help for this position

, Set the temperature to as close as possible to 0 degrees F.


Remove excess water with baster or syringe if necessary.
The pot needs to be filled to the level which would submerge the fill hole, but leave as much mold above water as possible.
Ensure no air is trapped under molds by slightly shaking the pot.
Wrap the pot "TIGHTLY" with a towel to slow down the freezing and force the freezing to take place in a top down method. This will allow the water in the molds to freeze before the water in the container does.
this can be done by folding the towel lengthwise then wrapping around the base of the pot

, Prepare your freezer by setting the temperature to as close as possible to 0 degrees.


Place the entire container, wrapped with a towel, in the freezer being careful not to knock it over or allow air to enter the molds.
Freeze for approximately 18 hours.The key is to ensure the mold is completely frozen and the top of the reservoir is frozen, however, it's okay if there is some liquid at the very bottom.
 Remove the ice ball from the mold and add to your drink!

