 Taking a warm bath every day can help with psoriasis by washing out flakes and scales.


For added help, add colloidal oatmeal, Epsom salts, or Dead Sea salts to the water as these have properties that help soothe and moisturize skin.Keep water lukewarm and don't use harsh soap. Both can irritate skin. Strive for lukewarm water and milder soaps., Use moisturizers on your skin to prevent dryness. Moisturizers will help relieve the itchiness, redness, and roughness caused by psoriasis.Put moisturizers on right after you shower when your skin is still moist from bathing; this helps lock in the moisture.Avoid heavily scented moisturizers, as these can sometimes irritate psoriasis.
 For some people, drinking alcohol can reduce the effectiveness of treatments for psoriasis.Talk to your doctor about any medications you are on to see if it's safe to drink on your meds.
If you go to an event where people are drinking, it might help to bring a non-alcoholic beverage you enjoy, like a soda, juice, or tea. This way, you can still feel like you're indulging yourself without compromising your psoriasis treatment.
Explain to friends and family members why you need to avoid alcohol. If you're a social drinker, and feel tempted to indulge when going out, having support from your friends can help you abstain from drinking.
 If medical fixes aren't quite working for you, you can try homeopathic options like herbs and nutritional supplements. These can have a positive effect on psoriasis for some people.


Fish oil, which can be purchased at most health food stores or supermarkets, have helped relieve psoriasis symptoms for some. Studies have been mixed on its effectiveness and generally show that while it reduces itching and flaking it might not reduce the size of skin patches. If you're willing to try fish oil, talk to your doctor first as it can interact poorly with some medications in high doses.Folic acid can be taken in pill form. It reduces symptoms of psoriasis for some, but you should talk to your doctor before adding either to your care regimen.Herbs, like Oregon grape cream, avocado and Vitamin B12 creams, aloe vera, and oregano oil can sometimes treat symptoms of psoriasis if used in moderation. Use them according to instructions on the package. With oregano oil, you should always dilute it with water or juice. It should not be used if you're pregnant as it can potentially cause miscarriage., Some people notice a reduction in psoriasis by changing their diet. Eating a balanced diet that is primarily made up of healthy fats, fresh produce, whole grains, and lean proteins is considered an anti-inflammatory diet.Coldwater fish, such as salmon, lake trout, albacore tuna, mackerel, and herring are good sources of Omega-3 fatty acids.
Olive oil, walnuts, flaxseeds, and pumpkin seeds are good plant sources of Omega-3s.
Eat fruits and vegetables that are all colors of the rainbow, such as carrots, strawberries, squash, mangoes, kale, spinach, and blueberries.

