 If you can prepare for a visit, think about whether your child usually becomes extremely quiet around strangers or adults or does he/she turn into a complete blabbermouth?


Let your child know that he/she will be coming to work with you and meeting your boss. Don't plant ideas or even describe your boss, just look for a reaction--your child may not have any reaction or may not even remember your boss. If he/she has no reaction, now is the time to use positive adjectives (even if they are not true or your don’t believe them) about your boss. Words like “nice,” “friendly” and even “helpful” are good words that a child will understand.
Discuss what is considered to be appropriate behavior at work. If your child attends school liken work to school, reminding him/her of manners and how teachers and other adults should be treated with respect. Review some general rules such as no running or screaming in the office, not to interrupt adults when they are talking (unless you are bleeding or it’s an emergency) and to say “please” and “thank you.”
Use this moment to open the floor to questions from your child. Be truthful but always lean toward the positive. Don’t use adjectives that could be have a double meaning such as saying that your boss has a “strong” presence in the office, which could be misconstrued as being overbearing. If you are odds with your boss, stick to the rules you hand down to your child, “If you can’t say something nice, don’t say anything at all.” Keep comments brief, positive and nondescript.;
, If you tell your child not to talk about the bathroom or mom’s superhero action figure collection that will most likely be the first thing he/she goes to when meeting your boss.


Avoid listing hot topics to avoid. For example if your boss is portly, don’t tell your child, “Now Mr. Anderson is pretty fat so be sure you don’t say anything about weight.” What will be the first thing your child remembers during the meeting--fat.
Recall how you’ve described your boss in the past to either your spouse and/or your family. Did you say that your boss had a hot temper or was insane? Remember if you’ve used derogatory comments around your child in the past you’ll have to think of a way to change his/her perception before arrival at work. After you ask your child if he/she remembers your boss reinforce the positive visual or image you are trying to create by using upbeat descriptive words.
Provide a list of topics that your child may ask or discuss when around your boss. Along with the reminder of the best way to speak with adults, let your child know a few topics he/she could cover such as the sports, the weather or your new puppy, for example.
 Long before your child makes a trip to your office, remember that you are your child’s main role model. How you approach and interact with others is not only being observed but also studied by your child.


Have something positive to say to and about everyone you meet. Even if you aren’t a fan of one of the moms in your child’s class never tell your child that you think the other mother is a gold digger, for example (or any other derogatory comment). Instead you can just general, blanket statements such as saying that she is nice and be pleasant when you must interact with this individual.
Use your manners. Sometimes even adults forget their manners, which is why it’s especially important that you say “thank you” when necessary, make eye contact with people and smile.
Show your children proper table manners. In the event you could possible dine with your boss or any other adults, it’s important that your child knows proper table etiquette. He/she doesn’t need to know which fork goes with which dish, but should understand the basics such as napkin in the lap, elbows off the table and don’t talk with a full mouth of food.
 “Out of the mouths of babes” is an accurate description of how kids can say truthful but embarrassing things. Instead of turning beat red and then yelling at your child, have a response ready that will allow you to retain some shred of dignity and possibly your job.


Learn to address your child’s actions with humor. Check your boss’s reaction and then roll your eyes and laugh off what your child said. Be sure your boss sees that you are not thrilled with your child, but don’t have a tantrum or yell at your child, especially in front of the boss.
Be sure you address what your child has said in a controlled, gentle voice. Correct your child by saying, “That isn’t an accurate observation Jimmy” and then apologize to your boss.
Make direct eye contact with your child so that he/she knows that what he said wasn’t spot on. Don’t make wild eyes to the point where you are glaring at your child but your child should know “the look” that means he/she needs to stop talking--immediately.

