 Take some time to really think about the reasons why you feel how you do. You may want to write down these reasons for you to reflect upon later. This will help you form answers to your boyfriend’s questions about your decision.


Some common reasons for wanting space in a relationship are needing some alone time to decompress after a busy week, wanting to focus on a project, or taking care of private family matters.;
, Your boyfriend will most likely want to know what taking some space apart means for your relationship. If you determine that you want to break up with your boyfriend, it is best to do so now.


Togetherness and separateness are balanced in healthy relationships. In healthy relationships, you also feel like your own person and have friendships outside of the relationship., A good time would be when you are both relaxed, calm, and able to focus on listening to one another.A public place that is quiet where you can still talk may help you avoid a scene, like a park or coffee shop, would be a good location.
 Make sure you stay on topic and do not get distracted. Use “I” statements to focus on what you need and want. “I” statements show that you’re accepting responsibility for your decision. This will also help your boyfriend to feel less attacked or blamed.Some examples of “I” statements are:


”I am unhappy.”
”I am feeling a lot of pressure.”
”I don’t have enough time to pursue my hobbies.”

, Figure out how much contact you will have with each other, including talking, texting, and seeing each other in person.


Contact may occur in some form once every a few days, once every other week, or once a month.
Scheduling a specific time for contact may help add stability. Perhaps your mother has doctor's appointment in the morning, so afternoons would be better or maybe you volunteer regularly on the weekends and weekdays would work best.
 It’s important to let your boyfriend know how long he should expect to give you your space. This can be as specific as a week or a month. It is important to manage his expectations. After this initial period has elapsed, the time needed for more space can be evaluated by both parties.


An indefinite period of time may not be the best option as it is ambiguous and leaves the other person feeling powerless.
 You could say something like:“I see you look upset.”
”I can tell I've hurt your feelings."
”Is there anything else I can share with you?”

, Try to focus on listening to him, and eventually he should calm down. If emotions continue to overheat, do not storm out. Let your boyfriend know that you would like to briefly pause your discussion and that you will continue your talk when you have both calmed down., He may not want space, and may want to end your relationship. If this is the case, allow him to do so to avoid more emotional pain.
, You may decide to keep communication as is. Perhaps you and your boyfriend will decide that you can increase communication by texting and talking, but continue to see each other infrequently.Or you may choose to cease all forms of communication all together.
