 You can remove the skin in several ways.









Press the clove with the heel of your hand. Applying a small amount of pressure to the garlic clove is enough to loosen the skin. Place the heel of your hand over the garlic clove and press down firmly until you feel the skin start to shift. Lift your hand and peel the skin off with your fingers.
As described above, another way to loosen the skin is to press the garlic clove with the flat side of a broad knife. Position the side of the knife over the clove with the sharp blade away from your hand. Press firmly or pound slightly against the knife. You do not need to press hard, since you only want to loosen the skin instead of crushing the clove.
You could also use a garlic peeler. This is a rubberized tool specifically designed to help you peel garlic. Place the garlic clove inside the tube and press down on the tube with the heel of your hand. Roll the tube back and forth until you hear a "crunching" sound. Tilt the tube slightly so that the garlic clove topples out. The skin should already be removed.
Another way to peel garlic is to microwave the garlic clove.Place the clove in the microwave and cook for 5 to 10 seconds. The garlic clove will slide out of its skin. You can even peel entire heads or bulbs of garlic this way by putting them in for 15 to 20 seconds. Be aware, however, that this method could make the taste of the garlic slightly less pungent.
 Place the garlic inside the basket area of the press.









The type of garlic press you use can have an effect on how well the process works. A higher quality press has nubs on it that make clearing garlic out of the holes easier, and you might be able to get more garlic out of each clove as a result. Even a lower quality press will usually be enough to crush the garlic sufficiently, though.
 Press the two handles together, applying as much pressure as you can.









Depending on the quality and weight of your press, you may need to exert considerable force. A garlic press made from a heavier material will usually be easier to press together than one made of a light, flimsy material.
The garlic that comes through the other side of the press will be crushed.

