 When you are constantly worrying, you are more likely to feel vertigo. In order to manage your worries, designate a specific ‘worrying time’. You should use this time to think about what is worrying you, and try to come up with a solution (this will be covered in the following steps).Choose a place and time for worrying. This period of time should be before or after important events, like meetings, classes or bedtime. During this time, let your mind focus on what is worrying you and actively try to come up with a way to resolve this stress.
 Once you have designated a worrying time, postpone any worry that begins to creep up on you during the day. If an anxious thought comes into your mind during the day, write it down on a piece of paper, and then remind yourself that you will worry about your concern at a later time (such as during your worrying period).


Remind yourself that there is no reason to worry about the anxiety-inducing thing at this time. Doing this may help you to avoid dwelling on your concern, thus avoiding vertigo.
 During your designated worrying time, consider the things that have stressed you out during the day. Go through your list and determine if all or some of these worries or valid; throughout the day, you may have already resolved some of these worries, therefore making your anxiety moot.


When you go through the list and find that you have resolved some of your worries, you can begin to reduce the amount of time you designate for your worrying period.
 When you are anxious, everything may seem like an unsolvable worry. Because of this, it is important to take a moment to reflect upon what is making you anxious, and to brainstorm a solution. To do this, you first need to distinguish between worries you have control over, and things that are out of your control. When thinking about your worry, ask yourself:


Is this a problem I am currently facing, or is it in my head?
What is the likelihood of this thing actually happening? Is this a realistic concern?
Is there anything I can do about this problem?
Should I prepare for it, or is it out of my control?

, Productive and solvable worries, for instance paying bills, can be solved right away by calling creditors. Unproductive and unsolvable worries such as how to protect the kids from an accident, should be avoided in order to control such anxieties that cause vertigo. For solvable worries, one should brainstorm by developing a list of possible solutions.


Focus on the aspects of the worry that are changeable or that you have control over.

