 For the schoolgirl look, a simple button-down shirt is your best option. When paired with an accompanying skirt, you can play the part of Blair at school.Blair's shirts are usually somewhat form-fitted, so avoid anything too baggy.
Blair usually rolls up the sleeves on her blouse, so get a shirt with longer sleeves that can be cuffed.;
, Blair always tucks her button-downs into a navy A-line skirt when she's at school. Invest in a similar skirt and tuck your shirt in accordingly. This will give off a prep school vibe reminiscent of the Gossip Girl franchise.If you really dislike navy, shake up Blair's look just a little. A dark brown or black skirt should still give off the basic vibe.
 Blair is not always at school. When she's out on the town, she's a fan of long, lacy dresses. Blair's dresses are usually quite feminine and come in bright colors, floral patterns, and have embellishments like bows, sequins, and ruffles.For example, opt for a floral sundress or a gown with lacy embellishments.
 If you want to rock the Blair Waldorf look for a fancy event like prom, a red gown is your best option. One of the most iconic moments in Gossip Girl was Blair meeting Chuck in Paris in an elegant red dress.Go for a dress with a ballroom feel and feathery embellishments on the skirt.
The dress was strapless in the TV show, so see if you can find a strapless dress.
 Blair is known for a more natural makeup look, so there's no need to cake on a lot of makeup. Stick to the basics. Cover imperfections, like acne and discoloration, with a light layer of concealer and foundation. Then, use a brush to blend the makeup into your natural skin tone., Blair's eyebrows were always strongly defined, so make sure yours match. Use a brow brush to fill in any obvious gaps in your brows. As you're only slightly filling in your brows, use a shade slightly lighter than their natural color., Blair was known for her lighter eye makeup, so opt for white eyeliner and eyeshadow. Apply pale eyeshadow just below your upper brow and in the inner corner of your eye. Smudge white eyeliner along your upper lash line. Use your fingers to smooth the eyeliner on your lid upward so it blends out into your eyelid., Blair's eye makeup was always light and feminine, so a touch of pink and brown is all you need for your eyeshadow. Start by using an eyeshadow brush to add a light dusting of a pale pink shade across your lids. Then, apply a soft brown to your crease.When you're done, make sure to blend out the eyeshadow using a larger eyeshadow brush.
 Blair did not wear a lot of eye makeup. Stick to one coat of mascara on each eye. This should slightly bring out your lashes without creating an overwhelming look.You can use either brown or black mascara and, if you want, apply it to both top and bottom lashes.
 Gently dab on a light shade of a pinkish lipstick. You do not need to apply a lot of lipstick. The color should mostly cover imperfections on your lip and add a light amount of color., Blair rarely wore her hair up. Let your hair hang down if you want to give off a Blair Waldorf vibe. Simply brush out your hair in the morning and let it fall down naturally.As Blair had wavy hair, consider using a curling iron or wand to create light waves in your own hair.
 Blair was famous for her series of feminine headbands. Place the headband about an inch away from your hairline. If you have bangs, keep them in front of the headband and swept slightly to one side.Pick feminine headbands with patterns like polkadot and embellishments like bows.
 If you're doing the school girl look, add a small bow tie to your white button-down. This was part of the uniforms worn on Gossip Girl and will really emphasize the Blair Waldorf look. This can be particularly great if you're going as Blair Waldorf to a costume party., Knee-high socks were also part of the Blair Waldorf look. Pick a pair of knee-high socks to match your skirt to emphasize the school girl look., If you're going schoolgirl, white loafers are key. These were typically worn during school for Blair Waldorf. Slip on a pair of white loafers if you're wearing a white button-down and skirt., Blair was known for stylish hats. If you're going out in a dress looking like Blair, add a colorful, patterned hat to your outfit. This will add a little extra to your look and really exemplify Blair's style.Blair was a big fan of patterned hats, so see if you can find hats with patterns like polkadots.
 When going out on the town, Blair always wore pumps. Therefore, if you're going as Blair for a formal event, slip on a pair of pumps with your dress.Blair wore a variety of hats, but she mostly favored knit hats and berets throughout the series.
In addition to hats, Blair sometimes wore floral or decorative hairpieces.

