 This is especially important after a day of sitting.


If you can do stretching exercises such as yoga regularly, this can help develop flexibility in your muscles and improve posture., Try to keep your body completely straight, instead of listing to one side.Hold this position for 30 seconds, then repeat on the other side.
 Better balance increases strength and improves your posture. It can also reduce your risk of injury.Stand on one foot and bring the opposite foot directly behind you about four inches. Bring it forward again, keeping it in line with your hip the whole time. Repeat 10-15 times on both sides.
Stand on one foot. Lift one leg out to the side and hold the position for 1-5 seconds. Lower your leg. Repeat 10-15 times on both sides., Wall squats can help strengthen your buttock muscles, which will help you stand correctly. Stand with your back against the wall. Your toes should be hip-width apart with toes slightly out.Slide your back down the wall and bend your knees. When your thighs are parallel to the ground, slide your back up the wall.
Repeat 10 to 20 times.
You can put an exercise ball between the wall and your lower back to help you keep your balance if you’re just beginning.
Try doing it with a chair instead of a wall when you feel stronger. Lower yourself down without the help of the wall. When your buttocks brush the chair during the squat, straighten your legs.
 Place your right hand atop the handle to use for stability. Lean forward and lift your right leg, trying to keep your body aligned the entire time.


Repeat on the opposite side, taking 10 seconds to complete the exercise.
As you get stronger, your trunk should become perpendicular to your standing leg.
 Bending forward from the waist is bad for your posture and can also cause harm if you have osteoporosis.Toe touches, sit ups, and abdominal crunches should be avoided unless they are done under the supervision of a physical therapist or physician.
 Plank exercises are excellent for strengthening your core muscles. Without a strong core, your body has to work hard to stand correctly, and may overuse some muscles and not use others. Plank exercises can help correct an excessive curve in your lower back, a flat back, uneven hips, and rounded shoulders.Lie on your stomach. Raise your body up so that your weight is resting on your toes and forearms.Press your palms together and keep your forearms planted firmly on the floor. Align your shoulders so that they are directly above your elbows. Look at the floor, keeping your head neutral.
Contract your abdominal muscles to form your body in a straight line from your head to your toes.
Make sure that your lower back doesn’t sink or arch up while you’re planking.
 These exercises can help correct poor posture by strengthening your buttocks and lower back muscles. If these muscles are weak, you may have an improper arch or curve to your spine.Lie on one side. Prop your head up with one arm. Bend the knee that is on the ground to a 90 degree angle. Keep your hips level, not pushed too far forward or back.
Contract your abdominal muscles and keep them tight as you perform the exercise.
Keeping the top leg straight, lift it as far as you can without tilting your hips backward. You should feel your buttock muscles contract as you lift your leg.
Slowly lower the leg to the ground. Repeat 8-10 times, then switch to the other side.
 Weak back muscles can lead to a flat back and rounded shoulders. Back extensions can help strengthen these muscles and keep you standing correctly.The “cobra pose” in yoga can also help strengthen these muscles.


Lie on your stomach. Bend your elbows and bring your arms to your side so that your head is resting on your hands.Using your forearms, press your upper body up from the ground. Keep your shoulders, back, and neck long as you arch backward. Don’t bend your neck backwards: keep it in line with your spine.
Inhale, feeling your abdominal muscles stretch slightly. Hold your breath for 5 seconds, then slowly lower yourself to the floor again.

