 Anything designed for basketballs or bicycles will work fine. High pressure pumps designed for car tires are not recommended. They give less control over the pressure and can damage your basketball.
 This needle fits onto the end of the air pump, allowing you to fit it to the tiny hole in the basketball. It should come with the air pump.
 Look for a round, black rubber cap on the basketball. Push the cap up enough that you can bend it aside, exposing the hole underneath.


This will release air and break the one-year warranty on Neverflat basketballs.
 Screw the needle in until it is firmly attached. Be careful, as you may accidentally puncture the basketball if too much force is used in the wrong place. Young children should ask an adult for help to avoid injury from needles or an exploding ball.


If you're having trouble, wet the needle end with a little saliva or glycerin.
If you're using a bicycle pump, find the plastic tab on the end of the tube and pinch it closed.
 At this stage, it's better to pump it too little than too much. Take the needle out of the ball quickly to prevent air from escaping.


Never continue without removing the needle. The next step can send the needle flying out, which could injure someone.
If using a bicycle pump, pull the plastic tab to reinflate it before you remove the needle.
 Neverflat basketballs should be inflated to about 8 psi. If your pump has a gauge, keep pumping until it reaches this level. Otherwise, keep reading to find out how to test it yourself.
 Press the ball gently. If it feels about right, press as hard as you can and see how much it sinks. Ideally, the ball should compress about 1/5 inches (5.5 mm). If you can only compress it 1/16 inch (1.5 mm) or less, the ball could explode when thrown.


For another test, stand on the court and hold the basketball above your head. Drop the ball. It should bounce back to your hip, or to your elbow (once you've lowered your arm). Too high a bounce is just as bad as too low.
 Keep pumping until the ball responds correctly to your test. If the ball is too hard, bend the valve to let out some air. When you're done, just withdraw the needle. The cap should fall back on its own.

