 Choose which doll or toy she is getting married to. This could be another Barbie doll, Ken, a doll from another series or an animal toy.;
, Find all your Barbie, Monster High, Ever After High, or Moxie Girl dolls. Also find other dolls and any toys, such as stuffed animals, that you feel would be appropriate as guests for Barbie's wedding.


Also choose someone to officiate the marriage, perhaps as a priest, an officiant or a wedding celebrant. This doll or toy should dress up nicely.
Is there a mother and father of the bride? Will Barbie have bridesmaids and will her spouse-to-be have a support crew too? If you don't want to have too many people involved, just choose a maid of honor for the bride.
 Or, she could wear the dress from another Barbie or doll, or you might even make one for her wedding. For her intended, dress the spouse-to-be in the finest clothes.
 Send these to the guests, so that everyone knows where the wedding will be held and what time to come.
 Choose a suitable place to hold the wedding. Depending on the weather and how far you need to carry your toys, you might even hold the wedding outdoors.


Decorate the space with pretty things such as bows, tinsel, glitter, flowers, lace, paper decorations and so forth, to make it look like a wedding space. Look at pictures of weddings online to be inspired.
Set up seating for the dolls and toys attending the party. Use boxes or just imaginary seats in an area set aside for this.
 Say some nice words to join the two dolls in marriage. You can make these up or copy the words from real weddings––search online for the right words.
 Prepare a wedding feast table for after the ceremony. Set it all up before you have the wedding, so that the guests can move from the wedding spot to the reception area. Use pretend food from the doll house and Barbie collection. You might also like to make some food and a small wedding cake for the dolls.
 Set this up on your portable media player. Choose songs you like and think that Barbie would enjoy at her wedding. After the food, the dolls and toys can all dance the night away together.
 That's entirely up to you. Be sure to clear everything away and send Barbie and her new spouse on their honeymoon.

