 The first part of training for steeplechase is to build up your endurance. Whether you're running the 2000m or 3200, building up your endurance is the most important part of your training.


Start preparing early! Steeplechase is most popular in the spring, so start your distance/endurance training in early to mid winter.;
, There are 5 steeples (barriers) per lap that must be hurdled or jumped onto. Since these cannot be knocked over, it is easier to begin training with conventional hurdles.


Ask someone with experience for tips about doing drills and perfecting form.
There are many videos on YouTube that help people see what a good hurdling form is. It helps to record yourself hurdling and use it for comparison!







, Once per lap, the barrier will be in front of a water pit that you will try to clear. Although clearing the water pit every time takes many years of practice, having a strong leap off of the barrier in front of it will help tremendously.


Stride towards the barrier (on a track, turf field, sand pit, or other softer surface) and jump, landing on top with the heel of one foot. Roll your landing foot forward and spring off! Make sure your trail leg is still in correct hurdling form, or you'll hit the barrier and fall.
 Do intervals of 400m, alternating hurdling and not hurdling.
 Set up the barriers and water pit, and run as if you were in a race. Ideally, this should take place 1-2 weeks before your race.

Have the proper gear: most runners prefer spandex shorts (as they provide flexibility), a well-fitting tank top shirt, a towel, a supportive sports bra (for females), and steeplechase spikes (regular track spikes work fine too, but steeplechase spikes allow water drainage). Most runners will avoid wearing socks, as they become weighed down with water, and will even leave behind their underwear for the same reason!






Since steeple is usually the first event at track and field meets, be sure to arrive early to begin your warmup.
 Keep training for your next race.

