 If your hard drive is encrypted, a hacker will be unable to read the data stored there, even if they manage to gain access to your hard drive. While you've taken steps to prevent access, encryption is another method of protecting your information.


Mac - FileVault is the encryption service for Macs. You can enable it by clicking the Apple icon in the top-left corner of your Mac's screen, clicking System Preferences, clicking the Security & Privacy icon, clicking the FileVault tab, and clicking Turn On FileVault. You may first have to click the lock icon and enter your Mac's administrator account password.Windows - BitLocker is Windows' default encryption service. To enable it, simply type "bitlocker" into the Start search bar, click the "Bitlocker Drive Encryption" option, and click Turn on BitLocker. Keep in mind that Windows 10 Home users won't have access to BitLocker without first upgrading to Windows 10 Pro.
 In addition to performance upgrades, system updates often contain improvements to security., Despite even the strictest security, it's still possible that your data may become compromised. This may be the result of hacking, or simply computer failure. Backing up your data ensures you don't lose anything.

There are cloud-based services you can use to back up your data. Check the security of these services carefully before joining one. While you may be tempted to go with the least expensive service, you want to make sure your data will be kept safe.
You also can use an encrypted external hard drive to back up your data. Set up your computer to run automatic backups daily, at a time of day when you aren't normally on your computer.
 If you get an unsolicited email, or an email from a sender that you cannot verify, treat it as a hacking attempt. Do not click on any links or give the sender any personal information.

Keep in mind that even replying to the email will let the sender know that your email address is active and valid. While you may be tempted to send them a sarcastic reply, even this will give them information they can use to hack you.
 Both Windows- and Mac-based computers come equipped with a firewall, which prevents hackers from gaining access to your computer. However, in most computers, the firewall is not turned on by default.

Go into the security settings of your computer and look for "firewall" settings. Once there, make sure it is turned on and that it is blocking incoming connections.
If you have a wireless network, your router should have a firewall as well.
 If your computer has the option available, require users to enter a password before rebooting from a disk or entering single-user mode. A hacker cannot get around a firmware password unless they have physical access to your machine, though you'll need to be extremely careful not to forget or lose the password since it is immensely difficult to reset. To create a firmware password:


Mac - Restart your Mac, then hold down ⌘ Command and R as it boots up. Click Utilities, click Firmware Password Utility, click Turn On Firmware Password, and create your password.

Windows - Restart your computer, then hold down the BIOS key (typically Esc, F1, F2, F8, F10, or Del) as your computer boots up. Use the arrow keys to select the password option, then enter your preferred password.
 You may need to access your computer remotely, or allow someone else to do so, such as if you've called tech support. However, you should keep it disabled by default and only turn it on for brief periods when you need it.

If you have remote access enabled, you essentially leave an open door for hackers to get into your computer and steal your data.
 Antivirus software recognizes and removes potentially harmful files and programs as soon as you download them. Windows Defender is a good choice for PCs, and it comes pre-installed on Windows 10 computers. For a Mac, consider AVG or McAfee as another line of defense on top of Gatekeeper, which is the default protection suite.It's also a good idea to make sure your computer's firewall program and Bluetooth function are only letting trusted connections access your computer.

