 Your doctor needs to know if you are having chronic issues with sleep. It is a serious issue. If you constantly oversleep throughout the week, you may suffer from headaches or back pain. Oversleeping affects the neurotransmitters in your brain and lead to headaches. Back pain can be caused from sleeping on a regular mattress for a prolonged period of time.There are also psychological side effects of oversleeping, including depression, anxiety, and drowsiness. Your doctor can treat these side effects by suggesting adjustments to your sleeping habits, your daily habits, or by prescribing certain medications.
 There are many medical conditions and disorders that can interfere with sleep. Let your doctor know about specific symptoms or patterns in your sleep issues. If you can’t get up in the morning due to oversleeping, have difficulty staying awake while sitting still, fall asleep while driving, and require caffeine every day to stay awake, you may have a sleep disorder. There are four main types of sleep disorders:Insomnia: The most common sleep complaint and a major cause of oversleeping. Insomnia is often a symptom of another issue, such as stress, anxiety, depression, or another health condition. It can also be caused by lifestyle choices, like medication you take, a lack of exercise, jet lag, or your caffeine intake.
Sleep apnea: This occurs when your breathing temporarily stops during sleep due to a blockage in your upper airways. These pauses in breathing interrupt your sleep, leading to many awakenings throughout the night. Sleep apnea is a serious, and potentially life threatening sleep disorder. If you suffer from this disorder, it’s important to talk to a doctor and get a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine. This device delivers a stream of air to your airways while you sleep and can successfully treat the disorder.
Restless leg syndrome: (RLS) is a sleep disorder caused by an irresistible urge to move your arms and legs. This urge usually occurs when you’re lying down and is due to uncomfortable, tingly sensations in your arms and legs.
Narcolepsy: This sleep disorder often involves excessive, uncontrollable daytime sleepiness. It is caused by a dysfunction of the mechanism in your brain that controls sleeping and waking. If you have narcolepsy, you may have “sleep attacks” where you fall asleep in the middle of talking, working, or even driving.
 If your doctor refers you to a sleep center, a specialist will observe your sleep patterns, brain waves, heart rate, and rapid eye movement with monitoring devices attached to your body. The sleep specialist will analyze the results from your sleep study and design a custom treatment program.A sleep center can also provide you with equipment to monitor your activities while awake and asleep, at home.

