 Reggaeton is a sensual dance performed without physical restraint. That's why you need to be flexible to dance reggaeton, so plan to stretch and warm up your body daily. Women need to be especially certain that they work on increasing flexibility in the hips. The good news is, you don't need to spend a lot of time at the gym to work on your hip flexibility; there are simple exercises you can do just by changing the way you walk around your house.


The Fence. While walking, swing each leg out as if stepping over a fence
Pendulums. Swing your leg so that you kick out 90 degrees forward and then all the way back to 90 degrees behind your body like a pendulum.
The Sprinter Warm-Up. While walking, lift each leg up to your chest just like a a sprinter would when warming up prior to a race.;
, Getting familiar with the music of top reggaeton artists will help you become familiar with the rhythm and beat that dominates reggaeton.


Pick up the "Barrio Fino" album by Daddy Yankee, one of the best known reggaeton artist. Get into some of his hits, which include "La Gasolina," "Lo que pasó, pasó," and "Tu Príncipe."
Explore a variety of reggaeton artists such as Don Omar, Wisin y Yandel, Zion and Tony Dize.
 When you know the words to a song, you can participate in the scene whether you're dancing or not. If you get a little lost on the dance floor or want to take a break, jump in and sing along with the music.


Reggaeton lyrics are catchy and easy to remember and include lots of slang and expressions embraced by the younger generation.
 Reggaeton is a shared, sensual dance experience and the line between private and public blur as everyone shares his or her dancing with everyone around them. Get comfortable with closeness and with flaunting your sexuality.


If you're a woman, try engaging in activities that get you in touch with your body before heading out for a night of dancing--long, scented bubble baths, yoga or stretching exercises or an indulgent nap between soft, luxurious sheets.
If you're man, do some things that you find helps your confidence before you go dancing--lift weights, shoot hoops or play a video game you're good at.
Plan to go reggaeton dancing with your corillo, that is, a small group of close friends. It's very common in the reggaeton scene for cliques and crews to show up and dance together.

