 In order to manage hypertension, you should maintain a diet that is rich in whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. For instance, use the online guidelines provided in the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet to help make healthy food choices. You should also try to choose low-fat dairy products and stay away from saturated fats.For example, try low-fat yogurt and cottage cheese.
 One way to help decrease elevated or high blood pressure is by eating a diet high in potassium. Avoid simply taking potassium supplements, especially if you have a kidney disorder. Instead, you should eat foods that are high in potassium.Foods high in potassium include fruits such as bananas, mangos, papayas, and kiwis; vegetables such as baked potatoes and sweet potatoes; and certain protein sources like pinto beans and lentils., Sodium can contribute to increased blood pressure and hypertension. As a result, you should make sure your daily sodium intake is no more than 2,300 mg per day. You can reduce the amount of sodium you eat by reading food labels carefully and cutting down on processed food consumption.You should also avoid adding salt to your meals and choose low sodium options whenever possible.
 Drinking too much alcohol can raise your blood pressure and lead to weight gain. That being said, a small amount of alcohol consumption is fine. The average woman, and men over the age of 65, should not consume more than one alcoholic beverage per day. Men under the age of 65 should not consume more than two alcoholic drinks per day.One alcoholic beverage is equivalent to 12 ounces (355 ml) of beer, 5 ounces (148 ml) of wine, or 1.5 ounces (44 ml) of liquor., The impact of caffeine on blood pressure is not fully understood. For example, people who rarely drink caffeine may experience an increase in blood pressure immediately following a cup of coffee. However, people who consume caffeine on a regular basis may not experience the same spike in blood pressure.To determine if caffeine impacts your blood pressure, take your blood pressure 30 minutes after consuming a caffeinated beverage. If your blood pressure increases by 5 to 10 mm Hg than you should probably reduce the amount of caffeine you consume.

