 Feed your greyhound premium, dry dog kibble. Look for food that lists meat as the first or second ingredient. Your greyhound is used to a high protein diet. It is best to purchase the dog food from a pet store or online. Grocery store brands have too much sugar, corn, and fillers that can give your greyhound gas and diarrhea.Recommended brands include Nutro, Nutro Max, ProPlan, Science Diet, Kumpi, Eukanuba, and PetSmart's Authority.
You can also ask your veterinarian for recommendations.
Purchase small bags of food at first to determine which food your greyhound likes the best. Follow the package instructions and adjust the amount of food based on the weight of your greyhound., Feed your greyhound once in the morning and once in the evening. These meals should be equal in size. If you feed your dog only once a day, it may be too much food for your greyhound can handle and your dog may become bloated.Try to feed your greyhound at the same time every day. For example, 1-2 cups of food before you leave the house for the day and 1-2 cups of food in the evening.
Do not keep a bowl of food sitting around and allow your greyhound to eat at any time.
Your greyhound will graze on the food throughout the day and may overeat. Greyhounds should always stay lean and overeating will cause your greyhound to gain too much weight.
A bowl of freshwater should be available for your greyhound at all times.
 Greyhounds are tall, and it is easier for them to eat if their dishes are raised 12" or 16." You can buy a raised food dish from the pet store or you can place the dishes on a bench, overturned bucket, or some other sturdy item.Some greyhounds prefer to eat on the floor. Allow your greyhound to eat from a raised bowl and from the floor to determine what is best. If your notice your dog lying down to eat, keep the bowl on the floor. If you notice your dog likes to stand like a giraffe and eat, keep using the raised bowl., Add a little bit of warm water to your greyhound's dry food. Greyhound's do not produce as much as saliva as other dogs and need the extra water to help digest food. Vegetables, yogurt, canned meat, and fresh meat can be added to the dry food as well.Add a tablespoon of yogurt to their food to avoid gas.
Your greyhound will love some raw vegetables mixed in with the dry food. Carrots and spinach are popular add ins.
You can give your greyhound canned tuna, sardines, or mackerel once a week.Never give your greyhound chocolate, raisins, salt , or raw onions. These foods are poisonous and cannot be digested., You should be able to feel the tips of your dog's backbone, feel the ribs, and see the last one or two ribs.Your greyhound should not be more than 5 pounds over his racing weight. The average female should weigh about 65 pounds and eat 2.5 to 3 cups of food per day. The average male should be about 70 pounds and eat about 3 to 4 cups of food per day.If your greyhound needs to lose weight, decrease the amount of food by a quarter of a cup per feeding.
If your greyhound needs to gain weight, increase the amount of food by a quarter of a cup per feeding.
It should take about 2 to 3 weeks for your dog's weight to change. Make further adjustments or see your veterinarian if you do not see any improvements after adjusting the amount of food.

