 Your opponent will be in your guard, meaning you’ll be on your back with you legs wrapped around their waist. Push your hips forward while keeping your torso straight to restrict their movement. From the guard, you’ll have access to both arms, which will leave them vulnerable to an unexpected submission.The kimura is an excellent defensive submission that can be secured just as easily from the bottom as from the top.Make sure you’re on the lookout for submission attempts yourself while searching for an opening.;
, Sit up quickly and scoot your hips back. This will fool your opponent into thinking you’re going to try to throw them off balance. They’ll instinctively plant their arms to brace themselves, allowing you to capitalize.If your sweep attempt works, you’ll have successfully escaped from the guard and can begin scrambling for a stronger position.
 As you sit up, begin reaching your dominant hand up and over your opponent’s opposite shoulder. Meanwhile, clutch their wrist with your hand on the same side. Wind your top hand around the back of their arm, then grab the wrist of your bottom hand.When targeting your opponent’s right arm, you’ll grab their right wrist with your left hand. To apply the submission to their left arm, grab their left wrist with your right hand.Try not to give away your intentions by reaching for an arm too early. Once your opponent knows what to look for, you’ll have a much harder time setting up the submission.
 Now that you’ve got control of your opponent’s arm, uncross your legs and slide your hips to the side. You’ll need to create some space to get into a better position to torque the arm. Keeping the arm tight to your chest, scissor your legs around your opponent’s waist once again to hold them in place.Make sure you turn to the same side that the opponent’s arm is on.
Proper hip distance and placement is key to pulling off a kimura from the guard., Push your bottom hand (the one holding their wrist) forward to rotate the opponent’s arm. Doing this will put pressure on the shoulder joint. If you’re in a solid enough position, the opponent will have no choice but to tap out.Don’t wrench or tug at the arm. The rotation of the shoulder should be done in one smooth motion.

