 When roses are first planted, they should be watered often enough to keep the soil uniformly moist for the first year or two. After that, divide the total amount of water required each week into two to three equal amounts spaced evenly throughout the week.


The soil should be dry at a depth of 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) before additional water is given.;
, Roses are thirsty plants that require regular irrigation from spring through fall and even throughout the winter in hot climates. The amount of water required by a rose bush depends on its size and the temperature.


When daytime temperatures stay below 80 degrees Fahrenheit, give mini roses 2 gallons (7.6 L) of water each week and medium-sized shrub roses 3 to 4 gallons (11.4 to 15.1 L) each week. Large hybrid teas and climbers should be given 6 gallons (22.7 L) each week.
When daytime temperatures rise up to over 80 or 90 degrees Fahrenheit, double the number of gallons given to the rose each time.
 Do so that the water is available as temperatures rise in the afternoon. Spread a 2- to 3-inch depth of shredded bark mulch around the roses to keep the soil moist and reduce the need for frequent irrigation.
 There are many organic fertilizers available that are excellent for roses. They commonly contain kelp meal, bone meal, chicken manure or alfalfa meal along with other ingredients. Select an organic fertilizer with a Nitrogen-Phosphorus- Potassium (NPK) ratio of 5-7-2, 4-6-2 or something similar.


Nitrogen promotes foliage and Phosphorus promotes flowers. The third number promotes overall health.
 Roses should be given their first feeding in the spring when new foliage first appears. Give them their second feeding when the flower buds form and a third feeding around mid-summer.


Do not give roses fertilizer after the middle of August as it will encourage new growth that may not mature in time for winter weather.
 The amount of fertilizer to give each rose varies, depending on the size of the rose and the fertilizer formulation. In general, though, each rose should be given ¼ to ½ cup of fertilizer. Follow the manufacturer’s application instructions carefully.


Never give diluted water-soluble fertilizer to a rose until after it has been watered with fresh, clean water. The fertilizer can burn a rose’s roots if the roots are dry. Dry fertilizer should be worked into the top 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) of soil before watering the rose.

