 You can typically give your cat an SSRI with food to make administering it easier and prevent stomach upset.However, you should always ask your cat’s vet if they recommend administering any medication with or without food., Try crushing the tablet and mixing it with a small amount of your cat’s favorite food or treat. Go for something with a strong taste and aroma, like canned fish, to disguise the medicine’s flavor.Before crushing the tablet, ask the vet, “Is it ok to crush or split the tablet or capsule and mix it with food, or does it need to be ingested whole?”
Ask the vet if they can give you a pill crusher, or purchase one from your local pet store.
 Pill Pockets are special treats into which you insert a medication tablet. They are available at your nearby pet store and a good choice if your vet advises against giving your cat crushed pills.You can also try forming your cat’s wet food into a small meatball with the pill at its center.
Give your cat a medicine-free treat or meatball before you give it the one with the tablet. This will let you observe whether your cat likes eating food in this form and whether it eats the meatball whole or breaks it apart. If it breaks the meatball apart, you might need to try another method, since your cat will likely notice the tablet and just eat the food around it.
 Give your cat a tablet by hand if it won't take a pill with its food or if the vet tells you to administer the pill without food. Hold the cat’s cheekbones and tilt its head back with one hand. In the other hand, hold the tablet between your index finger and thumb, and use your fourth finger to lower and hold open your cat’s mouth from its chin. Keep your fourth finger between your cat’s canine teeth as you hold its mouth open.
Insert the pill onto the back of the tongue, close the cat’s mouth, and massage its neck to encourage it to swallow.
 Pill dispensers are also available if you have trouble manually inserting the pill into your cat’s mouth. Insert the pill onto the tip of the dispenser, tilt your cat’s head open, and place the dispenser into your cat’s mouth so the pill sits on the back of its tongue. Press the dispener’s plunger to release the pill, close your cat’s mouth, and massage its neck to encourage it to swallow., Once you've given the cat its medication, calm it down by giving it a reward or reassuring it. If you've given the cat a pill by hand, offer it a favorite treat. Gently pet it and give it plenty of calm, positive praise.

If your cat just needs some space, give it time to calm down on its own.

