 Impatience can sneak up on you when you're trying to help your young child with their homework. In these situations, you can quickly draw on techniques that help you stay calm in the heat-of-the-moment. Before you become irritable with your child, simply shut your eyes and count to ten., Deep breathing is a great exercise to call upon in moments of impatience. Plus, you can do this exercise any time and any place. Draw in deep, cleansing breaths from your nose for a few counts. Hold the breath for a second. Then, slowly release the air through your mouth.

Try deep breathing when you become impatient and notice yourself becoming relaxed and more in control., Reciting a calming phrase aloud or in your head may help you to get a hold on anger and impatience before they get out of hand. Try saying something like, "This too shall pass" over and over again until you feel more capable of calmly dealing with your child., Younger kids are more likely to have temper tantrums when they are asked to tackled tough subjects. Reasons for tantrums vary from being hungry to being tired, but some kids simply will have them when they don't want to do hard work. The trick to easing a tantrum is to not become rattled or get drawn into an argument. Stay quiet and relaxed during the tantrum. This will help your child calm down sooner. Place a hand on their shoulder or back to offer reassurance. Ignore any acting out behavior and refuse to say anything until your child has stopped the behavior.
 Small children may have a hard time focusing on their work after a long day of school. Give your child (and yourself) regular breaks to use the restroom, have a snack, or collect themselves after an especially difficult assignment.It may even be a good idea to let your child do some other after-school activity before starting homework in the evenings.
 Model good attention and concentration skills by doing your own work while your child does homework. This helps set a good example that even parents have to do homework. Plus, you’ll be less impatient if you’re using your child’s homework time to do something constructive, too.


Try paying bills, writing out the week’s grocery list or menu, or reading a book during homework time., If you find yourself becoming impatient on a regular basis during your small child’s homework time, you may need to call in reinforcements. Some parents simply have a harder time coaching and guiding small children who don’t really know how to study appropriately.

If your impatience stems from the work being too difficult or taking up too much time, it may help to talk to your child’s teacher about cutting back on homework or being more realistic about what is assigned.If you can’t seem to explain concepts so that your child understands or your child is really struggling, it may help to hire a tutor who has experience in this area or have your child evaluated for a learning disorder.

