 This can be either a glass jar (jelly jar) or a plastic container, something you might put nuts or peanut butter in. If the container or jar has a lid, remove it.
 Buy a jar of apple vinegar and pour about an inch or so of it into the container. This will attract the flies to the container., Use a few drops of dish detergent or soap to the vinegar to break the surface tension. Otherwise, the flies can use their legs to stand on top of the vinegar and drink it up., Instead of adding the vinegar/dish soap mixture to your container, fruit and meat are also okay options. Simply chop up what you want to add in, and place it in the bottom of the container. The rotting smell of the food will attract the flies to the container., Rip off a piece that is at least three inches by three inches. Press the wrap tightly around the rim of the container with your hands. If the plastic wrap is not staying in place, add a few pieces of tape, or place a rubber band around the wrap., Use a tooth pick, scissors, knife, etc. to poke at least four small holes in the plastic wrap. This will allow the flies to gain entry into the trap., The flies will enter the trap through the holes. However, it will be almost impossible for them to escape, because they will not be able to find the holes. They will also be inclined to snack on whatever is in the container.
 Some of the flies will have likely died in the trap over a period of time. However, some other flies will likely still be eating whatever you put in the container. Bring the trap inside of the house and place it near the sink. Turn on the hot water in your sink. Make sure that the stopper is down, so your sink fills up. When it is filled, place the container in the sink for ten minutes. This will drown the flies.
 Remove the plastic wrap and throw it away. Put the container in your trash can and bang the container against the inside of the can. Do this until all the flies have been removed, along with whatever mixture you put in there to begin with., You can do this by simply washing the container out with soap and warm water. You can also use certain safe chemicals which will make sure the container is clean and ready to use again. After the container is clean, you can use it again to make another trap.