 Petroleum jelly works great as a lubricant, making it ideal for slipping off stuck on wedding bands and other rings. Apply a small dollop around the edges of the ring and twist it as you work. It'll pop right off.Some people will regularly lubricate ear lobes with Vaseline. The use of Vaseline helps to make earring insertion easy and painless.
 Using a very tiny amount of Vaseline on glossy shoes, purses, and other surfaces can help to quickly restore the shine and texture of those surfaces. It's an easy and cheap way of shining up.
 Food carvings, such as potatoes, pumpkins, and other organic art projects can have their life extended by applying a small amount of Vaseline to the edges. Once you carve your Halloween pumpkin, rub Vaseline on the exposed edges to keep the carved pumpkin from rotting or going dry. It'll still dry out eventually, but you can slow down the process considerably with a bit of well-placed petroleum jelly.


Avoid using Vaseline on wood, which will serve to dry it out over time.
 Lubricate door hinges, sticky zippers, and the moving parts in mechanical toys to keep them working properly. While oil-based lubricant like Vaseline can attract dirt and dust, it's an exceptionally great household lubricant for a variety of purposes. Keep some in your workshop or tool drawer for a quick spot-treatment for squeaky gates and other wheels in need of greasing.


Rub Vaseline on the neck of your nail polish bottles and they won’t get stuck to the caps. Vaseline helps to create a barrier between the bottle and the polish, keeping it from forming a crust or gunking up.
 Vaseline is a common home remedy for a variety of cat and dog related afflictions. Always talk to your veterinarian about proper products and approaches to dealing with serious issues, and ask if small amounts of petroleum jelly are appropriate.


Use Vaseline to help ease hairballs in cats. Feeding cats a very tiny dab of Vaseline can help to relieve hairball symptoms, making them pass it quickly and easily. It's a common use treatment.
Apply to the cracked pads of dogs paws to help soften their skin. In the winter, dogs foot pads tend to get dried out, especially if they're walking frequently on the concrete. If this happens, it can be uncomfortable and painful for the dog. Gently massage a small amount of Vaseline into their pads and keep them from licking it off.
 Many different household batteries, in the car and in appliances, are susceptible to leaks and corrosion over time, which can be quite dangerous and shorten the life of the batteries themselves. Avoid getting your battery terminals gunked up with corrosion by applying a small dab of Vaseline every time you change the battery. If you've just cleaned battery corrosion from the terminals in the car, lubricate them with Vaseline before you reinstall the battery.

