 Daydreaming sometimes gets a bad rap, but there are many benefits to daydreaming. Daydreaming is associated with increased creativity, enhanced memory, empathy, and improved mood. Plus, it’s easy, it doesn’t cost anything, and it’s a wonderful way to cope with your problems at home., You may not be able to pack up and leave tomorrow, but eventually it will be time to go. Heading out on your own requires a great deal of planning, so begin formulating your strategy now. How do you plan to save up enough money to survive? Where do you want to go? Will you head off to school, to the military, or simply to a new city? Form a plan by talking to people who are older than you, speaking with a guidance counselor at school, and/or doing some research on your own. Then, set your plan into motion., Anytime you have negative emotions or a bad situation to deal with, one excellent way to cope is to express yourself creatively. This might be writing in a journal, drawing a picture, or writing a song. This is a great way to process your emotions, and help you cope with your bad parent., Sometimes you may need someone to talk to who has no connection to the situation at hand, and who you can trust 100%. A good choice for this is a therapist. A good therapist can help you sort through your problems at home and find a way to deal with them.If you do not want to approach your parent about helping you find a therapist or if your parent has said no, then you can also talk to the guidance counselor at your school for help.
If your parent says no based on financial reasons, then it might be helpful to let your parent know that some therapists offer a sliding scale for patients who cannot afford the regular fees. You may be able to pay as little as $10 per session.A therapist may also be able to help you and your parent develop a better relationship. If you think that your parent might be open to therapy, then try saying something like, "I would like our relationship to improve, but I think we might need some help. I am willing to do some therapy with you so that we could work on that. Is that something you would be willing to do too?"

, Many issues between family members can be solved through communication. When we communicate face-to-face, however, things can get heated, and it can be very difficult to get across what you want to say. If you feel that you may be able to sort out the issues you have with your parent, think about writing them a letter.Even if you have no intention of giving them the letter, taking the time to write it can be an excellent way to process what you’re feeling. Then, simply throw it away.

