 Your child’s appetite should not change as a result of diarrhea, so you should be able to offer the same foods as usual. However, if your child seems to have increased diarrhea after eating something, then you may not want to offer that food to your child until he is better.


Try to stick to foods that you know your child can tolerate without an issue and avoid introducing new foods while your child has diarrhea.Children with diarrhea may temporarily have difficulty digesting dairy products, so you may want to hold off on dairy until he is well.;
, Large meals may make diarrhea more severe, so you may want to encourage your child to eat smaller meals spaced evenly throughout the day. Try to encourage your child to eat six small meals throughout the day to see if that helps to stop or at least reduce diarrhea symptoms., Increasing your child’s fiber intake may help to reduce symptoms of diarrhea, so the BRAT diet may be a good option.When using the BRAT diet, you will only feed your child bland foods such as bananas, rice (brown rice), applesauce, and toast(whole wheat). These foods are thought to be easier for your child to digest. Some studies have even shown that diarrhea goes away faster when kids eat foods that are easy to digest. Some other easy to digest foods that you may consider offering your child include:Pasta
Cooked beans
Mashed potatoes
Mashed carrots
Pretzels
Salty crackers

, Yogurt can rebalance the bacteria in your child’s gut, which may help to stop diarrhea.If your child has a favorite kind of yogurt, try offering some as a snack.


Look for yogurt that has live or active cultures, such as Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium bifidum.
Your child may be more interested in eating the yogurt if you allow her to pick it out in the store. Try asking your child to select a couple of flavors in the market.
 Offering your child an occasional high-fat food may help put a stop to your child’s diarrhea as well. This is especially helpful for children with "toddler's diarrhea," which is a chronic mild diarrhea in toddlers. Some good options include:Whole fat milk
Olive oil
Cheese
Ice cream

