 Goggles allow you to see clearly underwater without irritation, and their strap ensures they remain affixed to your head while swimming. They're secured easily: you place the lenses over your eyes, and then stretch the silicone strap around to the back of your head. The strap should press snugly against your temples, like glasses, but shouldn't hurt.


A pair of goggles is only as good as its seal, so if water's getting into your lenses you might want to try a different pair. The strap and lens shape should do all the work necessary for a good seal; you shouldn't have to repeatedly fix the suction by pressing them against your eye sockets.
Goggles are uniformly used by competitive swimmers, who can’t have their vision compromised by going without, or their speed compromised by using the less aerodynamic dive mask.
First realized in the polished tortoiseshells that fourteenth-century Persians used to protect their eyes while diving for pearls, goggles have gone through some significant improvements since then.Modern swim goggles provide excellent visibility and use plastic, silicone, and polycarbonate blends.
 A dive mask goes a step beyond goggles, covering your nose as well. If you’re uncomfortable blowing air out of your nose, this means no more awkward nose-holding when you’re underwater! Like goggles, dive masks are affixed to the head by a single strap, thicker than most goggles', and should remain on your face while swimming without requiring any manual application of pressure.


Dive masks work because their flat surface and the space between their window and your eyes allow your eyes to focus underwater. Light bends differently underwater than in air, and the mask’s design corrects this for you. Snorkels can be attached to the straps of diving masks, allowing you to float along the surface of the water with unlimited access to good, old-fashioned air.
If you wear glasses, you can have your prescription put into your mask! Diving with contact lenses is also possible, though you should stick to soft lenses if you head into the open ocean. Hard lenses can suction painfully to your eyes at greater depths., Diving with the aid of an oxygen tank (or a tank filled with another appropriate, compressed gas mixture) is known as scuba diving. Divers equip themselves with dive masks, wetsuits, fins, and buoyancy compensators to aid in their underwater movement as they explore the sea floor, shipwrecks, reefs, and cave systems. Search near you for diving certification programs if you’re interested! There is nuanced, particular safety information which must be learned in order minimize risk when traversing underwater environments that humans aren’t designed to live in.


Wetsuits absorb and retain a layer of water which your body will warm, in turn keeping you warmer. It gets cold down there!
Fins provide divers with faster propulsion, which is quite necessary considering the other gear they’re saddled with.
Buoyancy compensation works by inflating and deflating a special vest with air, in order to control the depth at which you float in the water. Weights are also used to aid in descent.
Reefs can be both natural, such as those involving large networks of coral, or artificial, when they’re structures which have been created or deliberately sunk by man.

