 Apply for marriage licenses after you have set your wedding date and complete the application between seven and 30 days beforehand.Apply with the county clerk of court. The officiator of your wedding will send the signed license in to be recorded, after which you will receive a marriage certificate.;
, After a divorce has been finalized, you may apply for a copy of the certificate by mail, in person, or by fax. You must have either a Wisconsin driver's license, Wisconsin state ID, or out-of-state driver's license or ID card. If you do not have one of these, you can use two of the following: U.S. government-issued photo ID, passport, checkbook/bank statement, health insurance card, current lease (signed and dated), utility bill or traffic ticket, paycheck or earnings statement. Apply in person at 1 West Wilson Street, Room 160, in Madison, Wisconsin. You will need a certified copy to change your name.To request by mail, send your application to Wisconsin Vital Records Office, P.O. Box 309, Madison, WI, 53701-0309. , Complete the SS-5 form. Gather certified copies of marriage or divorce or annulment certificate. Bring the completed SS-5 form and certified copies of marriage or divorce certificates along with a Wisconsin driver's license, state ID, or passport to the SSA office. You will also need a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. citizenship certificate, or work authorization letter and I-94.You can also apply by mail by mailing your documents to your local SSA office along with the SS-5 form; your documents will be mailed back to you.You will receive your documents and new social security card with your new name by mail.
 Provide a current Wisconsin driver’s license (with photo), a non-expired U.S. passport, or your Social Security card to your local DMV office along with a completed MV3001 form (MV3004 for state ID). Also, provide proof of your name change, such as your marriage certificate (original/certified copy), record of divorce (certified), or U.S. passport showing your new name. You will have to surrender your current driver's license with your old name, and pay a fee of $14 for a driver's license or $16 for a state ID., It is optional to change your name on your car title and registration, but you can do so if you wish. Visit your local DMV office with your current title and pay the $5 fee.