 To begin the basketweave rib stitch, you will need to cast on eight plus three stitches for a total of 12.If you want to make a wider project, then you can cast on a multiple of eight plus three, such as 16 plus three or 40 plus three.
 Once you have all of your stitches on the needle, begin working your first wrong side by purling three stitches.The wrong side is the back side of your project. It will look different from the right side of your project. Keep in mind that your working yarn should be in front of your needle to purl.To purl, insert the needle into the stitch in front of the needle holding the stitches. Then yarn over, and pull the yarn through to create a new stitch. Let the old stitch slide off as the new one transfers to your right hand needle., After you finish your three purl stitches, you will need to knit one stitch.Make sure that you transfer the yarn behind the work to knit.


To knit, insert the needle into the stitch behind the needle. Then, yarn over and pull the new stitch through as you let the old one slide off the needle., Continue to alternate between purling three stitches and knitting one stitch all the way to the end of the row. Your last stitch should be a knit stitch.Follow this pattern for all wrong side (odd numbered) rows in your project.
 For the first three right side rows (rows 2, 4, and 6) you will need to start by knitting three stitches. Knit as you normally would., Follow your three knit stitches with five purl stitches. Purl these stitches as you normally would., Keep knitting three and purling five all the way to the end of the right side row. You will do this for the first three right side rows in this basket weave sequence.One sequence of the basketweave rib stitch contains 12 rows. This pattern will be used for rows 2, 4, and 6 of every sequence.
 Start your eighth row by purling four stitches. Start rows 10 and 12 the same way for every basketweave rib stitch sequence.Make sure that the working yarn is in the front of the work.
 Follow the first four purl stitches with three knit stitches. Remember to transfer the working yarn to the back of the work and knit these stitches as you normally would., After you knit three stitches, transfer the working yarn back to the front of the work and purl the next five stitches. Purl the stitches as you normally would.Repeat the pattern of knitting three and purling five stitches until you get to the last seven stitches in the row. For these last seven stitches, knit three stitches and then purl the last four stitches to finish the row.
Follow this pattern for rows 8, 10, and 12 in every basketweave rib stitch sequence. After you complete the twelfth row, start over with the wrong side row and repeat the sequence again. Keep repeating the sequence until your work is the desired length and then bind off your work.

