;
,

,

, It should turn green. If the passcode window doesn't pop right up, hit "Set Passcode."

, Make this something you'll remember, but your child or other restricted user won't know. You will then be asked to enter it again for confirmation. After doing so, you can exit the Settings.
 Guided Access will work on any iPad app. For children's use, you may want to let them watch videos or play a particular game.
 This will open the in-app Guided Access settings screen.
 These "blind spots" will remain the same regardless of what changes on the screen throughout use. You may want to disable areas that show clickable ads, exit buttons, in-app purchases, or other similar "no-go" functions.


The boundary you draw doesn't have to be exact. The iPad will turn your boundary into a logical shape for the given area (box, oval, etc.), and even after drawing, you can adjust the edges of the boundary by dragging the corners and sides to cover your desired region.
 Click on "Options" and then adjust the "Sleep/Wake Button" and "Volume Buttons" as you'd like. If the buttons are green, those functions will work, and if they're white, they will not work.
 Turning the "Touch" button to white will put the whole screen in "view only" mode; touching anywhere on the screen won't do anything.
 When this button is white, tilting or turning the screen will have no effect on the iPad or app.
, If the user touches the disabled areas or buttons, nothing will happen, so they can play and watch any way they want without getting into trouble!

,,, Changing the settings may be helpful if you want to adjust the disabled portions of the screen for a new page of a game or app. Then click "Resume" if you want to go back into Guided Access, or click "End" if you want to quit Guided Access altogether.
 After exiting this mode, you can turn it on again by clicking the Home button three times. You may be asked to enter and confirm your passcode.
 Rest assured that they can play and watch freely without getting into other apps or clicking ads that may be inappropriate - or cost you cash!

