 The Professor prides himself on being a True Gentleman. If you have no real guidelines to follow, here are a few to get you started. (In the below steps);
, This rule of Layton's stretches to almost infinity. A classic example of this rule is when he does not alert the press about rescuing Flora in the Curious Village. He knows and respects women and is pleased that he can follow this.
 Layton helps people wherever he goes. An example of this guideline is when Layton happily helps the small girl in Monte D' Or find her mother. Layton also quotes that "Helping someone in distress is its own reward."

, Layton has not ever done this, and it is the mark of a true gentleman to not do this.
 Although Layton does once break his promise to Flora in the Unwound Future, his promise is often 100% reliable. The only reason he ever has to break a promise is when he must.
 Layton observes and remotely remembers every detail he encounters. This is always very helpful when he comes to the final confrontation at the end. Although you don't have to go off on your own private investigation every week with your blue suit apprentice, helping the police is another top priority.


Layton knows that the police have a job to do that is just as important as his own, and he doesn't interfere with them. Although his brainpower is superior to theirs, he does not look down on them, nor does he see the police force as his rivals.
 All Layton's friends are, to a certain degree, intelligent. Dr. Shrader is one obvious example. His best friend, Randall, was also very well educated. Although you may not see why Layton values this, it is vital. Layton knows the importance of true friendship. He can always refer to his friends and he is deeply connected with them.


Your intelligent friends don't have to be world-famous university professors. If you know that your baker-friend is very clever, then don't ditch him in search of somebody else. Knowing the correct type of friendship is a very useful skill.
 Layton's spirit could be the most important thing his personality has. He never will abandon his friends. Perhaps all of us have this spirit deep inside us - after all, it is an instinct to keep going. But letting this go too far is dangerous. Know when the situation is hopeless, and know exactly when to act.

