 It's easy to get mentally sidetracked if you're focused on the difficulties that lie in the details of the task you're trying to complete, rather than the goal you hope to achieve. Don't miss the forest for the trees - never lose sight of the prize. Always keep your final product in mind as you approach any trying task - this will help you stay focused and keep you from wasting time on inconsequential side-tasks.


You don't even have to focus on your literal goal - you can try thinking of other triumphant imagery. Close your eyes and let your mind wander - build a mental picture of yourself finishing a race with a burst of speed or getting an A on the final exam. Just don't fall asleep!
Avoid dwelling on the challenges, obstacles or hurdles you may face before reaching your goal, but be aware of them and work hard to overcome the hurdles and reach your goal.
In school, keep your motivation high and build your stamina for studying prior to final exam week by hosting study sessions for friends all school year.
 If you think of your problem as one big, monolithic task, it's very easy to get discouraged. Instead, keep your mental stamina high by breaking your work into smaller, easier chunks. Focus on doing the most important things first or completing the process as a series of sequential steps. The sense of accomplishment you'll get from completing each small piece of your problem will help keep you focused and attentive as you tackle the rest of your work.
 Your brain isn't a muscle, but it can be strengthened like one. Work up your ability to concentrate and focus on serious work over time in the same way you would build strong muscles. Gradually increase the duration and intensity of your mental tasks. Over time, doing an amount of mental work that would previously have left you exhausted will seem normal - even easy.


For instance, if you're trying to learn guitar, but find it too difficult to concentrate on the repetitive early tasks of practicing basic chords and scales, try practicing every day, increasing the amount of time you practice daily by five minutes every week. For example, practice 30 minutes per day the first week, 35 the second, etc. In less that two months, you'll be practicing an hour a day and you'll be well on your way to gaining some serious fretboard skills.
 Often, when faced with a difficult task, people allow themselves to procrastinate by pursuing meaningless distractions. To keep your mental stamina high and stay focused on your task, clear these distractions from your life. If, for instance, you have a bad habit of playing online games instead of getting started on the pile of work in your "In" box, download a free productivity app that blocks gaming websites. If you waste time reading trashy magazines instead of writing the novel you've been planning, cancel your subscriptions. Do anything and everything you can to isolate yourself with your work - you'll have no excuse but to do it!


Clear your schedule. Check your calendar for upcoming events that will interfere with your ability to devote yourself to your work - if you've got a serious schedule conflict, give up or reschedule the "fun" event in favor of your work.
 Coffee and energy drinks can be useful if you're looking for a short-term energy boost, as caffeine can cause your energy level and focus to sky-rocket. However, these things aren't useful to improve long-term mental stamina, as they often cause you to "crash" after the initial boost, becoming drowsier than you were before. They can also be habit-forming - if you develop an addiction to caffeine, it may lose its usefulness even as a temporary pick-me-up.


Never use prescription stimulants (like Adderall, etc.) as a work or study aid - these drugs can have powerful side effects and shouldn't be used unless they're prescribed by a doctor.
 If you're relying your mental stamina to get you through an emotionally trying time like a breakup or a personal loss, know that almost any problem is easier to get through if you share it. Confide in a friend, family member, loved one, or other trusted person when you're having trouble enduring in times of distress. Often, it'll feel good simply to open up about how you're feeling - these people don't necessarily need to help you solve your problems to make you feel better.


If you're hesitant to talk to others because your problems are very personal, it even help simply to express your problems to yourself. Think about how you feel deep down at your core and write these feeling down in a journal or private notebook. After a short time, come back and read these thoughts - you may find that you're surprised at what you wrote and that you're now able to focus more clearly on overcoming your issues.
 Just like physical stamina, mental stamina requires plenty of rest. If you've been concentrating hard on finishing a task or getting through a difficult situation, give yourself a brief break when you get a chance. If you're at the office, step out into the hallway for some peace and quiet or splash some water on your face in the restroom. If you're having a hard time maintaining a smile at a tense social event, excuse yourself and, for a few minutes, simply allow yourself to rest. You'll be amazed how much even a brief respite from a mentally trying situation will leave you feeling refreshed, recharged, and ready to soldier on.

