 You can use any bar you like. The finished product will inherit its properties (like scent) from the bar you choose, so make sure that you choose one that you like. Creating liquid soap from a bar of soap is much faster and safer than making soap from scratch, as you will not have to work directly with any lyes.


Your finished product will only be as “natural” as the bar of soap you choose. When specifically trying to make natural soap, make sure you have read the ingredients list on the bar you are using.;
, The more finely you grate the soap, the easier it will be to combine it with water. A conventional kitchen grater will get the job done just fine. If you use a grater that you use in your kitchen for food, make sure that you rinse it thoroughly before using it again.
 Use about 950 grams of water (about 4 cups) for an average sized bar of soap. You may alter the amount slightly depending on how thick you want the resulting soap to be. Using substantially less water, about 350g, you can create a cream-like soap that can be used for shaving. You can vary the water amount depending on the precise thickness you want, using the above amounts as a guideline.



It will take about 15 minutes for the soap and water to combine. When it is done, it should have a frothy, soupy look.
Before moving on, let the mixture cool for about 15 minutes. Repeat this entire step if the mixture is becoming separated.
 You can choose to skip this step if you do not want to add any additional scents to your soap. If you do want to add essential oils to create your own scent, it is best to start with with a neutral, scentless soap.


Essential oils are very strong; a few drops is all you need. Simply put a few drops into the mixture, and stir thoroughly. , It takes about between a half and full day for the soap to fully “gel.” You can leave the soap in the same pan you used before, or transfer it to another container. If you shake the soap and it retains its gel-like consistency, it is ready to use.
Make sure you add essential oils only after the soap has cooled and sat for 24 hours.
 The soap will be ready to use immediately.


When creating large amounts of soap that you might not use all at once, make sure that you store the excess in a clean, sealed container.

