 Tell them how much you love them, and include specific things that you love about them, whether it’s how passionate they are about the things they love or their strong sense of justice or just the way they smile when they’re a little embarrassed.


Usually the first attempt at writing a note is awkward and disjointed and you run out of space before you’ve said what you want to. Don’t stress: jot down a few ideas on a separate sheet of paper or write an entire first draft before you set anything down in your card.
 If they love dogs, offer to spend a day cleaning kennels and walking dogs at the local SPCA. If they lost a loved one to cancer, then assist with a Relay for Life event in your area. By investing time in something near to their heart, you are affirming that what matters to them matters to you., For a day or a week, take a moment every time they do something you appreciate to tell them that you’re grateful for them and what they do.


Especially try to note things you might normally take for granted. It doesn't have to be anything fancy, just a simple, "Thanks for letting me borrow your coat," or "Thank you for cancelling your plans to be with me when I was sick."
Try to work in appreciation for general qualities, like, "You're so thoughtful. I appreciate that you always open the door for me when we go out." Or, "That was so kind of you to give them a ride home. You're a really good friend."

, Notes are nice and can be saved for another day, but few things are as thoughtful and affirming as having someone look directly into your eyes to tell you how much they love you and why.


Try to make it about them. Say things like, "You're such a compassionate person, and it really comes through in your interactions with people. They can tell how warm and kind you are within minutes of meeting you." It's okay to talk about how they make you feel, since you're telling them why you love them, but try not to make it too self-centered. For example, "You're such an open person that I've always felt like I could tell you anything," is great, because it emphasizes a particular quality they possess and it tells them that you trust them.
If you compliment them on physical features, be specific. Don't just say, "You're sexy," or "You're beautiful." Say, "You have gorgeous eyes," or "You walk so confidently, and it's really attractive."

