 If you have the ability to adjust incentive schemes, use it. Each person is motivated differently, so choose 1 to 3 things that will help the salesperson work harder and put them in writing.
 If few of your salespeople are meeting their quotas, you should review how well they are working to motivate employees. Reconsider caps on commissions or quotas, placing them at lower levels if the market has seen a drop or raising the commission levels in a market boom.
 Offering a trip, day off, large gift card, coffee, free lunches or gym/club membership for the most sales in a week will encourage staff to go the extra mile. These interim bonuses can also help salespeople to meet their larger quotas by helping them hit milestones during the season.


Incentives also increase friendly competition. Competing on a daily basis for new leads or lead qualification can cause people to push each other to do better. Keep incentives at a value where they increase friendly competition but do not encourage sabotage.
 Keeping in mind what motivates each employee, tack on an incentive to their commission that applies to their desires. For example, if you know an employee has an anniversary, offer them 2 extra paid days of leave if they meet their goal.
 Salespeople can often feel like they are alone, working toward a target. Create a team incentive where they are encouraged to help each other and share knowledge for a common goal.
 The time you take to congratulate someone on their hard work may decide how hard they work to reach their next quota. Consider these recognition strategies.


Congratulate them publicly. Bring up their achievement at sales meetings. Be as specific as possible with the details of their success. For example, say "Joe's ability to obtain referrals is exceptional. He has the highest referral rate in the company, which leads to him hitting his quotas. Joe can you tell us how you ask someone to refer you to their friends and associates?"
Write the person a note. Do not wait until their yearly review to give them recognition. Instead, send a letter to their house to tell them how valued they are, with a gift card for their family.
Introduce the person and their achievements to your bosses. Recognition in upper management is hard to get, especially if your sales staff sees high turnover. When someone surpasses goals, schedule meetings where they can meet with higher staff or invite them to sit in on a strategy meeting.

