 Avoid reacting to the bully by hitting, kicking, pushing or name calling. Fighting back usually only encourages the bully to continue taunting you and can be dangerous as someone will likely be injured or hurt.If you’re dealing with a bully at school or at work, bullying back may also get you in trouble and give the bully the satisfaction of seeing you in the principal’s office or detention.
In an office setting, bullying back could lead to an awkward meeting with your boss about your reactive behavior or embarrassment in front of other co-workers for responding aggressively to the bully.
 While this is a more active way to deal with bullying, a good comeback line can diffuse the situation and force the bully to realize they are not going to make you visibly angry or upset.For example: a bully may come up to you and yell a cruel or threatening remark. A brief response like “Why would you say that?” takes the focus off the insult and places it back on the bully, while still avoiding name calling or an angry remark. This kind of comeback can throw the bully off guard and make them so uncomfortable they will likely leave you alone.
A simple response such as “Really?” or “Seriously?” as well as a bored-sounding response like “whatever”, or “uh huh” can also show you don’t take the bully’s remarks to heart and aren’t going to engage in an aggressive interaction with them.
If the bully is threatening you with physical violence, it is always best to not engage with the bully at all. Walk away and find a safe space around an adult or an authority figure.If you are a parent who is trying to teach your child how to deter a bully, practice several good comebacks with them at home. Role playing with them will allow them to assert themselves and confront the reality of bullying. It will also let them know they can come to you if they are having any further problems with bullies., Most bullies enjoy bullying someone around others to establish their power and dominance and send a message to others that they are in charge. It’s important to work on deflecting attention away from the bully’s actions so they do not have an audience for their taunting and teasing.Using a good comeback line to diffuse, rather than escalate, the situation with the bully can help remove their audience. While a fight or loud shouting with the bully can lead to more attention, a passive action can lead to less attention.
For example, if a bully is taunting you on the bus, deflect attention away from the bully's words by moving seats to sit next to someone else or striking up a conversation with a friend sitting nearby.
If you are in a work situation with a bully, another tactic might be to change the subject or shift the conversation away from the bully’s remarks. This will indicate the bully has no power in the conversation and will remove any chances they may have to gain attention for their bullying behavior.

