 Atlantic salmon may be the best fish you can eat on a regular basis and it is considered safe to eat two to three servings per week.. Salmon is rich in Vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. It also provides calcium to strengthen your bones, and minerals such as iron and potassium.Farmed salmon is plentiful, and available in any grocery store. There is some controversy about wild vs. farmed salmon — in the past, farm-raised salmon was considered to be inferior to wild, but it is becoming more accepted as a safe alternative to wild salmon. To find quality farmed fish, check with The Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), which creates sustainability standards for shellfish and fin fish aquaculture worldwide and is responsible for improving the quality expected of farmers.Salmon also is a good source of lean protein. The minerals and nutrients in salmon are essential for strong bones and muscles.
A risk/benefit analysis by the Connecticut Department of Public Healthdemonstrated that eating salmon significantly lowers your risk of cardiovascular disease without any significant risk due to contaminants.;
, Omega-3 fatty acids are essential nutrients that strengthen your heart and improve your brain functioning, including decreasing the risk of depression, ADHD, Alzheimer's disease, and dementia. Since your body doesn't produce omega-3 fatty acids, you must get them through food.


Omega-3 fatty acids also especially important for infants, young children, and women who are pregnant or nursing. These nutrients aid in brain and nerve development.
While you can take omega-3 fatty acids in supplement form, your body absorbs them better if you get them through eating fish.
Salmon is a good source of omega-3 fatty acids, as are other fatty fish such as herring, mackerel, oysters, sardines, tuna, and trout.
 Many fish carry mercury, which presents a significant health risk. The point system, based on data regarding the mercury content of fish compiled by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can help you plan your fish meals over the course of a month.The risks from mercury in fish and shellfish depend on the amount of fish and shellfish eaten and the levels of mercury in the fish and shellfish. Therefore, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are advising women who may become pregnant, pregnant women, nursing mothers, and young children to avoid some types of fish and eat fish and shellfish that are lower in mercury.
Generally, adults should eat fish meals containing no more than eight points in any given month.
Fish such as catfish, salmon, crab, scallops, pollock, tilapia, and trout are common fish that are only worth one point. They are very low in mercury.
On the other end of the scale, grouper, orange roughy, and marlin are worth eight points. If you eat these fish, you should only eat one fish meal that month to avoid consuming too much mercury.
Other common fish that are relatively low in mercury include cod, snapper, and tuna, which are worth two points. If you buy tuna, buy canned light rather than canned white or Albacore tuna, which have three times more mercury.
Pregnant women, nursing mothers, and young children should not eat shark, swordfish, king mackerel, or tilefish because they contain high levels of mercury.
 Especially if you plan on eating fish more than once a week, variety ensures you won't get tired of eating the same thing all the time. This also helps you maximize the health benefits of your fish, since different species have different nutrients.Some fish, including shellfish, you shouldn't consume as often because of mercury and other contaminants. To keep your exposure under control, you have to plan your fish consumption.
Salmon generally is safe to eat two or three times a week, as is canned light tuna.
Other safe fish include anchovies and sardines, which you can easily add to a salad or other food such as pizza.
Keep in mind that if you eat the maximum safe amount of a certain type of fish in a week, this does not mean you can supplement with other types of fish. For example, you shouldn't eat three servings of salmon and a serving of lobster in one week.
 If you go fishing, or buy fish that aren't already skinned, make sure you skin them and cut away the fat. This lowers the fat content, which will make the fish healthier for you to eat. It also reduces the amount of potential contaminants in your meal.After you've removed all the skin, cut away all fat along the fish's back and belly.
Make a V-shaped wedge along the side of the fish to remove the dark fatty tissue and expose the healthy fillet.
Keep in mind that skinning and trimming the fish won't do anything to reduce mercury content; however, it will protect you from other contaminants that may exist in the waterway where the fish was found.
 Baking or grilling your fish generally is the most healthy way to cook it, although fish is often fried. Whichever way you choose, put your fish on a rack that allows the fat to drip off and away from the fish as it cooks.Allowing the fat to drip away will make your fish a leaner meal. It also protects you from soil and water contaminants that may have been in the waterway where the fish was found.
Dispose of the drippings promptly. Don't use them in sauces or gravies. Apart from being full of fat that will decrease the health benefits of your fish, they also may contain harmful contaminants.
 Whatever method you use to cook your fish, it should reach an internal temperature of at least 145°F (62.8°C) before you eat it. You can buy a food thermometer at any discount or home goods store to measure the temperature of your fish.If you don't have a food thermometer, check your fish carefully to make sure it's completely cooked before you eat it.
Regardless of the temperature, your fish should be opaque and easy to separate with a fork. If it still looks clear or shiny, you need to cook it longer.
 If you buy frozen fish, you'll find cooking instructions on the box. Make sure you don't deviate from these instructions, or you could expose yourself to unwanted contaminants and other health dangers.If you're baking, poaching, broiling, or grilling your fish, cook it at least 10 minutes for each inch of thickness. For example, if you're baking a half-inch thick salmon filet, you would cook it for at least five minutes.
If your fish is frozen, you generally should double that time, unless the instructions on the box tell you differently.
Even if you microwave your fish, it's still important to check it and make sure it's cooked thoroughly and to the appropriate temperature.
 Generally, one serving of fish is about the size and thickness of your hand. You also can measure the appropriate serving size by apportioning one ounce of fish for every 20 pounds of body weight.


For example, for a 160-pound adult, the appropriate serving would be 8 ounces of fish.
Typically a 6- to 8-ounce serving will be fine for adults, regardless of their body size. A serving half that size would be appropriate for children.
 If you plan to go fishing and eat the fish you catch, review advisories that apply to the locations where you're going. In the U.S., you typically can find a list of these advisories at the website of your state's fishing and wildlife department.Many lakes, rivers, and streams are contaminated with pollutants that, if ingested, can actually increase your risk of contracting certain diseases.
This contamination can negate any of the health benefits you'd enjoy from eating fish generally.
Take particular caution if you are fishing in a lake or stream located near an active or formerly active factory or industrial site. These contaminants remain in sediment for years and can affect the quality of the water as well as the fish that live there.
Catch and eat smaller, younger fish. They have experienced less contamination by their environment than larger, older fish.
 If you're pregnant or nursing, it isn't necessary to completely eliminate your consumption of fish. In fact, you need nutrients such as omega-3 fatty acids that are found in fish.However, you should be more careful about the types of fish you eat and how often you eat fish if you are pregnant or nursing.
Eating fish with high levels of mercury can cause significant developmental problems for your child.
Fish that are safe for expecting or nursing mothers and small children include salmon, pollock, and shrimp. Most ocean fish don't have high levels of mercury and are safe to consume.
Try to eat fish only once or twice a week, and buy your fish commercially rather than catching it yourself from local lakes, streams, or rivers.
 Both fish oil and Vitamin D, which you would get from eating fish, are available in supplements. If you don't like the taste of fish, or are concerned about contaminants in fish, you might want to take these supplements.Fish oil supplements, such as cod liver oil, may contain even more Vitamin D than a fish meal. If you want to maximize your health benefits, you may consider taking supplements even if you consume fish on a regular basis.
Keep in mind that fish oil supplements contain no mercury, so they are safe for pregnant or nursing mothers, children, and others who are concerned about mercury levels.

