 If you smoke, stop. Now. IMMEDIATELY. Cameron quit smoking in a bid to help her acne. If she can do it, so can you. Get into the cleanse-tone-moisturize routine. It sounds cheesy, but your mother always did know best... Use products that match your skin type; i.e. dry - cream cleanser/non-drying toner/rich SPF moisturizer. Combination/Oily - foaming cleanser/toner/light oil-free moisturizer with SPF for day and slightly richer at night. Spotty skin is often sensitive, so natural products are best. Pore strips are a God-send if you have a blackhead-ridden nose. Zinc tablets are rumoured to be helpful with acne.;
, Moisturize beforehand with a moisturizer that matches your skin type. Get a foundation that matches your skin tone, preferably two different shades (before and after tanning). Next, use foundation just enough to even out your skin tone. Blend a creamy concealer into any blemishes or under-eye dark circles. Apply loose powder with a large powder brush, or pressed powder with a sponge for the most matte coverage. Sweep a naturally rosy pink blush into the apple of your cheeks. For a day look, wear neutral colours on both eyes and lips. Use a a shimmery gold/brown eyeshadow, lots of jet-black mascara and a barely-there brown pencil eyeliner, with rosy pink natural lip gloss and lip liner (if you wear liner). For a little more glamorous night look; red lips can be used with the neutral eyes described above, or grey/black smokey eyes and the natural lips.
 Wear low rise, floor-skimming jeans all the time. Her denim is usually more washed-out for daytime looks and darker for evening looks. Own many casual tops/tees. Vertical stripes, head-to-toe colour and long dark jeans make you look taller, a prerequisite for looking like 5'9" Miss Diaz. Cameron is all about t-shirts and tanks. Incorporate some surfer into your style.
 Cameron loves hats, and usually wears them perfectly with casual outfits. She includes fedoras, berets and baseball caps (among others). Her jewelry is usually simple and minimal. She may wear one necklace or earrings with a splash of color, often turquoise or green which suit her colouring. Again, be a little edgy/surfer with your style.
 Do wear shoes with a rise or heel of around 2 inches (5.1 cm). Platform, wedge and square heel styles are the most practical for regular use. Sling backs, pointed and low-cut toe-cleavage shoes are elongating to the foot and leg, so you look taller.
 Cameron has a round face, so hopefully you do too! If not, her cut is quite adaptable, but take a picture to a salon and talk to your hairdresser beforehand. Get side bangs, layers and create a deep side part and sweep your bangs heavy to the other side. Change your hair color from highlighted blonde to brown if you want. For a casual look start with wavy dry hair, then pull your hair loosely back and twist it into a loose/messy bun. Secure into place with Kirby grips and spritz with hairspray to finish. For a more put-together finish, use straight hair, leave your bangs out and direct the rest of your hair into a ponytail. Wrap your hair around the elastic band at the base of the ponytail, tuck in the ends and pin into place. Alternatively, you could put the bangs into a quiff. Also for a curly look, use mousse to give volume and blow-dry upside-down, finishing by using straighteners/tongs to curl the hair from the top of the ear down. Don't forget to use heat protection and a weekly intensive hair mask.
 Be bubbly and sexy. Don't worry that you don't have the biggest boobs or the most on-trend fashion (Cameron is B-cup and dresses to her shape rather than the catwalk). Be confident and nice. Smile all the time. Be really happy. Keep your thoughts reasonable and think positively. Lighten up. Don't take yourself too seriously. Try not to over-analyze things. Stress can cause many mental, physical, and spiritual problems in your life. One of the major causes of stress is worrying about things that are out of your control. Learn to recognize these things and if you can truly do nothing about them, then just let them go. Take time to laugh at yourself and the situations you find yourself in. Laughter is a powerful, positive medicine and the calmer and more peaceful you can take things, the happier your life will be.
 Get some inspiration on how Cameron walks, talks, acts, looks and dresses from the films she has starred in. She first found fame in The Mask; and has since starred in films like The Sweetest Thing, Charlie's Angels, There's Something About Mary and In Her Shoes. She is also the voice of the fabulous Princess Fiona from the Shrek trilogy. Do some movie research!

, Get clean. Bathe/shower once a day. Feeling and looking clean is important. Wash with a scented body gel (soap is drying) and a loofah/bath scrubber and it will smell great. Get out and pat yourself dry with a towel, rub in some rich body lotion and use deodorant/antiperspirant. You need to be soft and cuddly at all times (do not neglect your knees and elbows). If possible, try to layer matching scents on your body; such as citrus shower gel, citrus body lotion, citrus deodorant, and citrus perfume. Musky or floral scents are also delicious.
 Create a work-out plan. Lunges/crunches/squats/weights etc twice a week and cardio three times a week. Cameron is well-known for her lean and toned body shape. Crunches equal flat, hard ab muscles, lunges equal toned legs, and squats a toned backside. Running or jogging works for cardio and utilizes all the muscles of the body and increases your stamina, but get some decent trainers if you run on tarmac. Cameron is famed for her surfing, which she learned for the film 'Charlie's Angels'. She also enjoys hiking and snow-boarding, which are great for all-round toning. Go on her trainer's (Teddy Bass) website for help.
 Get a gorgeous, glowing tan. Use FAKE TAN lotion only, not a sunbed. Definitely wear bronzer and always wear sun-screen every day. Exfoliate and moisturize thoroughly a couple of hours before a spray tan or home tanning.
 Keep neatly groomed and shaped eyebrows. Have a perfect arch. Get them waxed/shaped professionally. The skinnier the better, but not so skinny that you only have 6 hairs left. NATURAL skinny, not hugely chubby/non-existent brows. If you keep them well groomed (tweezing every fortnight) it will make your eyes pop and make you look more youthful (not baby-style, but pretty). Lightly fill in any uneven patches with a matching brow pencil.
 Weekly; use a clarifying shampoo, an intensive hair mask, exfoliating body scrub and a face mask (to match your skin type). Also weekly, have a bath and give yourself a pedicure & manicure. Polish colours that are popular with Miss Diaz include chocolate brown, fire-engine red and au natural clear. Regularly have your hair cut and coloured/re-highlighted (about every 6 weeks).

