 If your heart isn't set on the traditional black and white wedding theme, you can opt for a blue dress or suit. A pale blue dress looks similar to a white dress, and many suits are sold in attractive shades of pale blue. If you don't mind switching up traditional wedding colors, a blue dress or suit can add your "something blue" to your wedding day., An easy way to add blue to your wedding without distracting too much from your main outfit is blue shoes. A nice pair of blue shoes can add your "something blue" without outshining other colors and decorations.Whether you're wearing a suit or dress, blue shoes are a great option. Navy blue dress shoes can go well with a suit. Blue high heels, flats, or boots can pair excellently with a dress. Pick a pair of shoes you love that will help reflect your style on your big day.
You can also ask that the bridesmaids or groomsmen wear blues shoes, as this will help everything match.
As blue comes in a variety of shades, it shouldn't be too hard to find a color of blue that matches with other wedding colors. A more pastel blue, for example, may pair well with a lavender wedding scheme. If your dresses are already a cobalt shade of blue, opt for cobalt blue shoes to match.
 Another way to add blue to your outfit without overpowering it is a blue garter. You could wear a blue garter on your leg, concealed under your dress. If you want, you can have bridesmaids also wear a blue garter., If you have handkerchief tucked into your suit, or if you're carrying one with the bouquet, make it blue. This is a great way to add a dash of blue to your outfit as you walk down the aisle. If you don't want a blue handkerchief, you can also embroider something on the handkerchief with blue thread.A great way to personalize the handkerchief is to get it embroidered. You can have you and your spouse's initials embroidered on the handkerchief in blue. This way, you'll have a memento of your wedding to keep over the years.
 Ties and bow ties are great ways to add a splash of blue to your outfit in a subtle fashion. If you want to stick to a black or white suit or tux, there are a variety of types of blue ties and bow ties from which to choose.Select a tie or bow-tie that goes with your suit. You can talk to workers at the store where you're purchasing your suit. Depending on your overall outfit, you may need a thicker or thinner tie.
Consider patterns too. You can choose a pattern that you love in blue. If you love striped ties, a tie striped in various shades of blue can be a great option for your wedding.
You can also do something like have bridesmaids or grooms where blue ties or bow-ties.
 If you want a very subtle something blue, choose dress shoes with blue shoelaces. You can also have the bridesmaids or groomsmen wear shoes with blue laces. This can make for a cute matching wedding party that incorporates something blue.If blue tends to clash with other wedding colors, blue shoelaces may be your best option. You'll be able to add "something blue" in a very subtle fashion.
 There's no shortage of blue accessories you can incorporate into your outfit. If you want "something blue" that's simple and does not overshadow other aspects of your outfit, a simple accessory can be tacked onto your dress or suit.


Try a blue ring or a blue item of jewelry. Blue stud earrings, for example, will get you something blue without standing out too much.
If your bridesmaids are carrying purses or clutches, opt for blue ones. You could also add blue floral crowns to their outfits if you're going for a nature-themed wedding.
Add something blue around your neck. A blue scarf or necklace is a subtle way to add something blue to your outfit.
Wear a blue brooch. A brooch on your suit or dress can add a touch of blue as you walk down the aisle. As brooches are a somewhat older form of jewelry, an older relative may have a brooch laying around. This way, you can get in your "something old" as well as your "something blue.", As long as blue doesn't clash too much with their outfits, a small amount of blue makeup can help with your "something blue." A subtle shade of blue eye shadow, for example, can give a touch of blue to the ceremony.While many people feel blue eye shadow may look over-the-top or gaudy, a pale blue shade is unlikely to look too out there. However, if you're going for something a bit over-the-top for your wedding, blue eye shadow may actually help.
The bride can also wear blue makeup on her big day. Think about adding a touch of blue eyeshadow yourself, if it doesn't clash too much with the rest of your outfit.
 You and your wedding party can wear blue nail polish on the big day. Nail polish is unlikely to distract too much from the rest of your outfit, and can be a subtle way to add a small splash of blue to your ceremony.