 Before you start building Guy Manuel's helmet you will want to measure your head. This will allow you to know what sizes your components will be and will ensure your mask fits. Measure your head carefully to avoid problems, allowing you to wear it comfortably once the mask is finished. There are a few measurements that you will need to take in order to get you started.Measure the circumference of your head. Use a cloth tape measure, looping it around the area of your head where a hat would rest, to get your head's circumference.
Measure the length between the tip of your nose to the back of your head. You can use a standard ruler for this.
Take a measurement between the top of your shoulder ridge and the top of your head.
Use a standard ruler to measure the width of your head. This should be the distance between your temples.
Record your measurements and use them to properly size the pieces of your helmet.
 Before you can get started building your Daft Punk helmet you will need to gather your materials. It's important that you gather all the materials from the following list as you will be making use of all of them:Metallic gold spray paint and gold vinyl sheets.
Clear acrylic globe.
Heat gun.
Something to cut with.
Battery powered rainbow Christmas lights.
LED belt buckle or name-tag
Plastic lids. For example, you can use a lid from a peanut butter jar.
Card stock or foam to build the sides of the mask.
Wood glue to make the craft foam sturdy.
Hot glue to hold things together.
1/16” aluminum flat bar for the mask's frame.
Speaker wires.
Dark smoke headlight tint-spray.
 The acrylic globe will be used to create the visor of your mask. You will need to cut the globe to a certain shape and then bend it using a heat gun. This will create the proper shape and curvature of this Daft Punk mask visor.Cut off the sides of the globe to get an 8” mask visor.
Stretch this piece using a heat gun so that it matches the shape of Guy's mask.
Spray your visor with black car window tint-spray.
 Cut out some strips of aluminum that will be used to build a basic frame for your mask. The frame won't be visible when the mask is finished. The frame is used to to hold things together while you work to build the rest of mask. You will only need two strips of aluminum to build your frame.Cut one strip for the bottom front of the frame.
Cut another strip for the top and sides of the frame.
Hold the frame together with glue.
Attach your visor to the frame with glue.
Make sure the measurements of this frame will fit the proportions of your head. The frame will be the main part that needs to fit your head.
 To build the sides of the mask you will be cutting out layers of either foam or card-stock. These layers will form the shape of the mask as well as add support and strength to the mask's structure. Take your time and cut out shapes that closely match the shape of the original helmet, gluing them together to build the sides of the mask.Cutting out the mask sides from foam can be a quick way to build the mask sides.
You can try layering card-stock to build the sides of the mask to the shape you want.
Once you have built the sides of your mask you can attach them to the frame using glue.
Add the circular jar lids to the sides of the mask to make the “ears”.
 Now that your mask is assembled you can begin to add the metallic gold color to it. You will first need to spray paint the mask before applying the metallic gold vinyl sheets.Block off your mask's visor with painter's tape to prevent the gold paint from getting on it.
Spray the mask with the gold metallic paint first. Make sure you've covered it completely.
Once painted, apply the gold vinyl to finish the metallic look.
 The lights will be added to the inside of the mask, using tape so that you can adjust them or remove them later on. You will need to add both the side lights and the front bottom “word” LED light. Keep the following tips in mind when creating your mask's lights:Rainbow Christmas lights can work for the sides. Place the lights in a column with their noses touching and hold this strip together with a tape backing.
An LED belt buckle or nametag can be used for the “word” light that will go near the mouth of your mask.
Attach the lights to the inside of your mask using tape or magnets.
Make sure your lights are all battery powered.
 Guy's mask has a bundle of wires that are visible at the back. Adding these wires will be the finishing touch on your own mask. These wires should be cut to a length that covers the back portion of the mask and can be attached using hot glue or other adhesive.These wires should lay flat against the mask.
Make sure none of the wires are overlapping each other.
Try to find wires that have a colorful outer coating.

