 It can be overwhelming to confront the crowded shelves in the hair-care aisle at the store. But taking the time to read the labels and find shampoos and conditioners designed for your specific needs can pay off. For example, if you color your hair, use products designed for color-treated hair. If your hair is chemically treated or suffering from damage, consider a “2-in-1” shampoo.Some hair care professionals recommend using baby shampoo that's milder on hair.Regardless of cost, many shampoo and conditioner brands provide the same benefits. Don’t feel like you have to splurge to get a good product made for your hair type.


Be wary of products advertising hair loss prevention or hair regrowth, as there's not scientific evidence backing them up.Ask your hair stylist or dermatologist for advice on which hair products may be best for you.
 Wash your hair with a gentle shampoo and conditioner once a day or every other day, especially if you have oily hair. You may think that washing your hair every day might actually speed up hair loss, but that's not the case. Hair follicles can't function properly when they're blocked with dirt or oil.Regular washing will improve follicle health and halt excessive shedding that might lead to hair loss.


Focus on cleaning the scalp with shampoo rather than the strands of hair. Washing only your hair might make it dry it out, making it prone to breakage and shedding.Apply conditioner after every shampoo to rehydrate hair and improve hair strength. Unlike shampoo, you should avoid the scalp and concentrate on the tips of the hair.Conditioning the scalp can lead to blocked, unhealthy follicles.Avoid rubbing your hair too hard with a towel after a shower — it can break and damage hair.
 The heat from blow-dryers, curling irons, and straightening irons can damage hair, making it break and shed.Avoid all processes that might cause heat damage: let your hair air dry, and try out hairstyles that suit your natural hair texture.


You may have to style your hair with heat for special occasions. If you must heat-style, protect your hair with heat-protecting hair products., Avoid tight braids, pony tails, or other styles that put undue stress on your hair. When combing, curling, or straightening your hair, take care to prevent tugging. Use a thin comb to lightly pull apart any tangles.Also avoid teasing or backcombing your hair.
 Wet hair is more prone to stretching and breaking when it's pulled on. If you're going to braid it or twist your hair in any way, wait until it’s dry., Be careful if you regularly dye or otherwise treat your hair with chemicals. Chemical processes like straightening or perming can damage and weaken hair follicles, leading to breakage and hair loss.Prolonged exposure to the chemicals in pools can have a similar effect.Whenever possible, avoid chemical treatments for your hair.
Wear a swim cap when in the pool to protect your hair. Use hair products formulated for swimmers to replace lost moisture on your scalp and hair if you're a regular swimmer.

