 Compliment her on her eyes, her smile, her lips, praise her new hairstyle, etc. You can also broaden the types of compliments you give so that they are about more than just her beauty.


Be enamored with her smile and say something like, “Your smile can brighten up the cloudiest days.”Compliment her spirit and energy by saying something like, “I love who I am/who I’ve become when I’m with you.”, A lot of men experience a hard time when it comes to admitting faults or offering apologies. If that little voice inside of you is saying that you’re wrong, admit it aloud to the woman in your life without fear of it being sign of weakness.For example, saying the three simple words “I was wrong” is all the effort a woman needs sometimes.
Those three words can be given during subtle moments too. Wrap your arms around her from behind, give a soft kiss to her neck, and say them to her.
 Show her your affectionate side without the underlying sex agenda. Show her that she can enjoy the comfort of being held without feeling pressured to reciprocate it with getting physical immediately after.Say to your woman, “I’d love if I could hold you tonight.”
Pose it as a question and ask her permission, “Do you think I can just hold you tonight?”

, Women appreciate it when their partners can see their weariness and stressed and actively do something about it to counter it. Put aside your desires and become fully available to give her love in those moments.Verbally recognize how much she is deserving of your concern and love her in moments where it counts the most.
When you notice that she’s down, ask her, “What can I do to bring a smile on your face?” or “What can I do to make your day easier today?”
Make an effort to give a date night a happy ending by asking, “If there’s anything that could make this night a perfect night in your eyes, what would it be?”

, Don’t be proactive of finding a solution to her problem. Hold her and reassure her that things will work out for the best in the end.Calm her anxieties by saying, “Don’t worry about it baby, everything will be okay.”
Show her she’s not alone by being there for her.
 Stay present as she processes her feelings aloud. Listen deeply and have patience to her thoughts and feelings.Show her your patience and make her feel secure by saying, “Take all the time you need. I’m not going anywhere.”
Refrain from interrupting her as she works out problems through her monologue. She will feel cherished and deeply loved.

