 Some good dirty talk can go a long way in bringing the passion back into your relationship, whether you're already in bed or just talking on the phone. Here are some tips:


Surprise your honey by talking dirty before you get into bed. If the mood is right, tell him what you want, and the rest will follow.
Talk dirty while you're making love. Tell your sweetie how he or she is making you feel, or talk about how much you love touching his or her body.
Send sexy texts. Send sexy messages to tell your honey that you have the hots for him. But show discretion--make sure you don't embarrass yourself by sending sexy messages that get into the wrong hands.
Talk dirty on the phone. Be graphic--it's hot.
 It may feel a little strange, but join your sweetie in watching something sexy and maybe a little bit over the top. You could get some great ideas for love making and be turned on the process.


If you're comfortable with it, watch porn together. If it feels right, it will turn you on--a lot.
Watch some raunchy television. Watching people making out, touching each other, or hooking up on television can get you both ready to star in your own shows.
Look at sexy pictures together. Be comfortable with getting turned on together.
 Your sex life will get a lot more exciting if you know that you can have sex at any moment, and are pleasantly surprised when your significant other tells you he's in the mood at an unexpected time. Here are some ways to be hot and spontaneous:


Even if you're doing something mundane like watching the news, if you really feel like it, start kissing and touching your significant other.
Hook up at unexpected times. You may be running late to your friend's party, but if you're in the mood, have a quickie before you head out. You can wink at each other to remember your sexy time.
If you're out in public, rush home for hot sex. If you're in the mood while you're out, simply tell your honey, "I want you--now," and race home for some hot love making. As long as you're not leaving something important, this will make you feel extra hot.

