 Go inside the Chivalry located in the northwest corner of Prontera (prontera 35, 346), and talk to the Chivalry Captain (prt_in 88, 101) standing behind the desk.

You must be a level 40 or above Swordsman to start this quest.
Do not click the Recruiter since signing up for the mission will teleport you to the Culvert.;
, Sir Andrew is located close to the entrance (prt_in 72, 107). He will assign you to collect one of the two sets of items:

First Item Set - 5 Elder Pixie's Mustache (from Giearth in Mjolnir Dead Pit F2), 5 Wing of Red Bat (from Drainliar in Sphinx F1), 5 Orcish Voucher (from Orc Warrior in Orc Village or Geffen Field), 5 Moth Dust (from Dustiness in Mt. Mjolnir), 5 Reptile Tongue (from Frilldora in Border of Papuchica forest or Sograt Desert), and 5 Mane (from Savage in Prontera Field and Veins Field).
Second Item Set - 5 Bug Leg (from Argriope in Mt. Mjolnir), 5 Heart of Mermaid (from Obeaune in Undersea Tunnel F3), 5 Snail's Shell (from Ambernite in Britoniah and Geffen Field), 5 Clam Flesh (from Shellfish in Kokomo Beach and Veins Field), 5 Old Frying Pan (from Magnolia in Sograt Desert), and 5 Maneater Blossom (from Flora in Mt. Mjolnir).
After you have gathered the items, return to Sir Andrew to complete his test.
Players who have achieved job level 50 may skip this step.
 He is found at the south end of the room by the table (prt_in 71, 91). He will ask you some questions pertaining to the Knight class. If you fail, you may talk to him again for a retake. Here are the answers (in parentheses) to the questions:

Weapon unaffected by Twohand Quicken (Flamberge)
Skill not required for Bowling Bash (Provoke Level 10)
Option not necessary for Brandish Spear (Spear Boomerang)
Weapon that can attack a Nightmare monster (Zephyrus)
The correct amount (80%)
You should tell the novice about a . . . (Hunting area)
In the front of a battle you should . . . (Protect everyone)
The most important value of a Knight (Honor)

, Sir Windsor is near the middle of the room that will warp players to a waiting room (prt_in 79, 94). Enter the chat room found there and you will be transported to the first stage of the Battle Test.

If there are other quest takers like you, you have to wait in the chatroom until others finish their test. You will be automatically teleported if it's your turn to battle.
There will be three rounds of fighting monsters, and each stage have different spawn.
All monsters must be killed within the amount of time specified.
Remember to check every corner of the room that could have been missed.
If you fail the test, purchase necessary items such as HP Potions and better weapon. Talk to Sir Windsor again to retake the test.
 Lady Amy is at the bottom left corner of the Chivalry (prt_in 69, 107). She will give you a quiz. Answers to her questions are Inquire, Tell, Lead, Would, Ask., He (prt_in 70,99) will teleport you to a map of Porings, Lunatics, and Chonchons.

DO NOT attack any of these monsters.
If you spare these innocent creatures’ lives, you will be teleported back to the Chivalry after a few minutes.
 For your final test, talk to Sir Gray (prt_in 87, 92); he will give another quiz. You can choose any answer you prefer; you can choose “Stronger,” “To protect others,” “Those waiting for me,” and “Friends.”

Selecting answers that portray a friendly character is much preferable.
 Once you’ve talked to all the necessary people, talk to the Chivalry Captain to have your job changed to a Knight.

You will be rewarded 7 Awakening Potions.

