 Buy a lanolin-based leather conditioner and spot test it on an inconspicuous place on your boot by dabbing it on with a cloth and rubbing it in. Leave it on the boot for a couple hours and then check. If the spot on your boot is only slightly darker, the conditioner is okay to use. If the spot is markedly darker or has turned the patch a different color, purchase and spot test a different leather conditioner.You should condition your boots at least every six months or when you notice that the leather is creasing, cracking or discoloring, as this can indicate that it is dry and needs conditioning.
 Add a small dollop of leather conditioner to a white terrycloth or chamois towel, then begin to gently rub the conditioner onto the surface of the boot. Apply the conditioner to the entire boot in a thin layer, and repeat on the other boot. Don’t use too much conditioner, as too much will clog the pores of the leather.Leather conditioner adds moisture to leather, which often becomes dry over time especially if you are living in a dry or desert climate. It also helps to repair water damage, as water often saps moisture from the boot when it dries.
It’s normal for the boots to appear a little darker after adding conditioner; they should lighten up after a few days.
Do not use conditioner on suede, naked or nude finish leather, patent leather or micro suede. If you have exotic leather boots such as alligator or snakeskin, use a conditioner formulated specifically for exotic leather.
 Let the boots sit for 12-24 hours, then use a clean cloth to wipe away any excess conditioner. If your boots seem dry still you can repeat the process of adding a thin layer of conditioner., If you have oil impregnated boots, you may want to use a layer of oil after conditioning your boots. Add mink oil, specialized leather oil, mineral oil or neatsfoot oil to a clean cloth and apply it in the same way as you did with the conditioner. After 12-24 hours, wipe the oil off your boots.The leather of oil-impregnated boots is infused with extra oil, which in time can dry up or get removed by water damage. Replenishing this oil every 6 months or so ensures that your boots stay healthy and don’t get too dry.

