 It is essential that you know your applicable skills, experience and education level. Write a general resume before beginning your job search.;
, Get a highlighter pen so that you can underline or highlight important qualifications. You can also copy and paste the description into a word processor document and highlight lines if you don't have a printer.
 This should be listed at the top. Do not apply for the job if you are not available to work in that area.


Some positions may specify if they will take out of town applicants or pay for relocation expenses. In this case, you may be able to apply for the job without living in the direct vicinity.
 This is often listed as high school diploma, bachelor's degree, master's degree, certification or another form of qualification. Decide if you qualify based on the education level.


If you have the equivalent of an education level, such as a GED, instead of a high school diploma, you should qualify for the job based on education. If you are studying for a degree in the field, you may also qualify. For example, libraries often hire people who are studying for a master's degree in library science.
 Pay attention to language when looking at experience qualification. If 4 years is listed as a requirement, the employer is likely to be strict; however, if 4 years is listed as a "desired qualification" then it may not be strictly necessary.
 This could be written in a list or in prose format. If it is listed in sentences of paragraph form, list the skills on another piece of paper, so you can underline each skill you possess.


Look for typing skills, interpersonal skills, Internet skills, specific programs or applications, familiarity with technical terms, managerial skills, training skills, experience with equipment or tools, problem solving skills, physical demands and more.
 Highlight hours, specific duties and daily tasks. Make sure you can complete these tasks before applying.
 Jobs may require that you are able to lift 15 to 50 lbs. (6.8 to 22.7 kg) in order to fulfill the job requirements. Other jobs may require that you are available to travel between 10 to 90 percent of the time.


If you cannot fulfill these requirements, do not apply for the job. They are non-negotiable.
 Near the end of the job description, there is usually a salary or hourly wage. Occasionally the description will say Depends On Experience (DOE), which means that the salary is negotiable based on how well you fulfill the qualifications.


If the compensation is listed as DOE, then you may be required to submit a salary history along with your resume.
 If you do, move forward in the application process. Write a cover letter and adjust your resume to address your applicable qualifications.


It is very important to write a cover letter and a resume that addresses each job specifically. This illustrates that you have researched the company. It should be considered as a response to the job description.
 Many job descriptions state clearly where a resume, cover letter or inquiries can be sent. Highlight the deadline to apply and adhere strictly to that deadline.

