 If you start bleeding bright red after having gotten past that state to pink or brown, you need more rest.If you completely soak a pad within an hour, you should call a doctor. While the amount of rest you need will vary from person to person, increased bleeding or decreased mood suggests you should be getting more rest., The main reason for this is that because there are potential vaginal tears, as well as damage in the uterus, you can get an infection. It will also be uncomfortable immediately after birth to have sex, as you are likely to be sore.You should wait until the bleeding is almost gone before having sex., You may not feel like you need to go, but keeping the bladder somewhat empty will help ease contractions. This will help to decrease pain and bleeding. You should call your doctor if you have the typical symptoms of a urinary tract infection, such as burning urination or a persistent urge to urinate., You should try to get the iron you need from food sources, such as meats, beans and lentils, and certain vegetables such as broccoli or okra. This is because too much iron can cause constipation. You should only take an iron supplement if your doctor recommends it., Tampons can increase the chance of infection, and there are plenty of pads out there that can handle most flows.Consider using overnight or heavy flow pads, especially in the first week or so. You can even use pads regularly meant for urinary incontinence, as they tend to be bigger and more absorbent., These are mesh underwear that you can wear during the heavy period of postpartum bleeding. You will usually receive some pairs from the hospital. However, you can buy them online as well. They are more convenient than traditional underwear, especially in the first few days after labor, when you’ll want to do nothing but rest., This will help protect your mattress during sleep, and will give you some ease about leaks that can occur. If your flow is really heavy or you don’t want to stain your sheets, you might want to use a comfortable bed pad that rests on top of the sheets., Using them when sitting on upholstered furniture, the carpet, or any other surface you want to protect from blood stains. These may not be necessary after the first week or so.Using disposable pads are definitely more convenient, but you can use reusable ones if you want to be more environmentally friendly., While some clots are normal, larger ones should raise concern. This can be a sign of postpartum hemorrhage, which can be fatal if left untreated. Other symptoms include pain in the vaginal region and low blood pressure., If you have a fever of over 100.4 degrees, you should check with your doctor. It can be a sign of a serious infection. Fever with any of these other symptoms is especially concerning., If you notice that the vaginal discharge smells significantly different from your menstrual period, you may need medical attention.Foul-smelling postpartum bleeding may indicate the presence of an infection., If you are soaking a pad once an hour for more than two hours, you should call your doctor. It should be noted that normal moderate to heavy bleeding lasts for the first week or so. While the period may vary some, a return to very heavy bleeding should be looked into., It should typically last two to six weeks. While it is normal for about 15% women to experience bleeding after six weeks, you will still want to talk to your doctor at your post-natal check, especially if the extended time occurs with any other symptoms.