 Begin by breaking them into a bowl. Use a whisk to break the yolks and lightly beat the eggs so the whites and yolks are just combined. Add the salt and continue whisking until it is incorporated.;
, Measure out half a cup of flour and add it to the egg mixture. Whisk it into the eggs until you see just a few small lumps. Now add half a cup of milk to the mixture and whisk until combined. Keep alternating flour and milk until you run out of both.


Whisking milk and flour in small parts helps to incorporate the ingredients; otherwise, you would end with lumpy batter.
When you are finished adding all the milk and flour, the batter should look smooth.
If you would prefer to use low fat milk, you can use that as a substitute.
 Finish the batter by whisking in the sugar first, then adding the butter. Continue whisking until the batter is smooth, lump-free, and light yellow. The final consistency should be thin, like whole milk; if it seems more like pancake batter, add another 1/2 cup of milk.
 Use a nonstick skillet, a crepe pan, or a regular skillet. Choose a pan that is 8 inches (20.3 cm) in diameter. Place the pan on the stove and turn the burner to medium heat, and let the pan get hot. Spray on nonstick cooking spray or else the crepes will stick to the pan.
 Ladle about 1/4 cup of batter into the center of the pan. Using too much batter will result in thick crepes, and you want them to be thin. Use a 1/4 cup measuring cup or a teacup to get the right amount.
 Lift the pan and move your hand in a circular motion to swirl the batter from the center of the pan out around to the sides, so it full coats the bottom of the pan in one thin layer. If you need to add a bit more batter to coat the pan, do so., Set the pan back on the burner and let the crepe cook until the top is just a bit moist. Use a spatula to lift the side of the crepe gently; it should lift easily and have a fine lace pattern developing on the other side. That means it is time to flip the crepe.


If the crepe still looks wet in the middle, give it a bit more time.
Don't overcook the crepe, or the texture will become rubbery. Crepes cook quickly, so it will probably be ready to flip within about 45 seconds.
 Slip the spatula under the crepe so it is supporting the center of the crepe and most of its weight. Carefully turn the crepe over to the other side. Straighten out folds and wrinkles in the crepe to ensure it will cook evenly. It only needs to cook on the other side for about 20 - 30 seconds.


Practice makes perfect when it comes to flipping crepes. If you break one, pop it in your mouth and move on to the next.
Skilled chefs can flip crepes without using a spatula. Try it if you would like!

, Carefully slide the crepe from the pan onto a plate, using the spatula to help guide it. Continue making more crepes until you run out of batter.
 This is the most popular crepe filling in France. The simple flavors of butter and sugar let the light flavor of the dough shine through. Heat a pat of butter in the skillet. When it begins to sizzle, add a crepe to the pan. Let it cook in the butter for about 45 seconds, and then flip it to the other side. Sprinkle a teaspoon of sugar over the crepe. Fold it in half, then in half again. Place the crepe on a plate and serve.


A squirt of lemon juice is also delicious in this simple crepe filling.
Experiment with different types of sugar. Brown sugar and powdered sugar are great substitutes for granulated sugar.
 Crepes make excellent desserts for rich chocolaty fillings, too. The process for serving a crepe this way is simple: melt butter in a pan, add a crepe and cook it on one side for 45 seconds, then flip it over. Sprinkle chocolate chips or dark chocolate pieces over the crepe. Fold it in half, then in half again. Set it on a plate and serve.
 Strawberries, peaches, apples, and plums make delicious crepe fillings, especially when sprinkled with a little powdered sugar. Use either preserves or fresh fruit to stuff the crepes.
 Crepes make a good lunchtime substitute for sandwiches. Melt cheese over a crepe, and then top it with diced ham, asparagus, spinach, or other vegetables. Fold the crepe in half, then fold it in half again, and serve.

