 Having strong fingers helps, seeing as how the bass strings are a fair bit thicker than those of the guitar.;
, Learn to use your index and middle fingers to pluck the strings of a bass. There are no down-strokes and up-strokes in bass,(unless using a pick) every note you make will be from one of your fingers pulling the string towards your face. Or, you can use your hand, like a pick, and put your thumb and pointer-finger together and strum.
 While you usually may not break a bass string like you can very easily the high E of a guitar, you risk breaking other, more crucial parts of the bass like the neck itself.
 You'll need a good starter amp. About 10 to 15 watts is good if you don't plan to play with anyone. Or, if you do, get something bigger. I went to Sam Ash, and found a 200 watt amp; it shook the store.
 Try to find something that really catches your attention. Generally a lot of alternative rock uses a strong bass note on the 1 and 3 of a beat, but nothing else. Jazz, blues, classic rock, some metal, and some punk are some fun alternatives when you're looking for new songs to play. Also, try to get a Precision/P-Bass, they can usually do well with all types.
 If you are serious about becoming a good bass player, you will need to know your music. Just keep in mind that the music theory was born from the music, not the other way around. Feel free to experiment!

, Your scales are your fundamentals. You'll refer back to your scales when you begin to construct bass-lines. Start with the 5 note blues scale and 6 note blues scale.
 And not just other bassists. Listen to the drummer who keeps the time and rhythm.
 Rule of thumb: If the bass is less than $100, you will outplay your bass in a matter of months. Don't waste all your money on the first bass- you can always go back to get a new one. start with a bass-pack that includes:Amp, Guitar, Strings, Strap, Chords.
 The bassist and drummer in most bands set and keep the tempo and form the real feeling of the song. The bass and drums also really control the dynamics of the group, so if you want a loud crescendo, then don't crank the guitar: crank the bass and have the drummer play louder, then the guitarist should turn up appropriately. The bass and drums are the key to making a song work; remember that without them, the guitar sounds puny and weak.
 I'm still at this step because people around here aren't very... musically talented.

