


LCD monitors are sold by actual size meaning the real dimensions of the screen are listed as the LCD screen size.
Consider the space you have available when choosing which size screen you want. The 15 to 19-inch screen LCDs are the most popular, but LCD monitors do come in even larger sizes.
Find out what the screen ratio is while you look at screen size. Compare LCD monitor’s display capabilities as well. Some are sold as the typical 4:3 dimension displays while others now display a wide-screen option just like televisions.;
,


The resolution number refers to the highest number of pixels the monitor can display. The higher the resolution number, the better quality picture you’ll have on the computer monitor.
A monitor should also be able to display different resolutions. This standard is called a VGA or SVGA and refers to the different dimensions the monitor is capable of displaying.



The contrast ratio is measurement from the brightest to the darkest parts the screen can display. Higher ratios show the LCD monitor will show deep blacks and bright whites better.



LCD monitors work using pixels which are most easily seen straight on. If the monitor is turned slightly one way or another, viewing will be distorted and washed out. Look for a high rating.
The angle rating is usually listed in degrees. The optimal, but usually impossible, viewing angle would be 180 degrees. The 180-degree viewing angle would mean the screen could be visible from anywhere in front of it without distortion.



The refresh rate refers to the amount of times the screen will refresh itself to allow for as clear a picture as possible. LCD monitors with a refresh rate in the 70s will show a very clear picture without the presence of flickering caused by slower refresh rates.



The most common LCD connector is the DVI digital connection (white connector).
Some newer LCD monitors may have an HDMI or DisplayPort connector which is a digital connection that allows for a clearer, brighter picture. The digital connection may not work with very old computers without the proper converter cables.
Most monitors still carry legacy analog VGA connectors (DSUB-15 or HD15). This is the connector used on older CRT monitor. You will also use this if you use your motherboard's integrated video.

