 Pi games will not only be fun, but they will improve your understanding of pi and will make everyone around you have a deeper appreciation of pi.


There are plenty of traditional games that are appropriate on Pi Day, like a piñata, a pie-eating contest, or a pie-in-the-face fundraiser.
Answer math questions. Come to Pi Day with at least ten math questions you can spring on people. They should be related to geometry, trigonometry, or other fields where pi is particularly useful.
Conduct a Pi Day Scavenger Hunt. Hide pi-themed objects around your classroom, home, or other celebration venue. You can also hide objects representing the digits of pi: three baseballs, one frisbee, four basketballs, etc.
Pi Day also happens to be the birthday of Albert Einstein. Play an Einstein-themed trivia game, or have an Einstein impersonator contest.Have a pi memorization or recitation contest. As soon as someone loses, you can hit him in the face with a pie. If you want to really show your dedication on Pi Day, learn to memorize pi in advance by studying as many of the digits of pi as you can.
 You don't have to be a left-brained thinker to fully celebrate pi. You can use your creative side show how much you love and appreciate pi. And even if you're not the world's most talented poet or writer, you can still have fun while being silly. You don't have to create art to celebrate pi; you can also just appreciate art that already celebrates it. Here are a few ways to celebrate pi artistically:


Write poetry. Write either a pi-ku (haiku) or a regular pi-em (poem) to show how much you love pi.
Write a pi-themed song and sing it, or write a short pi-themed skit and act it out.
Paint a picture of pi.
Watch movies related to pi. Try the film π--it's an interesting and dark movie about a mathematician who goes crazy, but intended for an adult audience only. You could also watch the film Life of Pi.Technically "Pi" is only the protagonist's name, but it has gotten people thinking about pi.
Listen to Kate Bush. Progressive rock musician Kate Bush performed a song titled π on her 2005 album Aerial. Bush sings pi to its 137th decimal place, but omits the 79th through 100th decimal places of pi for unknown reasons.
 You can also use your physical prowess, or even your car, to show your love for pi. Here are a few things you can do to celebrate pi:


Do a pi mile run. Run 3.14 miles (5.05 km), which is just a tiny bit longer than a 5K. You can take this a step further by organizing a pi mile run with friends or colleagues.
Lay down in pi formation and take a picture. If you're bold, have two people standing up while holding up a third person who is laying sideways in between them. Make sure the lightest person is on top.
Drive exactly 3.14 miles (5.05 km).
March in a circle to show your love for pi.

