 Talking to your friends, colleagues, and family about barriers to universal worldwide enrollment can prepare you for more serious advocacy. Explain to the people in your circle the importance of primary education and just how close the international community is to solving the problem. Even if they don’t care about the issue as much as you do, they should walk away from the encounter understanding why it’s important, yet solvable, problem. As always, tailor your appeal to the individual. Think about their experiences and sympathies so your pitch sinks in.


For example, imagine your friend is a person who prides themselves on being “self made.” Even though you care about universal primary education in a way they don’t, you can make them care about the issue.Talk to your friend about the ripple effect a nonexistent elementary education has on a person’s life. You could open by saying something like this: “You’ve managed to go out and achieve a lot, which is pretty exceptional. But can you imagine how hard it would have been if you didn’t know multiplication tables, the scientific method, or how to read? Would you have been able to achieve what you’ve managed to achieve if you hadn’t?”
It’s easier to influence a new opinion than change their mind. Try to talk about unfamiliar subjects or by approaching new subjects in unfamiliar ways.
 Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and other social media platforms are a cheap way to raise awareness of any type of issue. You can reach large audiences with comparatively little effort. Plus, there's always the possibility of an issue going viral (remember KONY 2012?).Use social media to promote articles, videos, and memes that tackle issues relating to problems caused by inadequate primary education and initiatives designed to stop it.


Sometimes the reach of social media is larger than its impact (remember KONY 2012?). Even though it’s a low cost way to broadcast a message, social media by itself doesn’t create change. In fact, relying too much on social media can turn your activists into “slacktivists,” or people who are constantly hitting the “share” button to spread a message, but do nothing else., You can take your advocacy one step further by creating content centered around achieving universal primary education. “Content creation” just means creating any type of media—like hosting or contributing to podcasts, blogs, and vlogs. While creating your own blog, podcast, or YouTube channel is more work, if you want complete control over messaging, it’s the only way to go. See Start Your Own Podcast and Start a Blog to learn more.
 By joining a group that’s already established, the message is amplified in accordance with the strength of the group. Even though you sacrifice control over the message, the group helps give you credibility and access you wouldn’t ordinarily have. In addition to the aid agencies and programs outlined in the first section, there are several private entities devoted to addressing this issue, such as the Jesuit Refugee Service, Books for Africa, RESULTS, School Girls Unite, and the United Methodist Board of Church and Society.Saying, “I advocate with a group called RESULTS, which addresses global poverty and educational resources. I’d like you to know a few things we do,” has a much better ring to it than “You know what I think?”

, Take your message to people who have the power to make the changes you want to make. With an international effort to address primary education, there are many different decision makers and many ways to communicate with them. For example:


You can write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper, your congressman, senator, mayor, or other political figure. Let them know how close the UN member states are to achieving the goal of universal primary education, and how increased foreign aid could make a serious dent in the problem. Advocate in support of diplomatic efforts to broker peace treaties, or simply highlight the efforts of a group you belong to.Start an online petition and publish it on social media. If you don’t think you own voice is enough, amplify it. Sometimes change isn’t possible until elected officials understand how many people care about an issue. If you gather enough signatures, printing out a hard copy can be a very dramatic gesture. The big stack of papers is more visually impressive than a PDF with a few thousand signatures.

