 Explain to your doctor that you suffer from excessive sweating and that you have tried a number of different deodorants and antiperspirants, but none of them have helped to control the amount you sweat. Ask your doctor or dermatologist if Drysol is right for you., Some medical conditions may interact with Drysol. As a result, you should tell your doctor about any pre-existing medical conditions. Your doctor will be able to determine from this information if Drysol is a good fit for you.You should also inform your doctor if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
It is also a good idea to tell your doctor about any allergies that you have.
 Certain medications and supplements may interfere with the effectiveness of Drysol. Tell your doctor about all medications and supplements that you are currently taking. This includes prescription and nonprescription medications, supplements, and herbal remedies.There are currently no specific interactions with Drysol, but you should still disclose this information to your doctor incase you experience some form of reaction.
 Always follow your doctor's directions when using Drysol. As a general rule, you should apply Drysol immediately before bed. This way the medication can work for six to eight hours when sweating does not occur.Do not apply to broken or irritated skin.
Don’t apply Drysol after shaving, this will increase the likelihood of skin irritation.
 Prior to applying Drysol to the desired area, you should wash your skin. Use soap and warm water to thoroughly clean your skin. Then, dry the area using a towel. You can speed up the drying process, by using a blow dryer on a cool setting., Put a small amount of Drysol onto the desired area. Typically, Drysol comes with a roller application, similar to deodorant. Drysol can be applied to any part of your body, but is most commonly used on underarms, palms, foreheads, and the soles of feet., Once you have applied Drysol to your skin, let the Drysol dry. It should leave a light film on your skin. Then, cover the area so that the medication does not get on your sheets or touch other parts of your skin while you are sleeping.If you applied Drysol to your underarms, then you can wear a t-shirt to bed.
If you applied Drysol to your hands or feet, cover them with plastic wrap and secure it in place using a mitten or sock.
If you applied Drysol to your scalp or forehead, cover your head with a plastic bathing cap to prevent the medication from rubbing off.
 In the morning you can wash the Drysol off using soap and water. This can be done while you are taking a shower., Drysol may itch the first couple of times that you put it on. This is normal and should only last for a few minutes. If you experience more severe side-effects, such as a rash, hives, severe itching, difficulty breathing, tightness in the chest, or swelling of the lips, face or tongue, you might be experiencing an allergic reaction. If this happens you should seek medical attention immediately., In most cases Drysol will begin working immediately, and you will notice changes within the first few days. You should continue to take the medication each night as directed by your doctor. Once the medication is working, you could start taking it once or twice a week.Talk with your doctor before adjusting your dosage.
 Drysol should be kept at room temperature, somewhere between 59 and 86 degrees Fahrenheit (15-30 degrees Celsius). Do not use near a known heat source and keep away from open flames., When you store Drysol, make sure that the cap is completely sealed. You do not want the medication to leak out and stain any clothing or fabric., Prescription medications should only be used by the person for whom they were prescribed. Keep this medication out of the reach of young children and pets.