 You can switch to a different window that is open on your computer with a few simple keystrokes, on MACs its (COMMAND + T) and you press these two keys at the same time. Make sure that you are ready to know exactly what you will change the new window to.


It is recommended to use a word file with a bunch of text pasted in to make it look full . If someone catches you and wants to know why you seem so uncomfortable and jumpy about getting caught at the computer, you'll be able to tell the little white lie that they scared you!
It also might not hurt to close the Internet window. However, a hasty click with the mouse is usually an indication of someone looking at porn, so having the other window and a good excuse will work much better. An alternative is to press ctrl + w, which closes the current tab that's open. This looks much more natural than clicking.
If you're going to plan on closing the window if you get caught, make sure to disable confirmation when closing multiple tabs. Unless you’ve already disabled this setting, some browsers (ex. Firefox) prompt for confirmation if you want to close multiple tabs, spoiling the quick exit.;
, Of course, your best option is to look at porn only when you know you're going to be alone. Whether it's everybody being out of the house or you just locking the door, making sure that there's no one in the room to catch you is your best bet.
 If you're going to keep porn, either saved on the computer, in printed magazines or otherwise, you'll want to be smart about where you keep it. If you think your parents, siblings or partner aren't going to check under the mattress, you are naive.


For storing digital files, you can create a password protected file with a nice inconspicuous name, like paystub_scans. These can be made using basic, built-in capabilities in Windows or MAC.
 Laptops are the best because you can move your laptop so only you can see it and you can close the lid so nobody else can see it. Make sure there isn’t a reflective surface (such as a mirror or window) behind you.


For even more privacy, you can find and store porn on your mobile phone, tablet or other portable device with an Internet browser incorporated into it. If you have an iPhone, make sure to use the "Privacy" mode on safari. This mode does not remember anything you search and there will be no history saved.
 Position yourself so that you can see approaching people before they can see your computer, giving you a chance to act.
 Do not use speakers when viewing porn, for obvious reasons. Do not use noise-cancelling headphones, or in-ear headphones with rubber seals. These headphones will block out external sounds, so you won't hear others coming. For best results, use iPod-style earbuds. Also, take out one earbud so you can listen to the film with one ear and listen to your surroundings with the other. Hearing is more important than you may think.
 This mainly applies to mobile or portable devices, which can be kept in places that would raise suspicion. Put the device in a sensible place such as on a table or next to a charger when you have finished using it., The more porn you look at, and the more often you look at it, the more likely you are to get caught. It's basic math. Reduce the time you spend looking at porn if you really want to reduce the likelihood of getting caught. Your imagination is your greatest tool.
 This is a bit of an obvious point, but don't leave the window minimised when you're away in case someone else wants to use the computer., Make sure that you frequently clear your browsing history. The best method is to clear it right after you finish your session and to only clear the items for that day or the time period you spent looking at porn. Having the entire history randomly cleared will be an indicator for smart users that someone is looking at porn. You can also use a private browsing mode like google chrome's incognito mode.
 These cookies aren't a tasty treat; cookies let your browser track where you've been on the Internet and information you enter. Clear your cookies regularly for safety reasons or keep them from being stored at all, and at least use the same wiping protocol as discussed above.
 You don't want someone accidentally coming across all of your searches for porn; that would be extremely embarrassing. Keep this from happening by clearing your Google search history as discussed above or at least every now and again.
 Google has removed the option to turn off autocomplete, the feature which uses your past searches to suggest new ones (which can tip off other users to how often you search for porn and what you search for). Instead of using Google, try an alternative search engine.


There are other ways around this, however. You can still use Google to look for porn, assuming you disable cookies and make sure that you are not logged in while searching.
 PornHub has a feature that opens up a webcam website as a new tab floating in the middle of the screen so make sure that is closed as well as the steps we talked about above.
, You don't want your trashcan to smell suspicious, do you?

