 People tend to do a lot of procrastinating online. If you've found yourself accidentally wasting significant amounts of time on your favorite websites, you're not the only one. The Freedom app can help prevent this by disabling specific websites from use on your device.The amount of time a website or group of websites is blocked it up to you. Use Freedom to schedule a productive work session by blocking all of the websites you visit for fun. The basic version of Freedom is free, and is compatible with Apple products, PCs, and Android phones.
A similar app called BlockSite is useful for Google Chrome users. Block websites for specified periods, with an automatic redirect to a site you should be visiting instead.
SelfControl is another app of this variety, which works on Apple products and will keep working even if you delete the app.;
, AppDetox is a free Android app that enables you to set up specific blockage rules for the apps you tend to use when procrastinating. For instance, set AppDetox up to only allow you to open certain other apps on your phone a limited number of times per day.You can also set specific time periods during which an app cannot be opened.
When you do try to open an app you shouldn’t, AppDetox gives you a friendly prompt to get back on track by saying something like “Facebook? Not now.”
The Android app FocusON is very similar, and requires you to answer for your procrastination by typing out scripted confessions when it catches you trying to open unproductive apps or websites., Another major culprit in leading to procrastination is checking your phone. You’ll likely be surprised by how much time you’re wasting by doing so. Checky can give you a rude awakening by tracking how many times you check your phone per day.Checky is free for iOS and Android phones.
 RescueTime is a simple app that lists the specific apps you use and websites you visit, and how much time you spend on each. You can categorize findings to see a broad snapshot of your habits. For instance, you may spend 87 minutes a day playing games, with 80 of those minutes being spent on Pokemon Go.Use this information to identify things you’re spending too much time on. You will likely be surprised by what Rescuetime reports, including habits that may be contributing to procrastination.
RescueTime is free, and can be used on your computer or your phone. It’s compatible with Mac, PC, and Android products.
Another similar, free app for Chrome is called Trackr. This app is designed to track only the amount of time you spend on websites, not other apps as well.
 Some apps can be disabled by entering a password. Take steps to prevent yourself from doing so. For instance, choose an extremely long password and write it down on paper instead of storing it on your computer. The hassle of entering 50 different numbers and letters will likely keep you from disabling these apps too readily.