 Having a theme for your blog makes it easier to find, easier to market, and more likely to hit it big. There are a lot of photo blogs out there, but being able to tell people specifically the types of photos they will see helps them find the photos they want to see, meaning your viewers will be more interested in your content. Themes don't have to be complex -- "landscapes," "portraits," and "Urban life" are all better than a random collection of photos.


Humans of NY is one of the biggest photo blogs on the planet, and the theme is surprisingly simple and easy., In order to get viewers and build a following, you need to be constantly providing content. If you don't someone else will be there to provide a new photo for your viewers to look at.


All blogs have scheduling features, meaning you can take 20 photos on Sunday and then schedule the blog to automatically post a new one each day of the week.
 The best blogs are infused with the personality of the photographer. Let people know why you're interested in the shot, the weird story that happened on the way to get it, the history of the subject, or the technical feats used to make the shot look great. There are very few "wrong" ways to do this. Simply write about what interests you about the shots.
 This is a great way to bring viewers into your blog and work on your photo skills. Every few weeks, give yourself a specific challenge -- 10 photos in black and white, portraits of the neighborhood, hiking photos -- and then group those challenges into smaller sub-folders. You can even make a "tag" for the photos so that your viewers can see your many photo talents. You could have a page or group of "Nature" photos alongside your normal abstract photography, or you could try to tell the story of a day in a 10 photo "story."

, While some photos might have incredible emotional appeal to you, it is not worth adding bad shots just because of your own emotions or because you didn't post yesterday. People will not respond to them as positively as you. This means using your head, not your heart, to select the images you add to your blog. Exceptions include explaining how not to take a shot, or an exceptional moment (such as a famous person spotted in a blur) but make sure you back it up with an incredible explanation!


Avoid blurry images.
Avoid boring images.
Avoid poorly exposed images.
Avoid commonplace images. You are aiming to be different so that people will want to follow your blog rather than someone else's., A big part of blogging is meeting other photographers who share your interests. Follow other photographers for inspiration and take them time to let them know when you like a shot they took. Swap information on social media and re-blog someone's work if you think it is particularly impressive. This not only increases your viewership, it can lead to collaborations and future projects if you make friends with nearby photographers.

