 Pull the steering wheel down in the direction that you wish to turn (for left turns, pull with your left hand, and vice versa). As you pull the steering wheel down, relax your other hand. Bring it down along the wheel to meet your “pulling” hand above your crotch. When they meet, relax your “pulling” hand and let your other hand take over. Push the steering wheel up until the turn has been executed.When you are first learning how to drive, start with this technique to make turns, since it is a cinch to master.Favor this technique while driving off-road or in dense areas with frequent sharp turns and heavy traffic. Doing so will give your hands freer access to such tools as your gearshift and turn signals.
Also favor this technique with larger steering wheels and/or in cars without power steering.
Push-and-pull is also referred to as the “shuffle” technique.
 Turn the wheel in the direction you wish to turn your vehicle. Maintain a 9-and-3 or 10-and-2 grip on the wheel as you do so. If you need to turn the wheel more than 90 degrees to finish your turn, relax whichever hand is now directly above your crotch and keep it there. Continue to turn the wheel with your “top” hand until it meets your “bottom” hand above your crotch. At that point, bring your “bottom” hand up to the top of the wheel. Continue pulling the wheel down to complete the car’s turn.Use this technique for slight changes in direction, such as changing lanes.
Favor this technique when driving highways or other open roads at higher speeds.
Rotational steering is sometimes referred to as fixed-input steering.
 Check all of your mirrors to make sure the rear of the car is free of people and obstacles. Place one arm around the back of the side-passenger seat. Twist your upper torso in that direction by 90 degrees for a better view through the rear window. Grip the steering wheel at roughly 12 o’clock with your other hand. To back the car up to its right, turn the steering wheel to its right, and vice versa.Keep in mind that you will have a limited view of the driver’s side of the car while in this position.
If possible, allow the car to roll backwards under its own momentum. If gas is needed, only apply a little pressure on the pedal at a time. Avoid backing up too fast.
Do not rely on mirrors or rearview cameras alone to steer in reverse.

