 Franchising refers to a common business strategy used to grow market share with less cost. It refers essentially to offering a franchisee the right to sell your products/services and/or use your business methods. Acquiring these rights would involve the franchisee paying a fee to the franchisor (you). Afterwards, the franchisee would be required to pay you a portion of their gross sales throughout the entire term of your contract.


Note that the franchisee is subject to restrictions as to how they can operate in order to protect your interests. For example, a franchisee may be subject to restrictions as to what they can sell, where and how they can operate, and strict quality control guidelines.
A franchisee is often restricted from operating a similar business after the franchise agreement ends (or during).;
, There are several benefits to franchising. The main benefits, however, are that franchising allows a business to expand market share often dramatically using much less resources. Franchising can allow expansion with less time, money, and personnel resources.Franchising allows expansion with less capital. Starting new locations requires significant access to either debt or equity capital, which can often be hard to come by, and also which come with significant risk. With franchising, the franchisee often provides the capital, meaning that franchisor can experience growth without capital commitment. An added benefit is that all liabilities will be the responsibility of the franchisee, reducing risk to the franchisor.
Franchising also requires less time commitment for the franchisor. Opening new sites can be incredibly time consuming. It involves finding locations, negotiating leases, hiring and training new staff, and overseeing construction. By franchising, the franchisee would oversee most of these tasks, requiring only guidance on your behalf.
Franchising also requires less personnel risk. In order to establish a new location, it is necessary to attract quality management talent. Hiring, training, and retaining management involves time and risk, as there is a chance management could leave. With a franchisee, the location would be operated by a motivated individual with a stake in the profits, who would be responsible for locating and training management talent.
 While franchising can be a resource efficient way of expanding market share, it also has downsides. The main risk is that franchisees could fail. Failed franchisees mean that not only do you not receive any royalty revenue from the business, but they can also require resources in the form of support. Failed franchisees can mean that you receive little to no return on the investment required to franchise your business.


Poor franchisees can also damage the reputation of your business, and introduce legal risks. Not only can they be a source of litigation if things go poorly, but poor functioning can damage your brand, which is many ways your most valuable asset, and the thing that enables franchising to begin with.
Evaluating franchisors well, ensuring they are qualified, ensuring they are experienced in the particular area, and saying "no" to growth that doesn't make sense can reduce these risks.
There is also the risk that franchising simply is not the best option for your business. Franchising means giving up most of the future profits from your business, so if you have the adequate resources, time, and expertise, finding partners or growing more slowly may be a better choice.
 Typically, a prerequisite for franchising is that your business is already successful and profitable. A franchise would take this successful business model and replicate it elsewhere.Profitability alone isn't enough. In fact, before franchising, your business should have at least two profitable units alongside your original unit. This indicates that your business may be a replicable model.
Focus on returns. The idea behind franchising is that a business would generate enough profit to satisfy both the franchisor through royalties, and the franchisee through the remaining profits. If your business does not generate a 15-20% return after royalties, it may be a questionable candidate for franchising., This is especially important. Your business needs to be unique from its competitors (or offering a familiar concept with a new twist), have some sustainable competitive advantage, and be "salable" to potential franchisees.


Setting yourself apart from your competitors, having an excellent proprietary product, or unique marketing system will make your business "salable" to potential franchisees. In other words, franchisees will want to buy it.
 A unique concept goes a long way to ensure someone will franchise your business, but credibility is key. Potential buyers need to trust your business, and have faith in the success of the business model.Factors influencing credibility include experienced management, a long-term track record of success, excellent public reputation, and a recognizable and well-respected brand. Buyers need to know your business will succeed before they will invest in buying the rights.
 That is to say, can your business concept be taught to someone else, and easily replicated?


To determine if your business is replicable, ask if you have easily and properly documented operating procedures. If someone was given all the current documentation on your business, could they learn to operate it in a few months? If not, would it be possible to teach the franchisee everything they need to know? Learning how to operate your business may require both class instruction and on the job training; it will certainly require more instruction than can be found in an operating manual.
If your business is based off the exceptional talent of one or a few people, it may be difficult to franchise, unless what they do can be taught to others.
If your suppliers, or location are all essential to your success, it may be difficult to franchise. For example, if you own a regional Mexican food restaurant, and your success is based off a great down-town location and ingredients that are only available in your town, it may have difficulties as a franchise.
 Franchising is not for everyone. When franchising, you will need to let someone else take your concept and brand, and trust them to operate it successfully without your direct supervision. If you are somebody who likes to micro-manage, or who has a very autocratic leadership style, this may be an issue for you.


You also need to be prepared for a different type of career once you franchise. Typically, your daily tasks will change from a direct operations approach, to one that focuses more on managing, coaching, advising, and communicating. You will likely find yourself removed from producing the product or service that you originally started with., As part of your legal obligations, you’ll need to prepare a standard disclosure document for your franchise, a Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD). This is required by the Federal Trade Commission in the United States.An FDD is like a prospectus for a stock. It provides the relevant information to the prospective investor/franchisee, in layman's terms, so they can make an informed decision.


The FDD used to be known as a Uniform Offering Circular (UFOC). There may also be specific requirements depending on your state or locality.You will need to employ a good franchise attorney to help you negotiate through the legal requirements and draft the FDD.
This disclosure will give potential franchisees a clear picture of the business., A franchise company will need to prepare audited financial statements as part of your disclosure. You will most likely need an experienced and knowledgeable accountant to produce these financial statements. They can also advise you on the structure of your business as you move towards a franchise.You may want to set up another company for the franchise.
Before employing an attorney or accountant check references and ask for recommendations.
 By starting a franchise you are expanding your business beyond your own personal control. In order to make sure new franchises work as well as the business you have developed, it’s essential to have strong systems in place. Solid systems will mean that good practice can be replicated across premises.For example, you will want to formalize marketing strategies across outlets.
You will want clear Human Resources policies to avoid potential disputes and set a gold standard.
Solid accounting systems that will be replicated in each branch are essential.
 One estimate states that between $500,000 to $1,000,000 in capital could be required before you start a major franchise. This, along with a significant, often multi-year time commitment will be required.Have realistic expectations, and do plenty of research before you start.


The costs of start-up will vary wildly so seek expert advice from an early stage.
It could cost $50,000 or even less depending on your business.Where do these costs come from? They can come from preparing training manuals, hiring additional staff to oversee franchises, legal and accounting advice, registration fees, and the creation of the Franchise Disclosure Document.
Keep in mind that costs will depend upon whether you already have such things a written operating manuals, audited statements, and so on. It is rare to be able to franchise for less than $50,000 if you are starting from scratch.
 As previously mentioned, seeking a skilled franchise consultant or attorney is extremely important when attempting to franchise. While an FDD is an essential requirement, it is important to note that states often have their own rules for selling franchises. These rules can often be very complex, and in some states, the rule binders can be nearly two-inches thick. For this reason, make sure you research a qualified advisor to assist you throughout this process. It can save both time, and money, This can also provide valuable resources in terms of finding experts, and having access to resources that can help in understanding the requirements and moving forward. There are a number of trade associations specifically for franchise businesses. Consider getting in touch with a local, national or international organisation for advice and guidance from those with first-hand experience. Some associations produce literature and hold seminars and event which you can attend in order to learn more about starting a franchise.These events are great places to ask questions directly to experts.
You may also make useful contacts for your business.
 The Operations Manual should cover every facet of the business, from the inception of the franchise relationship to exiting the system. Because your franchisees are bound by this document this is a very powerful tool to protect and grow your brand. As such, many people get outside help to write it.This manual will be the key part of your quality control across the whole chain.
It will indicate your competence to potential franchisees.
This is a living document that enables you to respond to changes in markets and industries.Whenever your franchisees need to know something they should be able to find it in the Operations Manual., There are specific things which must be included in the manual such as details of the franchise system, physical requirements for franchise sites, unit layout and decorating standards, required furnishing purchases, and quality standards for services or products delivered under the franchisor's brand. Crucially it will give detailed instruction on the operation standards which specify how the business should be run.It should also include all relevant contact information.
There should be detailed instructions on the operation and maintenance of any equipment.
The standards you set out mean that you could also be liable if they result in someone being hurt, so be careful and think through all of the operation standards.Having checklists in the manual is a good way to present information simply., You should develop training programs to run in conjunction with the Operations Manual. The idea is to insist your business acumen in the franchisees, with a course on how to set up and run the business. The complexity of the business and the experience of the franchisees will influence how long the course lasts.It is likely that the programme will include both “classroom” time and on-the-job training.
You should have a solid programme, but be prepared to be flexible and tailor it to specific people., Something which should be written into your training programme is a strong commitment to ongoing training and mentoring for franchisees. This will minimize any decline in standards over time and tops up core skills and competencies.Solid provision of ongoing training is often a mark of commitment from the franchisor which will appeal to potential franchisees.You should envisage providing training for all levels of staff., You should develop a specific plan for how you are going to sell your franchises. The way you approach this will depend on the type of business as well as variables such as your budget, your target audience, and your intended reach. Some states have particular regulations for franchise advertising, so you will need to consult an attorney or lawyer with the relevant expertise.You need to make your business exciting and attractive to franchisees, but simple enough for them to be able to succeed and turn a profit.You need to highlight the value you are adding, and demonstrate that they'd be better off joining your franchise then starting their own business.
 Signing up excellent franchisees is the most important part of the whole process. So you need to be able to attract the very best people for your franchise. To give yourself the best chance to do this take a thorough a systematic approach. Franchisees will be attracted by a strong brand with a strong presence, excellent reputation, and company culture.Attend franchise fairs or industry events to meet potential franchisees.
Approach people who have already successfully developed franchises and encourage them to reach out to trusted business partners.
Consider professional assistance to attract franchisees. There are for example, independent franchise market firms that can assist in attracting franchisees. In addition, there are franchise consulting firms like FranNet that work to connect franchisors with potential entrepreneurs

, Franchising your business can see you handing over a significant amount of what you have worked for and built to someone else to run. This could be a pretty scary or nerve-racking experience, so be sure to be completely diligent in screening your franchisees before you commit pen to paper.


Consider personal qualities as well as business acumen. Give preference to investors with previous and successful experience owning and operating a business, strong connections in the community, and a knowledge of the local marketBe sure they understand fully the work, time, and financial commitment that will be involve. Ensure that you do not sugar-coat any of these details.
Ask for references, and follow up on all of them. Ensure the references are as high-profile and credible as possible.
 This is the document that you and your franchisees will sign that binds you together in a long-term business arrangement. You will need an attorney to draw up this document to ensure it complies with all legal and regulatory requirements.Once all of this paperwork is complete you are ready to move forward with your franchisees.
 In the US, certain states, often referred to as the "registration states", require that you register your offering (FDD) before you can sell in those states. Register your document in these states if you intend to sell there.Missing any of thee regulations or cutting away corners could have serious legal and financial consequences.
 Once your franchise is established, the most important part begins -- fully supporting your franchisees. Support means providing adequate training programs, and open lines of communication. The training programs, quality control programs, and help resources will all determine whether or not your brand creates a uniform and high quality experience across all locations.