 Utilize unusable wall space by hanging up a hammock in the top corner of your child’s room. Stuffed animal hammocks may be purchased online or your local children’s store. Simply screw in three hooks at any corner of your child’s room and unfurl the hammock onto the hooks. Make sure that the hooks are spread out enough to match the size of your hammock. Hooks can be purchased at your local hardware store or dollar store.Use a stud finder to make sure you have a secure stud to hang your hammock from. Hanging hammocks make cleanup fun because kids enjoy throwing their toys up and into the hammock but make sure the hooks are properly secure on studs.
There maybe a disadvantage to a hammock because, depending on your child’s size and the placement of the hammock, they may not be able to reach the toys when they want to play. Consider safety issues as kids may try to climb to reach their toys or even hang on the hammock once it’s reached.
Depending on how many stuffed animals your child has, it may be a nuisance to retrieve the animals on the bottom. Consider having a regular rotation so that your child gets use of all the stuffed animals and not just the ones that stay at the top of the pile.
 Purchase a large woven basket or wire clothes hamper online or at your local home and furniture store. Wire baskets are great because they keep all the toys visible and keep the toys easily accessible. Similarly, woven baskets keep the animals well-organized while still providing a cute display. Simply organize the animals upright so that their heads peak out of the basket., Similar to an animal hammock, hang a mesh closet organizer in the closet or hang it from the corner of the room. Screw in a hook that can be purchased at your local hardware store or dollar store at any corner of the room and hang the organizer, which can be purchased online or at Ikea.The closet organizer may only store stuffed animals of a certain size; however, it will be convenient for your child to store and access her animals whenever she wants.
Use a stud finder to make sure you have a secure stud to hang your organizer from if you plan to hang it from the ceiling.
 While the organizer is meant for scarves, the loops are perfect for holding and displaying stuffed animals as well. Simply place one half of an animal through a loop and allow it to be suspended by its arms and upper body. Place it in a closet or screw in a hook at the back of a door or on a wall to latch the organizer on to.