 If you don’t quite trust yourself to check everything, the input of a piano technician can soothe your mind. A piano can look like it is in good condition, but require more repairs than it’s worth. For example, replacement of the pin block that holds the pins at the correct tension can cost thousands of dollars. A good way to find a technician is through either your local store, tuner, or from the Piano Technicians Guild.Ask your technician to accompany you to a sale or store. Say "I'm hoping to go to Alison's Piano World next week to pick out an upright piano. Are you free to come with me to advise?"
You can also ask your technician if they’ll tell you about a piano based on pictures that you text them. Say "If I can show you photos of a baby grand from Alison's, will you be able to tell if it's in good shape?" If they say yes, ask "What parts of the piano should I focus my pictures on?"

, This will give you a good perspective and plenty of options. Piano stores generally have used pianos that they have taken on trade or consigned from people in your area. They’ve usually checked and tuned the pianos for you, and they may have technicians and tuners on hand to help you purchase.


If you haven’t visited the store before, read up on online reviews first.
A good store will let you take time to inspect the piano, and won’t rush you to make a sale.
 These are tricky. You might be able to find a good deal on Craigslist or another public forum, but the pianos sold by regular people probably haven’t been through all the stringent vetting that a piano in a good piano store has.If you’ve got your heart set on a particular piano, check if it’s a reputable brand, and bring an RPT with you.
 So you’ve found a piano you think you might like! The first and easiest way to learn about it is to check its age. Find the serial number by looking between the bass and tenor strings (on a full size) or beneath the lid (on an upright). Then, feed it into a Piano Age Calculator like this one.Ideally, it should be under 30 or so.
 Take a deeper dive into the piano you like, and carefully examine all the parts. It’s best to have an RPT to help you do this, but you can certainly do it by yourself. In general, think smooth. The piano should be even in texture, movement, and sound.


First, look at the piano’s case. Does it have a musty smell or termite holes? Avoid it. Is the finish cracked? It might’ve been standing near a window, and the atmosphere that damaged the finish probably also damaged the tone.Next, look at the keyboard. You want keys that make a straight line (or curve slightly up in the middle), move easily, and sound fairly consistent in tone. Play each key. Do you hear any rattles or wobbles? If not, that’s a good sign.Now, open the lid. Check if the hammers are worn and the strings are evenly spaced. All fabrics (like the felt and strings) should look fresh, not frayed.Get down on the floor and check the pedals and bridges. The pedals should move easily, not loosely. There should be absolutely no cracks in the bridges., How can you tell if you like the way the piano sounds if it does not sound the way it should? If the piano is not in tune, it probably means the owner or store has not provided any maintenance to the piano, which is a red flag.A piano store should have a tuning fork so you can check. You can also use a tuning app on your smartphone.
 Whether you’re buying from a store or a private sale, ask as many questions as you want to. A piano is a big purchase, and a reliable seller will be more than happy to answer some of your queries. Here are some important ones:How old is this piano?
Do you know what maintenance has been done on it?
Who plays or played it? (Students, kids, family…)

, As you’ve learned from your research and examinations, a piano is a beautiful and complex instrument! Therefore, it’s best to find a mover who has been specifically trained in pianos to transport it for you. You can check your phone book or local online listings, or ask the store if they have any recommendations.