 After, you determine the design you wish to burn into your cheese board, figure out what other items you may need to draw the image. Simple geometric shapes often look best. If you go this route, use a ruler to guide your pencil for extra precision.Aside from phrases or recognizable iconography, consider doing a design around the edge of the board, or even something more creative, like a flock of geese flying across the board's surface.
Another good option: re-create a piece of childhood artwork that you or one of your kids made. Not only would the board have special meaning to your family, it may elicit some friendly chuckles as well.;
, For lettering or for classic designs, such as arrows or trees, you may want to get equipment that can provide a guide instead of creating the design free hand. For instance, use a stencil to simply trace a design onto the board. You can also use graphite paper to trace a more complicated design directly onto the wood.Stencils and graphite paper can be found as art supplies stores or online.
 Select a tip, attach it to the tool, and plug it in to heat it up. If the tool has a on/off switch, make sure it is engaged.Many wood burning tools come with several different types of tips. Depending on your design, you make want to use a pointed tip (ideal for making dots) or a tip similar to that on a flathead screwdriver (for making lines one tip-width at a time).
Woodburning tools, as well as additional tips, can be found online or in a most craft stores.
 Use the woodburning tool to press down firmly on the pencil lines you drew on the board. You may need to go over the lines more than once to make them sufficiently dark.Once you’ve completed the woodburning step, allow the board to cool down and erase any stray pencil lines.
 Before seasoning the wood to make it safe to use with food, you may want to stain the wood for aesthetic reasons. If you wish to do so, make a natural stain by mixing heavily concentrated coffee 1:1 with balsamic vinegar. Simply paint the solution onto the wood and allow if to dry to darken the wood and make it look older.To make heavily concentrated coffee, grind an amount you’d usually use to make a batch in your french press, but only add a cup or two of boiling hot water. Allow the coffee to steep into the water before straining and adding to the balsamic vinegar.

