 Answer the phone and find out if you owe money or not, what you can do to pay the money back while stifling collection calls, or even if it is just a mistake. Only after you completely understand the reason for the collection calls should you put an end to them. Ignoring legitimate collection calls won’t stop them.


The creditors have a legal right to collect the debt. Not paying money to collection agencies when it is due can have adverse effects on your credit score. Sometimes, you might forget that you owe money to a credit card company, a credit union, or your bank. If you don’t answer the phone, you may not realize that you have unpaid debt before it’s reported.;
, Oftentimes, collection agencies mix people up. People with common names like John Smith or Sarah Jones often receive collection calls meant for others by the same name. Sometimes, debt collectors will call all the people in a given area with the same last name, looking for the individual or family members.Be aware of the concept of "phantom" or "zombie" debt. This is debt that you do not legally owe, but an unscrupulous collection agency is still attempting to collect. Phantom debt refers to a settled debt that a collection agency continues to try to collect. If you do not pay the phantom debt, the agency has no recourse against you. But once you make a payment, the money won't be refunded, and you have little if any recourse against the agency.
Collectors often threaten legal action in the hopes of collecting debt faster. Debt is a civil matter and cannot be used to file criminal charges. The only way not paying a debt can be considered a crime is if the original sum was obtained under false pretenses, such as by identity theft, forgery, or other misrepresentation.
 Under the Federal FDCPA, a collector is not allowed to make any kind of threat or use abusive language. Tell the debt collector this. If it is a rogue collector or a fraud, most likely they’ll be scared off.


Being in debt can be embarrassing. Most people are not willing to have their family or friends know that they have fallen behind. State and Federal laws also do not allow debt collectors to talk about your debt to other people except your lawyer or with your permission.
 Lawyers love having recordings. If the collector has been using vulgar methods to intimidate you, start recording. Inform the collector at the beginning that you are taping the call as evidence for filing a formal, legal complaint with the State Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission. If your telephone has a speaker option, use a regular tape recorder to record the conversation. Most cell phones today have recording apps or built-in recording features., Do not lie and pretend to be another person. Don't pretend to be dead or to have moved. To do so is fraud under federal law. Collection agencies and investigators can easily determine if such a statement is false. Since collection calls are often recorded, your lie will be recorded as well.

