 Whether your chateau is large (like Molly's penthouse in the beginning of the film) or small (like her shoe-box apartment in the end) you can still make it great.


Regardless of the size of your bed (and whether or not you even have a bed frame) any bed can have a canopy. Measure the height (floor to ceiling) and the length of your bed (both sides) and then purchase some cheap tulle. If you have a frame, move your bed away from the walls, but do not center it in your room. If you do not have a frame, place your bed in a corner, but at an angle, so that the edge of the bed is parallel with the corner. There are four sides of your bed. The short sides, and the long sides.
Pin tulle to the ceiling so that it is parallel with each short side. Also pin tulle between these two sides, along the ceiling, but leave slack, so that it hangs nicely. Ivory tulle with glitter is very similar to the tulle on Molly's bed in her penthouse. If you can afford it, invest in a circular gold canopy hanger (like the one above her bed in the opening scene). If you are shopping for a bed frame, purchase a white iron one, but shy away from a canopy bed, because Molly's canopy is not hung from her bed.
If you are able to paint your bedroom, or entire apartment, use two shades of orange. In the beginning of the film, Molly's bedroom is striped with two shades of orange. The stripes are about six inches wide each. Molly's bedroom ceiling is midnight blue, with gold-leafed stars. Gold leaf is real gold, but spread thin, with a consistency similar to paint.
Use mainly orange and white shades. Make these colors your main palate. Mix in a bit of reds and pinks and purples as well. When using metal, gold is best. For windows, Molly has red velvet drapes. If this is too expensive, make your own, improvise; substitute fabrics, but not color. Stay as close to Molly's version as financially possible. Think warmth.
If your doors are white, leave them. Many of the doors in Molly's penthouse are white, or a deep brown.
Scatter your haven with candles. Molly has lots of candles, especially in the scene where Neal comes over. But be cautious, never be foolish with open flames.
Floor pillows are a must, use reds and purples and rich patterns or beading with floor pillows.;
, Molly hardly wears pants or shorts. We always see her in skirts or dresses. Wear skirts everywhere, even to go grocery-shopping or to the laundry-mat (like Molly does). Wear loose, swishy fabrics, like chiffon, or silk. Wear fun patterns, like paisley. And have at least one sequined dress (this is what Molly's wears to her birthday bash, a definite must for all Molly admirers). Color is also a big part of her wardrobe. A few dark pieces are alright, but keep them fun with little details, like dark patterns or dark shimmery fabrics. Molly also has a denim dress, covered in patches; if you can find one (in a thrift store, that's your best bet) buy it.
 Molly only wears fun shoes, or no shoes at all (like in the scene when she (temporarily) quits her job as a nanny and wanders around NYC barefoot). The pink shoes with stars that she wears at her birthday are great. If you can't find shoes like these, try pink shoes with feathers.
 Molly plays up her big eyes with either shimmery or black eye shadows and liners. Mascara in basic black, but also white or silver is a must.
 Be melodramatic about them. At the beginning of the movie, Molly HAS to have Neal. When he leaves her apartment, she cries and begs him to stay, then becomes delirious with love and doesn't clean her apartment.
 In one scene, Molly says 'I live off of water and sunshine!'. Make that your motto. Be happy and fun. Look for fun in every activity. But learn to be responsible too. This is something even our free-spirited Molly learns. Have fun, but learn fundamentals too.

