 Try playing games with your baby that will strengthen his understanding of separation and reunion. Games like hide and seek or peek-a-boo are excellent for helping babies learn that separation is only temporary., You can help your baby get used to the idea of not always being by your side by encouraging him to explore his world independently. If your baby gets used to being in a room at home without you, it may be easier to adjust to being somewhere else without you too.Make sure there is nothing dangerous that your baby can get into before allowing him to explore. While it's good to allow some independence, it should always be controlled.
 Your baby will be much more comfortable exploring the world and spending time away from you if he feels safe and secure. Help him feel this way by making sure all of his basic needs are met.Feed him whenever he is hungry.
Change his diapers whenever they are dirty.
Give him love and attention when you are together.
 Regular routines give your baby a sense of consistency, which helps him feel secure. Try to stick to regular routines as much as possible, as abrupt changes are likely to cause anxiety.Be especially careful about maintaining everyday routines after big changes, like a move or the birth of a sibling.
 If your baby struggles with separation anxiety, try leaving him with a caretaker for very short periods of time and gradually working up to longer intervals. This will help your baby understand that the separation is only temporary.The first few times can be as short as 15 minutes.
Try to make sure your baby isn't tired or hungry before you leave, as this can make him more anxious., If you want to reduce your baby's separation anxiety, try to avoid leaving him in an unfamiliar place or with unfamiliar people. The more comfortable your baby is with his surroundings and caretakers, the less severe his separation anxiety is likely to be.Leave your baby with family members whenever possible.
If you will be using a new babysitter, have him or her come over to get to know the baby while you are home before leaving them alone.
If your baby will be going to daycare, try bringing him for a few visits without leaving. Once he is used to the place, it should be easier to leave him there.
 If your baby sees that you are upset about the separation, he is much more likely to get upset about it too. To avoid this, keep it together when dropping your baby off at daycare or with the babysitter, and do your best to not let your baby see any concern on your face.It's also good for your baby to see that you like the caretaker, so always try to smile when talking with him or her.
You may also want to reassure your baby by letting him know how much fun he will have while you're gone.
Try to ignore your baby's crying as you leave. If you delay leaving to comfort him, you are teaching your baby that he can prevent you from leaving by crying., It's a good idea to get into the habit of telling your baby where you are going and when you will be coming back. This can help him feel less anxious about the separation.While it's good to say goodbye before you leave, don't make too big of a deal out of it, or else your baby may sense that you are hesitant to leave.
Never sneak out without saying goodbye, as this can create more anxiety.
Make sure you keep your promises and return when you said you would.
 When you return from a separation, let your baby know that you are happy to see him. Making the reunion a happy occasion can help make the separation a little easier too.Pay attention to what your baby wants when you return. If he wants a hug, give him a hug. If he wants to play, play.
 Get your baby used to the idea of going to bed and taking naps by following the same predictable routine each time. The more familiar the routine becomes, the less scary it will be for your baby to be away from you at night.Stick to the same bedtime each night as much as possible.
Try incorporating an enjoyable activity into your routine so that your baby will look forward to bedtime. You may want to read a story or play a game.
 If your baby cries for you in the middle of the night, you can check in on him, but avoid playing with him or giving him too much attention, which may encourage him to keep crying out for you. Your purpose should be simply to reassure your baby that you are still in the house and to make sure everything is okay.If you don't respond to your baby's cries at all, he may think that you are not nearby, which can increase his anxiety.
 You may be very tempted to start sleeping in your baby's room to help ease his nighttime anxiety, but this will only make matters worse. When you do this, you remove the separation, which means your baby will never get used to being away from you.Avoid any other accommodations that you don't want to become habits as well.
 If you are always home with your baby during the day, you may need to start making some changes. Even small separations during the day can help decrease nighttime separation anxiety, as your baby will get more comfortable with being away from you each time.Try short visits with family members or a few hours at daycare each week.

