 If you are in danger, have just been sexually assaulted, have witnessed a crime, and/or are in need of emergency medical attention, then call 911 right away. Don’t be afraid to call for help.If you are helping someone who has just been attacked, then calling 911 is probably the best option. This person may need medical attention even if he or she does not have any visible injuries.;
, If you are not in immediate danger or in need of medical care, then you can visit a local police station or call the direct line to your local police station to report a sex crime. Calling a police station might be the best option if you see someone exposing him or herself in public or if you notice some suspicious activity that looks like prostitution.


For example, if someone exposes his or her genitals to you or someone you know, then you should report this to the police. Or, if you see someone talking to someone through the car window and then get into the car and ride with the person to a secluded location, then you may want to call the police and report this activity.
Most police officers have gone through extensive training regarding sex crimes, so you will likely encounter a concerned, professional police officer when you make your report.If you encounter someone who does not seem to be taking you seriously, then as to speak to his or her supervisor. You do not have to put up with that kind of treatment.
 Victims of sexual assault or abuse should seek medical care as soon as possible. If you are not comfortable going to a police station or you have injuries that require care, then you can also go to a hospital or to see your primary care physician or gynecologist. While you are there, you can tell the medical professional who is caring for you that you have been assaulted and want to make a report.If you are not sure where to go, then you can find a medical facility that will be able to help you by contacting the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 1.800.656.HOPE.
If you are helping someone who is in need of medical care, then calling 911 may still be the best option. However, if the person’s injuries are not severe, then you may consider taking the person to the hospital yourself.
 If you are still in school, then speaking with one of your teachers or a school counselor is another option for reporting a sex crime. You can tell a teacher or school counselor and he or she will be required by law to make a report to the police.This may be a good option if you feel uncomfortable going to the police or if the crime occurred near the school. For example, if someone exposed him or herself to you on your way to school, then you should tell your teacher about it.

