 Sometimes, it's not school itself that makes you yearn for it. It may be a relationship, the company of friends, or, a certain activity in school that attracts you to the school. Identifying the reason will eventually help you appreciate the holidays because then, you will be able to look at the perk specifically, and not view the school as a "heaven" just because of one thing.;
, Some schools assign a list of books you need to read before the fall. You might check for other classes, for example ask your science teacher if there are any extra-credit science experiments to do over break. You can ask your math teacher if you can have a textbook and start studying it, so you can get a head start on the new school year.
 For example, you could see how many books you can read before the Fall, or you could try to learn 30+ new vocabulary words. This can be fun and it will sharpen your skills for next year! You could also set a goal for how many math problems to finish each week or even each day.
 Websites like kids.gov are great for all your favorite subjects. This can help you hone your skills in your subjects, and, will give you a taste of being at school.
 Doing this you will be motivated to think about what you are going to do when you do get back to school and you can do a little bit of work over the summer towards them.
 In this way you can count the days back to school, make notes of your achievements or you can make it more of an album by also sticking photos from your summer in it. You should have a mix of fun and schoolwork if you are eager for school to get back in session, because if you don't, once you do go back to school, you will be burnt out and then you likely won't enjoy school as much.
 Search on a website for some online lessons. There a lots of videos about subjects that are really interesting.
 If school has just ended, and you face a long summer with nothing to do, find a project to work on. For computer fans, you might try to learn Linux. If you're good at writing, try writing a work of fiction. Whatever you do, though, make sure you enjoy it.
 Life isn't all about reading, writing, and math! Maybe meet some friends, go to a movie, and go out to eat! You don't have to be learning every second of every day! You can also ask your parents to go out for a vacation.
 This will help you get your mind off school, and, hopefully, will allow you to appreciate the holidays more.
 You can write a book about your school life or even the world. Who knows, maybe by the end of the summer, you can publish your book and your friends and family can read all about it.
 This will help you keep track of what you did over the summer, so it's a good idea to start it early on. Whether you're a guy or a gal, be sure to keep it out of the wrong hands.
 There are many ideas on a creative project and you can search WikiHow for many helpful ideas. Your art teacher (if the school has an art program) will gladly accept the project.
, They may offer some sort of story time (for younger kids), or, interesting materials that teens often find interesting.
 This will inspire you to try new ideas, and you'll never be bored. Read both fiction and nonfiction, depending on your mood at any given time.
 Read about everything that interests you, and be sure to share what you learn with friends.
 If you gather enough people (or dolls) You could see what its like on the teachers end, and, eventually, appreciate them more. This will be beneficial to you as well when school starts.
 Whether it's your own blog or wikiHow, make something for other people to see. It can be anonymous, or you could tell all your friends and ask for their advice.
 This is not only fun, but also good to refresh your memory just in case you need to remember it, but haven't practiced in years.
 If you're really bored you can always get a couple round for things. Outings and trying to complete fun and special tasks like making a message in a bottle or building a giant fort can make the summer truly memorable.
 Maybe it's just the loneliness that you are feeling that makes you yearn for school, not an actual yearning itself.
 Either you're spending your days with your parents, grandparents, or uncles there are surely plenty of things to do together. Another good idea is to ask your parents to go to a summer camp. You meet people, have a good time and pass your days without even noticing it!

, Most kids wait until nearly the last day of August to get their school stuff. But if you search for your school supplies in like June or July, you can get cool little things like cute erasers, neat pencils, sweet binders and notebooks, etc.
 Near the end of your holiday break, you could start going to shops for stationery and back-to-school clothes so that you can get the best things.

