 If it is not possible to talk face-to-face, call your partner on the phone. Try to avoid texting, emailing, or messaging on social media. Definitely don’t end the relationship by avoiding your partner altogether or "ghosting." Be sure to treat your partner with respect during your conversation, and expect that your partner treat you with respect as well.Choose a neutral location with some degree of privacy. Try to avoid either party’s residence. A local park or cafe is best. This will help keep everyone’s reactions low-key and allow for you to exit quickly if needed., Try to avoid playing the blame game. Discuss the reasons why you need to end the relationship and why it is the best decision for you. If you are honest and respectful with your partner, they are likely to be respectful in return.Don’t say things like, “You are too controlling.” Instead, say something like “I need more space in my life right now.”

, Make sure that your partner understands that this is definitely a breakup. Do not give the impression that you are trying to fix the relationship. This will confuse your partner and make them think that the relationship might work out.Say something definitive like, “I think the relationship is over, and I need to move on;" or " "I know this isn't what you want, but it is what I need."

, Your partner may not want to end the relationship. They may cry, scream, or beg you to reconsider. Remain calm and be compassionate but don’t allow this to change your mind.


Say something like, “I really hate to hurt you like this but this is what is best for me.”

, Your partner may not react to the news of your breakup well. It would be normal to see them cry or raise their voice. However, it is possible that they become very angry and abusive, either emotionally or physically. This is another reason why it is important to break up with your partner in a public space rather than in either party’s residence.If you think that your partner may become violent, consider breaking up over the phone instead of face-to-face.
If you think that you are in danger you should call the police. Don't hesitate if you feel your safety is threatened — trust your instincts and call for help.

