 You may be able to find it fresh in a local market, but if you're in an area where turtles aren't commonly eaten, you can buy turtle meat frozen and have it shipped to you.Be sure to do some research to make sure you get it from a reputable company.


Turtle meat that isn't sourced properly can have toxic metals and other materials that aren't good for your health.;
, If your meat is frozen, thaw it slowly in the refrigerator. Bring the meat to room temperature by placing it on the counter 1/2 hour before you're ready to cook it. This will ensure the meat cooks evenly and gets properly heated all the way through.
 Turtle soup is made with a variety of different vegetables that flavor the base of the soup. Prep your vegetables while the meat is thawing and coming to room temperature.


Peel and chop the onion. You'll need about 1 1/2 cups total.
Peel and chop the shallots. You should end up with about 1/3 cup.
Chop the bell pepper and measure out 1/2 cup.
Chop the celery and measure out 1/2 cup.
Peel and chop the garlic and measure out 2 tablespoons.
Chop the parsley and green onions - you'll need these later to serve as a garnish.
 Hard-boiled eggs are a traditional garnish for turtle soup. Place the eggs in a saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring the water to a boil, then cover the pan with a lid and remove it from heat. Let the eggs cook in the hot water for 10 minutes, then run them under cold water and peel them. Chop the eggs and set them aside.
 Slice a fresh lemon into quarters and squeeze out the juice. Measure out 1/4 cup of juice, and set it aside to add to the soup.
 Place the meat, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper, and 6 cups of water in a large saucepan. Put a lid on the saucepan and place it on the stove over high heat.


It's necessary to thoroughly cook the turtle meat before using it in the soup. Adding undercooked meat to the soup might allow potentially dangerous bacteria to survive.
 Keep simmering and stirring for 20 minutes while the meat cooks. Use a spoon to skim off the foam that will rise to the top., Drain the water into a bowl (don't discard it) and place the meat on a platter. Allow it to cool for a few minutes before handling. Save the liquid for later - you'll need it to help flavor the soup.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the meat into small, bite-sized cubes. Since turtle meat tends to be on the tougher side, make sure the pieces are small enough to chew comfortably. Set the platter of meat aside.
 Melt the butter in a large stockpot over medium high heat. Add the flour and use a wooden spoon to stir the mixture constantly until it thickens and turns golden brown, about five minutes. This is your roux, the base of the soup that will give it a velvety texture.
 Put the chopped onions, shallot, red pepper, and celery in with the roux. Stir the mixture every few minutes and keep cooking until the vegetables soften and the onion turns translucent, about 5 minutes.
 Toss in the bay leaves, garlic and thyme. Keep stirring and cooking the mixture for 2 minutes more.
 Mix everything together and stir as the tomatoes cook down a bit for about 3 more minutes.
 Pour in the turtle stock reserved from cooking the meat. Add the remaining salt and cayenne. Add the lemon juice, sherry and Worcestershire sauce. Adjust the heat so that the soup comes to a low simmer, and cook for another 10 minutes.
 Ladle the turtle soup into bowls and serve with chopped eggs, parsley and green onions on the side. It's delicious with a bowl of steamed rice.

