 Since this method involves extending the hanger into the actual vehicle, it tends to work better for vehicles with power door locks or a lock that automatically unlocks when you pull the interior door handle. You will need a long rigid tool that won’t bend under a bit of tension in order to reach in and either press the unlock button or pull the door handle. The most common household tool will likely be a wire hanger after you straighten it. A rib from an umbrella or a long wire from a wire basket will work as well.


You can also buy a specific tool kit for this method online, which consists of an inflatable bag, a wedge, and a rigid tool.If you are prone to locking your keys in your car, it could prove to be a good investment.
 Use a pair of wire cutters to snip off the twisted section at either end where the hanger came together. This section is typically to difficult to straighten completely and is hard to slip into the doorjamb.









Cut as close to the base of the twisted section as possible in order to retain as much length in the wire as you can.
 Make a small hook with the end of the wire hanger if you will be opening the inside door handle itself. Make a small circle if you will be opening a vertical lock or pressing an unlock button.









Make sure that the hook is large enough to grasp the handle, and that the circle can just barely fit over the button so that it snags when you pull it up.
 You need to get something into the car doorjamb just enough to give yourself some leverage.You can use an inflatable pump wedge, which is a small inflatable bag that safely creates an opening in your car door or window.








If you do not have access to an inflatable bag, you can use any sort of tapered rubber material. Two or three door stops will also work well if you insert them a bit at a time to get a good wedge. Use rubber to prevent scratching your car's paint.
Make sure to pry under the weather stripping and only pry enough to insert the wire through.
Leave the object you inserted in the door jamb as you complete the next step.
 Once you have something with a bit of leverage behind the door, you need to pry a bit more to open the space wider.Even if you used an inflatable pump wedge, you should still have one or two actual rubber wedges or even wooden ones with plastic guards. You will have to work these wedges deeper into the jamb until you have enough space to insert your wire hanger.
 If you are trying to open the door handle, you should insert the wire horizontally through the side of the door. If you are trying to unlock a vertical button, you should insert the wire downward vertically from above the door.









If this proves too difficult on the driver’s side door, you can always try the passenger side as well since most modern vehicles with power door locks will have a control on the passenger side as well.
Be careful not to scratch the paint on your car as you complete this step.
 If opening the handle itself, direct the wire onto the door handle and grab onto the handle with the hook you bent into the wire. The hook will usually be pointing down and slightly toward the inside of the car in order to achieve the best angle.
 If pushing a button or pulling up on a vertical lock, direct the wire from the top of the window toward the button and perform the necessary action. For a button, simply press down with the end of the wire until the doors unlock. For a vertical lock, push the loop you created in the end of your wire down over the lock and pull up until the car unlocks.









It is important that the loop is just barely wide enough to slide over the top of the vertical lock so that you can pull it back up.
, If the door to your vehicle proves too difficult to pry open to get the hanger inside with enough room to maneuver it, then you may simply need to call a locksmith. They will have professional tools to get you back inside your vehicle in no time.

