 It requires level 35 slayer to start, however that should not take much time at all. In addition to allowing you to use the slayer dungeon and master in Pollniveach, it doubles your points earned from completing slayer tasks permanently.
 Some masters have requirements, such as

Turael/Spria - Located in Burthorpe, this slayer master requires only level 3 combat



 


Mazchna/Achtryn - Located in Canifis, this slayer master requires level 20 combat, and you must have completed the quest "Priest in Peril."






Vannaka - Located in Edgeville dungeon, this slayer master requires level 40 combat.






Chaeldar - Located in Zanaris, this slayer master requires level 70 combat, and you must have completed the quest "Lost City."






Sumona - Located in Pollnivneach, this slayer master requires level 85 combat, level 35 slayer, and you must have completed the quest "Smoking Kills."






Duradel/Lapalok - Located in Shilo Village, this slayer master requires level 100 combat, level 50 slayer, and you must have completed the quest "Shilo Village."






Kuradal - Located in the Ancient Cavern, this slayer master requires level 110 combat and level 75 slayer.






Morvran. Located in Priffindas, which requires the Plague's End quest (that has it's own high requirements, level 75 is several skills). He requires level 120 combat and 85 slayer to use, and gives the most experience and points in the game.
 Different monsters have different sets of weaknesses, and knowing what to use against them is most of the battle. A black mask or slayer helm boosts damage caused to slayer monsters by up to 15%, and can speed up your tasks very well., Ancient curses, unlocked after completing the Temple of Sennistein, can boost all your combat skills by 20%, bring your efficiency up as well. If you have 95 herblore, use overloads if you can. If you cannot, bringing super or even extreme sets can work very well too., There are some tasks that, in means of raw experience, are not the best to do. These tasks may be good money, however they are not good enough exp to be considered viable, so consider these at your own risk.

TzHaar creatures. Not assigned very easily, but not worth it even with the fight caves.
Vryewatch. These have no drops aside from corpses, and are very bad exp.
Greater demons. Unless you want to kill K'ril T'sust'roth, these are very bad exp.
Desert Strykewyrms. Very spread out, few drops, bad
Mature Grotworms. Slow to kill, but can be worth it if you want to.
 Blocking and skipping tasks should always be top priority. Then, it is up to you whether to buy/upgrade your slayer helmet or to use slayer rings. Slayer rings allow you to teleport to select slaying rooms very quickly, however the slayer helm allows you to kill the creatures quicker. Neither option is definitively better than the other, so it's your call here., This minigame, which requires 85 slayer and access to Priffindas, shows you several slayers monster for you to kill in a row without banking. The first time you complete this, you will get 50k slayer experience, and then after that a reward book giving you an amount of exp based on your level.