 No prep would have a filthy room, so start cleaning up. Your room may not appear dirty at first glance, but don't make that mistake. Check inside your drawers - are they organized and clean? Is your carpet vacuumed with no stains -make sure to clean in all those nooks and crannies? Are your windows well washed? Start with the basics - vacuuming, cleaning mirrors and windows, dusting, then go on to organizing your wardrobe and drawers.;
, If your room is cluttered with lots of stuff that you haven't touched since you were two, you aren't going to be able to pull off the preppy look. Do a thorough check of your room and ask yourself: do you need all of your clothes? Do you read those books? Check everything, and then check again.


Give away stuff to good causes like Goodwill or Salvation Army rather than throwing them out - your old stuff will be new stuff for other people. Ask your parents to get you some cardboard boxes to make "Donate" boxes then ask them to deliver it for you. Just get it out of your room.
 Consider painting your walls or buying some wallpaper. Try to use pastels or a flowery print. You can simply repaint your room the same colour and touch it up if you like it the way it is, but if you're looking for something new, paint your room a nice, light colour. If you're looking for wallpaper, try some light florals or gingham too, or go for stripes. If you can't paint your room consider a nice painting to make a plain wall look classy.


You can have a feature wall - one wall painted a different colour, where you hang up pictures and things that are special to you.
 If you can't buy any new furniture, move your original furniture around to create more space. For example: if your bed is right next to your wardrobe, your room is going to look really cluttered. If you can actually buy new furniture, choose carefully. White is a good colour for a set of drawers or a table or bookshelf, but make sure it is elegant. Another option is dark wood for furniture.
 If you have had the same bed cover since you were five, then it is time for a change. Try not to go for anything too bright or too busy; go for the more classy, elegant look. Colours and patterns do really matter, try to keep it pastel and try to match it with paint or wallpaper. However, if you aren't too sure what to pick, here are some suggestions:


White is always a good color when it's paired up with another, light color. Think white and navy blue, white, sea foam green and Girl baby pink or hot pink, white and lime green, white and soft yellow, etc.
Try to use lighter colors, to make the room seem more airy and open.
Make sure that whatever furniture or accessories you get match the rest of your room. For example if you have a pink and white bedspread, try to buy night/ or table lamps that match the bedspread.
Black and white is also a very classy combination. It looks especially elegant with dark turquoise or pastel yellow.
 This step isn't essential, however, if you can buy some new curtains, make sure you choose something that will match the rest of your room - a heavy clash in colours is not preppy. As always, make sure that it isn't too busy or bright - make it stylish and classy.
 Make sure you stick to the preppy theme, for example: a nice looking lamp to go on your desk, a few cushions, maybe a matching rug.
 Get a Steiff teddy bear and put it on bed. Have a displayed picture of your dog in a silver frame. Display at least one picture of a horse. Display some copies of Teen Vogue. If you take ballet, horse riding or tennis lessons-make sure your room displays those passions. Hang a map of Martha's Vineyard or Nantucket. Framed Posters of England or France are good too.
 Make sure everything matches. Think cute.

