 You don't need to be scared to talk to him. Talk to him as if you are talking to one of your best friends because that's what he should be! Your boyfriend should be your best friend as well as a love interest.;
, You want him to get to know you well, so tell him about your dreams, hopes and interests. Tell him about your friends, school, even what you want to buy at the mall on Friday. They want to hear it because they like knowing what is on their girlfriend's mind. Just don't blab about it and go on and on!

, Listen to him when he talks, and respond. Otherwise, he might think you're ignoring him or just interested in yourself.


Don't just talk about yourself. Ask him what he likes to do for fun and what his dreams and hopes are too.
 If you don't like something, tell him! Don't lie just to agree with him. Guys like partners who have their own opinions.
 Guys don't like when partners are all over them. Sure they want their partner to be crazy about them, but that doesn't mean you have to be clingy. Give him some space. What's sexy to a guy is when a partner is independent. They have a life outside of his. But it is okay to text or IM him when you're not with him. Just be sure not to nag him.
 Do things that both of you find interesting. While it's good to compromise some of the time and do things that the other person likes, it's also important to find things you like to do in common, so that you can be together and have fun at the same time.
 Don't just do and say the same things everyday. If you always do the same things, there's a risk he'll grow bored. He should learn something new about you each time you talk.
 Be supportive and let him know you care.
 Act and feel totally comfortable with him, no matter how many people are around. Even when others are there, act the same way you would if you were alone with him.
 Laugh and joke. Flirt a little. Guys love when a girl can have a sense of humor.
 Boys like to be around people that make them feel good about themselves. Compliment him. Basically, stoke his confidence and leave him thinking he's the best boyfriend you've ever had. Your unwavering support will gain his trust.
 Have him over for dinner or a movie and let the rest of the family get to know him too. This shows that you're serious about him and think he matters enough to be around your family.

