 If one of you is chronically ill, you may think “I don’t have time for a hobby.” As frustrating as it can be, you must make time. You can sow into your marriage and your mental health all at once with the help of a hobby. A shared hobby can increase the bond and deepen the spark between you and your spouse. Hobbies also help both of you fight stress.Any activity that engages the both of you is up for consideration. If you both are physically capable, you could sign up for a dance class. Other options include painting, fishing, cooking, hiking, or doing home DIY projects. It doesn’t matter what you do, just as long as you do it together.
If you or your spouse has serious physical limitations, look for a hobby you can work on at home. This could be anything from gardening to small home improvement projects or arts and crafts.;
, Just as you and your partner’s health is a top priority, maintaining your marital bond should be, too. Whenever possible, schedule in some one-on-one time to “date” your spouse like you did before marriage.


Go for a walk in the park. Watch a sunset together. Plan a romantic candlelight dinner. Don’t just wait around hoping for time to connect with your spouse. Plan it, execute it, and protect it from interruption by kids or other obligations. That’s the only way your romantic life will stay a priority.Remember that health concerns come first. If you or your spouse does not feel up to it, reschedule your plans for another day.
 Touch is the first form of communication that we learn as humans. Many would argue that it remains the most fundamental.When one of you is ill or hurting, you may not be able to find all the right words to say. However, offering your touch can help ease your partner’s worries about the health condition and create intimacy between you.


Touch between married partners can be as simple as a loving caress as he sits down to pay the bills, or a kiss on the forehead as she lies down to rest. If you are physically capable, also try to keep your sex life alive and well.
Focus on doing small things to please the both of you, such as kissing, erotic conversation, and foreplay. These options can all work in a variety of situations if you both are willing to try. A chronic medical condition can complicate your sex life, but it doesn’t have to. Talk to your partner about what both of you can do to stimulate and please the other sexually.
 If you are the reasonably healthy spouse, it can be easy to make assumptions about what your partner does or does not want to do intimately. Aim to remember them as the person you fell in love with and married, not a sick person. If you see your spouse this way, you may lose the intimate connection you once had.Allow the ill person to set boundaries and respect them. However, don’t refrain from touching or showing affection due to assumptions. If you want to know, ask.
For example, say to your spouse, “I’d like to touch you. Is that okay?” If they say “Yes,” ask them to let you know if anything is making them uncomfortable. Assure them that you will stop if they ask you to.
 Stop expecting your partner to guess or read your mind. Don’t assume that your spouse knows your needs or wants. Keep the lines of communication open always. A serious health condition can change the balance of power in a relationship. The sick spouse may feel like a burden or a medical patient rather than a partner. This can alter self-esteem and create resentment.


The ill spouse should try to be direct as possible about what you want from your partner—whether that includes help around the house to special attention in the bedroom. Say “Honey, I can manage with the laundry on my own. But can you cook dinner for the kids tonight?”, Communication with your spouse also includes the discussion of significant procedures or medical decisions. Talk with your spouse before making any major choices—even if you assume you already know what he or she will say. Simply making the effort to include them in the process of your medical care shows that you still respect your mate and their opinion.If your spouse is excluded from the kinds of decisions they used to be involved in when they were healthier, it may cause them to feel as if they no longer matter.
 Effective communication is vital to all marriages. However, in a marriage where there is strain due to a medical condition, it’s essential that you both are on the same page. If one spouse doesn’t feel heard, it can create more problems. Both of you should strive to listen to one another with the following strategies:Be mindful of body language. Refrain from showing “closed” signs like crossing the arms or legs. Keep the body open and responsive with arms and legs uncrossed and your body leaning towards the other person to reflect attentiveness.
Give your partner your full attention by removing any distractions. Cell phones, TVs, and children should be in another room so that you can fully focus on your partner’s message.
Listen completely to what the other says. Resist interrupting.
Paraphrase what you heard by summarizing it or asking clarifying questions (i.e. “Are you saying…?”). Use feeling words, such as “It sounds like you’re upset.”
Provide a non-judgmental response after you have gotten the other person’s message.
Keep in mind that each of you will experience a serious illness differently. Listen to what they have to say and make an effort to understand how their feelings and experiences differ from yours.
 Couples who are dealing with one spouse’s health issues may find themselves living and breathing medications, doctor’s appointments, and financial strain. The livelihood of your marriage depends on you keeping the spark alive.This translates to communicating with one another about topics that are interesting, not just mandatory discussions to manage a household or an illness.


Choose one or two times in a week to sit down with your spouse and talk about non-stress-related subjects. This can include planning a vacation, discussing movies or books, or even flirting with one another. Just be sure to find a middle ground in your communication and keep some of your discussions light and carefree.
 It can mean doom for your marriage and your health if either or both of you falls into negative thought patterns. In fact, research shows that having a more positive outlook can lead to greater well-being for those with chronic illness.Fend off negative thinking by:


Taking it one day at a time. Don’t worry about what tomorrow may bring—live for today.
Rejecting “why me?” or “why us?” questioning and gain acceptance of the illness.
Not using the word “problem.” Use “challenge” instead and your thinking will immediately change to solution-focused.
Celebrating every milestone or achievement.
Cultivating your passions and interests so that you regularly participate in activities you enjoy.
Turning to your spirituality.
Remembering that value or worth is not based on health and well-being. Identify other positive aspects of your life beyond health., When a spouse takes on the role as caregiver, he or she may start to neglect their own self-care in favor of caring for a spouse. Remember that you cannot pour from an empty cup. The caregiver must be able to identify signs of burnout and be willing to ask for support when needed. Caregiver burnout may include:Getting sick more frequently
Experiencing changes in sleep habits or appetite
Losing interest in previously enjoyable activities
Feeling angry, irritable, helpless or hopeless
Withdrawing from social support
Having thoughts of hurting yourself or your spouse

, Stress, worry, and anxiety may be common when you or your spouse is sick. Keep stress at bay by incorporating healthy strategies into daily life to help you feel more positive and calm.


Try out relaxation techniques together. Deep breathing, meditation, visualization, and progressive muscle relaxation are all terrific exercises to add to your routine for stress-management. What’s more, studies have shown that many of these relaxation techniques may help relieve issues such as chronic pain. Therefore, these strategies can be effective for both spouses.Attend church. Pray. Take walks in nature. Try out a number of self-care activities, such as soothing massages, bubble baths, and reading to ease stress and promote relaxation.
Try reading to each other. Sharing a book can be an enjoyable bonding experience, and may be especially helpful if you or your spouse has limitations that make reading difficult.
Get your household and finances more organized so that you don’t feel so overwhelmed.
 Social isolation can magnify issues into something bigger to the point that neither spouse feels in control. It’s likely that many friends, coworkers, family, and even spiritual or religious leaders have offered to help your family if needed. Take advantage of this goodwill and use your support system to prevent caregiver burnout.


Having healthy and supportive friendships can fend off depression, which is common in those with chronic illnesses. It may not be possible to attend every social function due to your medical condition, but try to stay engaged with friends and family and lean on them for support, too.Suggest specific things that your family or friends might do to help you and your spouse. Consider things that would help minimize stress for both you and your spouse, e.g. having a friend bring over a nice meal that you can share.
 A therapist can help you identify potential challenges and brainstorm solutions. This professional can also help you and your spouse develop better communication skills and improve intimacy.

