 Use as few words as possible, but include important details and nuanced explanations if necessary. Be aware of the average audience member's attention span and avoid excessively lengthy presentations.;
, Design your presentation to fit your audience. An executive board should expect a clean, professional presentation that addresses points they are interested in. A classroom presentation for children needs to be entertaining and captivating.
 Images can be extremely helpful in helping you convey information. Graphics are, with the help of the internet, available in abundance. Keep images appropriate to the setting (unless you have permission to be humorous!) and present them in a way that is easy to understand. Use animations sparingly, but remember that if used simply, they can effectively display things like data changes, motion, growth, etc.


Keep graphs and charts simple, but include all the necessary details. Make sure the information is up-to-date and accurate.
Give appropriate credit to the sources of your images.
 You might want to choose some light instrumental music to stop your audience from becoming distracted by the latest pop hits.
 If you need inspiration, look to professionally designed color palettes or complimentary colors in nature. Stick with readable fonts, but experiment within this range for a fresh look. Remember that words and information can be arranged in countless ways within the rectangular space of the slide.
 Depending on the equipment available during your presentation, you can link videos, photographs, news articles, etc. directly to your slide. Before your presentation, make sure you have a stable internet connection and the necessary sound equipment.
 Organize your presentation in a logical fashion. At the start, present a "road-map" that will let audience members know approximately how the presentation will progress. This lets the listeners know what to expect and look forward to.
 Make sure you sound knowledgeable and natural. You should be able to answer questions about your topic and navigate quickly between slides.
 Use facts to support your opinions. If you are passionate about a topic, explain why it matters to every person in the room.
 Your audience will be looking at you. Give them something interesting to look at. Make eye contact with all sections of the audience.
 Before you make a point, let the audience know why it matters and why they should care. Be a dynamic present in the room -- if possible, walk around the front of your room during your presentation. This can help you loosen up in order to gesture or speak extemporaneously, if needed.

