 Teens who doubt their own abilities, judgment, or self-worth are more apt to succumb to negative peer pressure. Continue to help your teen refine his or her ability to determine right from wrong, and build his or her confidence to trust in this ability.Proper training in good decision making and preparation for handling peer pressure will give a teen more confidence in his or her ability to trust his or her conscience and make the right decision. Regular encouragement and praise for good choices will also help build self-confidence.
 It’s hard to completely eliminate a “bad” friend from your teen’s life, but you can instead try to promote and support “good” friends who provide a better example and accept your teen for himself or herself. Let your teen know that a real friend doesn’t want you to be something you’re not or do something you aren’t comfortable with.Advise teens to use reliable friends as support in the face of negative peer pressure. Having a friend by your side (especially when literally standing beside you), backing up your refusal to submit to peer pressure, helps to balance the odds.
 Teens who are awkward, shy, have trouble making friends, or are uncomfortable navigating social situations may be more susceptible to negative peer pressure in an attempt to “fit in.” Building up self-confidence by helping them develop their social skills may work to reduce this susceptibility. Not all kids are wired to be the “life of the party” or “Mr./Ms. Popularity,” but any teen can become at least somewhat more comfortable and confident in social situations.As with dealing with peer pressure scenarios, role playing can be helpful in building up self-confidence and interpersonal skills in social situations. Practice simple but critical skills like initiating a conversation, utilizing and reading eye contact and body language, and expressing oneself clearly.
 Peer pressure works as often as it does because we all at some level want to be more like other people. It's common for teenagers to feel uncomfortable in their own skin. The more comfortable they can become, however, the less enticing it will be for them to succumb to peer pressure in order to fit in.As a parent or other concerned adult, often the best thing you can do is offer constant encouragement and support. Let your teen know that he or she is just fine as is.
Help teens focus on their strengths and on the qualities in themselves that they can control. Encourage them to be the best versions of the unique individuals they are.

