 The anti-inflammatory diet is relatively straightforward, but will require some dedication because it avoids ALL processed and prepared foods. In other words, you will need to cook from “scratch."


Try adding anti-inflammatory herbs to flavor your food. Adding normal food amounts is considered safe, unless, of course, you have a sensitivity to the plant. If you are not sure, try just a pinch of the herb first. If you have no reaction within 2 hours, it should be safe to use. Anti-inflammatory herbs include: garlic, onions, turmeric, curry, ginger, basil, cinnamon, cloves, and allspice.
 This means that you should try to limit any processed or prepared foods. It also means that as much as you can, include organic foods.


One reason to eat organic foods is that it limits the amounts of chemicals you take into your body. When you are trying to prevent or control asthma, that is good advice because you are potentially avoiding asthma triggers., This can be an adjustment for those who have little practice cooking. If you are pressed for time, try using a crock pot or preparing the basics (like rice, beans and even meats and vegetables) ahead of time and freezing those basics.
 Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods such as whole grains, peas, lentils, beans, and vegetables. The reason that processed foods should be avoided is that they include both simple carbohydrates along with added sugars.


Simple carbohydrates are often found in processed foods. These include added sugars, like glucose, sucrose (table sugar) and fructose (most often added as high fructose corn syrup). These sugars are more closely associated with obesity, diabetes and heart disease, but can trigger asthma as well because they can promote inflammation., Reading labels can be useful to determine the amount of sugars in a food. However, manufacturers are not required to clearly list all added sugars. You can avoid any added sugars by sticking to the unprocessed foods.


A good rule of thumb is no “white” foods – no white bread, white pasta, white rice--also avoid candies, cookies, cakes and other confections.
 This can be done by increasing your fruit and vegetable intake, as well as by adding specific high fiber foods to your meals. For example, you can include a tablespoon of ground flaxseeds at every meal. Either get a coffee grinder to grind your own flaxseeds or keep pre-frozen ground seeds in your freezer (to keep the healthy oils that you also get in flaxseeds from getting rancid).
 Look for wild-caught fish, such as salmon, cod, haddock and tuna. These fish are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids that are essential for your health and are anti-inflammatory.


The skin of fish and poultry is avoided because it can be high in animal fat, as well as any added hormones and antibiotics. This promotes inflammation.
Obviously, you want to avoid any of the foods that you are sensitive to. If you are sensitive to salmon, for example, eat other types of fish instead.
 Try to get 1-2 L a day or about 6-8 8 ounce glasses of water a day. You should also avoid caffeinated drinks (coffee and black tea) and avoid all soft drinks, whether they are regular or diet soft drinks. These promote dehydration and inflammation.

