 Sneasel was introduced in Generation II, but its evolution Weavile wasn't created until Generation IV. This means you won't be able to evolve Sneasel unless you're playing a Generation IV or later game.


You can't transfer Generation II Pokémon to later Generations.
To transfer your Generation III Pokémon to Generation IV, you'll need to beat the Generation IV game and then transfer the Generation III Pokémon over using Pal Park.;
, This item is required to evolve Sneasel. You can only find it in Generation IV and later.Game
Location
Details


Diamond
Pearl
Platinum
Route 224
Victory Road
Battle Tower
Team Galactic HQ (Pt)
Click for details


HeartGold
SoulSilver
Battle Frontier
Click for details


Black
White
Route 13
Battle Subway
Click for details


Black 2
White 2
Giant Chasm
Battle Subway
World Tournament
Click for details


X
Y
Battle Maison, PokeMileage Club
Click for details


Omega Ruby
Alpha Sapphire
Battle Resort
Mirage Forest
Click for details


, Sneasel will need to be holding this in order to evolve into Weavile.
 Sneasel needs to gain a level during the nighttime in order to evolve. It doesn't matter what level Sneasel is, as long as it is night and it is holding the Razor Claw.




Generation
Night Time


IV
8 PM - 4 AM


V
Spring: 8 PM - 5 AM
Summer: 9 PM - 4 AM
Autumn: 8 PM - 6 AM
Winter: 7 PM - 7 AM


VI
8 PM - 4 AM



You can level Sneasel up through battle or by using a Rare Candy.

If you change the clock on your system, you won't be able to perform any time-based evolutions for 24 hours.
 Since this was the first Generation that Weavile appears in, you'll find the most Razor Claws in these games. There are several different places that you can find the Razor Claw:


Route 224 - Surf off of the southern beach along the middle of the route and head south. Follow the rocks down and you'll come across a small patch of land. You'll be able to find the Razor Claw here.
Victory Road - You can find the Razor Claw in the large cave south of the Pokémon League. you'll need the Rock Climb ability to reach it.

Battle Tower - You'll need to earn 48 BP in the Battle Tower/Frontier in order to get the Razor Fang. You won't be able to access the Battle Tower/Frontier until you have entered the Hall of Fame.
Team Galactic HQ (Platinum only) - Enter the Team Galactic HQ and walk towards the front desk. Head to the room on the right and walk onto the second "column" of flooring. Face down and start searching the floor. You should be able to find the Razor Claw hidden on the ground.
 There are a couple of different places that you can find the Razor Claws in these two games:


Route 13 - Find the Treasure Hunter near the shack where the old man teaches you Ultimate Moves. Once a day, the Treasure Hunter will give you a random item. One of the items he can give you is the Razor Claw.
Battle Subway - You can get the Razor Claw for 48 BP. The Battle Subway is available in Nimbasa after you have completed the main story.
 There are even more places to find Razor Claws in these sequels:


Giant Chasm - You can find a Razor Claw in the Crater Forest section of the giant Chasm, right after you exit the Cave.
Battle Subway - Like Black and White, you can earn a Razor Claw from the Battle Subway. You'll only need 8 BP to get it this time.
Pokémon World Tournament - This facility can be found to the south of Driftveil City, and is a place where elite trainers gather to battle for glory and BP. You'll need 8 BP to get a Razor Claw, which means you'll have to win eight lower-level tournaments.
 There are two different ways to get your hands on Razor Claws in these games:


Battle Maison - The Battle Maison is similar to the Battle Tower or Battle Subway form previous games. It can be found in Kiloude City after beating the game. You'll need to earn 48 BP in order to get the Razor Claw.
PokeMileage Club - You'll need to play the Balloon Popping game (Level 3). The Razor Claw is one of the prizes available for winning Level 3.
 The newest Pokémon games still have a couple of Razor Claws for you to find:


Battle Resort - The Battle Resort becomes available after you have beaten the game and completed the Delta Episode. You'll receive an S.S. ticket, which allows you to take the S.S. Tidal to the Battle Resort. There is a Battle Maison that allows you to get a Razor Claw for 48 BP.
Mirage Forest - The Razor Claw can also be found in one of the Mirage Forests. these can appear daily, though there may be a Mirage Island, Cave, or Mountain instead. You will need to Soar with Latias or Latios to reach it. The only Mirage Forest which contains a Razor Claw is the one that appears north of Route 111. The Razor Claw will be randomly hidden in the northwestern patch of tall grass.

