 Using the ring finger of your non-dominant hand, gently pull down the skin beneath your lower eyelid. Continue until you can see the waterline.








The waterline is essentially the lower rim of the eye, or the point at which water gathers when tears form. It rests just above the lower lash line.
If you have difficulty exposing the waterline, tilt your head slightly upward as you pull down on your eyelid.;
, Using your dominant hand, drag the tip of the kajal pencil from the inside corner of the waterline to the far outer corner.









Note that the thickness of the pencil tip will determine the thickness of the line. Sharpened pencils will create thin lines, but blunt pencils will create thin lines.
Try to draw the line using one motion to keep it even. Run the pencil over the waterline once for a traditional look, or retrace the area once or twice to create a bolder, more dramatic appearance.
Do not press hard since doing so could cause the kajal to flake and get into your eyes.
Traditional application requires you to put the kajal directly on the waterline, but if you have sensitive eyes, you may wish to apply it directly beneath the waterline, instead.
 Close the eye you're working on so that you can see the upper lash line. You can close the eye completely or close it just enough to reveal that lash line.


If necessary, tilt your head forward to help expose the upper lash line.
 Start at the inner corner of your upper lash line and drag the kajal pencil all the way to the outer edge of the same line. As you approach the outer edge, turn the pencil to thicken the line.









The very tip of the pencil should touch the lash line at the inner corner.
Gradually flatten the tip end of the pencil as you sweep it across your lash line. By the time you reach the end of the lash line, the pencil tip should nearly be completely on its side.
Try to work in one smooth motion across the lash line to create an even increase.
 You can leave the kajal as it is, but if you'd prefer a softer look over a sharper look, carefully smudge both lines by running the tip of an eye smudger brush over them.









Run the smudger brush over each line from the inner corner to the outer edge. Brushing over each line one time should soften the look sufficiently.
Once both lines have been softened as desired, the process is complete.

