 If the quail is bleeding the most important thing to do is remove it from the flock. If you don’t the other ones will peck at the wound and most likely kill the injured quail.


An injured quail probably won’t run away from you, making it easy to capture it. But always be gentle with the quail as it is fragile whilst injured.;
, Make sure the box has breathing holes and is kept in a quiet, dark place away from predators. Put some paper towels, napkins or anything alike in the small box and place a heating pad in the box if the quail is cold. A hot quail will pant whilst a cold quail will fluff up its feathers.
 If you don’t have much experience with caring for an injured quail it might be better to take it the vet, but it’s always possible to care for a wounded quail on your own.
 Get a cotton ball and soak it in warm water and then carefully dab at the blood. Try not to cause friction or rub at the wound but just gently dab the wound to clean most of the blood.
 An anti-bacteria cream will prevent the wound from getting a bacterial infection which is why it’s important to apply this to the quails wound.
 Make sure the quail has easy access to the feed and water containers and don’t fill them to the brim as you don’t want them to spill.
 Check on the quail every 30 minutes or hour and see if the quail is doing fine or at least getting better.
 Bring the quail out to a room with light but isn’t too bright. Make sure the quail knows where the feed and water is, you could even scatter the feed out if the quail won’t eat.
 Keep the quail in a dark, quiet and undisturbed area for the quail to sleep. Make sure that no predators can get in the room and keep children away from the quail for now. Carefully check on the quail every hour or two but try not to disturb it. If the quail seems to be doing fine and is eating you do not need to check on it during the night if you don't want to.
 If the quail continues to get better and is now walking about, move it to a bigger cage so that it has room to roam.
 If the quail is perfectly fine and has no blood on it, reunite it with the other quails. Keep in mind that you shouldn't place it back in the home if it’s unsafe or if the quail was injured by another quail from the home.


Males cannot be housed together otherwise they will fight, see below for more preventions on quail getting injured.
 Lock the door of the quails entrance and invest in a predator proof home for the quails.


Quail have many prey including large birds, dogs, cats, raccoons, foxes, snakes and large rats. Dogs can dig underneath a coop on the floor, raccoons can grab quail through the wiring on a pen and birds can also peck at the quail through the wiring.
 If any bits of screws or sharp wire are sticking out of the cage you should remove it immediately. It is possible for the quail to cut themselves on sharp things.


If the housing has a hard roof the quail and fly up and hit its head on the roof, to prevent this add padding on top of the roof. Flat roofed pens are better than triangular roofed pens as the quail won’t get spooked from any bird flying above, or you can move the quail’s pen to a sheltered area.
 Males cannot be housed together otherwise they will fight each over. The only way to house a male with another male is if they have a spacious pen with lots of hiding spots to retreat to when chased.

