 This can be inside a stable or just a small standalone stall.;
, Add some torn up paper on the ground to make it comfortable. Or, if you have access to real straw, cut into small pieces and add that to the ground.
 The space you provide for the horse to roam in will depend on how much play space you can devote to the horse. Try to match the space to the horse's size, as larger horses will need more space than ponies, for example. The following sizes are just suggestions, it's your imagination, so make the sizes whatever works for you:


If you are adopting a Shetland pony, you won't need more than a 1 foot (0.3 m) X 2 feet (0.6 m) paddock (with shelter included).
If you are buying a Clydesdale or draft, you should have at least a 3 feet (0.9 m) X 2 feet (0.6 m) paddock with the shelter.
Use large pieces of cardboard painted green to represent fields or paddocks. You can also take the horses outside, just be sure to give your toys a good clean after being outdoors.
 Make a feed bucket from a tube lid or use a toy bucket. Use a small container for water.
 This is especially important for the colder seasons. You can make one from fleece or blanket fabric, or just cut up scrap cloth or old clothes. Use blanket stitch to hem the edges and prevent them from fraying.
 This might include a rope bridle, a saddle, new horseshoes, etc. Don't forget to put the grooming gear together too, as you'll want to groom the new horse after getting him.


You can make items from paper, ribbon, string, etc. Use your imagination and save some money.
 If you'd like to brush and groom the horse, find small brushes, a bucket, and other grooming gear for the collection. A halter would be useful for this too, to tie the horse up while it is being groomed., Tell the other horses what his name is and get them all acquainted.


If he seems nervous, put him in his personal stall for a while.
Put him in his stall if he acts aggressively towards your existing horses.
Reward him with a treat for being patient.
 He has traveled from the store to your house and needs freshening up. It's a good time to bond too. Use this time to notice any special markings or features of your new horse.



If he has never been ridden, get him used to the saddle by gently applying pressure to his back, but if he has been broken in he should be fine.
 Take him riding, jumping and practicing moves. Spend time talking to him and grooming him.

