 Once you’ve reached your target weight, continue exercising regularly but increase your calorie intake or decrease your workout regimen so that you take in and burn approximately the same number of calories each day. Use an activity tracker to monitor how many calories you’re burning and taking in each day.


The Fitbit, for instance, is a useful device for doing just that. Libra is an app for your phone that has similar capabilities. Use these to ensure you’re taking in and burning an equal number of calories.
Use the Nutrition Facts label on the side of packaged foods to monitor your calorie count each day.
Women over age 40 will need about 1,800 calories each day, unless they are active, in which case they will need 2,000-2,400 depending on their activity level.Men over age 40 will need about 2,200 calories per day. If you are very active, you’ll probably need between 2,600 and 3,000 calories each day.
 Your diet at forty should consist of mostly fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Avoid processed foods heavy in salt, sugar, and fat. Eat only lean proteins like beans, nuts, and seeds, and avoid red meat. Drink plenty of water and avoid sugary drinks like soda, fruit juices, and sweet coffees.
 High blood pressure can lead to hypertension, strokes, and heart attacks. When you’re forty, you won’t be able to keep eating the same foods you did when you were younger. Take control of your health by reducing your sodium intake.


Avoid salty foods like chips, soups, and deli meats.
Use the nutrition facts label on the side of your packaged food to monitor how much sodium you’re ingesting. Avoid foods that contain more than 20% of your daily sodium intake in a single serving.
 For instance, watching TV, especially after you hit forty, can strain the eyes. Watching TV with friends can be fun, but if you find yourself binge-watching shows for hours on end by yourself, you should take a break and go out with some friends. In addition, you might not get as much physical activity as you need if you spend a significant amount of time watching TV. Limit your use of the television and ensure you are balancing your time in a healthy way.
 If you hit forty and have spent most of your life smoking, you might have as many wrinkles as a non-smoker at age sixty.To hit forty gracefully, take care of your appearance (and health) by quitting smoking.


Use nicotine patches or gum to help curb cravings.
Wean yourself off cigarettes gradually. For instance, if you smoke a pack a day, lower your tobacco consumption to half a pack every day. After a week or two, lower your consumption again to half a pack every two days. Continue to progressively reduce your tobacco consumption until it is eliminated.
Don’t replace one bad habit with another. Don’t, for instance, take up drinking or chewing tobacco instead of cigarettes. Instead, choose positive outlets to distract yourself from the cravings you have by going to a baseball game with your family, or going on a hike with your friends.

