 It can be very hard to forgive someone who has stabbed you in the back. However, there are many emotional and physical benefits that occur when you forgive someone who has wronged you. When you are consciously aware that your own well-being will actually improve when you forgive your friend, you may be more motivated to do so. Here are some of the benefits of forgiving others: Decreased depression and lessened anxiety
Greater overall psychological well-being
Reduced levels of stress
Greater spiritual connection
Strengthened immune system
Lower blood pressure and improved heart health
Better interpersonal relationships
Increased self-esteem

, Sometimes unintentional betrayal happens because of a misunderstanding. Therefore, it’s important to consider the other person’s perspective. Taking time to reflect on the intention behind the behavior can really help you begin the process of forgiving her.
 Showing compassion when someone betrays you is difficult but it is essential to the forgiveness process. The most effective way to demonstrate compassion is to consider how the other person may actually be feeling right now and try to empathize. However, there are multiple ways that you can cultivate greater compassion:Remind yourself that everyone is ultimately doing the best that they can. It’s helpful to keep in mind that everyone misses the mark sometimes. Think back to a time when you may have unintentionally betrayed a friend. For instance, have you ever believed gossip about a friend or talked about your friend to someone else?
See the individual as a person and not as “the person who stabbed you in the back.” When you see her as a person who has flaws and sometimes makes mistakes, you may be more willing to forgive her.
Look for things that you have in common with the person. Do you have similar hobbies or do you have the same parenting style? When you see yourself as being similar to a person, you tend to have more compassion for her.
If you’re spiritual, it may be helpful to rely on the religious teachings of unity and grace.
 Forgiveness is making a shift in your thinking so that you no longer have the desire to seek revenge or ill will toward the person that you feel has wronged you.Keep in mind that forgiving a person is not the same thing as condoning their actions. Forgiveness is the conscious decision to release your negative thoughts toward the other person so that your own well-being can improve. Remember, you can forgive and still take action to protect yourself from future betrayal.
 Decide whether you want to tell the person directly that you have forgiven her or whether you’d prefer to privately release the grudge.Your decision will probably depend on the specifics of the situations and your own individual comfort level. Here are ways that you can let go of the grudge publically or privately:


Call the person up or ask to meet with her in person. Tell her directly that you forgive her. You can say something like, “I was upset that you said those things behind my back. However, I have decided to forgive you and not let that impact out friendship.”
If you decide to release the grudge in private, you can simply say out loud to yourself, “I forgive Kim for hurting me.” Say as much as you feel compelled to say about the situation. You could also write a letter and then discard it. The point is to give yourself the opportunity to actually release the grudge, even if it is in private.
 They can really help to prevent similar situations from reoccurring again. The boundaries may adjust again as time elapses, but in the beginning it is a very important component of rebuilding trust.


For example, let’s say that you found out that your best friend was gossiping about you. One of the boundaries that you might implement is to limit the amount of time that you spend around her for a while; until the trust is rebuilt.

