 To ensure your child feels safe and supported, you should ensure there is an adult or several adults on hand at all times.This could mean you and your partner supervise her at home, making sure one parent is always present in the room with her. Or, during an extracurricular class, you should make sure that one adult is interacting directly with the child and other adults are supervising other child in the class. This will ensure your child is not at risk of getting hurt or getting into a situation where she might be uncomfortable or upset.
 You can also give your child a sense of balance and stability by reinforcing a set of rules and routines.Establish a daily routine where the child eats meals at the same time and goes to school or recreational classes on the same days of the week.
Establish basic rules around behavior, such as a rule for when the child can leave the table after a meal or a rule on how to greet someone new. These rules and routines will help your child to feel secure and also work to counter any issues or problems your child may be having.
You should also ask any teachers, instructors, or authority figures in the child’s life about their rules. A teacher may have a classroom rule where if a child is having a behavior issue, she will call their name as a warning. You should then remind the child that is an important rule that must be followed whenever she is in the classroom.
 It’s a good idea to always have a plan B option in your back pocket, especially if you know your child can be unpredictable or act out on occasion. If you have a certain activity planned and your child does not seem interested or engaged, make sure you have an alternate activity that you can try. This will keep you from feeling stressed and frustrated. Being flexible about your plans for your child can help you be more patient and understanding., If the child acts out in public, you may want to have your partner take the child outside or into a quiet space nearby. If you are alone with the child, you may take the child out yourself and sit with the child until she calms down. Always try to note quiet areas or spots when you are in public with the child, as you may need to access them in the event of an issue.You should also have a safe space in your house where you can leave the child alone to vent out her anger or issues. This could be her bedroom or a den that is full of objects that can help to calm her down. You may also put on soothing music or a soothing video that you know the child will respond well to.
 Doing self-care is an important part of being a good caretaker for a special needs child. Take a moment to focus on your needs, even if it is for a few minutes a day.Do a five minute meditation or enjoy your coffee for five minutes without interruption. Ask your partner to watch your child for an hour while you do something for you, such as going to a yoga class or taking a quiet walk. Taking a moment for yourself is key, as devoting all your energies toward your child can lead to feeling burned out and overly stressed.
 Treating a tense situation with humor and light heartedness can really help to bring your stress level down. This could be laughing or making a joke when your child does something strange or acts out in public. Humor can help to release stress and make you feel less frustrated with your child.


You could also turn the situation around by trying to make your child laugh. One parent noted that she uses ear plugs and a white noise machine on her child to help her calm down when she has a tantrum. But sometimes, the parent puts the ear plugs in her ears, which makes the child laugh and defuses a lot of the stress and tension between them.