 In order to be a very healthy person, you need to consistently get enough sleep. That means 7-9 hours per night for adults, 8-10 hours for teenagers, and 9-11 hours for children. This keeps you awake and alert, so you don't have to drink caffeine and sugar-loaded energy drinks. Sleep is also when most of the body and mind's healing and detoxifying takes place. If you are a kid and have early school times, go to sleep earlier on school nights.


Don't overdo it, though. Sleeping too much can be as bad as not sleeping enough. If you miss some sleep one night, you can sleep longer another night to make up for that. But in general, try to stay within the right range for your age.;
, A proper diet contains the right balance of carbohydrates, protein, fruits and vegetables, and fat. For carbohydrates, try to eat whole grains. Lean meat, fish, eggs, and nuts are some of the best sources of protein. Try to get at least 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables a day. A certain amount of fat is also needed to keep your body functioning smoothly; fish oil, olive oil, and coconut oil are some particularly beneficial fats., It is key in making you run throughout the day. Try drinking 8 eight-ounce glasses of water each day. It helps you re-energize and keep going. Not drinking enough fresh water can lead to acne, headaches, and even dehydration. Do this, and you'll become a very healthy person.
 Get glasses if you need them. If you don't want the look of glasses, try contact lenses or surgery to restore eyesight. Use the correct eye drops for your eyes by asking your doctor. Wear sunglasses so that your eyes aren't damaged.
 Get your shots and booster shots. Take medicines the doctor tells you to take. Get tested for allergies. Get blood tests to figure out things like your cholesterol levels. Find out if you have any conditions and treat any you do have.
 This will not only make you feel better, and make you look better, but help you to get through the day. Research has proven that exercising regularly helps you feel better because endorphins released by the pituitary gland and the hypothalamus during exercise produce a feeling of happiness and well being. Walking is a great exercise. Walk to work or school if you can. If you can't walk the whole way, try parking farther away from your destination so you can walk a least part of the way. You can get of the bus or train a stop earlier if you don't drive., It feels great! From when you wake up in the morning, to your gym class, this easy form of muscle exercise warms you up and makes you more flexible. If you continuously stretch each day, you will end up being really flexible and nimble. It keeps you running longer and gives you strength.
 This doesn't necessarily mean run five miles every morning, but jogging or running for about 10 minutes at an easy pace definitely make you a very healthy person. Try jogging for about ten minutes three to five times a week. It will keep your muscles strong and fit every day. Don't ever run for an hour and then suddenly stop and sit on the couch for another hour. This will give you terrible cramps and will make it hurt to walk the next day. Slowly kick down the pace to a walk, and take deep breaths. Running will get you that A in gym class and make you a very healthy person.
 If you can do 10 push-ups, maximum, try going for 12! Little challenges like this make you a very healthy person.
 Play with a pet, go swimming, or jump on a trampoline, make love, play chess! Doing things you love to do keep you in a good mood, and make you happier. If you had a bad day at school or work, ride a bike and take out your anger. Not only is this fun, but it lets you be yourself for awhile. Try it!

, There is always going to be someone in the room who does at least one thing better than you, so try your best to not compare yourself to other people. Find things you are good at, and use your talents.
 Smiling a lot makes your face look younger and it feels great. If you laugh a lot, it has been scientifically proven to keep you healthier., Don't take things too seriously. Be laid-back and open minded, explore new things, such as new cultures, new foods and new experiences.
 Staying in a dark, quiet place without having any stressful thoughts for about ten minutes will leave you feeling refreshed. Focus on the energy field inside of you or try to focus on your body from the inside. If you just relax, you will feel better and probably keep feeling good through the day. Just do this a couple of times a day to become a very healthy person.
 This will make you feel victorious. Performing a song or using your talents to amaze someone else makes you feel positive and useful.

