 The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that carbohydrates make up 45-65% of your daily caloric intake for a standard diet.Based on a 2,000-calorie/day diet, this means approximately 900-1,300 calories each day from carbs.Lower carb diets typically mean reducing carbs to between 240-520 calories each day, which equates to 60-130 grams of carbohydrates., Before making any big changes to your diet, consult your doctor or a dietitian regarding the safest way for you to do so. Current blood work results, existing kidney conditions, and other factors can all contribute to the healthiest way for you to cut back on carbs., Once you know your target for carbohydrates, remember to check labels for the food you buy. Try to balance options in order to adequately reduce carbs to your desired amount.


In addition to grams of carbs and calories from carbs, you may also see carbs listed as “servings.” Each serving of carbs is equivalent to 15 grams of carbs. However, you won’t see fractions or decimals of servings, so each serving isn’t exact. Typically, if a food has 8-22 grams of carbohydrates, then it will be listed as one serving., This helpful guide makes it possible to determine how many carbohydrates are found in a number of different foods both raw and processed. The index provides a per serving count of carbohydrates, making the process of carbohydrate counting much easier. Using the index allows you to plan for a healthy amount of carbs at each meal while avoiding the chance of taking in too many carbohydrates at a single setting.For more information on how to use the Glycemic index, check: How to Eat Foods Low on the Glycemic Index.
 You’re better off skipping fad diets that you can stick with only for a month or two before burning out on them. Many high-protein, low-carb diets can simply feel too restricting for long-term adoption. Instead, make changes in your diet that you will have an easier time maintaining., The additional fat from many high-protein sources can lead to additional problems when cutting carbs, such as higher cholesterol, which in turn raises the risks of heart disease.High long-term carbohydrate restrictions can also lead to vitamin or mineral deficiencies, bone loss, and gastrointestinal disturbances.Severely limiting carbohydrates (anything less than 20 grams each day) may also lead to a body process called ketosis.This is when your body does not have enough sugar (glucose) to produce energy, and your body begins breaking down stored fat to operate.Side effects can include nausea, headache, and physical and mental fatigue.