 Your aquarium set-up largely depends upon the types of fish and number of fish you want to keep. You will need to decide whether you want saltwater or freshwater fish, and whether you want to keep a cold or tropical aquarium.The number of fish you want is also important. More fish will mean you need more space in your aquarium. Five gallons (19 liters) is functional for one or small fish, different fish species will have different needs.
You can use a stock calculator to figure out roughly how many fish an aquarium will hold when set up for different configurations, such as salt or freshwater.There is no rule of thumb regarding how many fish will fit in a tank. Types of fish, size of the fish, and how you will plant your aquarium will all impact how many fish you can keep. However, a single fish should have at least five gallons, and in larger tanks you want a minimum of a gallon per fish, often more.;
, Once you know what kinds of fish you are looking to keep and in what quantities, you can decide on how big a tank you need. There is no set rule for tank size, so look into all of the fish types you plan on keeping to see how much space they require.Online species guides can be incredibly helpful for figuring out how much space your fish will need per individual.
Remember that, in general, coldwater and freshwater fish will need more room than tropical, saltwater fish.
When in doubt, opt for a bigger tank. You are much more likely to cause harm to your fish by putting them into too small of a tank.
 Aquarium tanks are typically either acrylic or glass. Decide which material is right for you based upon what type of setup you want and the conditions in the area where you will keep the tank.Glass tends to scratch less and can better support the weight of the water, fish, and equipment inside the aquarium without a specialized stand. It also will not yellow and is generally cheaper to ship.
Acrylic is lighter weight and more difficult to crack or fracture. Acrylic tanks are also easier to mold into different shapes and can more readily be outfitted with an overflow system.
 Filtration systems include mechanical, biological, and chemical components, but you largely focus on picking the mechanical portion. There are some half a dozen common filter varieties available for aquariums to meet different needs.Power filters are the most widely-used filtration system by hobbyists. They hang on the back of the tank and filter through an intake tube and pass through a chemical filter as well as a biological sponge before going back into the tank.
Trickle filters, also called wet/dry filters, are commonly favored for saltwater tanks. They make use of a biological filter in one compartment before filtering into an activated carbon unit and filtering back into the aquarium.
Corner filters, also known as box filters, are an affordable option that often sit in the corner of the tank. They work best for small tanks.
Canister filters are powerful mechanical filters useful for large aquariums. They sit under the aquarium, and are powerful for large, multi-fish setups.
 Tropical fish in particular require certain climate control to keep them comfortable and healthy. Look into the temperatures necessary to keep your fish happy and decide on a heating setup if you need one.The size of heater you need will depend upon the size of tank you have. Check the heater packaging to make sure you are getting a heater that is appropriate for your tank size.
Even if you do not require a heater for your aquarium, use a thermometer to ensure the climate inside the aquarium is stable.
 Proper lighting is necessary to ensure that your fish and any plant life in your aquarium are healthy. Pick a lighting setup that will work to give you the aesthetic you want while maintaining a healthy aquarium.Standard and compact fluorescent light bulbs are common, easy to replace, and favored by beginners and experienced hobbyists.
Metal halides are preferable for large aquarium systems.
LED light systems are increasingly more common, but can be variable in the amount of photosynthetically  active radiation that they put out. Check with a local aquarium store to find the right LED setup for your aquarium.
 The right substrate will depend on what types of fish you have, as well as whether you have live plants or reef components in your aquarium. Choose a substrate that will support all the fish and plant life in your aquarium.Gravel and sand are common aquarium substrates and are advisable for fish-only aquariums with no living plant life.
Aragonite and crushed corals provide a useful substrate for reef aquariums and marine life aquariums that include crustaceans and bottom-feeders.
Vermiculite and laterite are nutrient-rich substrates that will help a planted tank grow and thrive.
 Some form of vegetation or hiding space should be made available to the fish. Decide if you want live or synthetic plants in your aquarium, and consider other functional decorations that may provide stimulation for the fish.Whether using live or synthetic plants, opt for plants that resemble those found in your fish’s natural habitats. This helps encourage healthy biological behavior.
If you choose to use live plants, make sure the plants you get are compatible with your aquarium setup. Check the plant tags for lighting, temperature, and water pH requirements.
 A hood provides necessary protection for your aquarium, and may help hide some components such as lighting and filtration. Find a hood to fit the physical dimensions of your tank.Often, you can find tanks that come with the hood as a part of the package at local pet stores and specialty aquarium stores.
Check to make sure that your hood can physically accommodate your lighting, filtration, and other aquarium components and still close properly.
 If you have an acrylic tank, a stand is necessary. Even with a glass aquarium, you may want a stand to bring the aquarium up to eye level and keep it safe within the space. Find a stand that meets your needs.If you have an external filtration system, the stand will often serve to conceal the filter components.
Stands come in a variety of sizes and styles to fit different aquariums and aesthetics. Check local aquarium stores and look online to see what is available to you.
 Once you know what you want for your tank, it is time to purchase. Checking a local shop is always a good place to start as it allows you to see what shapes, sizes, and features are available to you.Bring a tape measurer and measure tanks with stands to ensure they will fit properly in their intended area.
Be willing to shop around. Different stores with different focuses will likely have different options. A pet store will have all the things a beginner needs, but more advanced aquarists may benefit from specialized options at aquarium stores.
 Often, tank dealers will bundle certain items such as the tank, stand, lighting, and filtration system. These will have a higher price tag than the tank, alone, but will often save you money on your overall tank setup.


If you know of a tank brand you like, contact the dealer directly or check their website to see if they are offering any exclusive bundle deals.
 When a hobbyist makes the move to a larger tank, they will often look to sell their old tank setup. Check local ads in the paper and online to see if there is anyone in your area selling an aquarium in the size range you want.When reviewing these ads, always ask to see what is included. Sometimes, a substantial amount of the setup may be included while other sellers may be offering the tank alone.
 Often, you can find deals on aquariums online. Check with pet stores and major online retailers to see if they have a tank sized to meet your needs. Check the product dimensions carefully, though, and measure your space before ordering.Online ordering is particularly useful for individual aquarium components, as well as for small aquariums. Large aquariums may be cumbersome to retrieve and may cost a great deal in shipping.
 If you have the means, a custom-built tank may work well for you. Working with an aquarium builder, you have the chance to design a customized tank that meets your specific size and space requirements.Custom builds are often costly, but will include everything from the tank, itself, to a stand and full filtration system.
These builds are generally preferred for larger tanks.

