 If you truly want to live your life, no excuse is powerful enough to keep you from living your dreams. No regret is worth having, and it truly is never too late to start pursuing your happiness.
 Remove all the layers of who you think you are, or who you’ve been told you are, and be yourself. It may take some time to find yourself, and that’s ok. You find it’s painful to let go of the person you thought you were, and that’s ok, too. Becoming closer to your authentic self will allow you to live your life in more fulfilling ways.One way to get in touch who you are is realizing your personal values. Your values can be principles, beliefs or ideas that guide your life, such as a spiritual commitment, adherence to a vegan diet or social/environmental issues, or social values such as honesty, integrity, and compassion. Think about what guides your life and align with those things.If you value creativity and art, yet find yourself crunching numbers for a living, you may not be living in alignment with who you are. Consider adding more art and creativity into your life, or pursuing a career that allows you to be creative.
Think about who you are when you are at your happiest and when you feel most authentic.
If you need help, check out How to Be Yourself.
 Inconveniences happen every day, and it’s easy to become frustrated by the roadblocks in the way. Take a deep breath, and remember that you can and will move past each situation. Don’t sweat the small stuff, and don’t sweat the big stuff, either. When in the throes of difficulty, remind yourself that soon enough, it will be nothing more than a memory. Learn your body’s cues of stress (muscle tension, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating) and find ways to combat stress in the moment.Try yoga, mini-meditations, positive self-talk, prayer, deep breathing, or play.
To learn more about managing stress, check out How to Reduce Stress, How to Relieve Stress, and How to Deal With Stress.
 Having good friends in your life gives you a sense of belonging, sense of self-worth, and support. Good friends give you love and support to encourage your decisions and help to handle stress and difficult times. Having friends is an important part of emotional health and happiness.If your friendships feel unfulfilling, connect with people through a shared interest. Love meditation? Attend a meditation workshop or join a sitting group. Always wanted to rock climb? Check out gyms and climbing festivals and where to learn how to climb. You’ll meet people that share the same interests, and instantly connect.
 Countless problems are associated with lack of sleep, including mental fogginess, difficulty losing weight, memory and concentration deficits, decreased sex drive, and impaired judgment.For you to live a full, happy, fulfilling life, get enough sleep! Don’t let anything compromise your snooze time.


Shoot to get seven to ten hours of sleep each night (or if you’re a teen, 8-10 hours).If you struggle to fall asleep, check out How to Sleep Better for tips.

