 Many over-the-counter treatments use antioxidants like dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) that are thought to reduce or eliminate the appearance of cellulite.However, these products are generally not considered effective, and some may even be unsafe if their ingredients are not regulated by the FDA.Over-the-counter treatments typically come in the form of creams, lotions, and gels. They are generally available at pharmacies and cosmetic retailers.
 There are many alternative treatment options, many of which have been debunked as being unhelpful in treating cellulite. However, one treatment option that may improve cellulite is scrubbing the affected area or areas with a coffee ground paste.It's worth noting, though, that this method is not medically-approved, and results will vary from person to person


Measure out enough coffee grounds to effectively cover and scrub your affected area(s).
In a hot shower, mix the coffee grounds with just a little bit of water and scrub the affected area(s) for approximately 10 minutes, then rinse the area and continue bathing.
Scrub your skin twice each week. Discontinue use if your skin becomes painful or irritated.
 Herbal treatments are one of the most common alternative options used for managing cellulite. However, herbal treatments are not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and therefore may not be effective or even chemically pure.Some studies suggest that herbal treatments may enhance circulation and promote the breakdown of fat cells in deep tissue layers.
Not all experts agree on the effectiveness of herbal treatments.
The research that does support herbal treatments also suggests that the skin returns to normal once the treatment regimen is discontinued.
Herbal treatments may be taken orally (when safe to do so), as is the case with ginkgo biloba and green tea.They may also be applied topically in the form of pastes, balms, and salves.
 Some salons offer body wraps that typically involve a blend of herbal treatments. These treatments can improve the overall appearance of your skin, but they don't do much to actually treat cellulite.Some body wraps reduce fluid retention in the skin, which can make your skin appear healthier. However, these effects are not long-lasting.
Using body wraps will not "detoxify" your body. They also will not improve the actual cellulite condition.
 Most "alternative" treatment methods not backed by science simply won't work. However, a few treatment options may actually make your cellulite worse, with some causing serious side effects as well. Talk to your doctor about the safety and efficacy of any treatment plan you're considering before you begin that plan.


Liposuction can make the appearance of cellulite even worse.Heat therapy may cause the skin condition to worsen.Mesotherapy can make your skin appear bumpier and may also cause a rash or infection.Endermologie , a suction massage treatment, was thought to improve the skin. However, the research on this treatment is minimal, and reviews of the published research have generally discredited any effects that had previously been claimed.Subcision, which involves manipulation of connective tissues with a needle, has not been shown to improve cellulite. It has many negative side effects, including pain, bruising, and changes in skin pigment.

