 In the UK, local Electoral Registration Offices maintain electoral rolls. You can locate the appropriate Electoral Registration Office on the following website: https://www.gov.uk/get-on-electoral-register. Once on the website, you will be prompted to enter the local postcode for the person for whom you are searching., This office has all the information on voters and voting in your area. They will tell you where you can view the electoral register for the area, which contains the names and address for all people registered to vote and who allowed there information to be published in the open register., Often, you will be able to view the electoral roll at a nearby library. It may be a physical or electronic copy, and it will only contain the information about voters in your area.When viewing an electoral register, you can only search by street name and not by a person’s name.
You may review the register for research purposes and you are allowed to make handwritten notes about what you find.
You may not review the register for commercial purposes, or for any purpose other than research.
You may not take digital images or make photocopies of the register.If you need a historical understanding of the electoral rolls, you can view the entire electoral register at the British Library, located at 96 Euston Road, London, NW1 2DB, United Kingdom.
The British Library has partial records going back to 1832 and full records from 1947. However, the records are delayed by 10 years, meaning you cannot view the most recent records. You must apply for a reader’s pass and make an appointment to view the documents., There are some online for-pay services that allow you to search the electoral rolls by name. To locate these services, conduct an internet search for “search UK electoral roll.” You can search by a person’s name and then you will be able to narrow down the list by the person’s address.


You should note that not everyone is listed on the electoral register. Though you can be required to register or pay a fine in the UK,some people elect to not be on the open register, meaning their names will not be displayed in the record you are able to view., You can also search the UK's National Archives to find information about historical voters. However, the information is not online; you will need to order a paper copy of the information.You will need the person's name, address, and a date range to narrow your results.
The National Archives are located at Kew, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 4DU.

