 When you have ADHD it’s easy to become distracted and restless when you’re doing something that doesn’t hold your attention. In fact, these are the types of situations that can cause your ADHD to be the most challenging. You can avoid boredom, though, by selecting activities that you enjoy.Make a list of hobbies, activities, and interests that you enjoy. You might list gaming, cycling, building model cars, and fashion design.
Try to find any common themes between the items on your list. Those themes may represent your general interests. For example, playing basketball, cycling, and rock climbing are all physical activities.
Make an effort to do things that fit within your general interests. For instance, if you’re generally interested in physical activities, you may want to give flag football or ice skating a try.;
, One way to avoid boredom when you have ADHD is by making sure that you always have something to do. This doesn’t mean that you have to schedule out every minute of your day. It does mean that you can think of and plan ways to engage and entertain yourself when you have free time.Make a To-Do list and include things that you can get done when you’re feeling bored. Or better yet, start on the tasks on the list before boredom sets in. For instance, you may need to wash your car.
Or, you might make a list of interesting topics or activities that you want to explore. Pick one thing on the list to do when you find yourself with free time. For example, you might have learning a foreign language on your list and download an app to help you.
Carry an interesting book with you (in your purse or backpack or in your car) that you can read whenever you get bored.
You can also try reaching out to new friends to see if they are available to hang out. This can alleviate your boredom and help you get to know someone better.
 If you find something boring it may be because it has become so routine that you don’t find it interesting any more. By switching up when, how, and where you do something you can keep yourself more engaged and avoid being bored.Take a look at your schedule for the week and see where you might switch things around to shake up your routine.
For example, you may be able to avoid being bored in traffic by leaving home a few minutes earlier each day.
Or, for instance, if you’re usually bored in the afternoon while you’re waiting for lacrosse practice to start, you might decide to use the time to volunteer at the community center.
Or if you get bored when you're studying at your desk at home, try going to the library or a quiet coffee shop instead.
Try moving your furniture around in your room or your home, which can give you the sense that you're in new surroundings.

