 Releasing negative emotions can be done just as effectively with your body as with your mind. If you are hung up on bad vibes, take a timeout and get active. Exercise is naturally good for you at any time. Right now, however, it can provide an outlet for negative feelings and promote a more positive mood state through the generation of feel-good chemicals, called endorphins.


Participate in some type of activity that fully engages your body and allows you to blow off steam. Examples may include running, boxing, swimming, or contact sports. Even a short, 30-minute walk can offer you a much-needed emotional lift.;
, Being chronically stressed by negative emotions can actually place your body in “fight or flight” mode in which you are primed for action around-the-clock. If you have been fighting negative feelings for some time, you may be wrecking your brain about what to do or thinking nonstop about what is going wrong. Doing this for a prolonged period of time can cause mental fatigue.Fatigue can worsen negative emotions or hinder your ability to cope with them in a positive way.


Planning a short nap for approximately 20-30 minutes can help you combat any mental fatigue you may feel. When you wake, you may feel more capable of dealing with negative feelings as short naps can improve alertness and performance., Another way to release negative emotions is through artistic pursuits. With art, you can get out of your head temporarily and channel those feelings into a positive activity. Make a sculpture. Develop a fictional story. Grab some paints, crayons, or markers and create a picture. Direct your feelings into the lyrics of a new song. Turn on some music and express your feelings through dance.


Art allows you to use potentially destructive emotions for a constructive purpose. Such activities can minimize stress and anxiety, and even allow you to find meaning in your emotional pain., A great way to get out of your head when you’re bothered by negative emotions is to hang with people who care about you. Friends and family who are understanding and supportive can help you to cope with and resolve painful feelings. Negative emotions are a necessary part of life, and they often allow us to grow and become stronger.Still, that doesn’t mean you have to carry the burden on your own.


Turn to someone you trust and explain the emotions you are experiencing.Ask for distraction, consolation, or guidance as to how you should cope. Whatever you need, let your loved one give it to you.
 Sometimes, when you feel bad, you may think about an upsetting situation over and over again, a concept referred to as rumination. Perhaps you tell yourself that you are trying to understand it better. Nevertheless, all this does is make you feel worse. Try not to blow things out of proportion by constantly dwelling on your negative feelings. Here is one way to overcome rumination.Schedule a worry period. Instead of letting these negative thoughts and feelings command your entire day, squeeze them into a short window. During this 20-30 minute time period you are allowed to think about what’s going wrong. After the time passes, you must push these concerns away and remind yourself that you have to wait until the next window.
 If you are experiencing a negative emotion, the emotion is unlikely to be the cause but the effect. If you want to shift the way you are thinking and feeling, you must take action against the problem. This type of coping is useful when you have some control over the situation, such as problems at school, work, or in your relationships.For example, you are highly stressed because you are failing your mathematics course. A good way to resolve your negative feelings is to brainstorm what actions you can take to resolve the situation and/or improve how you feel about it.
You may be able to get a tutor, ask the instructor for extra assignments or additional study tools, or, if it is simply bad timing, you may be able to drop the course and take it again later. Think of all the possible avenues you can take and then map out a plan.
 The way you view certain circumstances can have a huge impact on your emotional state. Frequently, you may feel trapped in negative mood states due to the words you are repeating in your head. Changing your self-talk, therefore, can also change the way you feel.


For example, say you are upset because you believe your girlfriend is about to break up with you. You don’t have solid facts, just a hunch. You can overcome negative feelings and resolve the situation by asking yourself some questions.What evidence do I have that this is true? What evidence do I have that this is not true?
Is there another way to interpret this situation?
Have I confused a thought with a fact?
If it did happen, what could I do to cope or handle the situation?
What would a friend say about my thought?



, Considering that negative emotions are an integral factor of life, sometimes, the best method to releasing these emotions is by simply accepting them. When we try to push away or resist such feelings, they worsen. Instead, acknowledge what you are feeling and consider the possible stimulus by practicing a mindfulness technique called body scan.Go into a quiet room or space where you can sit for several minutes without distractions. Take a few deep, cleansing breaths. Notice how you are feeling in your body. Move through different parts of your body, paying attention to how your muscles feel and what sensations you are experiencing there. If your mind starts to wander from this task, return your attention to the given body part as soon as possible.
Certain sensations you get in your body can clue you in on your emotional state. Right now, you are not trying to change anything, but merely bring awareness how different parts of your body feel.
 Learning to identify your emotions is central to gaining acceptance of them. When you are experiencing a certain emotion, physiological, physical, and mental responses may come along with it. You can learn how to identify these emotions by tuning in to your body with a simple technique.



Breathe deeply and try to relax your body and mind. Once your thoughts begin to slow down, ask yourself "What am I feeling right now?"
Try to pinpoint where in your body this emotion is being expressed. What color would you give this emotion? What name? Start by trying to label what you are feeling from the four basic categories: mad, happy, afraid, or sad.Researchers have determined that most people feel bodily sensations when they experience different emotions. For example, fear may come with heightened sensations in your face and arms in addition to shortness of breath and clenched muscles. On the other hand, happiness may come with electric tingles that radiate throughout the body in addition to a lightness of your movements, or buoyancy., It can be incredibly therapeutic to release negative emotions by engaging in symbolic rituals. Such actions give a tangible, physical presence to intangible, emotional experiences. There are many ways you can release emotion through ritual.Buy some window crayons and write out words or phrases on the shower tiles as you bathe. You might cry or express your emotion during your shower. As you finish, the words will have started to wash away. You may have to rub them a bit, but, in general, once you have finished cleaning your body, you have also cleansed yourself of those painful emotions.
Write a letter—to yourself or to someone else who hurt you. Write down all your thoughts, feelings, and any actions you have wanted to take. Once you are done, read over the letter. Then, use a match to burn the letter. Spread the ashes in the wind, or flush them down the toilet.

