 Avoid walking alone as this may attract the bully. If there isn't anyone else around to walk with, take a path where there are a lot of people who will see if the bully tries to harass you. Most bullies won’t approach a group of people. They want to make you feel bad or get a reaction from you. With friends there to support you, they know you’re less likely to respond with the emotion they want.


Bullies are less likely to pick on you, if they think they’ll be the “odd man out.” Sticking with your friends will discourage them from bullying you.
Tell your friends about the bullying, and ask them to stick up for you in case the bully does approach., Don’t put yourself in a situation where the bully will have an opportunity to verbally or physically attack you. Think about where you’ve come in contact with your bully in the past, and try to find alternate routes, shift your schedule, or change habits to avoid the bully. Don’t let your bully dramatically impact your day to day life, but if you can easily circumvent the places you run into them, doing so may be the easiest way to avoid conflict.


For instance, if you often run into the bully on your way home from a specific event, plan for an alternate route that won't take you past your bully.
If you have to see your bully in a class, try to walk as far away from them as possible, and avoid sitting near them.
If your bully frequents the same coffee shop or other public location, consider going at a different time of day., If they call you names, don't say anything in response. Most bullies are behaving in a harassing way to get a specific reaction from you. If you don’t respond at all, they are more likely to lose interest. Not responding may also make the bully angrier, so make sure to read their responses and leave possibly hostile situations., This may be easier said than done. In some cases, the bully will not want you to walk away, and will continue to follow and harass you. If the bully tries to physically attack you, it is especially important to walk away because engaging in violent behavior will likely lead to you and your bully being in trouble. In some cases, you may even attract the attention of the police. Do what you can to remove yourself from the situation by simply walking away rather than engaging with the bully.