


Israel is a state in the Middle East by the Mediterranean and the Sinai Peninsula, created in 1947 by UN order. Before that it was a mandate state under British control after the Ottoman (Turkish) Empire collapsed during World War I.Palestine is a historical name of the same region - between the Mediterranean Sea and Jordan River. Palestine is the birth place of two major religions: Judaism and Christianity.Israelis refer to the citizens of the modern state Israel.
Palestinians refer to Arabs living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip - an independent Arab state co-existing with Israel.;
,


Palestine was under Ottoman (Turkish) rule between 1517-1920, until World War I when the Ottoman Empire collapsed.
After that the region was under British control (British Mandate or Mandatory of Palestine).Hundreds of thousands of Jews immigrated to British Palestine, escaping World War I and II, and the Nazi Holocaust (genocide murdering millions of Jews), alarming local citizens and compromising a promise to form an independent Arab state.In 1915-1916 Britain had made promises to Arab nationalists in the region, offering them a free Arab state after the World War I if they fought alongside to conquer the Ottoman Empire.However, in 1917 Britain also promised Jews an independent Jewish state in the region, conflicting with the promises made earlier to Arabs.This is the starting point of the conflict.
After the World War II in 1947 UN declared a plan to form an "Independent Arab state alongside a Jewish State, and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem". The Jewish leaders accepted it while Palestinian Arab leaders rejected it, alongside all independent Arab and Muslim states.A civil war erupted as neighboring countries attacked Israel, but it won and gained its independence. As a result Israel occupied much of the land designated to the Palestinian Arab State, and over 700 000 Palestinian Arabs fled or were expelled from their homes. Arabs call this "the Palestinian exodus", known as Al-Nakba (The Catastrophe).All this has caused bitter feelings in Arabs.In 1967, the Six-Day War broke out between Israel and its neighboring Egypt, Jordan and Syria. As a result, Israel occupied the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights and the Sinai Peninsula.,


The Jewish Bible claims that "the Land of Israel" is a holy land promised by God to the descendants of Abraham. That's why many Jewish people believe that the land belongs to them by "God's order". That is also why the conflict is hard to solve because claiming a land by referring to religious texts is controversial.However, there's freedom of religion in modern Israel and many Israelis are also secular in their religious practices. Also, Muslim Arabs live in Israel and are thus Israelis by nationality. In 2017 the population of Israel was estimated to be around 8,6 million of which 74.8% were Jewish and 20.8% Arabs.Jerusalem is an important religious city to Jews, Christians and Muslims. The Temple Mount is particularly significant; it is thought to be the place where Abraham offered to sacrifice his son Isaac to God, where King Solomon built the First Temple to house the Ten Commandments, where Muhammad visited Heaven, and where also Jesus is thought to have prayed and taught.Jerusalem is the holiest city to Jews, and the third holiest after Mecca and Medina to Muslims.
The Temple Mount is where two major Islamic sites are located: The Dome of the Rock and Al-Aqsa Mosque.
In 1967, Israel took over the Old City and the Temple Mount - but Muslims still manage the site while Israeli soldiers patrol there, causing tension between all groups.
 For years there have been attempts to prevail peace in the region, often with meager results.The word Intifada refers to Palestinian uprisings against the Israeli occupation of Palestinian regions.The Roadmap for Peace refers to 2002 plan proposed by the Quartet on the Middle East,comprising of the UN (United Nations), the United States, EU (European Union) and Russia. It proposed creating an independent Palestinian State living side by side with Israel.The Israeli Settlements refer to illegal housing in the occupied Palestinian regions, condemned by the international community.As of February 2013, 131 of the 193 member states of the United Nations have recognized the State of Palestine.,


Zionism refers to Jewish nationalist ideology claiming that Judaism isn't just a religion but a nationality and thus that Jews belong and have a right to their ancient land of Israel or Palestine.Many Arabs have a very negative impression of Zionism, seeing it as imperialist and racist movement against Arabs or Muslims.Yasser Arafat (1929-2004) was the Chairman of PLO (The Palestine Liberation Organization, the official representative of Palestinian people) and the founder of the political party Fatah.He received the Nobel Peace Prize, together with Israeli President and Prime Minister Shimon Peres, for their efforts for peace.
After Arafat, Mahmoud Abbas took over as the leader of PLO and as President of the Palestinians. He also is a member of the Fatah party.Hamas is another Palestinian party that started as an offshoot of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood (a religious extremist movement) and is considered a terrorist organization by several countries and international organizations.When Hamas won the 2006 Palestinian election, Hamas and Fatah were driven into conflict, as Hamas has called for the destruction of Israel and does not recognize its right to exist.Benjamin Netanyahu is the Prime Minister of Israel and the Chairman of the right-wing Likud party. He has executed harsh policies against Palestinians including expanding the illegal Jewish settlements.Knesset refers to the legislative branch of the Israeli government. It passes all laws and elects the president., Both parties have turned to violence in various instances and the conflict seems to be never-ending.During the civil war in 1948, around 85% of the Palestinian Arab population was displaced, and as of now some of the survivors and their descendants still live in refugee camps. There are now 5 million people considered as Palestinian Refugees, living in neighboring Syria, Jordan and Lebanon and in Israeli occupied Palestinian regions of Gaza and West Bank. They have now lived in the camps for decades and for generations, and this causes major resentment among Arabs towards Israelis and Israeli politics.Israel severely restricts the movement of Palestinian nationals in the occupied Palestinian regions of Gaza and West Bank. People have to go through various checkpoints even to get to work and the Israeli officials can be rude and violent.Israel has also forbidden the use of certain roads and water supplies from Palestinians, reserving these to illegal settlers, which even further escalates the conflict.The Israeli West Bank barrier or wall was built to isolate the people of West Bank from the Israelis. It is 700 km long and Israel claims it to be a security measure against terrorism, but Palestinians see it as a racial segregation or apartheid wall, even further restricting people's movement.The Gaza Barrier entirely separates the district from Israel and it has only five land check points.Palestinian Extremists have carried out many attacks and bombings over the years against Israeli citizens, mainly organized by Hamas.People are frustrated with the high unemployment rate and poor living conditions in the occupied regions, so even small children are known to turn to violence and throw stones at Israeli soldiers, citizens and settlers, causing real damage. The Israeli soldiers are known to use harsh force and intimidating raids to locate the perpetrators, and even arrest minors and children.Both parties only see the wrongdoings of their enemies, claiming themselves to be innocent.
Inside West Bank and Gaza, harsh Islamic laws are implemented, thus restricting freedom of expression, the rights of women and children, and implementing torture and harsh punishments for things like same-sex relationships.Also Israelis are reported to torture people, especially Palestinians, on a regular basis.After Hamas won the 2006 elections and took over Gaza, it started regular rocket attacks on Israel, escalating the situation into a full-blown conflict. Because of the violent militant actions Egypt is also building a wall on its Gaza border., The hatred between Israelis and Palestinians has escalated to such extremity that many people don't want to have anything to do with the "enemy". Children are discouraged to interact with each other or considered "traitors", and a marriage between "enemies" is unheard-of.The political leaders of both sides fuel the conflict: The Israelis expand the hated settlements and continue to occupy and monitor the Palestinian territory and restrict the movement of Palestinian people and goods. Hamas has control over Gaza, does rocket and terror attacks and doesn't want to recognize the state of Israel - until just recently it called for destruction of Israel.Fatah controls the West Bank and does not agree with Hamas' violent practices.
Ordinary people pay the price: The Israelis suffer under Hamas rocket attacks and people living in Gaza suffer under the Israeli blockade.Millions of Palestinian refugees who fled the 1948 war have not much hope to ever return to their homes and still continue to live on refugee camps that were meant to be temporary. People on both sides are frustrated to their political leaders fueling the hatred instead of working towards peace.
The Israeli view is that it's protecting its citizens from terror and thus controlling the Palestinian territories is absolutely necessary. The Palestinians view its practices as occupying and controlling the legally recognized state of Arab Palestine that was supposed to exist side by side Israel. (And of course Hamas doesn't want to co-exist with Israel at all.) There's no easy solution to this.
Majority of Arabs don't agree that Israel has a moral right to exist based on the Bible - but many have learned to accept the reality that Israel as a state is here to stay, and thus (have to) recognize it.Luckily there are people who defy the hate-speech and seriously want to have peace in the region so they can continue to live their lives and raise their children in peace.According to a 2015 poll over 50% of people on both sides wanted a peaceful solution to the conflict and accepted the two-state model.