 Passive income is earned from dividend-paying stocks, which are usually shares of large, established companies. These stocks are considered safer investments than those in smaller or growing companies. For many of these companies, dividends have remained at a high level, or at least a consistent level, for a number of years. That said, even the largest of companies are susceptible to market fluctuations. It may be tempting to hold only one company's stock if it pays large dividends, but it is in your best interest to diversify your portfolio, if only into other dividend stocks.


Think about buying stocks in companies that operate in different industries or parts of the country. This can help you reduce risk.You can also invest in bonds or principal-protected notes to earn passive income.
 As mentioned before, the only stocks that earn you truly passive income are dividend stocks. If your goal is to increase your passive income, you should reduce your positions in non-dividend stocks as soon as possible and then reinvest in those that do earn dividends. The regular dividend payments will provide you with easy income and these companies have actually been proven to grow earnings (and thus share price) faster than companies that do not pay large dividends. This will increase your overall returns over time.


Dividend stocks have been proven to give investors above-average returns.
They also protect investors from declining markets and inflation., Dividends earned from these stocks can and should be reinvested into the same stock. This means that you can increase your number of shares, and thus your passive income, without actually spending any of your own money. This creates an exponential growth effect, where your ever-increasing passive income is reinvested to create yet more passive income. This can be done manually on your investment platform or through your broker., Bonds can provide you with regular payments just like your dividend stocks. During the life of interest-paying bonds, you are provided with guaranteed, regular payments (assuming the bond issuer stays in business). You will also receive your initial investment back with interest when the bond matures (at the end of its life). Because of this, bonds, and particularly US government bonds, are considered risk-free investments. You can also purchase bonds from a variety of other sources, including corporations and foreign countries.


The regular payments made by some bonds are known as coupon payments. These are generally paid twice each year and rely on a fixed interest rate that is stated when you purchase the bond.
Bond yields are susceptible to interest rate fluctuations; if interest rates increase, bond value will decrease.Be sure to check the reliability of a bond's issuer before purchasing the bond. The US government's bonds are the safest, followed by those issued by large, established corporations. Smaller company bonds and those issued by foreign nations may be riskier.
 Principal-protected investments are like bonds in that they pay you back your initial investment after a set period of time. However, you are also able to profit from an increase in a security that the issuer invests your money in. In the event that the security price falls, you are still protected from loss and receive your initial investment back in full at the end of the set time period.


For example, a principal-protected note may be partially invested in the S&P 500. The issuer of the note would use your initial investment to buy a bond that, at maturity, would return your investment.
With the leftover money (the bond is purchased at a discount), the issuer would invest your money in an index of the S&P 500. If the index grew over the life of the bond, the issuer would return a set percentage of the gain to you, in addition to your initial investment.
However, if the index decreased in value, you would still get your initial investment back.