 It is not nearly as scary as some groups make it out to be. Autistic young adults are diverse and capable individuals. You will be fine.


If they made it to college, they are probably quite intelligent, and capable of handling a classroom.
Don't expect them to "look autistic"—with some people, you can't even tell.
Even the students who "look autistic" can still be eager learners who are a pleasure to have in class.;
, Your student may squirm, sit oddly, or move in ways that seem casual. This allows them to feel comfortable and focused. You may see...


Rocking
Wandering eyes (floor, ceiling, window, wall)
Changing positions
Stimming

, They may play with a stress ball or chew gum in class. Planned ignoring, or not calling attention to the stimming, will help the other students become accustomed to it.


Assume that any repetitive movements are important.If you don't ordinarily allow gum or candy, make an exception for them. This is often a substitute for placing unsanitary objects in their mouths (pencils, jewelry, etc.).
If they are disrupting class, talk with them about finding a comfortable alternative stim.
 Autistic people may use words differently, and may be unaware of their tone of voice and unable to control it. Keep in mind that the way they speak is not necessarily indicative of their intelligence.


Monotone, singsong, or "inappropriate" voice, potentially unusual in pitch (e.g. high-pitched) or volume
Repeating words or scripted phrases
Using big words or "talking like a textbook", or very simplistic language
Odd phrasing (especially if they learned sign language first)
A disability accent, such as a lisp or childlike-sounding speech
Long pauses, sometimes or always being unable to speak, This has a medical basis: sensory processing disorder, which changes the way the brain perceives sensory input. Here are some examples of things they may do...


Cover their ears in ordinary situations
Be afraid of certain objects
Refuse to touch slimy, sticky, or scratchy things
Become ill at the smell of chemicals such as formaldehyde
Cry easily when injured
Wear earplugs (If they wear earplugs during lecture, don't worry—they can still hear you!)

, Executive dysfunction is the technical term for the trouble autistic people have with time management and keeping track of tasks (among other things).This may range from mild to severe, depending on their inborn capability and coping skills.


This may be especially tough for first-year students who are still getting used to the unstructured environment of college.
 Autistic people don't usually understand social rules well, and each autistic person will act differently.


They may not want to make friends because it is too hard. This is okay.
To compensate for uncertainty or anxiety, they may constantly ask questions.
They may constantly raise their hands or blurt answers, like Hermione from Harry Potter.

They might hug you. (This simply means that they like hugs and they like you.)

, Depression and anxiety are extremely common among autistic people, as well as epilepsy and stomach issues. If there is a problem, ask if they have discussed it with a doctor, and refer them to student health services if not. Here are issues you may notice:


Perfectionism, too eager to please (anxiety)
Shy, doesn't raise hand (social anxiety)
Constantly ill (could be a number of conditions)
Sick, tired, missing deadlines (depression)
Submissive, afraid of making own choices (PTSD or effects of compliance therapy)
Do not ask them to disclose their medical diagnoses, as this is very personal.
 A vague assignment is confusing to all students, but especially autistic students. Even if the assignment is fairly open-ended, make it clear what goals it needs to fulfill, and don't expect students to "read between the lines" to understand the instructions.For projects, consider showing a few examples from students in previous years, so they can envision the type of thing you want.
Set a clear length. "As long as it needs to be" is not helpful. "Around 3-5 pages" is much clearer.
Autistic students may lapse into perfectionism when it is unclear, working until their physical or mental health suffers.
 Autistic people often have trouble remembering spoken directions. They may do poorly if they don't have a written copy for reference.


Provide clear assignment sheets and rubrics so autistic people can go through them sentence by sentence.
Write in-class activity directions on the board or on the power point slide. Keep them there until the activity is done.
When asking for the class to turn to a certain page, write the page number on the board, or repeat it once or twice in case anyone didn't catch it.
 Many colleges use class websites such as Blackboard for students to access grades and assignments. Here are good things to keep online:


Digital copies of the syllabus and assignment instructions
The latest homework (e.g. "Thursday: Read Textbook Chapter 8 and prepare for Tuesday's quiz")
A gradebook where students can view their overall and assignment grades (so they can monitor their own progress)
Examples of previous student projects

, This will help with organizational problems, and keep students from being overwhelmed by the size of a task. Choose a number of steps that seems reasonable to you.


This does not necessarily mean a lot of grading. Try making individual steps (like the rough draft) a completion grade.
 Autistic students may need a little extra guidance in figuring out what to do if they need help.


Write your office hours on the syllabus, on the class website, or wherever else it is easily found. Encourage students to attend them.
Tell students how to access a tutoring center, or whatever the school provides for help in your subject area.
Consider supplementing these with maps of the campus showing how to get there.
 Autistic people may need extra clarification on directions.


Be available to answer quick questions after class ends.
 You may even do this before the lecture, so students with laptops can follow along.


Autistic students can make sure they didn't miss anything.
Absent students can use the notes to catch up.
All students can use them to study for exams.
 This way, you can discuss accommodations., If you assign seating, talk with the autistic student about where they prefer to sit. Let them keep the same seat all semester.


Some like to sit front and center, so they can focus on what's in front of them with minimal distraction, and they can hear you better.
Some want to avoid distractions like doors and windows.
Some prefer to sit in corners, so that there is only movement on two sides of them.
Each autistic person is different, so let them choose the seat that works best for them.
 If the student has a hard time sitting in a regular chair, ask the school's disability services for an exercise ball, seat wedge, or other form of seating. These will provide extra sensory input, allowing them to sit better.
 Autistic students often thrive on routine, and surprises (pop quiz, notes not available online) can throw them off. Remind the class about the following:


Upcoming field trips
Test, quiz, and exam dates
Due dates for big assignments
Changes in schedule (e.g. a cancelled class)

, Some professors may call on random students to ensure that everyone pays attention. This can backfire for autistic students, who may fumble with turning thoughts into words, and may become anxious or flustered under pressure. The anxiety of constantly trying to be prepared to be called on can detract from their focus.
 Turning complex thoughts into sounds and initiating public speech can be hard. Here are some ways autistic students can participate nonverbally:


Type messages in online discussions
Write a brief paragraph of their thoughts and show it to you at the end of class
Do an alternate project connecting the material to an interest of theirs

, Autistic students tend to have more health issues and forgotten assignments (due to executive dysfunction). Encourage them to tell you in person or via email as soon as they notice a problem, and be understanding when they do so.
 Autistic people don't always know how to act in certain situations. Be clear and kind, because they probably don't understand. Let them know why it's a problem, and help them find a different thing to do to fulfill the same need or desire.


"I like you and am glad we're friends, but it feels weird for a young woman like you to hug an old guy like me. Maybe next time you want a hug, you could ask your friend Tiana instead."

, Registered students can request accommodations through the disability center. Your student may need...


Extra time on tests
A separate room for test-taking (The Disability Service Center will provide a room.)
A note-taker
Use of laptop instead of handwriting
Ability to audio record lecture
The ability to turn in assignments a day late
Other accommodations

, This relieves the stress of needing to find one's own group, and makes it easier for the autistic person to speak up within the group.If you notice that the autistic person has a friend in the class, put them with their friend.
Have each group member have a role (secretary, spokesperson, editor, etc.). A concrete role will help them know how to contribute even when social skills are hard.
 Working independently can be more efficient for them.
 Some autistic people are sensitive to sound, and constant noise will prevent them from focusing. Remind students to use their indoor voices and get their attention if the noise level is getting too high.


Seat the autistic person's group near a corner of the room, farther away from the main activity.
Some autistic students may work better with earplugs.
 Autistic people struggle with social interaction, so they might not realize when there is a problem, or not know how to solve it. Since self-esteem issues are common, they may lack the assertiveness skills to speak up.


Talk to individual team members who are not behaving well: being rude, slacking off, etc.
Encourage all group members to be patient with each other.
Do not allow team members to bully or ostracize the autistic student.
 Since autistic people may not know how to speak up for themselves, they may end up doing a large portion of the work, or be assigned work that they don't understand. Help the group divide up work if need be.
 Autistic people can learn social skills if they are taught. Giving clear directions helps them know how to handle problems that confuse them. This can be done during office hours, or briefly after class.


Try if-then statements: "If he tries to make you do all the work, then ask him 'What would you like to do?' If he doesn't pick something, then suggest a few things for him to do."
"If your classmates are talking over you, try taking a deep breath and clearly saying 'I have something to add.' If that keeps failing, tell me."
Intervene if the autistic person cannot solve the problem on their own.
 Distressed autistic students may look a little different from distressed neurotypical students. Here are things you may see:


Crying
Agitated stimming

Decreasing self-control (for example, using a louder stim when they usually try to be as non-disruptive as possible)
Change in body language
Getting "stuck" on an ideaUnhappy facial expression, or hiding the face
Saying negative things

, Ask if they are okay, if you can help, and if they would like to leave. If they seem unable to speak, give them a pencil and paper, or suggest that they type a response on their laptop.


Sometimes autistic people may stay longer than they should in a misguided attempt to "stick it out." You can counteract this by checking on them right away.
Quietly asking about leaving lets them know that you will not be mad at them if they have to leave.
 Self-injury means that something is seriously wrong. If you can eliminate the thing that is causing them stress, then they will stop hitting, biting, or otherwise harming themselves.


If they cannot tell you what is wrong (through spoken or written words), ask them to leave the room. If the stressor is something in the room, it will remove them from it. If not, they will still be able to calm down in a less public place.
Use a compassionate tone of voice to make it clear that this is not a punishment.
 Since their brains are structured differently, a situation that feels harmless to you could be very upsetting or threatening to them.


If you can get rid of the cause, do so. Quiet the classroom, give them an alternate assignment (e.g. dissecting a model frog instead of a real one), or have them leave the room.If they mention a psychological issue (e.g. an anxious student worrying that she is a "bad student" because she missed the homework), briefly and gently offer a dose of realism. "Every student makes mistakes sometimes. You are not a bad student. Please stop worrying about it." Sometimes reassurance from an authority figure will break the cycle of perseveration.
 They may need to take a few minutes in the bathroom to cool down, take some medication, or go back to their dorm to rest.


"Sticking it out" only makes oncoming meltdowns worse. The best way to avoid them is to catch them early.Some autistic people have trouble recognizing when they are stressed. You mentioning it will help them realize that they are not doing well.
 Sometimes crises result from sensory input (e.g. an especially noisy lab or a startlingly loud noise). If it was something in your control, see if you could avoid it next time.


Try giving warnings for unavoidable things: "I'm going to roll down the projector, and it's going to be loud, so cover your ears if you need to!"
If you can't figure out what caused it, it is probably not your fault. Don't feel bad. This happens sometimes.
 This is new and alarming to you, but the autistic student has dealt with it thousands of times, and knows how to take care of themselves. It feels terrible while it lasts, but it will pass and they will go back to normal.


Right now, the best thing you can do is continue teaching.
If you are worried, ask your TA to go out with them and help them with whatever they need.
 Most autistic people get completely better by the next morning. Tell them what they missed (if anything), and ask if there's anything you could do to help them in the future. Then leave it at that.


If you want to ask what caused it, consider doing so via email, so they have time to think carefully about it.
 Autistic people usually have intense special interests, or an area in which they are incredibly knowledgeable and skilled. They will enjoy learning much more if they can connect the material to their passion, and they will perform better too.


This will help all students enjoy the class, not just the autistic student(s).
 Autistic people tend to be good at sequencing and understanding sequences. Providing a pattern can be a huge help.
 Many autistic students are visual learners, and they benefit from diagrams, illustrations, and other images. Try using color coding and flowcharts to explain complex concepts.
 This does not mean extolling their virtues in front of the entire class—just an encouraging comment during office hours or a small affirmation when they ask you a question after class. Many autistic students grew up with others focusing on their deficits, and struggle with invisible issues such as sensory processing disorder and anxiety. A little reminder that they did well can make their day.


To encourage resilience, try calling them a hard worker.
When grading papers, point out a few positive aspects, such as "Great organization" or "Love the wording here!" This offsets the pain of seeing errors.
Avoid jokingly criticizing them. While non-autistic students can usually tell you aren't serious, an autistic student might become confused and distressed.
 If they have enough motivation, autistic people can access incredible amounts of energy for learning. Create a friendly environment and positive expectations, and watch them rise to the opportunity.
 This article is based on generalizations, which will sometimes or often (but not always!) apply. Some students need little accommodation and others need a lot. Some are mathematically oriented, others are great artists, and others are both. Get to know your student as a person, and you will learn how to build a great teaching relationship.

