 Overalls are a classic aspect of a hillbilly costume. If you have old overalls lying around, you can use those. You can also purchase a pair of overalls at a thrift store or regular clothing store.It may be a good idea to undo one strap of your overalls to look messy, much like a hillbilly.
Consider going for old overalls that are somewhat worn down. Faded clothing, or clothing with holes or patches, can look great for a hillbilly costume.;
, If you're unsure about wearing overalls, try wearing rolled up jeans. You can roll up one leg of your jeans, or both legs. For women, this can work particularly well as it's similar to the style of Daisy Duke, a character from The Dukes of Hazard.As with overalls, old jeans work best. Go for jeans with holes or patches, or faded jeans.
 Cut-off shorts may look somewhat trashy, and therefore be associated with the hillbilly lifestyle. If you really want to commit to the hillbilly style, you can try making your own cut-off jean shorts by trimming off the legs of an old pair of jeans.
 Take some time to choose a shirt that gives off a hillbilly style. Use an old shirt you have lying around, or make a trip to the thrift store and purchase a shirt that conveys the hillbilly style.


Tank-tops and plain white t-shirts, especially when paired with overalls, may work for the hillbilly style.
As with your jeans and overalls, go for things that are old, ratty, and torn. Pick a shirt with holes in it or a shirt with stains. Consider adding patches to the sleeves of a shirt you don't wear much anymore.
 You will also need to choose proper footwear for the hillbilly style. There are a variety of different types of shoes that could work for a hillbilly outfit.


Consider trying open-toed sandals, ratty tennis shoes, or going barefoot if possible. If you're going to a house party, for example, barefoot can work great.
Think about buying a pair of cowboy boots. These can work particularly well if you're tying to capture the hillbilly style. Go for work boots over dress boots., Plaid and checkered patterns are often associated with rednecks, which are sort of like hillbillies.Consider investing in plaid or checkered shirts for your costume. A plaid shirt underneath a pair of overalls can make for a great hillbilly costume. You could also try wearing a plaid or checkered skirt if you're a woman.

