 Drink a lot of water and other liquids designed to replenish nutrients in your body. Sports drinks are normally great options. They rehydrate you fast and come in great flavors.


Drinking a lot of liquids can also help wash away thin layers of mucus or other allergens that may have coated your throat, resulting in inflammation and discomfort.;
, Orange juice is filled with vitamin C, which is an antioxidant. Vitamin C is crucial to the health of bones, muscles, and blood vessels.


Many people swear by vitamin C supplements, but no medical studies have proven whether or not vitamin C actually affects the length of the common cold., Chamomile tea, mixed with a little honey and lemon, is a great way to soothe your throat. Grocery stores offer teas specifically designed to combat irritated throats too. Most work equally well as normal chamomile tea with honey and lemon.
 Chicken soup is a classic at-home remedy for sore throats. Soups have a lot of nutrients and are soothing to your throat. Stick to soups that are primarily broth based. Chunkier soups may further irritate your throat., Oftentimes, you will just have to wait until your throat gets better on its own. In order to numb the pain in the meantime, try a hot toddy. Choose a hot beverage you enjoy like coffee, tea, cider, hot chocolate, or simply hot water with lemon or honey in it. Many will add cinnamon also. What makes a hot toddy effective is the alcohol or spirits you add next. Traditionally, hot toddies are made with whiskey, brandy, or rum. The warm liquid will soothe your throat. The liquor will take your mind off of your troubles., Many believe garlic to have antiseptic and antibacterial properties. Many also think that garlic can build your immune system. While no firm proof exists to support this theory, many holistic practitioners prescribe drinking garlic broth.Peel and crush 2 garlic cloves. Pour a cup of boiling water over them. Add salt to improve the taste.
If you prefer the taste of ginger over garlic, feel free to replace the garlic in the above recipe with ginger. Ginger helps to clear up sinuses and ease sore throats.