 Your patient will begin the lawsuit by filing a complaint with the court. As the person bringing the lawsuit, your patient is the “plaintiff.” The complaint will explain the factual circumstances of the medical malpractice and make a request for money damages. Typically, the plaintiff will allege the following in the complaint:the doctor made a mistake by doing something or not doing something
this mistake injured the patient
the mistake was not reasonable because the doctor did not follow generally acceptable methods when treating the patient;
, Along with the complaint, you should receive a summons. This document will tell you how much time you have to formally respond to the lawsuit.
 As soon as possible after receiving the complaint, you should schedule a meeting with a lawyer. A plaintiff can sue you for millions of dollars depending on the injury suffered. For this reason, you need an experienced medical malpractice attorney to defend you.


You can get a referral by asking other medical professionals (doctors, nurses, etc.) who have been sued for the name of their doctor. You can then call and schedule a consultation.
A qualified medical malpractice defense attorney will not be cheap. However, your medical malpractice insurance policy might contain a “duty to defend” provision. If it does, then the insurer has agreed to defend you from any medical malpractice claim that could be covered by the policy.Read your insurance policy to check.
 Even if your policy does not have a duty to defend provision, you still must call the insurer as soon as possible to report the lawsuit filed against you.Look at your policy to find the contact number. You must provide the insurer with the following information:the day you received the complaint
information about the patient who is bringing the lawsuit (name, Social Security Number, address)
the plaintiff’s attorney’s contact information
a brief explanation of what treatment you gave the plaintiff
the dates and location of treatment

, The medical malpractice lawsuit will focus on your actions: whether you treated the patient in a way that a reasonably competent medical professional in your area would have treated the patient.Accordingly, you need to reconstruct what treatment you gave the patient and what information you relied on at the time you gave treatment. Gather the following:


patient medical records
your notes on the patient or treatment
any medical treatises or articles you relied on when diagnosing or treating the patient
the names of other people who treated the patient
a summary of your conversations with other personnel who treated the patient

, After finding out that you have been sued, you should cut off communications with the plaintiff. If you are contacted, tell them to talk to your insurance company or your lawyer.


You should understand that out-of-court statements you make can be admitted into court.For this reason, you need to stop communications so that you don’t say anything that can be used against you.
 You will respond to the complaint by filing an answer with the same court the plaintiff filed the complaint with. You must file before the deadline mentioned on the summons.


The purpose of the complaint is to state whether you agree, disagree, or lack sufficient knowledge to agree or disagree with each allegation in the complaint. You may also raise any defenses that you have to the lawsuit.
For example, the plaintiff might have taken too long to file the lawsuit. Generally, plaintiffs have only two years to file from the date of injury.If the plaintiff took too long, then your lawyer can move to get the case dismissed.
Your lawyer should draft the answer for you. Make sure to get a copy and go over it before he or she files it with the court. The answer must be accurate. If you accidentally admit to an allegation, then that fact is considered proved.
 Once the answer has been drafted, your lawyer will file it in court. He or she will also send a copy of the answer to the plaintiff or the plaintiff’s attorney.
 The most common discovery techniques are:Requests for Documents. You can get a copy of any relevant document from the plaintiff. For example, you should request all medical records which you do not have. The plaintiff, after all, might have had a pre-existing medical condition you were never notified of. This condition could have been the cause of her injury. You can get copies of these documents by making a “request for production” of documents.

Interrogatories. Interrogatories are written questions you send to the plaintiff. The plaintiff then answers them under oath. To help defend against a medical malpractice case, you could request the following information:

any pre-existing medical condition the plaintiff had
what medications the plaintiff was taking
what medications had been prescribed but which the plaintiff declined to take
the names of any doctors who have treated the patient since the alleged malpractice



Depositions. During a deposition, your lawyer can ask a witness questions face-to-face. Depositions are helpful because you can ask follow-up questions. Depositions take place in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present.
 As the defendant in a medical malpractice case, you will certainly be asked to give a deposition.By this point, you and your lawyer should have retraced all of your steps and analyzed the treatment you gave the plaintiff. A deposition statement can be admitted at trial, so you should have a firm grasp of your story about what happened when you treated the patient.


To give an effective deposition, you should remember not to offer too much information. Listen closely to the question asked and answer only that question. If the plaintiff’s lawyer wants more information, then he can ask follow-up questions.
Also remember that you can confer with your lawyer any time you want. If you are unsure about anything, then say, “I’d like to talk to my attorney.”
Also get a good night’s sleep.Depositions can be long and grueling. Do not be surprised if the deposition last longer than one day.
 After discovery closes, you could bring a motion for summary judgment. The purpose of the motion is to argue that no trial is necessary because there are no triable issues of fact and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.If you win the summary judgment motion, then the case is dismissed and the plaintiff cannot refile it.
 If you do not win your summary judgment motion, then you should seriously consider negotiating a settlement. Many doctors refuse to settle because they do not want to admit that they have committed malpractice.


However, the risks of going to trial are considerable. The plaintiff will testify at trial. If her injury is prominent (such as being paralyzed), then she will be a very sympathetic witness. Also, the jury could assume you have enough money to pay the plaintiff regardless of whether you caused the injury.
You can also settle the case faster than going through the trial process. Typically, a medical malpractice case can take two to five years to resolve.By settling, you can remove the uncertainty of a drawn-out lawsuit.
 Most medical malpractice cases involve expert witnesses. Experts testify as to what medical care you should have given. They also will testify as to whether your actions caused the plaintiff’s injury.


If the plaintiff has an expert, then you will need an expert as well. Your lawyer should be familiar with competent experts who can testify for you.
Experts are not cheap. You can expect to pay $1,000 an hour for their services.However, they are critical to your success.
 Jury selection is called “voir dire.” In a medical malpractice lawsuit, this is an important part of the case. You will need to screen prospective jurors for bias and try to remove those who you do not think will be sympathetic to your defense.


During voir dire, the judge asks a panel of prospective jurors questions. The questions will cover basic information (such as the juror’s job, hobbies, etc.) The judge will also ask the jurors if they know either your or the plaintiff and whether they can be fair.
If you do not think a juror can be fair, then you can ask the judge to remove the juror “for cause.”
You will also get a limited number of “peremptory challenges.” You can use these to dismiss a juror without giving the judge a reason or without needing the judge to approve the dismissal., Your trial begins with the plaintiff’s lawyer making an opening statement. Your attorney will offer her own opening statement second. The purpose of the opening statement is to give the jury an outline of what the evidence will be.


You shouldn’t expect your lawyer to make arguments during the opening statement. Now is not the time. Instead, your lawyer will stick to the facts and say things like, “As the evidence will show….”

, The plaintiff presents his case first. In a medical malpractice case, typical witnesses would include the plaintiff, experts, and any witnesses who observed you providing treatment. Your lawyer will have a chance to cross-examine the witnesses after the plaintiff’s lawyer asks questions.


Because the jury will probably be sympathetic to the plaintiff, your lawyer will handle the plaintiff gently. He may ask the plaintiff only a few questions. However, if the patient contributed to her injury by not taking required medication or not alerting you to a pre-existing condition, then your lawyer will draw those facts out on cross-examination.
Your lawyer can be more assertive cross-examining the other witnesses, including any expert witnesses. For example, your lawyer might challenge the expert’s credentials and experience.
Furthermore, your lawyer can try to get the expert to admit that the course of treatment you prescribed is a “respectable minority opinion.” Whenever your treatment departs from the standard, generally acceptable treatment, you might be liable for malpractice. However, if a respectable minority of doctors approves of the treatment, then this can be a defense., You will probably need to testify.If your lawyer is careful, then you should have already gone through your testimony and maybe even done a practice run where your lawyer pretends to be the plaintiff’s attorney. To make an effective witness, remember the following tips:Sit up straight and look at the attorney who asks you questions. When you answer, look at the jury and try to make eye contact.
Listen closely to the lawyer’s questions. You want to answer the question asked, so be sure that you understand it. If you don’t understand the question, then ask the lawyer to phrase it differently.
Don’t guess or say more than you should. If you don’t know the answer, then say, “I don’t know.”
Always be truthful. The lawyer will try to trip you up anyway, so your best bet of appearing credible is to always tell the truth.
 After you have presented your evidence, the attorneys will make closing arguments. The goal is to convince the jury to interpret the evidence in a way that is favorable to your case.


Don’t be surprised if your lawyer uses demonstrative exhibits and aids during closing argument. These are very helpful in clarifying information. For example, your lawyer could use a diagram of the human body to show where you treated the patient.
Your lawyer might also use video animation.Animation is a good way to show jurors what actually occurred during treatment.
 After closing arguments, the judge will read the jury its instructions. The jury then retires for deliberations. In order to hold you liable for medical malpractice, the jury must find that the preponderance of the evidence favors the plaintiff’s case. “Preponderance” means that it is “more likely than not” that your actions injured the plaintiff., If the plaintiff wins, then the jury could award him or her a large sum of money. In fact, you shouldn’t be surprised if the jury awards an outrageously large amount of money damages. You can ask the judge to reduce the damages by filing a motion with the court.


The technical name for the motion is “A Motion for Remittitur.” In it, you argue the jury’s award “shocks the conscience.”, You also might want to appeal the jury’s verdict if you lose at trial. You should discuss the pros and cons with your lawyer.


Appeals can take a long time to resolve. In the meantime, you probably have to pay the plaintiff the money damages he or she was awarded.
However, if you are certain that the evidence didn’t show that you committed malpractice, then you might want to bring an appeal. If the appellate court agrees with you, then it can send the case back for a new trial or simply enter judgment in your favor.
You have a limited amount of time to file your Notice of Appeal, so meet with your lawyer in a timely fashion to discuss the strengths of an appeal.

