 Quiet time can involve you reading various gospel oriented books or listening to devotionals or even Christian music. Just taking some time off to sit and think about certain verses or passages from the Bible would also amount to quiet time. It's frankly just isolating yourself from this noisy world and letting God know that you are waiting on him. So quality quiet time would surely make you feel closer to Jesus.;
, It doesn't matter what church, as long as it is Bible based and teaches the Bibles truths. Be sure when you are attending you try to engage yourself in the mass. When hymns are being sung, sing along from the heart, when scripture is being read listen intently and focus your attention on the words. Being engaged in church can have you leaving much more fulfilled and feeling closer to Jesus.
 If you belong to a church that has sacraments (Roman Catholic church for example) talk to a priest about receiving the sacraments. And before each one, study what their meaning is and how they will affect your walk with Jesus. Whether it be your first communion (receiving Jesus's body) or Confirmation (confirming that you will follow Jesus), think about Jesus and pray to him to prepare yourself. Be sure to read your bible (as stated in the last step).
 The Lord has blessed you with the Bible so that you can get to know Him better, among many other reasons. So, take advantage of having this great book with you by exploring it and enjoying it. Try to also follow some of the instructions He has given you in the Bible. Try to analyse how each verse or passage can be applied in your life.


For instance, Psalm 46 verse 1 says "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.". So next time you see trouble brewing at your workplace or college or wherever, you can look it in the eye and recite this verse aloud. This will surely bring you closer to Jesus and you will feel his presence even more.
Live by the Bible. Don't add to it nor subtract anything––what is in the Bible,was meant to be in the Bible.
 To Jesus you are his precious child. He loves you no matter what problem you are facing. Tell him what you are up to or what your plans are or why you are sad or what you need and so on. He is your Father. He wants what's best for you and most of all he wants you! Go to him for everything and you will feel closer to him in no time. He wants you to pray in the Spirit as well as in the understanding and He wants you to pray for other people so that they will repent and so that they will be healed.

