 According to Tao Te Ching, "Stay in the center of the circle and let everything fall into place." Aikido instructors constantly emphasize using your physical center (your hips and abdomen area) as the source of power for doing the technique.When you are truly connected to the physical center, you have immense power at your disposal, far more than what your hands and shoulders alone can provide. In the same way when you are connected to your being(universal intelligence) you have immense spiritual power at your disposal. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.

This is one of the main reasons why you may often hear from Aikido instructors to relax your shoulders and not use muscle.When your shoulders are relaxed, your hands are connected to your center.
Also, to keep your hands connected to your center and to have more power in your technique, keep your hands in front or your body or general center area; that's where your power lies. This is also why in most of the Aikido techniques uke, essentially, is in front of you.;
, According to deeper wisdom behind eastern martial arts, "Don't resist the opponent; yield to overcome."This is a physical manifestation of the spiritual saying, "Don't resist."

Most of the Aikido techniques are about yielding to the opponent(uke) and not fighting or resisting. According to Tao Te Ching "When two great forces oppose each other, the victory will go to the one that knows how to yield." That's why there is great strength in yielding or allowing what is.
This is why there is no conflict in almost all of the Aikido techniques. As a basic, Nage is simply feeling Uke's energy and leading them to wherever they are going.
 When you look where you are going, you are more efficiently able to redirect and lead opponents energy. Plus your technique has more power. Its like your motion is aligned with your vision. Hence, there's little or no conflict., According to Tao Te Ching "Think of the small as large and the few as many. Confront the difficult while it is still easy". Physical manifestation of this, in Aikido, is to take the Uke's balance during the initial phase of the attack. As longer Uke have their balance, more momentum they will gain in their attack and it would become more and more difficult to unbalance them. For example: when someone punches you, their power is lowest right at beginning of the motion of their fist. Then with time their fist gains momentum. So the best window to unbalance the attacker would be before their fist or attack reaches its full speed. That's why balance of time and concentration is essential in Aikido.

Aikido has techniques to calibrate and yield to the opponent when they have gained momentum. However, in essence, its about taking the balance. This guideline is more for practical purposes.
 When your feet are properly connected to the ground then it becomes easier to unbalance the uke. According to Tao Te Ching "Whether you go up the ladder or down it, your position is shaky. When you stand with your two feet on the ground, you will always keep your balance."