 If you don't keep all your pots, bowls, spoons, and containers clean, you might introduce bacteria into your lotion. This can lead to rashes and infections.Everything you use must be kept clean and dry. Rinsing with tap water is not enough, as tap water often contains bacteria that might contaminate your equipment and lotion.;
, Once you are done sanitizing your equipment, be sure to dry everything with clean paper towels. You can sanitize your equipment in two ways:


Spray your equipment down with rubbing alcohol. Then, wipe everything dry with clean paper towels.
Soak your equipment in a solution of bleach and water. Use 1 ounce (29.6 milliliters) bleach for every gallon (3.8 liters) of water., Fill a bowl with water and a few pumps of dish soap. Add a splash of bleach. Beat the water with the blender for a few minutes. Stop the blender and rinse it out. Dry it off with some clean paper towels and pour out the soapy bleach water., Any trace of water, especially tap water, gives bacteria a chance to develop and breed.
 Set the pot on the stove and keep an eye on it at all times. Be sure to stir it from time to time so that the milk does not scorch. Use your thermometer to check the temperature.


The goat's milk must be pasteurized. If your bottle says "raw" or "non-pasteurized," you will need to pasteurize it. Click here to learn how to do this.
 Fill the bottom pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place the larger pot on top and move everything to the stove. If you do not have a double boiler, you can make your own by filling a large pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water, and placing another pot or glass bowl on top of it. The bottom of the upper pot or bowl should not be touching the water.
 Argan, avocado, coconut, jojoba, or sweet almond oil are all great options. You can use just one oil, or a combination, so long as you end up with 2.7 ounces (79.85 milliliters). For example, you can use 1.7 ounce (50.28) sweet almond oil and 1 ounce (29.57 milliliters) avocado oil.You can also use avocado butter or cocoa butter instead of shea butter., This will make it easier to mix the rest of the ingredients into them. Be sure to stir the oils and butters from time to time so that they melt evenly.
 Stearic acid is used by soap makers to help thicken lotions. If you want a thicker lotion, add the stearic acid.


You can purchase both ingredients online at a soap making supply shop.
 You will need to blend for about two to five minutes., Each preservative has a different temperature requirement. Make sure that the temperature of the lotion falls within the recommended parameters of the preservative.
 Preservatives are not absolutely necessary, but they will make your lotion last longer. You will also be able to keep your lotion on the shelf. If you do not add preservatives, you will need to store your lotion in the fridge and use it within two weeks.The most common preservatives used by soap and lotion markers are: Germall Powder, Optiphen, and Phenonip. You can purchase them online from soap making supply shops.
You can find soap making fragrances in arts and crafts stores.
You can find essential oils in all-natural food stores. You may also find them in arts and crafts stores.
You can use any scent you want for your lotion. Lavender, rose, rosemary, or almond would work well in a goat's milk lotion.
, You can use a spoon or spatula to do this. Try to use a glass bottle instead of plastic, as glass is less likely to harbor bacteria.Glass also does not leach out chemicals like plastic does.


Consider adding a pretty label. You can draw your own label on a piece of pretty paper or print one out. Attach the label to the front of the jar with a wide piece of clear packaging tape. You can also decoupage it on using glossy Mod Podge.
 This will lessen the chances of you touching the lotion that is still inside the bottle. If you use a jar, you will be constantly touching the lotion inside. This will increase the chances of bacteria getting inside the jar and breeding. With a pump dispenser, you won't actually be touching the lotion while it is inside the container. This will lessen the chances of it becoming contaminated.
 The preservatives will extend the shelf life of the goat's milk, but only by a little bit. They will not be enough to make the lotion last forever.
 If you do not do this, the lotion will spoil and become dangerous to use.
 Goat's milk contains lactic acid. This helps get rid of dead skin cells that lead to dryness, flakiness, and other skin irritations.The high fat content of goat's milk is also super moisturizing, making it perfect for those with dry skin.
 Goat's milk has plenty of Vitamin A, which is important to repairing damaged skin and keeping skin healthy. Some find that Goat's milk also gives psoriasis relief., Not all goat's milk comes pasteurized. This means that it contains both good and bad bacteria. You need to pasteurize it, or the bad bacteria will breed and grow and cause your lotion to spoil.


If the milk carton says that the milk has been pasteurized, you won't need to pasteurize it.
 Add enough cold water into your sink so that the pot you will be using to pasteurize your milk will not be completely submerged. The water level should not go past more than two-thirds past the side of the pot. Add a lot of ice into the water; you need the water to be very cold. You will be using this for the ice bath later on.
 Make sure that you have a thermometer on hand and ready. The next few steps will go by very quickly.
, Do not allow the water to enter the pot.You are simply using the ice water to cool down the milk.
 Once the milk has cooled down, take the pot out of the water and set it aside. Drain the ice water from the sink. Your milk is now bacteria free and safe to use in lotion.

