 Finding time to exercise can be difficult, especially with busy schedules or long commutes. Start adding in physical activity by increasing how many steps or how much you walk during the day.


Increasing physical activity is a great change to make to help improve your overall health. Exercise has been shown to help improve mood, increase energy, and decrease your risk of heart disease and high blood pressure.Even without planned exercise each day, adding extra steps can be beneficial to your health. Try: taking the stairs instead of the elevator, parking father away, delivering messages in person instead of email at work, walking while you talk on the phone, or take a walk on your lunch break.
You can also consider purchasing a pedometer to help see how many steps you take and monitor your progress of increasing your total steps.
Try the "one mile rule." This means that you can walk to the store, school, work or other locations if they are less than one mile away (and it's a safe walk). Skip taking the bus or driving!

, Additional exercise outside of lifestyle activity (like taking the stairs), greatly adds to the health benefits provided by exercise. Plan cardio so that you're getting targeted exercise that benefits your heart and overall health. You'll see additional improvements in weight, mood and overall health.The USDA states that you should aim for 150 minutes or about 2 1/2 hours of moderate-intensity physical activity each week.Moderate intensity activity is any exercise that increases your heart rate and makes you breathe harder and work up a slight sweat.
If this recommendation is too much, start with half of that amount. Or break up that time in small bits. For example, a brisk 10-minute walk at breakfast, lunch and dinner five days a week meets your 150-minute goal.
Also, if you cannot do moderate intensity at first, do 150 minutes of lower intensity exercises. For example, walking counts as a lower intensity exercise. Any activity is better than none.
 Not all strength training exercises require you to spend time at the gym. There are plenty of easy to do exercises at home that require little to no equipment.


It's recommended to include 20 minutes of strength training two days a week. Including strength training helps build lean muscle mass which can increase your metabolism and how many calories your body burns at rest.Easy, no equipment required exercises include: lunges, push-ups, sit-ups, squats, or wall sits.
 Go to the pool with your little brother, take a walk with your best friend, chase your daughter around the playground, or play backyard sports with your family.
 If you aren't ready for the gym or more intense exercise, try moving while you watch your favorite TV programs. Get up during the commercial breaks and fit in a few minutes of activity.


Try running or walking in place, or some strength training exercises. Since commercial breaks are about two minutes, you can burn about 270 calories during two hours of TV time.Sit on an exercise ball in front of your desk or TV.

