 It is very difficult to grow back dental bone that has already been lost. At present, the only way to completely reverse dental bone loss is to undergo bone grafting. When you undergo a bone grafting procedure, you can expect the wound to heal within 2 weeks.


Your dentist might tell you that you will have to wait for 3-6 months before seeing the result of the bone grafting procedure.
Bone grafting to reverse dental bone loss can be divided into three main types of procedure, discussed below.;
, In this procedure, bone will be taken from a source (an area of your jaw, mandible, etc.) and transferred to the area where you have dental bone loss. The bone cells that were transferred will start to multiply and create new bone to replace the bone that had been lost.


Taking bone from one place in your body and implanting it into the site where there is bone loss is the gold standard in bone grafting.
This technique allows your body to readily accept the new bone cells because it recognizes them as its own.
The transplant of bone marrow is often used in osteogenesis.
 In this process, a bone graft is implanted to the site where there is bone loss. These implants will serve as a scaffold where bone-forming cells (osteoblasts) can grow and multiply.


An example of a scaffold material is bioactive glass.
Together with the bone grafts, bioactive glass is transplanted to the area where there is bone loss, to regenerate dental bone.
These bioactive glass serve as scaffold on which the bone grafts can grow and lay down bone. They also release growth factors that make the bone-forming cells more effective in laying down bone.
 In this technique, bone grafts, such as Demineralized Bone Matrix (DBM), from cadavers and bone banks are transplanted to the area where there is dental bone loss. DBM grafts will cause stem cells to grow where there is missing bone, and these stem cells will transform into osteoblasts (bone-forming cells). These osteoblasts will heal the bone defect and will form new dental bone.


The use of DBM grafts from cadavers is legal and safe. Before the transplant occurs, all of the grafts will be sterilized thoroughly.
After making sure that it is safe for transplant, the bone graft will be tested to see if it suits the body of the recipient.

This is important to make sure that the transplant will not be rejected by your body.
 Deep scaling or non-surgical root planing is a deep cleaning technique, often needed if you are diabetic. During this procedure, the root area of the teeth is cleaned thoroughly to remove parts of the root that have been infected by the bacteria that is causing bone loss. Usually after deep scaling, gum disease will be controlled and no further dental bone loss will occur.


If you have diabetes you may have impaired healing and require additional dental precautions like antibiotics and antibacterial mouth rinses.
You may be prescribed doxycycline 100mg/day for 14 days. This compensates for your impaired immune system.
Chlorhexidine rinses can also be prescribed to kill the bacteria responsible for severe gum diseases. You will be asked to rinse with 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) of 0.2% chlorhexidine (Orahex®) for 30 seconds for 14 days., Estrogen can help prevent osteoporosis and maintain the mineral content of your bones, by slowing down your bone loss. Hormone replacement therapy can also reduce your risk of heart disease and bone fractures. There are a few ways to get estrogen replacement therapy, of which the following are the most common:


Estrace: 1-2 mg daily for 3 weeks
Premarin: 0.3 mg daily for 25 days
The following are estrogen skin patches that are also used in estrogen replacement therapy. These patches are worn on the stomach, below the waistline:

Alora
Climara
Estraderm
Vivelle-Dot



