 Tap the Play store app icon on your home screen or in your app drawer.;
, The first app on the list is usually the one. Tap on it to open its page.


You can read more information about the app on the page.
 Tap on Install. It will download to your device and automatically install.
 Tap on the Pixl-o-matic icon on your home screen or app drawer.
 There are two ways you choose a photo:


Snapshot—This lets you take a photo using your phone’s camera.
Upload—You can choose from the photos saved in your phone’s local storage.
 You can choose from three ways to add style to your images. You can mix and match any of these styles to suit your taste.


Filters—These are preset templates that changes your photo’s color. You can either turn the picture to vintage to have that old look or add vibrancy to it by warming or cooling its colors.
Overlays—These are designs that goes on top of your photo. You can add stars or fireworks to make a lovely night sky background.
Borders—Borders give a clean outline for your picture. You can choose between simple black-and-white borders to make it look like it’s a Polaroid photograph or more complex floral designs.
 Just tap on the Crop button on the upper left corner of the screen.


The downside to cropping is you can’t set the crop points of a photo; you can only choose between the default size and a square aspect ratio.
 If you don’t have any design ideas in mind, you can choose a random combination of filter, overlays, and borders by tapping the Shuffle button on the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Tap the Save button (floppy disk icon) on the lower-right corner of the screen (right beside the Border button). There are two ways you can save your picture:


Save—This saves the photo to your phone’s local storage. You can access it later through the Gallery app.
Share—This lets you select an application where to upload and publish your photos to. Some apps you can use to share are Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram apps.
After selecting how to save your photo, choose the size you like (small, medium, and original size), and your image will be saved.

