 Use a spice grinder or food processor to make a fine powder of the 2 tablespoons of cashews and 1 tablespoon of chironji nuts. Empty the grinder into a small bowl.Chironji nuts are also known as cudpah nuts.They are very similar to almonds, and you can usually find them in international markets.Instead of chironji nuts, you can substitute almonds.You can also substitute 1 tablespoon of poppy seeds and 1 tablespoon of sunflower seeds.;
, Use a spice grinder to grind up the seeds. Empty the grinder into a small bowl.You can use pre-ground cumin and coriander if you don't have the whole seeds on hand.
 Pour in both the powders you just created into the pan.Since you'll be letting the chicken marinate for several hours, you can also add all of these ingredients to a gallon-sized bag instead.
 Mix thoroughly.Shahi jeera are black cumin seeds. You can add more regular cumin if you don't have this spice., Coat the chicken in the mixture. You can rub it in to the chicken if it is in a bag. Just seal up the bag first. , Cover the pan. Place the whole pan or bag in the refrigerator for about 4 hours., If you placed the chicken in a bag, dump out the bag into a pan., Seal the lid tightly. If it doesn't seal tightly, you can stretch dough around the edges to seal it properly.The dough is optional, but it helps to seal the pan.
 Set the pan on the stove. Turn the heat on medium. Let the chicken cook for 40 minutes., Don't take the pan off the stove, and don't remove the lid. Let it sit on the stove for 10 minutes., Cut the dough if you used it, and make sure the chicken is done. Check to make sure the juices from the chicken run clear when it is cut. Pair it with white rice or naan., Don't pick the cheapest butter you can find. Because you're reducing the butter, the flavor intensifies. If you choose a cheap butter, you could be intensifying bad flavors., Chop the pound and a half of butter into about 1-inch pieces., Heat the butter on medium heat until it melts., Turn the heat down as low as possible once the butter melts. Slowly turn the heat back up until it reaches a light boil., The butter will need about 45 minutes on the stove.Indian clarified butter, ghee, is often cooked a bit longer, so don't be afraid to leave it in the pot a little bit longer., Insert a thermometer into the butter. Be sure not to touch the sides of the pan. You can also use an infrared thermometer. The temperature of the butter should be 260 degrees Fahrenheit when done. Also, the liquid should be clear. Check to make sure the foam has browned.At this point, you can continue cooking the butter to make browned butter. The butter adds flavor to any recipe calling for butter. However, be careful not to burn the butter if you choose that route., Gently lower the spoon in the top of the butter, letting the foam flow into the spoon. Try to avoid dipping up the clarified butter. Reserve the foam for other purposes. You can use it to flavor oatmeal or cookies., Line a mesh strainer with four layers of clean cheesecloth. Pour the butter through the cloth into another bowl. Make sure the bowl you're pouring the butter into can take the heat., Store in the refrigerator for up to 6 monthsor in the freezer for up to a year.Though this recipe makes quite a bit of clarified butter, you can use it for many things, from scrambling eggs to sauteing vegetables. You can use it to flavor dishes, as well. However, if it still seems like too much, remember you can make any amount of butter you want. Just know that what you start with will reduce down by 25 percent.