 The shape of the mold you choose is almost as important as the flavor and the decoration inside. You could use a simple household item, like a bowl, or go for something fancier. Consider the following options:


A bowl with an interesting shape. Instead of using a basic round bowl, choose one that has unique indentations or a pattern of some kind.
Individual molds. You can make several small molds using dessert cups or ramekins.
A vintage gelatin mold. Check out antique stores to find molds in interesting shapes and sizes.;
, Choose a flavor (and color) that will contrast well with the object you want to suspend in the gelatin. For example, if you're suspending a decoration that is dark in color, choose lemon or orange gelatin, which are light enough to see through clearly.


Choose a color that won't cause the object inside to look unappealing. If you're using a decorative object that is purple, for example, using a yellow gelatin will make it look brown.
You can also make your own flavor and color combination: buy clear flavorless gelatin, and add a few drops of food coloring and essential oil when you make the gelatin.
 All kinds of objects may be used to decorate gelatin. Choose an object that fits with your party's theme and coordinates well with the color of your gelatin. Other factors to consider include the following:


Make sure the object is lightweight enough to be suspended in gelatin. Heavy objects may simply sink to the bottom. Flowers, small plastic or rubber toys, or fruit that has been carved into a decorative shape are all good options.
Use a decoration that is composed of parts that won't fall apart or dissolve when heated. You don't want to choose something made of wood, cloth, or another soft, porous material.
The decoration should be somewhat appetizing. Decorative gelatin molds are made to be eaten, and if you want people to enjoy it you should choose a decoration that doesn't put people off. The only exception is if you want to make a gelatin mold as a Halloween decoration; in that case, go crazy with rubber spiders and snakes.
Most importantly, choose a decoration that is nontoxic. This is extremely important, since you'll be pouring hot liquid gelatin over the object, which will distribute particles of the item throughout the mold. Fresh flowers and fruit are a safe bet. If you want to use a plastic or rubber toy, choose one that's nontoxic; items that are safe for a baby or toddler to chew on are safe enough to use in a gelatin mold.
 If you're using fresh flowers, rinse them well in cold water. For any type of plastic or rubber decoration, scrub it well with hot, soapy water, then rinse it again in hot water.


If you're using an object that can be boiled, sanitize it by placing it in boiling water for a few minutes before proceeding.
If you're using fruit that hasn't been peeled, wash the outside of the fruit well.
 Read the instructions on the gelatin package to find out how it should be prepared. In most cases you will need to boil water, then add the contents of the gelatin packet and stir.
 Use a bowl, a fancy vintage mold, or individual cups or ramekins.
 Set the object in the center of the mold, or position it wherever you like. Be sure it is completely submerged.


If the object bobs to the top, try weighting it down by tying it to a heavier object, like a small knife or spoon. Choose a weight that is as slim and discreet as possible.
If you plan to invert the gelatin onto a plate when it's ready, you might want to place the object upside down. When you invert the mold, the object will be right side up.
 Follow the instructions on the gelatin package to determine how long it should stay in the refrigerator. Resist the temptation to take it out early, since you could accidentally spoil the decorative effect.
 When the gelatin is thoroughly chilled and set, it's ready to serve. Either serve it in the container you made it in or carefully invert it onto a serving plate or into individual cups.
