 This is a much simpler recipe than making your soap from scratch. It involves melting a pre-made soap base down and then modifying it with your own ingredients. Here’s what you’ll need:1 lb Soap base of your choosing (suspension-friendly)
4 oz rolled oats (can add more or less to suit your tastes)
1.5 tsp almond oil (optional)
2 oz roasted almonds (optional)
1 to 2 tbsp honey (optional)
Pot and/or heat-proof container for melting soap
Large bowl or measuring cup for mixing
Whisk or spoon for mixing
Soap mould or pan measuring roughly 9 x 4 inches
Wax paper or parchment paper (optional);
, Craft shops have many different soap base options: goat’s milk, shea butter, and olive oil are popular choices.Most importantly, choose a suspension formula to ensure that your oats won’t sink to the bottom of the soap during the cooling process.

Soap bases are often called “melt-and-pour” soap bases by crafters, since all you need to do is melt down the base, add your ingredients, pour it into a mould, and then let it cool.
If a soap base isn’t easy for you to obtain, you can also purchase a regular bar of soap and just melt it down, add the oats, and let it cool. Any soap bar will do, although one with higher-quality ingredients will make your skin feel nicer.
 You can use whatever moulds you like for this recipe. If you’re making regular bar soap, you can get away with using a 9 x 4 inch baking pan. You can really use whatever shape you want though.

If you use metal or plastic containers that aren’t specifically made for soap, be sure to line them with wax paper or parchment paper before pouring your soap into them. This will make it much easier for you to remove the soap once it’s cooled.
Some soap-makers even line their professional soap moulds. This helps prevent the soap from getting stuck in the corners of rectangular and square moulds. If you’re using moulds with more detailed shapes, you won’t want to line them as this will obscure the design.
 Add your oats to a coffee grinder or food processor, or crush them using a mortar and pestle or rolling pin. You want to make an even, fine powder from the oats. This is called colloidal oatmeal and is great for soothing your skin.If you’re using a food processor, it will likely take between 5 and 10 minutes to get the oats down into a fine powder.
 Add almonds to the ground oats and grind together until they are both ground down into a fine powder. Be careful not to overdo it with the almonds, otherwise you’ll end up with almond butter.

If you’re using a food processor it will likely take another 5 to 10 minutes to get the almonds ground down into a fine powder.
 You can do this by placing it directly in a saucepan over low heat. Another option is to place it in a large heat-proof bowl and place that bowl in a saucepan full of a few inches of simmering water (i.e. a double-boiler).

You can also melt the soap base down in the microwave. For this option, you’d put it in a heat-proof container (ceramic or glass) and then microwave in short intervals (probably a minute at first, then 15 to 30 seconds at a time) until it’s completely melted.
For all three options, be sure to stir the soap constantly to make sure it’s fully melted and doesn’t get scorched. If using the microwave, take the soap out and stir it in between intervals.
 This will likely be a large, heat-resistant mixing bowl or measuring cup., Pour your oats (or almond-oat mixture) into the melted soap mixture while stirring it, ensuring that it’s well-mixed and that there are no clumps.

If you’re also adding honey and almond oil to the mixture, add these wet ingredients to the melted soap before you add the oats/oat-almond mixture. This will ensure the liquids are evenly distributed.
This is the point at which you can add any other ingredients you’d like to add to the mixture. Common ingredients that soap-makers like to add to their bars include vitamin E oil, essential oils (lavender and orange blossom are popular scents), and poppy seeds (alone, not with oats).
 If you’re using a baking pan, plastic container, cardboard box, or other rectangular-shaped mould, don’t forget to line it to make soap removal easier., The soap should cool and harden within 2 hours at room temperature. You can also place it in the fridge to speed up the cooling process if you like., Carefully remove the soap from its mould/pan/container. If applicable, cut the soap into bars. Use a sharp knife to make clean cuts.

You might even score the block of soap before cutting it, just to ensure the blocks are fairly even. If you have a metal ruler, you can use this to help you draw lines on the soap block with your knife.
 Your soap is now ready to use. In general, you’ll want to use homemade soaps within 1 year of making them. If you live in a hotter climate, this time might shorten to 6 months.

If you’re giving the soap away as a gift, make it look extra fancy by wrapping it in parchment paper and tying it with twine.

