;
, Unlike on Mac, there is no self-extracting installer for Windows. Windows users will need to install a number of developer tools to use webkit. All necessary tools and specifications can be downloaded here

, Open your HTML file and reference your CSS style sheet with the following code:.<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="mystyle.css">
</head>


You can write the CSS reference before creating the CSS file, but you must be sure that the CSS filename matches the one in your code (in this example, “mystyle.css").
Your HTML and CSS code will remain separate, but run together when you load your HTML file., Your code might look something like:.<div class="marquee">Scrolling text goes here.</div>


div is an HTML element that defines the area on the page that will contain components of the code, in this case your scrolling marquee.
 “Go to File > Save As…” Append your HTML file with a .html extension.
 The shorthand syntax for creating a scrolling marquee with CSS is : “-webkit-marquee: ”. The webkit tag is necessary because the CSS module that contains the marquee class is part of the Webkit CSS specification.will define which direct the marquee scrolls
measures the pixel distance between each step of the scroll
is the number of times the marquee will run
can determine a simple scroll or bouncing text
is how fast the text moves.
 Set the values in the brackets (remove the brackets, since they are just a placeholder). This will tell your marquee how to act on the page. Your code might look like:.-webkit-marquee: auto medium infinite scroll normal;


The ‘auto’ direction uses the default right-to-left, ‘medium’ sets a default interval of 6 pixels, ‘infinite’ sets the marquee to run an unlimited number of times, ‘scroll’ sets the style to a linear movement, and ‘normal’ is a default setting for scrolling speed.
 Add .overflow-x: -webkit-marquee; to a new line in your code. This will make the text scroll continuously along instead of stopping at the edge of the div.’overflow-x’ specifies what to do with text that exceeds the limit of the space on the x-axis.
'-webkit-marquee' is directing the overflow command towards the marquee module in webkit.
Your full code might look like:.-webkit-marquee: auto medium infinite scroll normal;
overflow-x: -webkit-marquee;


, “Go to File > Save As…” Append your CSS file with a .css extension.
 Drag and drop the file to your browser to open. Your scrolling marquee will display on the page.


Use a webkit supported browser, like Chrome or Safari to make sure the marquee displays as expected.

