 The TN1 visa is modeled after the H1B visa, so it can only be used when your employer is based in the US. Though the application process is simplified with the TN1 visa, you must work in a specified profession that qualifies you for a TN1 visa. Accountants, architects, graphic designers, urban planners, medical professionals, and scientific professionals with bachelor degrees or higher education are all considered valid professions for this visa. A list of professions covered by NAFTA can be found here.


The TN1 is only granted to employers, and if you need a visa for more than one employer, you will need to file multiple visa applications. If you are self-employed, you will not qualify for this visa category., TN1 visas are valid for three years and are often more likely to be approved than an H-1B visa. The application period for a TN1 visa can also be fast tracked by applying for the visa at the US border. But TN1 visas also have several potential disadvantages, including:This visa is given to individuals with specialized skills and you may not qualify for the visa because your profession is not recognized by NAFTA as “specialized”.
Under this visa, you must demonstrate your intention to return to Canada once the TN1 visa expires. For your first TN1 visa, you likely do not have to demonstrate your intention to return when you reapply. But if you have been on the TN1 visa for six to nine years, and are seeking another three year visa, you may be required to show you still intend to return to Canada at some point. You will need to provide documents showing you still maintain ties to Canada, such as bank account statements, a provincial driver’s license, real estate ownership, or having a spouse or other family living in Canada.
With a TN1 visa, it is also more difficult to apply for an employment-based green card. There is no “dual intent” allowed with this visa and you must always demonstrate an “intent to return”. If you apply for a U.S. green card while you have a TN1 visa, this could be seen as a violation of your visa agreement and you may lose your visa.
 The application fee at the border is significantly lower than applying through the USCIS, and the decision to grant or deny the visa is made on the spot at the border. If you are denied the visa, you will learn the reason for the denial right away and attempt to correct it as soon as possible. You will need to carry the following documents with you to the U.S. border to apply for the TN1 visa:A description of your position with a US employer. It should include a description of why it is a professional occupation, recognized by NAFTA, and that the position is temporary. It should also confirm you are a direct employee and note your salary level.
Proof of your qualifications, such as a copy of your degree, certificate, or transcripts
A copy of your current resume
A copy of your Canadian passport
A copy of your social security number, if applicable
A copy of your employment contract
Details of your foreign address or place of residence

, A TN1 visa application done through the USCIS will take at least two months to process, the fee is much higher and if you are denied, it will take more time and money to re apply via the USCIS. Talk with your U.S. employer about applying for the visa at the border, rather than the USCIS. If your employer insists on applying for the visa through the USCIS, you will need to supply the following documentation:


Sponsorship/job offer from the employer
A copy of your current resume
Copy of your Canadian passport
Copies of your degrees, certificates, transcripts (if applicable)
Employment reference letters from previous employers (if applicable)
Copy of any professional development course certificates (if applicable)
Professional license (if applicable)
If you already live in the U.S., you can provide the following documentation:
Copy of your US social security number, if you have one
Copy of the front and back of the I-94 card

, Most U.S. employers will pay the application fee and the fee for the visa. However, you should discuss the payment of the fees before you complete the application.