 Volcanic eruptions can be very dangerous, and require thorough preparations to be made by those living or working in the vicinity of an active volcano. The first step of your preparation should be to draw up a comprehensive plan for how you will get in touch with your family if there is an emergency.


Start by writing down all the different ways you can contact each other, and the relevant phone numbers and email addresses. Don't forget landline phone numbers.
The eruption might occur suddenly when your family are not all at home, so it's important to know the emergency plans of the relevant schools, workplaces, and local government.
Identify somebody out of town, such as a family member or family friend, who can act as your central point of contact.
If you get separated and can't get in touch with each other, check in with this person out of town who will be able to relay information between you all.;
, As part of your emergency planning, you should decide on some specific meeting places where your family members can head to if there is an eruption and you have to evacuate. If you have a family member with disabilities, ensure all the places you choose are accessible. Include your pets in your planning and locate places that can accommodate animals. Determine four distinct meeting places.


One of these should be indoor, preferably at home or a nearby storm shelter, somewhere you will be protected from winds and potential volcanic ash.
The second should be a place in your neighborhood that is not your home. If for any reason you cannot get to your house, a nearby location is the next best thing.
The third place should be in your town, but outside of your neighborhood. A central public building such as a library or community center could be a good choice.
Finally, decide on a place outside of your town. This is the place you will go to meet up with your family if you have to leave town suddenly. A family or friend out of town is the best choice for this meeting point., Take the time to talk through the plans with your family so everyone understands, and make sure everyone has a copy of all the relevant contact details in their purse or wallet. Everyone in your family should know what to do if there are warnings to evacuate, and understand that it is not fair to other family members if some of you choose to stay behind in spite of evacuation warnings.You can rehearse the plans and revise them at regular family meetings to ensure that everyone is involved and feels part of the planning.Talking to children about the possibility of a disaster is better than pretending it may never happen.
If children are aware that everything is planned, and know what to do, their fear and anxiety will be reduced in the event of a disaster.
 As well as emergency preparations, you should also take care of the more mundane precautions. That means considering insurance for potential damage caused by volcanoes, and thinking about what impact an eruption could have on your business. If you run a business located in the vicinity of volcanoes, create a business continuity plan to ensure that staff can get to safety, and stock, equipment, and any other business essentials are protected.


If you run a business, you have a responsibility for your staff as well as your family.
A volcano can cause severe property damage. Consider purchasing insurance if you are in a high-risk area.