 The WhatsApp icon looks like a green speech balloon with a white telephone in it.;
, This button looks like three vertically-stacked dots in the upper-right corner of your screen. It will open a drop-down menu.
 This will be the first option at the top of the drop-down menu. It will let you create a new group chat conversation.
 A checkmark will appear next to your friend's picture. All selected friends will appear at the top of your contacts list.


You can scroll down the list to see all of your contacts or tap the magnifying glass icon to use the Search function.
 This button looks like a white arrow inside a green circle in the lower-right corner of your screen.
 This text field will be at the top of your screen. It will let you enter a name for your new group.
 Use your Android's keyboard to type in a subject title for your group chat conversation.
 This button looks like a white checkmark icon inside a green circle below the group name. It will create a new group chat conversation, and open your new group in full screen.
 This button looks like three dots in the upper-right corner of your group chat conversation. It will open a drop-down menu.


You can use the same drop-down menu in any WhatsApp conversation to search or mute the chat.
 This will be the first option at the top of the drop-down menu. It will open a page with the name of the group chat, and a list of all participants included in the conversation.
 You can add new members or remove current participants from the Participants menu on your Group Info page.
 This will open a pop-up menu with options to Message your friend, View their profile, Make group admin, Remove them from the group chat, and Verify security code.
 You will have to confirm your action in a pop-up window.
 This will confirm your action and remove your friend from the group chat.
 If you've added more than one friend to the group, remove all of them from the Participants list on the Group Info page until you're the last remaining participant. When you're the only person in a group chat, you can use the group to post your to-do lists, store useful links, and send yourself messages. Anything you send to the group chat will only be available to you, and cannot be accessed by anybody else.

