 You don’t need to lose friends or damage relationships because you are trying to text less. You can still respond to texts and have social interactions with your friends, just try to limit yourself. Use your phone as a resource to make plans and keep in touch, but not as an activity that consumes your life.
 Tell your friends, family, and boyfriend or girlfriend to only text you if it is important. Ask them to only text you if something important comes up or they want to make plans to see you. Tell your friends not to text you just to talk too much while you are trying to fix your texting addiction. Explain to your friends you are going to be slower at replying because you are trying to use your phone less.


Say something like: “I am trying to text less and need your help. Please only text me if it is important or you are trying to make plans with me, not just to talk. This will really help me get over my texting problem! I will also reply slower than usual".
 Just because you are trying to text less does not mean you have to miss out on socializing with your friends. Instead of texting your friends to make plans or to catch up, call them. This will allow you to still be in the loop, but not feed into your texting addiction. A quick phone call can contain as much information as 30 minutes of texting and can help you to not addictively stare at your screen all day.
 Force yourself to set your phone aside and focus on the world and people around you. Instead of texting through dinner, put your phone down and ask your parents about their day. Talk to your friends and family in person more often. Instead of texting your friends all day, text them once asking if they want to hang out. Then you can talk to them all day in person instead of over the phone.


Don’t hide behind your phone in uncomfortable social situations. Instead of using your phone as a safety net, try putting it away and talk to the people who are around you., Even if you are a social butterfly, sometimes you should put your phone away and take a break from people. Read a book, study, lay in the grass outside, or watch a show instead of texting. Think of your break from texting as an opportunity to not have to worry about what your friends and family are doing all the time and to just focus on yourself.

