 This is essential if you want to become a fashion photographer. You will need to create a portfolio that showcases your professional work.


These days, many photographers are creating websites in order to showcase their best work. You can do this for free through sites like WordPress or get a website professionally done.Make sure that your website is updated with your freshest work and shows a variety of what you can do. You want to display your fashion photographs. If you have none to display yet, you need to work on taking some photos before you seek to book a shoot.;
, Many people will want to see what is called a book. In this photo book, you will reprint your best photos to show to agents and magazines.


This book generally includes 4 X 5 inch transparencies to show off the work. Generally, you want to include 20 photos you’ve done in your book. Choose pictures that show your personality as a photographer. If your work has actually been in a magazine, show this.
Choose the images to match the job you’re seeking. You will want to tailor the choices and book for different jobs. Throw a few images into every book that demonstrate you have range, though.
 This is a great way to build a portfolio. You may have to do a few shoots for free for awhile. This is just the way it works. Many aspiring models would love to have you take photos of them because they are trying to make it in their field, too.Don’t do this forever or let yourself be taken constantly advantage of. However, you should consider working for free to practice and build your portfolio when you’re just starting out. Try to work alongside networked and very talented people.
How can you find places to work for free? Contact modeling agencies and non-profit organizations and offer your services. Use word-of-mouth to find aspiring models who need photos taken or advertise your services online (some people may be wary of such offers, though, so be prepared to provide your existing portfolio and explain your training in college and so forth). You could also ask a college fashion design program or beauty school if you could take photos.
Even if you’re not getting paid, you will learn a lot and make valuable connections that could lead to paying jobs. Networking is extremely important if you want to make it as a fashion photographer. If you work for free, you do gain the benefit of retaining creative control, and this can sometimes allow you to do your best work.
 Another way you can build your portfolio when you are just starting out is to obtain an internship.


You can find many sites that list internships in fashion photography online. Simply Google the term "fashion photography internships" and many will come up. You may need to take a related internship in photography if you can't find something in fashion photography immediately.The typical posting for fashion photography may require you to have some portfolio samples (even if these are things you have done for free or through a college class) and they will often ask you to have your own equipment. You may need to relocate to New York or overseas for the best internships.