 If your partner is involved with the birth, make sure that you have a discussion about who will be in the delivery room. If you want a large crowd but your partner wants it to be private, you may need to compromise. Remember that when it comes to the birth, the most important thing is that you are relaxed and comfortable., Once you have settled on a final list, reach out to each person. It may be best to ask them over the phone or in person, as this is a very personal decision. Remember that births can be stressful for other people, so they may prefer to be in the waiting room instead. When you ask them, respect their decision.


You can say, “I was wondering if you could be in the delivery room with me when I give birth. Is that something you’re willing to do?”
You could also try explaining why you want them there. You might state, “You are such a calming influence in my life that I would appreciate having you there by my side when I give birth.”

, Even if they declined to join you, thank them for their support. Let them know that you appreciate their role in your life. If they have decided to join you, emphasize that you are grateful for the support that they will provide.


If they agreed, you might say, "Thank you so much. Your presence will make the birth truly special."
If they decline, you can say, "I completely understand. Thank you anyways."

, If you are bringing the baby's siblings into the delivery room, you should make sure that they understand what happens during birth. Explain that birth can be painful or stressful but that they shouldn't worry about your health. When the time comes, give them plenty of toys and distractions during labor.You might say, "We want you to be there when your sibling arrives. Just understand that birth can be messy. I might sound like I'm in pain, but the doctors will be taking care of me."
You may want to have an extra adult there just to watch the children and care for them. You do not want to be worried or distracted or by the children while in labor. If the children need to be removed, this adult can take them out.
 Some people may want to be in the delivery room, even if you would prefer that they remain outside. In this case, state your wishes firmly. Tell them that while you appreciate their support, you would like them to be in the waiting room.You can say, “I appreciate your support, but I want to keep it small in the delivery room. You can come visit the baby as soon as they are born.”
If the person in question comes from your partner’s family, such as their parents, you should ask your partner to talk to them. Make sure your partner expresses that this decision was made as a couple. They should say, “We have decided to keep it private,” not “she doesn’t want you guys around.”