 Anemia means a low level of red cells in your body and is a sign of iron deficiency. This can be quite common and due to several factors. Symptoms include:Tiredness
Paleness
Dizziness
Fast heartbeat
Chills
Headaches
Itchiness
Hair loss
Slow immune response to infections;
, The level of hemoglobin signals the amount of red cells in your blood and is used to determine whether you have an iron deficiency. If you're in one of these categories, you're more likely to have an iron deficiency and should consider getting tested:Pregnant women
Women with heavy menstrual bleeding
Infants and young children
Cancer patients
People with digestive issues
Blood donors, They will help you determine whether iron supplementation is advisable for you and in what quantity, based on your gender, age and existing conditions. Make sure you mention whether you have any of these conditions in your medical history:Alcohol abuse
Blood transfusions
Kidney or liver disease
Arthritis
Asthma
Allergies
Hemochromatosis
Hemosiderosis
Heart disease
Intestinal problems
Stomach ulcer
Other forms of anemia

, Dosage depends on age, gender, existing conditions and dietary intake. The daily needed amount is usually 8 mg for adult men and 18 mg for women.Pregnant women will need more iron (around 27 mg per day).
Women who are breastfeeding will need less than usual (9 to 10 mg per day).
Children will need different amounts depending on their age and sex. Check the recommendations of the Food and Nutrition Board to determine how much iron your children should get each day: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-HealthProfessional/

It is not recommended to take large amounts of iron for longer than six months, unless your doctor tells you otherwise., Iron can be taken in forms such as tablets, capsules or liquid. You may also choose a slow-release form of iron: these are taken once a day and provide a steady release of iron into the body. Most iron supplements are sold without a prescription, with the exception of infant drops or specialty supplements.


Your doctor will help you determine the daily dosage you need and recommend the best form of supplement for you.
Tablets are usually the best absorbed and less expensive option. Liquid forms are usually preferable for young children. Slow-release supplements lead to fewer side effects but are also absorbed in minor quantities.When choosing a supplement, consider other factors like personal preferences (you might have difficulty swallowing non-chewable tablets) and side effects. For example, liquid supplements tend to stain your teeth.
Other forms of iron supplements include powder, suspension, liquid-filled capsules, syrup and elixir.A way to prevent this is by mixing the supplement with water or juice or drinking it through a straw.
 Most children and adult multivitamins contain the recommended daily dosage of iron. If your deficiency is not severe, you might simply increase your daily intake in this form.


Read the label to check the amount of iron contained in the multivitamin supplement and see if it corresponds to the dosage recommended by your doctor.
 When reading the label, be aware that the iron content may appear under these three names: ferrous sulfate, ferrous fumarate, and ferrous gluconate. Regardless of the quantity of any of these contents, the exact amount of iron is signaled by the level of elemental iron.The amount of elemental iron is not necessarily linked to the amount of iron supplement. 300 mg of ferrous sulfate or ferrous fumarate might correspond to different levels of elemental iron.Out of the three, ferrous fumarate usually has the highest content of elemental iron (around 33 percent). Ferrous gluconate has the lowest (around 12 percent), while ferrous sulfate has slightly more (20 percent). When choosing which supplement to use, you might want to try gluconate if you're afraid fumarate might be too much for you, or fumarate if your aim is to get as much iron as possible out of supplementation., This is recommendable only if you can't take iron in any other form. Iron can be injected only by a doctor or nurse.Do not take other forms of supplements if you are getting injections., Your doctor might recommend you to simply change your diet to include more foods with a high iron content. If your anemia is simply due to eating iron in poor quantities, you should reconsider your diet before taking over-the-counter iron supplements.


Be aware that some foods will contain heme irons (easily absorbed by your blood), while others will provide nonheme iron (less easily absorbed).
Foods that are rich in iron include:Meat: liver, lean-ground beef, pork, turkey leg, lamb leg (large quantities of heme iron)
Eggs (heme iron)
Fish: sardines, oysters, tuna, shrimp (smaller quantities of heme iron)
Brown rice (nonheme iron)
Kidney beans, peas or lentils (nonheme iron)
Cereal: Iron-fortified cereal, whole wheat bread, oatmeal (nonheme iron)
Spinach (nonheme iron)
Tofu (nonheme iron)
Molasses (nonheme iron)
Peanut butter (nonheme iron)
Raisins (nonheme iron)



, It is best to take the iron supplement on an empty stomach to facilitate absorption, either with water or fruit juice. This means one or two hours before meals.


If taking iron on an empty stomach makes you sick, you should take it right after meals, although this will make it harder for your body to absorb it., Thus, this is recommended both if you're following an iron-rich diet or taking supplements. You can get more vitamin C through:Oranges and orange juice
Red and green peppers
Strawberries and blackcurrants
Broccoli and brussels sprouts
Potatoes

, Combining iron supplements with some foods will make it harder for your body to absorb it. The following foods or supplements should be consumed no more than two hours after taking an iron supplement if you want to maximize your iron intake:


Caffeinated drinks and food (coffee, black tea, chocolate)
Calcium and antacid supplementsCow's milk (for children and infants), Ask your physician about possible uncomfortable reactions you might have to an increased iron absorption. They might advise you to reduce your daily dosage if these symptoms become too much for you to take.These can include:Constipation
Upset stomach
Nausea
Muscle pain
Cramping
Fast heartbeat
Dizziness
Metallic taste
Stained teeth (if so, brush with baking soda or medicinal peroxide)

, Taking too much iron can cause many undesirable effects. If side effects become severe, you have one or more of these symptoms and you think they might be due to iron overdosage, contact your doctor and consider reducing your dosage or switching to other supplements.



Early symptoms include:Diarrhea (maybe with blood)
Fever
Nausea and sharp stomach pain
Severe vomiting (maybe with blood)



Late symptoms include:Blue lips, fingernails and palms of hands
Seizures
Clammy skin
Difficulties breathing
Tiredness or weakness
Fast heartbeat



, Your doctor will probably advise you to return after a few weeks to check how your body is responding to supplementation. Blood tests will monitor your hemoglobin levels and determine for how long you should continue the treatment.Checking your stools is an effective way to see whether your body is absorbing the iron supplements. These should be black.