 The more prepared and informed you are about pregnancy, childbirth and beyond, the better you can provide support during each phase of your baby’s life. There are a lot of resources that can inform you about pregnancy and labor. Asking for information from the doctor and reading books and websites can help you better understand labor and delivery and how you can best support mother and baby.Consult and read sources that discuss a variety of topics including the changes in a woman’s body during pregnancy, anticipating and knowing the stages of labor, and the ways to provide support during birth.;
, If your baby’s mother is comfortable with it, take the time to attend doctor’s appointments with her. This can help you bond with your baby and show her support. It also gives you the chance to gather more information and ask any questions you may have about the baby’s birth.Recognize that birth is a completely natural thing and you shouldn’t be ashamed to ask the doctor any questions you may have.
Contact the doctor if you aren’t able to attend doctor’s appointments. This can give you the chance to ask any questions or address any concerns you may have.
 Reading different resources and asking questions can provide you information on pregnancy and childbirth. Consider taking a childbirth class, which can expand your knowledge as well as prepare you for the birth and basic newborn care. Childbirth classes will provide you information on things such as:Massage
Pain-management techniques
Treatment and medication during birth
The stages of labor and what to expectVaginal birth and C-sections
Cutting the umbilical cord
How to communicate with the baby’s mother during birth, Once you’ve figured out where your baby will be born, take some time to acquaint yourself with the facility. This can help make the birth process more comfortable during labor and delivery.Ask if the facility allows the father to participate in the baby’s birth, especially if you and the mother are not a couple. See what resources are available to make everyone involved comfortable for the health of the baby.