 Because iridescent clothing makes a bold statement, wearing head to toe iridescence is sure to get you noticed. That’s why it’s best to save completely iridescent outfits for evening or special occasions when you want to look a bit more dressed up.An iridescent cocktail dress is ideal for evening events when you want to stand out.
You can pair an iridescent duster or coat with a simple black cocktail dress for a bolder look.
A matching iridescent top and pants, shorts, or skirt set also work best in the evening.;
, If you want to find a way to work some iridescence into a daytime look, it’s best to concentrate on a single piece. Pair an iridescent skirt with a simple blouse or an iridescent top with classic black trousers to keep the look polished and sophisticated.If an iridescent top or bottom still feels like too much for daytime, add a small touch of iridescence to your look with an accessory or two, such as wristlet or belt.
 No matter what color your iridescent clothing is, it will reflect a rainbow-like range of colors. To keep your outfit from looking too busy, it’s best to pair iridescent pieces with neutral shades that won’t compete with the colorful shine.Dark neutrals, such as black, brown, or charcoal, pair well with dark iridescent pieces. You can also wear them with lighter iridescent clothing if you want to create a strong contrast.
Light neutrals, such as white, ivory, cream, beige, tan, or taupe, pair well with lighter iridescent pieces. You can also wear them with darker iridescent clothing if you want to create a strong contrast.
 Iridescent clothing typically has a sleek, smooth appearance. You can put together a striking outfit by wearing the items with contrasting pieces. Create a contrast by pairing iridescent clothing with textured fabrics or rough, edgy pieces.You can wear iridescent pieces with textured fabrics such as velvet, suede, and/or denim.
Pairing iridescent clothing with leather pieces, such as a motorcycle jacket, cuff bracelets, or riding boots, can help give an edgier feel.
 During the day, you can dress up a simple tee shirt and pair of jeans with an iridescent blazer or vest. It's an especially good look with for a basic white tee, but you can also go for a monochromatic look with a shirt that matches the iridescent piece.Add tennis shoes, ballet flats, or ankle booties and a few bangle bracelets to finish the look.
 Iridescent skinny jeans are an ideal piece for daytime. Pair them with a slouchy sweater or tee shirt for a wearable casual look that will still get you noticed.Tennis shoes, combat boots, ballet flats or wedges work well for a casual look with iridescent jeans.
You can add a belt to your top if you want a more defined waist, but opt for a non-iridescent piece so it doesn't compete with the jeans.
 In warm weather, a pair of iridescent shorts can be the centerpiece for a casual look. Wear them with a simple cotton tee shirt or tank top and your favorite pair of sandals to run errands or grab lunch with friends.Adding a pair of statement sunglasses can make your casual outfit look a little more chic.
For a more playful take, pair the iridescent shorts, tee, and sandals with your favorite baseball cap.
 You can make an iridescent top more wearable during the day by pairing it with jeans. However, if you still feel a little self-conscious, throw a comfortable boyfriend cardigan over it to help tone down the look.For the most foolproof look, opt for a cardigan in a neutral shade, such as black, gray, or cream.
Tennis shoes, ballet flats, or booties can complement the look.
If you want an edgier outfit, consider layering a leather jacket over your iridescent top and jeans.
 An iridescent pencil skirt or pair of trousers in a dark shade can work well for the office. Pair it with a classic button-down shirt in a neutral color for a look that's chic and professional.Complete the outfit with a pair of heels or ballet flats and classic jewelry such as pearls or small stud earrings.
 For a night out on the town, an iridescent mini or pencil skirt can be the ideal centerpiece of your outfit. Wear it with a sexy tank top or camisole and a pair of pumps for a striking evening look.Finish off your outfit with a bold statement necklace, such as a bib or layered style, or pair of earrings.
For an edgier evening look, consider pairing your skirt and tank top with knee-high leather boots.
 An iridescent dress can stand all on its own for a dressy, evening-appropriate outfit. However, if you want to tone down the shine a bit, pair your dress with a blazer in rich fabric such as suede or velvet that's sophisticated enough for a night out.A basic black blazer is the best option for an evening. The texture of the fabric will stand instead of the color.
Stiletto heels or your favorite pair of pumps are the perfect footwear with an iridescent dress and blazer.
If you're wearing a completely iridescent dress, go easy on the jewelry because the dress will shine on its own. Simple stud earrings, a single bangle, and/or a thin chain necklace are your best options.
 When you're headed out on a date or an evening out with friends, you can dress up a simple pair of jeans with a sexy iridescent top. Wear an iridescent crop, tank, or corset top with your favorite pair of jeans and heels or wedges for a look that's polished and flirty.A pair of dangling statement earrings are the perfect finishing touch to your look.
 If you want to ease your way into wearing iridescent clothing, start with a purse. It adds a small, striking touch to your outfit without seeming over the top or flashy. An iridescent purse is an especially good option if you’re wearing a monochromatic outfit or casual look that you want to dress up.An iridescent clutch or shoulder bag offers the most subtle iridescent look. The clutch works well for day and evening, while the shoulder bag is best during the day.
If you want to make a bolder statement, opt for a large iridescent purse, such as a bucket, hobo, or tote bag. They tend to have a more casual look, though, so they’re best for daytime use.
 Another way to incorporate a subtle touch of iridescence to your outfit is with shoes. Iridescent shoes are available in a variety of styles, so you can work them into any look. As with the purse, though, they work especially well with monochromatic or simple outfits.Iridescent ballet flats, tennis shoes, and combat boots are ideal for dressing up a simple outfit, such as jeans and a tee shirt or a cotton dress.
Iridescent heels work well for an evening look. They are a particularly good option if you want to make a simple black cocktail dress look a little more special.
 If you a purse or shoes aren’t your thing, incorporating an iridescent belt can add some fun to your outfit, particularly if you want to emphasize your waist. It’s best to opt for a thin style, though, so the iridescence isn’t too much.You can wear an iridescent belt with pants or jeans, but it is ideal for pairing with an oversized shirt or a dress without a defined waistline to help add definition to your outfit.
 Scarves are an ideal way to add color and pattern to a simple outfit. However, if you really want to make a statement, opt for a scarf with iridescent details. Loop it around your neck with a simple tee shirt and jeans, or pair it with a simple black suit for the office.