 Write down your dreams in a dream journal. Do this first thing in the morning after you wake up, when the action of the dream and your emotional state are still the freshest in your mind. The dream may not make sense to you right away, but recording it allows you to come back to it later so that you fill it in with new inferences and make important discoveries.Get in the habit of using your dream journal daily, even if the dream you’re trying to recall isn’t fully formed or remembered.Don’t worry if you can’t remember your dreams at first. Simply write “no dream to record” or “can’t remember” to fill out an entry. Eventually, you will become more attentive to your dreams, and you’ll awake with a head full of interesting images to flesh out.;
, Write out everything that stuck with you about the dream. No detail is too small. Don’t just document the basic physical events that took place in the dream. Think about where you were, what you were doing, who you were with, what time of day it was, etc. Even images that seem unimportant can be meaningful if you examine them in the right way.It may be helpful to draw out the situational details of your dreams using the questions commonly asked by investigative journalists: who, what, where, when, why and how., Invent a title to sum up the experience of the dream, or scribble a brief summary beneath your description of the dream’s events. Again, this should not just contain the most obvious features of the dream, but the emotional impact it had on you. A good title, something like “Failing a Difficult Test,” will remind you exactly what your dream was about while also capturing its tone. Your written description might read “sad dream about eating Jello in prison,” or “swore off civilization to live with the Inuits, very liberating!” Reliving how the action of the dream made you feel is the most important aspect of dream analysis.Writing a short synopsis of the dream allows you to categorize your dreams into different types, and to quickly reconnect with the emotional state you experienced during the dream.
 After you’ve been writing in your dream journal for a few weeks or months, go back and reread your entries. You may be surprised at the number of times you’ve had the same dream, or a slightly different dream with common elements. Likewise, your dreams may begin to take different forms as the circumstances of your life unfold. Dreams are an abstract reflection of how we react to our subjective realities.If you have the same dream over and over, think about what’s going on in the dream. If your dreams are different each night, or variations of past dreams, make a note of what’s changed.
For example, dreams where you're being chased are usually thought to mean that you're running from a unresolved issues in your life. You may discover that dreams like this stop once you've confronted the problem.
 Once you record what happened in the dream, stop and think about your role in it. In particular, try to remember how you felt about what was going on around you. One function of dreams is to serve as a safe environment for our subconscious minds to work through lingering emotional puzzles, so isolating your emotional state is critical to finding the meaning of a dream.The memory of a dream will be strongest when you first wake up. This is when you should write down and begin picking apart your dreams.Sometimes, your feelings may be the only part of a dream that makes sense. They are the key to understanding bizarre images.
 Take note of images, characters, events or circumstances that appear frequently in your dreams. Give some thought to the part they play in the dream in relation to your own, and acknowledge how they made you feel. Common themes can act like coded messages, with unique significance. Learning to recognize them can give you a place to start unraveling the dream.Some of the most common dreams involve losing your teeth and showing up to school or the workplace naked. Experts claim these dreams revolve around a lack of confidence and concern about the way people see you.View each object and symbol subjectively, not by how it’s perceived. For instance, a dream that involves wandering in the woods at night might be scary for most people, but may be peaceful and calming for you. Let your intuition guide you., If you’ve had the same dream multiple times, it may take on a certain urgency with you. It is believed that the purpose of recurring dreams is to point out something to us about our own minds that we have been missing. Having dreams where you're falling, for instance, may mean that you're worried about something in your life that you feel you have no control over.If you've had the same or a very similar dream more than once, it can be considered recurring.
Recurring dreams should take precedence for exploration and analysis, as working them out can often help you reach a new level of understanding and acceptance about a situation in your life.
 Isolate the elements of your dreams that are taken from everyday life and consider their meaning. Determine your emotional attitude toward them. Fixtures from waking life often appear in dreams to fulfill the behaviors that we secretly associate them with. A melancholy dream where you’re together with your parents, for example, may be upsetting because it acts as a reminder of one parent’s absence. Be honest with yourself about the way you feel toward the symbols that populate your dreams. It can help you uncover issues that you may have not even known existed.Dreams are often just imaginative conglomerates of the experiences we’ve had on a given day. If you’ve been feeling anxious, stressed or uncertain about something going on in your life, however, it may be worth looking deeper into dream imagery.
 As has been mentioned, your emotional state during a dream is key to making sense of it. This should be the aspect of the dream that you pay the most attention to. If a dream makes you worried or anxious, think about whether those feelings stem from a certain character, object or event in the dream. Why do they make you feel that way? Have you recently been confronted with that person or scenario in day-to-day life? Treat pleasant dreams the same way. Flying, luxuriating in paradise or having control over your environment are common dreams that can clue you in to what you most desire, or some joy that’s missing from your life.Dreams serve as arenas for us to enact our unresolved and unfulfilled emotions. Even seemingly nonsensical dreams will leave you feeling a certain way, and these feelings are like maps of your mental state., Describing your dream to another person might give you some insight into its underlying message. It can also be helpful to hear yourself recount the details of the dream out loud, leading you to stumble upon previously unseen revelations. The person you share your dream with might have had a similar dream in the past, and may be able to share their views on what it could mean.Encourage the other person to ask questions about your dream. They may be things that it didn’t occur to you to ask yourself. Between the two of you, you can dig a little deeper and coax out the core ideas of an elusive dream.
 Instead of only looking at the features of a given dream and trying to figure out their meaning, take the opposite approach—reflect on recent events in your life and work backwards to discover how they might have found their way into your dreams. This type of reverse construction can be especially helpful if you’re totally stumped about what’s been causing a certain dream.The images that appear in dreams are often taken from personal life and converted into symbols. That means they can potentially be understood from either perspective.Try to relate troublesome dreams to daily stressors that have been affecting you. Sex dreams frequently occur when you have unsatisfied desires of intimacy, while dreams about money might represent anxiety about being successful., Despite what dream guide texts and spiritualists may claim, there is no definitive system for interpreting dreams. Because your feelings and experiences differ from everyone else’s, you are the only one who can accurately conclude what your dreams mean. Make an effort to approach your dreams with honesty. Feel how they resonate with you and stick in your mind. With practice, you will get better at untying the knots that bind reality to the realm of your dreams.Be skeptical of reports insisting that dream symbols have concrete meanings. Just as no two people look at things in exactly the same way, their dreams also won’t have the same subjective significance.

