 Do so without making any tears in the packaging, taking a little extra care to open the packaging at its glued spots. Try to keep one end of the packaging firmly secured by the original glue.;
, Glue the side of the bag back together. If both ends of the packaging were opened, glue one back in place, using the folds originally made by the manufacturer (hopefully, this won't need to be done).
 Secure each side of this end with glue, tape or staples.
 Measure out and cut the ribbon pieces to exactly the same length for both sides of the bag.
 Punch four holes on the top of the bag, two on each side, using a hole puncher. Be sure to align them exactly opposite each other, in a position that will allow for tying the handles in place.
 Insert a piece of ribbon or any other material that can go through the hole in one hole. Tie a firm knot on the inside of the bag to secure it. Repeat for the other hole on the same side, ensuring that there is plenty of handle for holding, then knot on the inside to secure as well.
, The bag can be covered with decoupage from magazine cut-outs, copy paper with a design you've hand drawn on, or any other easy-to-find (and preferably scrap) pieces of paper. Glue in place.


If adding a design, draw this on before gluing in place, as it's easier that way.
 If so, you can undo the whole copy paper packaging and reverse the above process to only show the white insides as the outer part of the bag. This requires finessing the folds, however, as you'll need to reverse fold the base of the bag following the lines already made by the manufacturer. When folding these in the reverse way, do so firmly and cleanly, to ensure that they stay in the new direction you're folding them in. Be sure to glue and tape the base in place firmly, so that the contents won't fall out.


Once done, this can be decorated by gluing on pretty things such as artificial flowers, sticker rhinestones (form a name or word), stickers, pompoms, scrap fabric, and any other craft or decorative items you'd think would work well.

