 The syllabus contains all of the important information for the course, including your professor's policy on late papers. If you professor accepts late work, it is possible that you could actually be better off handing in your paper a day or two late. For example, a 5% or 10% deduction on your grade might actually be better than the grade you could earn from handing in a hastily written or poorly researched paper., If you determine that it would be better to accept a late penalty, your next step is to reach out to your instructor. Send a polite, professional e-mail to your professor. Explain your circumstances, and be honest.


Make your request as clear as possible. Try saying something such as: "Dear Professor Smith, My name is Bill Brown and I am a student in your Psych 101 class, which meets on Tuesdays at 1:00 p.m. I am writing to you about the paper due September 30 at 5:00 p.m. As I am looking over the assignment, I realize that I have not allowed myself enough time to properly complete the paper. It is important to me that I perform well in your class. I am requesting an extension of the due date. May I please turn in my paper on October 3 by 1:00? Thank you for your consideration."

, Do not try to make up an excuse when asking for a deadline. Your professor is likely very intelligent, and she is also a human being capable of understanding problems. She will probably see through an excuse, but if you're honest, that will work in your favor. She will appreciate that you are being proactive and truthful.Nearly all schools, colleges, and universities count lying to a professor as a type of academic dishonesty, which can come with hefty penalties or might even get you expelled. Do not lie to your teacher.
 When your professor responds to your e-mail, make sure to thank them for their reply--even if it wasn't what you want to hear. If your request for an extension was granted, make sure to note that when you turn in the paper.


Include a brief note reminding the professor that she granted you an extension, so that she is not wondering why she has a stray paper stuck underneath her office door.

