 If people try to get a hold of you on the phone and get the full inbox treatment, they'll think you're so busy you're totally swamped with things to do. Here's the secret: just don't listen to any of them.
 If you're good-natured, hapless, and lazy, people will think it's just part of your personality. If you're a jerk and try to get away with doing nothing all the time, people will think you're a super-jerk.


If somebody catches you doing nothing, or gets on your case about it, just admit that you're confused: "I wasn't sure about that. You're right, you're right. Thanks for getting me on track!"

, The less personal responsibility required of you, the less you'll have to do. It's hard to get away with doing nothing if you got to pick up kids from soccer practice, walk a dog, or go on lots of dates. If you want to do nothing in the long-term, keep your life and simple and streamlined as possible.


Be a minimalist. Keep your relationships few and far between and your belongings cut to the absolute bare essentials.
 When you let other people do things for you, that's less you have to do for yourself. If you let your studious and friendly neighbor know that you don't have a lawnmower because you can't afford one, watch how fast your grass gets mowed. Even if the real problem is laziness, coax out charity from others to get away with doing less.
 Anytime you "have to" do something, it's less satisfactory than doing something you want to do. While some people think fulfilling your responsibilities is a rewarding and wholesome way of living life, it's also meh. If you want to do nothing, stay focused on having fun and idling, not ladder-climbing social responsibilities.


Often, we define doing something and nothing in terms of whether or not we deem it "useful." Your happiness? Yeah, that's useful. That means taking some time, every now and then, to do nothing., Great way to do nothing? Sleep. It'll cut into your opportunity to be productive throughout the day, and it'll be the most comfortable and restorative way of doing nothing in the long term.

