 Think of people you know who are self-confident. These people can be models for you to emulate on acting confident. You might choose a parent, teacher, or even a celebrity. Observe this person’s actions, speech and body language. Imitate these behaviors until they become your own., Being friendly to others and smiling makes you appear confident. It makes people believe that you’re a nice and happy person who enjoys being around other people. In turn, they will want to be around you.


Participating in a variety of different activities will give you the opportunity to be friendly and display your confidence.
Introduce yourself by name to other people. This will give them the impression that you respect yourself and you are worth listening to when you speak., Confident people don’t over-talk, chatter, or say too much. They speak appropriately and listen to other people, engaging in conversation in socially appropriate ways.For example, don’t constantly talk about yourself. When you constantly talk about your achievements, people start to think that you’re looking for approval and acceptance. A confident person doesn’t try to seek much external approval. Instead try asking other people about their achievements and lives! Accept compliments graciously. When people give you positive feedback, thank them and accept the compliment. Confident people know that they are worthy of compliments and respect. Don’t self-deprecate by saying you’re not good at something, or acting as though your success was just lucky.
 Confident people usually don’t appear anxious or nervous. Making small adjustments to your body language can convey confidence, despite what you might be feeling inside.Stand up with your back and shoulders straight.
Make eye contact when you’re talking with someone.
Don’t fidget.
Relax tension in your muscles.
 When you meet someone new, make eye contact and give a firm handshake. This will convey that you are confident and interested., Use a clear, confident voice when you speak. When your voice is timid or wobbly, you are not conveying as much confidence.If you rush through your words, you are conveying that you might not expect people to listen to you.


Try to eliminate words like “um” and “uh” from your vocabulary.
 People often make snap judgments based on a person’s appearance. Sometimes, acting confidently means that you need to dress the part. If you're wearing clothes that look like you've just got out of bed, the average person may not take you seriously. On the other hand, if you look like you're ready to get things done, people will assume you are confident and will likely be more respectful.


Making an effort to be serious about your appearance will make it look like you're more serious about your demands.
 Don’t let others speak for you, because they can easily take advantage of you this way. If you speak up for yourself and show people that you’re not going to stand to be treated with disrespect, they will see your confidence and show you the respect that you deserve.


For example, if you are trying to speak and someone interrupts, say, “Excuse me, I’d like to finish my thought.”

, People tend to treat you as well as you treat yourself. If you’re always self-deprecating, other people will begin to treat you that way. By having self-respect, you can demonstrate that you will not settle for anything less from others.


For example, don’t talk to other people about how much you hate your hair. Find something about your appearance that you’re pleased with and focus on that. Or, get a new haircut and turn a negative self-image into a positive one.
 If you are having trouble acting confident in one situation, imagine that you are in a different situation where you are confident. For example, you don’t have trouble speaking with other people at school. But you clam up when talking at parties. When you are at a party, imagine that you are just talking with someone in your classroom.


Challenge the negative thoughts you are having in the party situation by reassuring yourself that you have social skills and that you can talk easily in other situations.
 Confident people not only view themselves in a positive way; they also recognize positive attributes in other people. If your coworker did a great job or won an achievement award, congratulate that person with a smile. Give people compliments on little and big things. This can help you appear confident to other people.
 Initiate your body’s calming response by quelling your fight or flight response.Even if you don’t feel more confident for the moment, breathing deeply can calm your body.


For example, if you feel nervous about a job interview, activate your body’s calming response by taking ten deep breaths, breathing in for a count of four, holding for a count of four, then exhaling for a count of four. Your body will become more relaxed, which will help you appear more confident to others.
 Some people may suggest that in order to become popular you have to be mean to others. However, this is far from the case. Confidence never includes talking bad about others.

