 Only with this you will be able to enroll yourself in a Pharmacy Technician Training Program. .;
, It’s preferred that you take the course in Michigan so when applying for the license, the process can be less complicated. Pharmacy Technician Training Courses are offered at many different training schools and community colleges such as Baker College and Macomb Community College. The pharmacy technician training program varies in length from a month to several months, depending on the schedule. In this program, you will learn about basic pharmacology, pharmacy mathematics, and different information regarding retail and hospital pharmacies. After you pass the final exam for the course, you may now begin the internship.
 Some pharmacies may require you to take additional training before you begin your internship. This internship gives you hands-on experience in the pharmacy and provides you exposure to the pharmacy environment.
 The exam is administered by the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PCTB). 

To sign up for the exam, go to PCTB.org.
Find the tab, “Get Certified”, and click the link “Apply”.
From here, the page will explain how to become certified and how to register for the exam. The exam price is about $129.
 The exam covers a variety of topics such as pharmacology, sterile and non-sterile compounding, and pharmacy law. In order to have a good grasp of these topics, it’s best that you begin studying for the exam early so that the information will be retained. Studying a week before the exam is not recommended because there is a lot of material contained on the exam.
 Make sure to head to the testing area on time and with valid identification. Before the exam, the administrator of the exam will take your fingerprint. Then you will be escorted to a computer to take the exam. The exam is administered on a computer and you are given one hour and fifty minutes for the entire exam. Ten minutes are given to complete the tutorial and the post exam survey. The exam consists of ninety questions. The highest score you can achieve on the Pharmacy Technician Board Exam is 1600. Receiving a score of 1400 or above in considered as passing. You will be notified of your score right after you complete the exam. If you pass, you have become a Certified Pharmacy Technician recognized by the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board. PCTB will send your certificate in the mail.
 To receive a license that qualifies you to be able to work as a certified pharmacy technician you must apply for one on the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA) website. Here’s how to do it


Go to the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs website,http://www.michigan.gov/lara

Locate and click the tab called, “Professional Licensing”
Click the link, “Health Professional Licensing”
Click the link, “Pharmacy”
Scroll down and find the link to the PDF of the pharmacy technician licensure application
Print the application and fill out the information required
Mail the application and the payment for the license to the given address.
 Since the department is receiving many applications, the process may take about four to twelve weeks. To check the status of the application, you may check the department’s website. Processing the application and updating it into the department’s database will take about four weeks. Here are steps which need to be taken during the licensing process.


After the application is processed into the database, the department will send you a notice to have you complete a fingerprinting process, allowing the state to perform a background check.
After completing the fingerprinting process, the department should take about 4-8 weeks reviewing your application. After the process is complete, the department will send you your official license and the status of your application on the website will say “Complete”.
If it has been more that 4-8 weeks and your application process hasn’t been completed or if you have any other questions, call the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs at (517) 373-8068.
