 A mathematical proof is a series of logical statements supported by theorems and definitions that prove the truth of another mathematical statement.Proofs are the only way to know that a statement is mathematically valid.


Being able to write a mathematical proof indicates a fundamental understanding of the problem itself and all of the concepts used in the problem.
Proofs also force you to look at mathematics in a new and exciting way. Just by trying to prove something you gain knowledge and understanding even if your proof ultimately doesn’t work.
 Before writing a proof, you need to think about the audience that you’re writing for and what information they already know. If you are writing a proof for publication, you will write it differently than writing a proof for your high school math class.Knowing your audience allows you to write the proof in a way that they will understand given the amount of background knowledge that they have.
 There are a few different types of proofs and the one you choose depends on your audience and the assignment. If you’re unsure which version to use, ask your teacher for guidance. In high school, you may not be expected to write a formal proof.A two-column proof is a setup that puts givens and statements in one column and the supporting evidence next to it in a second column. They are very commonly used in geometry.
A formal proof uses grammatically correct statements and no symbols. At higher levels, you should always use a formal proof.
 You can use a two-column proof to as an outline of your formal proof before you write it. The two-column proof is an easy way to organize your thoughts and think through the problem. Draw a line down the middle of the page and write all givens and statements on the left side. Write the corresponding definitions/theorems on the right side, next to the givens they support.


For example:Angle A and angle B form a linear pair. Given.
Angle ABC is straight. Definition of a straight angle.
Angle ABC measures 180°. Definition of a line.
Angle A + Angle B = Angle ABC. Angle addition postulate.
Angle A + Angle B = 180°. Substitution.
Angle A supplementary to Angle B. Definition of supplementary angles.
Q.E.D.
 Using the two-column proof as a foundation, write the formal paragraph form of your proof without too many symbols and abbreviations.


For example: Let angle A and angle B be linear pairs. By hypothesis, angle A and angle B are supplementary. Angle A and angle B form a straight line because they are linear pairs. A straight line is defined as having an angle measure of 180°. Given the angle addition postulate, angles A and B sum together to form line ABC. Through substitution, angles A and B sum together to 180°, therefore they are supplementary angles. Q.E.D.

