 Plan a sit-down conversation with one or both of your parents. Schedule a time when they are not busy trying to make dinner or heading out the door for work. Make time to talk seriously and openly with your parents about what’s getting you into trouble.


Turn off the TV and your phone so that you can give the conversation your full attention.;
, Knowing what you want to say will help you figure out what is the most important parts to focus on. A plan can also help you say the hard parts that you might be nervous about.A plan will also help you figure out what end result you’re looking for. Do you want to be grounded for less time? Do you want to get a phone? Do you want to attend a concert with your friends? Figure out what it is you want, but be realistic. If you’re already in trouble, don’t expect that your parents will suddenly change their mind after a calm conversation with you., Apologize for whatever got you into trouble. Your parents will appreciate that you acknowledge your wrongdoing. Saying sorry can go a long way.


Even if you don’t think you did something wrong, try to understand the problem from your parents’ point of view. How do they view your actions?

, It’s a good rule of thumb throughout life to tell the truth. Your parents know you well and they are pretty good at detecting lies. If you start by lying, you can get caught in your lies if they don’t match up. Even if the truth is difficult to say, your parents will value your honesty and maturity.
 Keeping your temper in check will help your cause, because you will demonstrate that you can have a mature, calm discussion without automatically getting defensive or saying something rude., You may not get completely out of trouble by having a conversation with your parents, but you can make conditions better for yourself. Give a little and your parents will probably give a little too.


This conversation may also lay the groundwork for keeping yourself out of trouble in the future.
 Talk with your parents in a respectful tone without sarcasm or anger. Listen to what they have to say, even if you disagree with it. You’d like to have the same courtesy, so listen respectfully when they are talking.Understand that your parents are people too and that they might be stressed out too. Have a positive attitude and recognize that this phase won’t last forever.
 Your siblings, especially older ones, might be good ambassadors for you when talking with your parents. They understand your parents and know where you’re coming from. They might be able to convince your parents to ease up on you or to see things from your perspective.


You will probably need to do something really nice for your sibling if they talk with your parents for you. Make or buy a small gift for them or volunteer to do some of their chores for them.
Alternately, ask a trusted adult to talk with your parents. If you don’t have a good relationship with your parents, it can be helpful to start a dialogue with another trusted adult first. This person might be an aunt or uncle, grandparent, teacher or coach.

