 Leptospirosis can cause such digestive signs as vomiting, diarrhea and a loss of appetite. These issues occur on a spectrum — some dogs will have mild symptoms while others will experience such serious hemorrhagic diarrhea and vomiting (bloody diarrhea and vomiting) that they collapse and can die within 24 hours.If your dog is not eating much anymore, he will start losing weight.Vomiting and diarrhea could cause rapid dehydration in your dog.To test for dehydration, create a tent of your dog’s skin by gently pinching with your thumb and index finger. Let go of the skin tent—if it stays up for more than a few seconds, then he is dehydrated. This should not be dismissed as a minor concern, especially if your dog is not interested in eating or drinking.
The vomit and diarrhea may contain blood, due to bleeding problems associated with leptospirosis.;
, Fever is a common symptom of leptospirosis. One way to quickly assess if your dog has a fever is to check her nose — if it's wet and cold, she's probably fine; if it's hot and dry, she may have a fever.To be sure, you may need to take her temperature rectally. A dog's normal temperature range is 99.5 — 102.5°F (37.5 — 39.2°C).


To take your dog's temperature, lubricate a rectal thermometer with Vaseline or baby oil. Insert it about an inch into your dog's anus and remove it a soon as you have a reading (usually after about one minute)., If your dog’s kidneys are infected with Leptospira, he may become very thirsty, causing him to drink more water and start to urinate more.Even if he urinates more frequently, he may urinate only in small amounts.His urine may be dark, indicating urinary tract problems., Since liver disease occurs commonly with leptospirosis, your dog may show signs of liver disease. With liver disease, your dog’s gums and the whites of her eyes would turn yellow due to a condition called jaundice., If Leptospira has invaded your dog’s respiratory system, he may have trouble breathing and start breathing more quickly. He may also start coughing spontaneously or have a runny nose., If your dog has leptospirosis, she may develop very stiff muscles and legs and be unwilling to move around. She may also develop muscle weakness.Your dog’s muscles may start trembling., Leptospirosis can make a dog very sick within just a few days of infection.Take your dog to your vet as soon as you notice signs of the disease. In addition to a physical exam, your vet will test samples of your dog’s blood and urine to confirm the disease. For example, your vet will measure the level of antibodies in the blood. Your vet will also analyze the blood and urine to identify the specific type of Leptospira causing the disease.Antibodies are substances produced by the immune system to fight infection.
Several species of Leptospira can cause canine leptospirosis.Your vet may want to take x-rays or perform an ultrasound to look for signs of kidney or liver disease, such as an enlarged liver; however, these signs are not specific to leptospirosis and wouldn’t confirm the disease., Your dog’s chances of recovery are much better if you start treating him early and aggressively.The earlier you begin treating him, the better the chances of preventing permanent liver and kidney damage. Leptospirosis treatment consists of general supportive care (e.g., rehydration, controlling vomiting, treatment of liver and kidney disease) and antibiotics.Pain control is another aspect of general supportive care.Because of the vomiting, the lining of your dog’s stomach may be irritated. Your vet may prescribe a medication, called a protectant, that would coat and protect the stomach lining.Treatment usually takes place in two phases. The first phase is short term and treats the initial signs of leptospirosis. Second-phase treatment kills any residual bacteria that would cause a long-term infection.Your vet will explain all of the treatments your dog will need. Realize that treatment for leptospirosis can be expensive., If your dog has severe leptospirosis that has progressed quickly, your vet will want to hospitalize her for aggressive treatment. In-hospital treatments include fluid therapy and antiemetics (medications to prevent vomiting). If your dog has lost a lot of blood, your vet would need to do a blood transfusion.Your vet would also start your dog on antibiotics, even if the blood and urine results are not ready.A reasonable suspicion of leptospirosis is often enough to begin antibiotic treatment.
If your dog needs to be hospitalized, your vet may be concerned about her chances for recovery. With severe leptospirosis, even the most aggressive treatment may not be enough overcome serious organ damage., If hospitalization is not necessary, then you will care for your dog at home. He will likely need several medications, so make sure you understand how to administer each one. It is particularly important to give the antibiotics as directed.Many dogs with leptospirosis respond quickly to antibiotic treatment.Even if your dog gets better soon after you start him on antibiotics, continue the full treatment course.
If you stop the antibiotic treatment early, or miss a dose, a portion of bacteria may remain in your dog’s system and make him sick again.
 While being treated for leptospirosis, your dog should not be very physically active.If your dog is crate trained, consider keeping her in her crate more often. If she is not crate trained, keep a close eye on her to make sure she doesn’t engage in any rough or active play.


Your dog may not feel up to being very active anyway, so cage rest probably won’t be a problem for her.
 Leptospirosis spreads between animals and can infect humans. If you have children or other pets, keep your infected dog away from them to prevent the spread of disease.If possible, keep your dog in another room until he has completed treatment.


Set up a separate area for your dog to eliminate. If you have a backyard, you may want to create a gated off area in the yard where he could eliminate; this area should not be accessible to your other pets.If you have a little dog, you could have him use pee pads in his isolated area indoors.
 Whenever you pet your dog, or touch her for any reason, wash your hands afterwards.You should also wash your hands after handling her food and water bowls.
 Gloves will be very effective in preventing disease transmission from your dog to you. If he vomits or has an accident in the house, put on your gloves to clean up the area.If he's using pee pads, pick up the pee pads with gloves on.


Throw the gloves away after use, being careful not to touch the outside of either glove with your bare hands. Wash your hands thoroughly after throwing away the gloves.
 When you have finished removing the fluids or waste, you will need to disinfect the area. Make a bleach solution that is one part bleach to nine parts water.Putting the solution in a large spray bottle would be helpful.


Follow the instructions on the bleach container to disinfect properly.
Wash your dog’s bedding with bleach, since it will likely be contaminated.Clean and disinfect your dog’s food and water bowls.
 Since leptospirosis can spread from your dog to you or your children, consider getting everyone in the household tested for the disease. Even if no one is sick, one of you could have been infected.If your doctor detects the disease, she will prescribe the appropriate treatment.

