 There are a lot of different signs and ideas behind spirits, and determining if your home possesses one is often the hardest thing to do, as the signs can be confusing and conflicting. What is important to remember is that very, very few houses are every possessed, and even fewer are visited by "evil" spirits, contrary to what Hollywood seems to think. Look out for:


Moving or disappearing and reappearing possessions, especially similar objects or the same object.
Electronics turning on and off on their own.
Unknown footsteps, doors/windows opening and closing, strange noises or voices.
A feeling like you are not alone ever, often combined with chills and sudden fear or panic.
Specific or recurring nightmares, especially those that seem to direct you to do something.
Extremely hot or cold spaces in the house, often confined to small areas.;
, This is the only way to keep your peace of mind if things get a little strange. Be scientific here, systematically examining or exploring where unknown noises or lights show up. No matter what you believe, a large dose of skepticism is healthy here. The need for exorcisms is rare -- and there are almost always common explanations for most "unexplainable" phenomenon.


Houses, no matter how old, all "settle" over time. The pieces shift and groan, boards move, and pipes whistle and bang. Older houses do this constantly, and this is the source of most noises.
Strange odors and smells commonly come from leaks or trapped moisture somewhere, especially after rains or floods.
Open windows, cleaning, and plain bad communication are the cause of most missing objects, not spirits.
 No one wants to be told "it is all in their head," but that's why you simply must be honest with yourself when determining if it is a spirit or not. If you're already stressed out, not sleeping well, having trouble eating, or feeling generally under the weather, you are more likely to see and feel things out of the ordinary. Don't let the worry of a spirit ruin your mental and physical health -- keep taking care of yourself and spend some time relaxing. If the spirits fade away, they were likely the result of an overworked, overtired brain and body.
 What happens if you push the spirit out of your mind, since we frequently only see "signs" of ghosts and demons when we're looking for them? Remind yourself how rare these spirits really are and that anything you're worried about is likely a common occurrence or noise. Try to let the idea of a spirit ease off your mind. If things still happen or occur more rapidly, you might have an issue to investigate. More often than not, however, the "spirits" will disappear as soon as you stop thinking about them.


If there are spirits, they generally need and feed off of your attention, looking to make themselves known. Ignoring them generally keeps them in check if they are actually present., If you are under a lot of emotional and psychological stress because of a perceived spirit, open up to your spiritual leaders and ask their opinion and advice. You may want to consider inviting a psychic/medium to your home to "have a look" and determine if you need extra help. Oftentimes all the house needs is a quick energy clearing with a smudging stick or some incense.

