 Like all illnesses and injuries, the most important thing you can do for your body is to rest. In this case, be sure you’re getting all the sleep you need as well as resting your arm by avoiding repetitive movements that might strain the tendon even more., Wrap an ice pack in a thin towel and apply to the affected area for fifteen minutes three to four times a day.
 Tennis elbow braces help to protect the damaged tendon during the healing process. However, be sure to wear it just below the painful area of the arm, not directly over it., These are special stretches that help to encourage healing. However, do not do any of these exercises if you still experience a lot of pain, as you could worsen the situation.


Perform a wrist extensor stretch. To do this, elongate your affected arm so that it is perpendicular to your torso, and make your hand into a fist. Take your opposite hand and grab the top of the fist and push it down, so that your arm is still extended but your wrist is now facing the ground. Hold this for twenty seconds and release, and repeat up to five times.Perform a wrist flexor stretch. To do this, elongate your affected arm so that it is perpendicular to your torso, with the forearm facing up. Turn your hand back, so that your fingers are facing the ground. Take your opposite hand and grab your fingers, pushing back towards your body until you feel a mild stretch in your forearm. Hold for about twenty seconds, and repeat up to four times., For this exercise you will need a “stress” or tennis ball. This exercise targets the forearm flexors and small muscles in your forearm and hand. It will drastic help improve your grip strength which will once again allow you to carry and hold items with confidence once again. Sit in a chair and grip the ball in the hand of your affected arm. Squeeze the ball and keep it squeezed for 3 seconds, then release. Work your way up to holding the squeeze for as long as you can. Do this exercise for 10 squeezes, twice every other day.

