 As your dog ages, the more likely it becomes that it will develop heart disease or other maladies. If you can get an early diagnosis, your pet has a better chance of minimizing the negative effects of heart disease and other undesirable medical conditions.You should already have a vet for your older dog. If you do not, check the American Animal Hospital Association’s database at https://www.aaha.org/pet_owner/about_aaha/hospital_search/default.aspx for a vet near you.
Heart disease in dogs often has no observable symptoms, so it is important to get your dog checked out regularly.
 Heart valves are often damaged by infections which start in the mouth. Buy a doggie toothbrush and toothpaste at your local pet store. Brushing your dog’s teeth is not unlike brushing your own teeth. Simply apply a dab of toothpaste to the brush and scrub gently across the surface of the tooth using circular motions.Do not use human toothpaste.
Follow manufacturer directions when using doggie toothpaste.
 There are several medications available to help your older dog manage its heart disease. Your vet will be able to determine which medication your dog would best respond to.Furosemide (available commercially as Lasix) is one of the most common treatment options. This medication causes excess bodily fluid that gets stored in the lungs due to heart failure to excrete as urine.
Enalapril and benazepril are also commonly used. These medications allow the heart to pump blood more effectively.
Do not administer human medication to your older dog., If you were fortunate enough to catch your dog’s heart disease in its early stages, you might be able to give your dog a high quality of life right up to its final days. But if your dog’s heart disease went untreated until it manifested serious symptoms like heart failure or heart attack, you should think about what kind of life your dog will have afterward.For dogs that seem to be in a lot of pain or discomfort, have difficulty breathing, or demonstrate near-constant anxiety, the most merciful thing might be to choose euthanization. Euthanization is a process in which the dog receives an injection that ends its life.
In other cases, even dogs that have survived heart attacks can live healthy lives but will need extra care and medication.
Consider your options and weigh the decision carefully in consultation with your vet.

