 You will get attention. You essentially agreed to this being OK by paying $1600 for the privilege.;
, If the B-list celebrity status bothers you for some reason, don't wear Glass in public.
 This can either be because they think you have a medical condition or they're way too nervous to approach you and ask you about it.
They'll try to discreetly whisper to their friend that you're wearing Google Glass. The friend will likely not know what the heck they're talking about and then begin to point to the side of their temple as they attempt to explain what this Star Trek gadget does. You continue to pretend like you don't notice them talking about you.
If they're more of the social type, they'll come right up to you and ask "What's up with your glasses?" or "What are you wearing on your face?"
Then there are times when people know exactly what Glass is and proceed to react as if they've literally seen all of their favorite celebrities at once (or play it off with a hipster-like "Ya, I've seen those before. Cool, man.").
Finally, there are those that ask you stop recording them.
 Most situations just call for being friendly and smiling! (Not that you shouldn't always be doing this).


Approach the curious party, tell them "I'm wearing Google Glass. It's a way for me to see important information like emails, tweets, sports scores, and news headlines without having to pull out my phone. I can also have Scotty beam me up to the Enterprise."

, Enable Guest mode and show them that Glass doesn't just record videos. If they need some help using Glass, use the MyGlass app on your phone to help them - it now has the ability to remotely control Glass.


Use common judgement when allowing people to try it on.
 For those that treat you like teenage girls react to Justin Bieber.....well these encounters are plain fun. Just try not to roll your eyes when they ask "Does it actually work?" Answer any of their questions, let them try on Glass, but don't let them kidnap you. If you have the time, a solid 5, maybe 10 minutes is a fair amount of time to demo Glass for them.
 Kindly reply that you are not recording them. Show them that if you were recording them, the screen would be on and clearly visible. Open the MyGlass app and show them what you're seeing. Ask if they would like to try Glass on for themselves, and mention how Glass is mainly intended to be a heads up display for important notifications, not a life-streaming video camera. The battery would only last 30 minutes anyway, if you did nothing but record video.
 If the person insists that you stop recording them, no matter what you say, kindly oblige and make use of that fancy cloth case that Google provided to you. No use in getting into some argument over something trivial like this. Besides, they'll see the light in a year or so from now!

, You are an ambassador of the future, sent forth by Google to show people that they no longer have to glare down at their phones to tweet or Instagram their lunch!

