 You have to plan what songs you are going to put in the demo. Will you create completely new songs? Put together old songs? A little bit of both? You also have to lay out your bio. What will you say? How long will it be?


Make sure to keep the bio short and sweet. Just a brief background of you (where you're from, your age, and what kind of music you perform). You also have to decide if it will be basement recorded or if you are going to pay the money on studio time.;
, Good subjects to have are your age, where you're from, what kind of music you create and how long you have been rapping/singing. Make sure you include your contact information. You can include your phone number just in case but most labels won't have the enthusiasm to call you (unless of course they really like your music). It should be typed out, as it looks more professional than writing that isn't legible.
 This is the most important part in the demo. Whether you record it all new or choose songs from the past, you have to pick songs that have a hard hitting beginning because it is unlikely the listener will keep the same song playing for more than one minute before he hits the 'next' button. You don't want songs that build up to a climax (those songs can be great for albums but not for a demo) you also need your best producer (it doesn't matter if you hate the guy, as long as you can work together and he makes dope beats ask him... If he wants money on the other hand, he better be more than dope) because a good beat ties everything together like a well oiled machine. Just because you want hard hitting beginnings that doesn't mean you must have all club records with a big bass and synthesizers. You can have a hard hitting track with a piano and a drum loop if it's done correctly. Just use various types of music and make it original. 5 to 8 tracks on the demo is a good number because if the listener sees a demo with 20 tracks, they'll throw it in the trash; any more than 8 is too much.
 The listener doesn't want to hear 4 angry songs in a row then a sad song then 2 more angry songs. He wants to have a healthy balance so that's how you should arrange it.
