 On the left hand side of the page are two tabs. One has a bear head and the other has a yellow chair. The bear head tab lets you stop your furry friends walking around your Cub Condo and the other tab is the furniture tab. Here you can place, rotate, remove and move furniture.

Remember there are four 'sub-tabs' in the furniture tab as well: standing items (tables, chairs, beds), floor items (rugs and mats), wall items (pictures) and flags. On the left hand side of the page are two more tabs. One is a picture of a house and the other is a paint brush. If you click on the house tab you can go to all the different rooms in your Cub Condo. The paint brush tab has two 'sub-tabs': the wall and floor design tab and the colour tab. You can choose what style flooring and walls you want and choose the colour.



 

;
, The outside of your Cub Condo is the first place a visitor is going to see, so it's going to have to grab their attention! Having lots of plants outside is a good way to make it look good, or using bright, bold colours. You can also you different decorations outside depending on the season, for example, Christmas Lights or Easter Eggs. You can change the colour of your house by using the paint brush tab as well.
 The main room is usually the next room a visitor will want to look at. A good idea for this room is to use it as a lounge or living room. If you choose to make it into your lounge, you could buy two sofas, a coffee table and a television. The cheapest coffee table is sold in the Bear Stuff store for 25 Bearbills, which is perfect for those who want to do up their Cub Condo cheaply, or add a nice homely feel to their place. You can also add some extra items such as a rug, plant or picture. If you want a personal picture, you can go to the Pawforming Arts Centre and outside there is a photo booth where you can choose to take one of you, your furry friend, or both of you together!

, This is like a bedroom, but it could be turned into a playroom or party room if you want to! Most players usually use it as a bedroom, so you could start off with a bed, bedside table and alarm clock. There are also a range of bedroom furniture items in the Bear Stuff store including desks, chairs and wardrobes, but it's up to you to choose what you want to do with this room! All of your furry friends will have their own room, so you could choose a different theme for each one depending on their personality! You could even choose to share a bedroom with one of your furry friends and buy a bunk bed or two single beds!

, Some favourite rooms are: The Beachtime Party Room, Kitchen, Bedroom, Rooftop, Garden and Dining Room.
 If you have the Beachtime Room, you can buy a pool from LumBear Yard. You can also get balloons and even a Jukebox!

, If you don't have a dining room, you could also have a table for you and your furry friends to eat at!

, You can also get some cool stuff including a swing a slide to furnish the outside space!

