 You’d be amazed by how dirty your bathtub can get, for a place where you go to get clean! Since you’re taking a sitz bath to promote healing to injured tissue, you want to be extra sure that the environment is sterile.


Use a bleach-based cleaning product to sterilize the bathtub before drawing your sitz bath.
Scrub the tub thoroughly to make sure you’ve removed all the soaps and other bath products that have accumulated on the surface.
Rinse the tub thoroughly to remove both the soaps and the cleaning products.;
, It’s very important that the water you use in your sitz bath is warm, but not scalding hot. The temperature should not cause any discomfort that could cause irritation or inflammation. Warm water, though, will increase blood flow to the injured tissue, speeding up the body’s healing process in that area.Dip your finger into the water, or place a drop or two on the sensitive skin on your wrist to test the temperature.
 Make sure that the bathtub is plugged so the water doesn’t drain out, then run the water until there’s enough water in the tub to fully immerse the area that’s giving you trouble.
 You don’t need to add anything to the water, as the warm temperature alone will make you feel better. However, there are many things you can add to your bath to treat different problems. Ask your doctor for a recommendation on what to add to your bath.


Salt is a good general additive for any sitz bath, regardless of the reason. Bring the water up to a temperature warmer than you’re comfortable with, and add ¼ cup of salt to it. Mix thoroughly so the salt dissolves throughout the water, then let the water cool to a milder temperature.
If you have a vaginal infection, add 1/2 cup of table vinegar to the salt water solutionAn herbal solution is good for treating hemorrhoids, as well as damage from tissue trauma like giving birth.Mix 1/2 cup of Epsom salt, two tablespoons of baking soda, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of witch hazel, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of olive oil, 8 drops of lavender essential oil, and 8 drops of chamomile essential oil, with the water for your bath.
 Make sure that the problem area is completely covered in the warm bath, and soak in the bath for at least 15 to 30 minutes.


Run warm water as necessary to keep the temperature of the bath up.
 You must be very gentle with the damaged tissue after your sitz bath, so don’t rub yourself dry as you normally would. Use a clean, soft towel, pat and dab until the area has been dried.


Scrubbing or rubbing can cause irritation and further injury.

