 Do a quick search on the Internet, or look in a kids' directory (or something like that) to find some good things to sign your children up for. It's good for kids to have some social time for other kids, and it can also make them some new friends.;
, A pool party is a great way to get everyone cooled off, and have fun with friends, family, neighbors - whoever it may be!! Try putting on some upbeat music, and renting awesome features like a water slide, beach balls, and slip-n-slide. This will definitely keep your kids busy for long!


If you don't have a pool in your house, try going to a swimming center, or see if someone you know with a pool in their house, will let you have a pool party there. Or, you can look at the prices and try renting one yourself!







, During the summer, children often get bored due to heat advisories, sometimes scalding ones, and having your children solve them is the perfect way to get rid of their boredom!! It also helps improve their abilities at problem solving. Also, sometimes puzzles can be challenging; and challenges are fun!

, It's steaming hot during the summer, so it's the perfect time to get wet! Also, something that involves shooting from water guns or throwing water balloons will keep your kids entertained for some time!


Try organizing the fight somewhere other than just outside of your house, like a park. It's good to get out of the house sometimes!







, Try buying or checking out books, or getting them to read things other than books, such as magazines or a newspaper. Reading magazines and newspapers helps your children stay informed with what's going on in the world.


Get your children reading some nonfiction books. This is effective in helping them learn, because nonfiction books tend to be based on history, people's lives, etc.
 Try something like melted crayon art, making a box, or anything else you can think of! Crafts are a great way to keep your kids busy and entertained for hours!! Also, try getting your materials before the day you're going to do your craft project, as this makes things easier for you.
 Frozen treats are extremely refreshing during summer months as it's very hot. There are a variety of options, including ice cream, popsicles, smoothies and frozen yogurt.


Try having the children make the treats themselves to keep them busy -- and learn how to make something new!







