 Don't pretend to like them just to impress somebody. Going to games and watching them on television is fun, but only become a fan for yourself.;
, A true fan of the Pens supports them win or lose. There are so many true fans out there that hate fair-weather fans.
 Do you know the coach and the players? Don't just know the main players, but get to know the third and fourth string players, too. There's a lot more to know than just the main ones.
 Get to know and hate the main enemies of the Pens.


Ottawa Senators- a hated opponent due to numerous battles in the first round of the playoffs.






Philadelphia Flyers- the worst opponent due to geographical location.






Buffalo Sabres- another hated team due to geographical location and the 2008 Winter Classic.






Detroit Red Wings- a team hated for being so unbearably good and for beating the Pens in the Stanley Cup Finals in the 07-08 season.






Washington Capitals- hated due to Alexander Ovechkin and the draft lottery.
 Pittsburgh was one of the second group of teams in the NHL, admitted in 1967. There's a lot of history besides that. Do your own research.
 What kind of fan doesn't watch games? You don't have to go to the games to watch them. If you are in the Pen's market, watch games on F S N Pittsburgh. Go to local bars or listen on the radio. If you aren't in the market, buy a sports pack so you can watch them. Or, go to the Pen's website and listen to the game online.
 Go to the NHL shop and buy jerseys, shirts, and pants with the team logo. You can also buy clothes with your favorite players.
 There are posters, cards, coffee mugs, figurines, stickers, license plates, pencils, notebooks, postcards, cell phone covers, teddy bears, necklaces, mouse pads, and CD's relating to the Pens. Some people even get tattoos. What do you love? Get something with a logo.
 Does the waiter have a Pens sticker on his name tag? Discuss that crappy referee call last night.
 Now that you love hockey, get your friends into it, too!

