 Your electric blanket features a control cord that provides power through a wall plug. Whenever you want to clean the blanket, remove this cord from the blanket. Before removal, turn off the blanket and unplug it. The control cord should never be submerged in water.Before cleaning the blanket, check to make sure that all of the wire heating elements within the blanket are positioned as they should be, and that none of them have worn through the blanket’s fabric.
If the wire heating element has worn through the fabric in any location, or the connection point between the blanket and the control cord is damaged in any way, discontinue use of the blanket.
If you have an older electric blanket with a control cord that is not detachable, do not wash it in a washing machine. Instead, carefully hand wash the blanket, taking care not to submerge the control cord.;
, Your electric blanket will come with a user’s manual that includes specific washing instructions. These instructions may be included on a “product care” label attached to your blanket, a booklet in the blanket’s packaging, or on the packaging itself.Almost always, you’ll be directed to pre-soak the blanket, wash it briefly on a gentle cycle, and rinse. A brief spin cycle will also likely be recommended.
 Most manufacturers recommendations will direct you to soak the blanket for anywhere from five to fifteen minutes. In addition to the specific amount of time, they will also recommend different temperatures of water, ranging from cold to warm.If a specific temperature is not mentioned regarding temperature or duration of pre-soak, go with a cold water soak for fifteen minutes.
 Almost all modern electric blankets can be washed in your washing machine. Most manufacturers do not recommend a full wash cycle, however. In fact, most blankets only need a few minutes’ wash on your machine’s “delicate” or “gentle” cycle.Use only a small amount of a mild washing detergent. Do not use any other cleaning chemicals.
In particular, never bleach your electric blanket.
 Rinsing cycles can be even shorter. Just one minute of rinsing with cool or lukewarm water is the standard recommendation. Meanwhile, most blankets do benefit from a single standard spin cycle., Though it may surprise you, modern electric blankets are intended to be washed in a washing machine. If you have an old blanket that is not damaged in any way, however, you may want to wash it by hand. For instance, if your blanket’s power cord is not removable, it needs to be carefully washed by hand. The key is agitating the heating elements within the blanket as little as possible.To wash by hand, dunk the blanket (not including any electrical cords) into a tub with cold water and mild detergent and swish it around for a minute or two. Let it soak for fifteen minutes, squeeze soapy water out, and rinse in cool water before drying.

