 Gifts from out of the blue? Always appreciated. If there is something you know he has had his eye on, like a game or some sports gear, go out and buy it for him.


If you do not know of anything he specifically wants or if that item is out of your budget, surprise him with something affordable that you know he will still enjoy, like a book or DVD about something he's interested in.
If you're too young for big gifts or any of these other treats, slip a little note into his locker at school, or decorate his locker when he isn't around. Big surprise!
The less you treat your gift like a big deal, the more awesome it will seem. If you give it to him and say, "No big deal, just thought of you," he'll be blown away. Guaranteed.
 Sports events, concerts, beer festivals and other events in your area are all great guy-ideas. Buy the tickets and plan out the day ahead of time. Find out what other activities are nearby and make it a special day for you both.


If you're not super-into what he's super-into, it's still good to go together. Doing this shows that you're interested in him, even if you're not interested in watching pro wrestling. Go along and decide to have a good time anyway.
Alternatively, plan a boys-night for him. Buy him and his friend some concert or game tickets and send them off for the night. Then stay home and spend some quality solo time.
 A day of being treated like a king will be a welcome surprise for any guy. If you want to surprise your boyfriend, wait for his day off, then tell him that he gets to make all the decisions for the entire day. Let him be in charge.


Give him a day off from doing any chores, or planning anything yourself. Go out of your way to keep him relaxed. Let him plan things out. If he wants to go out, then go out. If he wants to stay in, then stay in.
 Lots of people say the way to a guy's heart is through his stomach. It's probably true for many people, though, guy or gal. Preparing his favorite dinner is a nice treat no matter how long the two of you have been going out.


If the relationship is new and you have never cooked for him before, inviting him over for a home-cooked meal will be a nice surprise, regardless of what you make. Then you can cook him breakfast in bed the next morning.
Plan a picnic lunch, or make reservations at his favorite restaurant. Eating in is nice, but every once in a while, going to a restaurant he really enjoys can demonstrate just as much consideration.
Go on a snack tour of his favorite food in town. Visit every local brewery to let him sample the local beers (you drive), or check out the fried pickles at every local barbecue place. Pick something you know he loves and hit up all the places. Plan out the routes.
Surprise him with lunch at work. Even if he is too busy to eat it with you, making the extra effort on your part will be a sweet surprise and an effective way to show him how much you think of him even when you are not physically together.
 Lots of guys are interested in things that may seem relatively small to you. Planning out something super-elaborate, like a scavenger hunt for relationship-mementos, could come off as corny to some guys. But things that seem kind of lame to you may get him feeling the big feelings. Try out the following for a little treat:


Borrow his car and put gas in it.
Ask to watch an action movie he loves.
Make him a huge sandwich while he's watching TV.
Clean up his place for him.

