 To start playing you will need:


A frisbee
Two empty glass bottles
Beverages of your choosing
Two poles approximately 4.5-5 ft tall, that are thick enough to hold a glass bottle on top. PVC pipes are a great choice for the poles.;
, On a flat field or yard, space the two poles around 50 ft from each other and hammer them into the ground with a mallet. Place a glass bottle on top of each one of the poles.
 Each team requires two players. Both players on the same team stand on either side of the same pole, while the other team stands on either side of the opposite pole. In addition, every player is required to have a beverage in their hand throughout the game.
 Players must stand behind the pole at all times. Teams alternate throwing the frisbee at their opponent’s pole with the goal of knocking off the bottle. The team whose pole is being thrown at can play defense in two ways. Catch the bottle if your opponent manages to knock it off the pole, and catch the frisbee if it misses the pole in a “catchable range”. Generally, “catchable range” lies from a person’s knee to top of the chest, and is judged by the players.
 Only the throwing team can score points:


Zero points are awarded for both a caught frisbee and bottle, catching a missed frisbee in “catchable range”, or when the frisbee is thrown out of “catchable range”.
One point is awarded for a missed frisbee that is dropped by the other team in “catchable range”.
Two points are awarded for a dropped bottle, but the frisbee is still caught.
Three points are awarded for both a dropped bottle and frisbee.
 Play shifts back and forth between teams with a single player per team throwing each round, with the other two players throwing the next round and so forth. This allows play to continue without the need for throwing the frisbee back to other team each round.
 The score to win is typically twenty one points like corn hole. However, the score to win the game can be changed higher or lower based on player preferences.

