 Paraphrasing is an excellent way to indicate interest and generate empathy and understanding. It lets the person know you are listening. To paraphrase, you repeat back to the person what they said, using your own words.Phrases like “I heard you say,” “it sounds like,” and “you must be feeling” indicate to the listener that you will be paraphrasing.
A good paraphrase for “I’m so sick of sitting in traffic for an hour on my way to work!” might be “Wow, it sounds like your commute is really exhausting!”
Paraphrasing requires active listening--you need to pay close attention--so this may feel draining with an especially annoying person. Consider looking at it as a skill-building opportunity (paraphrasing is a great communication tool). You also may not wish to use it for a great length of time.
 Questions show interest and engagement (even if you feel neither of these), and help the other person feel you are trying to connect with them.This can also help you refocus the conversation to something you may find more tolerable. For example, “You mentioned your sister; how is she doing?”

, You can still be respectful and kind to a person who drives you crazy. Most likely, they are not trying to annoy you intentionally.


It is not rude to set boundaries, however. If your coworker has been talking nonstop for the past fifteen minutes, it’s okay to say, “I’m so sorry I need to cut this short, Maria, but I need to get back to work.”, Words like “Uh-huh,” “yeah,” “wow,” “that’s crazy,” or “how fascinating” will do the trick. If you add nothing else to the conversation, the other person will likely lose interest in talking to you.
 It is probably not best to divulge any more details than are absolutely necessary to someone you don’t enjoy talking to. This also helps keep interactions to a minimum.
 Is this person only obnoxious when discussing certain topics? Get them on a different track.


For example, “I can’t say that the state senate race really interests me that much, Bob. But speaking of races, are you still running these days?”

, If you can’t get a word in edgewise, it’s okay to interrupt a monologue.Apologize for interrupting and make your point: “I’m so sorry to interrupt, but I was hoping you could help me with this problem.”

, Imagine you’re an actor, performing a scene with another actor who is playing the role of an annoying person. This helps depersonalize the interaction, and helps you remember that a scene doesn’t last forever!, Keep a positive attitude when around the annoying person. Most likely, they are not aware how much their behavior bothers you., If they constantly stand too close to you, tell them to step back. It’s possible that no one ever told them their behavior is a problem.


For example, you could say, “Joe, I’ve noticed that whenever we talk I always feel like we are crammed in an elevator together. Would you mind backing up a bit?” Even a good-natured, “Hey man, back up!” may suffice.
 It’s okay to end a conversation, especially if you have more pressing matters to attend to. Here are some ways to end it:


Make an excuse. Look at your watch and “remember” you need to be somewhere. Say you need to get something to eat, or need to use the bathroom.Say “It’s been so nice talking to you.” Even people with poor social skills will recognize this as a natural end to the conversation.
Wait for a lull in the conversation. Then you could say, “Well, I should get going. Have a good day!”
Blame yourself for not keeping up the conversation. For example, maybe you are a terrible multitasker. Try saying, “Jim, I’d love to talk more, but I can’t do a good job listening to you while I’m organizing these files! I’ve never been good at multitasking. I should probably get back to it.”
Walk away from a conversation when it’s done. If you stay there, one or both of you may feel pressure to keep talking.

