 Parvo typically occurs in puppies between six and twenty weeks of age, and 85% of all infections occur in dogs under one year old. Puppies are most susceptible because they have a very high number of rapidly dividing cells in their stomachs and intestines; these cells are the primary target of the parvo virus. If your dog is older, parvo is unlikely (though certainly not impossible).


If your puppy’s mother was not vaccinated against parvo, it’s possible for the virus to appear even earlier, in the first few weeks of life.;
, Parvo is more likely in certain breeds, including Rottweilers, American Pitbull Terriers, Doberman Pinschers, and German Shepherds. If your dog belongs to one of these groups, be particularly vigilant in watching for parvo.
 In general, the first sign of a parvo infection is lethargy. Your puppy may become less active, eventually retreating to a corner and staying put. This lethargy is typically followed by weakness and loss of appetite.


The signs are rapidly progressive with a quiet dog quickly becoming critically ill with foul, bloody diarrhea.
 Dogs with parvo usually develop a fever between 104 and 106 degrees Fahrenheit (40–41ºC).
 Parvo destroys the stomach, which is full of the rapidly dividing cells that the virus targets. The stomach lining becomes irritated and ulcerated, causing your dog to vomit.
 Typically the diarrhea associated with parvo is particularly severe. It is as if the dog is passing blood, a very liquid and foul-smelling diarrhea. This may lead to dehydration as well.
 Parvo causes gastro-intestinal bleeding, which can lead to anemia. To see if your dog might be anemic, press down on the gums. A healthy dog’s gums will quickly return to their normal color, usually within two seconds; if it takes longer, your dog may be anemic. Anemia may also lead to a noticeable paleness of the gums.
 The earlier you get your dog to the vet, the greater the odds of survival. Unfortunately, many dog owners fail to recognize the symptoms or wait too long to see a vet; when they finally take action, their dogs are in the late stages of the disease and tend to die from dehydration.
 To diagnose parvo, your veterinarian may perform the Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA) test. This test checks your dog’s stool for evidence of parvo. It can be done in your veterinarian’s office.


The ELISA test gives rapid results, but it may not be completely accurate. Be aware that false negative results do occur.
On the other hand, a test to confirm parvo may not really be necessary. The parvo virus causes severe illness. Since the condition is managed with supportive care rather than cured, it is not always necessary to run diagnostic tests. The treatment will likely be the same with or without a definite diagnosis. Proving it beyond doubt would not change the treatment given and could divert limited financial resources away from vital treatment.
 The ELISA test alone can sometimes fail to diagnose parvo. Your veterinarian may also perform a Hemagglutination Test, a blood count, and/or a direct fecal smear. The results of these tests, together with the ELISA test, will reveal the presence of parvo in your dog.
 There is no cure for the parvo virus; however, your veterinarian can recommend supportive therapies and practical measures that will increase your dog’s odds of survival. These might include:


Hospitalization
Anti-vomiting medication
Intravenous fluids
Probiotics
Vitamin therapy

