 Soon after the new hire signs and returns their job offer letter, the employer should call the new employee to express their enthusiasm for having a new addition to their existing team. This is best done by hiring manager to whom the new employee will ultimately report.
 The human resource department should encourage the senior management such as the CEO, the company director or the department heads (depending on the level of the new hire) to take the time to send a welcome email or even meet the new employee. This signals that employee is valued by everyone in the organization.


You could also consider asking the new employee's co-workers to decorate their new office or cube as a sign of welcome for the new employee.
 Provide all these details to the new employee early on, so that he or she may review it and have his questions answered. If all of this information can be provided online via the company’s intranet, arrange for an early access.


You may also want to give the new employee access to the company's online staff directory with employee photos, as this will help the new employee to familiarize themselves with the names and faces of their co-workers.
 Take the new employee on a tour to show them the office layout, kitchen, copy and fax systems. Also inform them about telephone usage, the location of the restrooms and any other relevant aspects of the daily work routine.


This also includes includes introducing the new employee to administrative or support staff that can assist them on a day to day basis.
 A buddy or mentor is one of the most important individuals in helping a new employee to get settled, besides their immediate supervisor.


The employer should assign a person with whom the new employee can get comfortable and ask questions more frequently.
The mentor can also be asked to call the new employee and introduce themselves prior to their first day.
 In addition to job-related training, the new employee may require assistance in other area. For example, if the company has computer applications installed for managing day-to-day transactions, the new employee will require training on how to use them.


This initial training session should be followed up with further training on an ongoing basis to help the new employee do his or her job effectively.
 On the employee’s very first day, the supervisor or assigned mentor should take the employee out to lunch or dinner with the entire team. Their spouses may also be invited to this team building activity. This will give the employee a chance to learn more about the company and their new team in a more informal manner.


The employer may also use this as an opportunity to provide a little extra welcome by offering corporate products or cards to make the employee feel special. This will help to build support for the management and strengthen team bonding.
 It’s important that you meet the new employee at the end of their first day to find out how it went for them. You can take a few minutes out and ask if they have any questions or anything they’d like to talk about.


Remind the person that you as an immediate supervisor or mentor are always there if they have any further questions, issues or require support with in something particular.
 During these meeting, you can remind him or her to review the employee handbook, job description and any other company-supplied documentation to ensure their understanding of the organization in general and their own job in particular.


You should also make them aware of the the company's performance review procedure and any relevant documents. Once they are familiar with these, you can go over their personal performance goals.
If you don’t meet with the new employee regularly and only show up when they have a problem; this signals to them that their immediate supervisor is only available when they have a problem. Instead, you should be the first to seek their status on work activities, and hear about their pending issues and working relationship challenges.
Remember that the goal of orientation is to make transitioning to the organization a smooth and enriching process for the new employee.

