 Knee-high socks are important if you’re not wearing stockings, but you can style them to be a noticeable part of your outfit rather than just a boring necessity. Wear knee-high or thigh-high socks that extend over the edge of your boots. Look for socks with frills or lace at the ends. You can also choose to wear a bold color or socks with designs if you want them to be noticed., These are great alternatives if you don’t want to wear socks. Stockings can be worn during all seasons, and they add a classier look to your outfits. You can choose nude, black, patterned, or even colored stockings. Leggings can also be worn during any time of the year, but they are great for colder weather because they provide extra warmth. Look for leggings with fleece lining if you are looking for extra warmth.Wear fishnets with your boots if you are going for a sexy or edgy look.
 If you’re wearing your boots during colder weather, a beanie is a great choice to pair with over-the-knee boots. Beanies are best for casual looks, but then can be dressed up with a nice jacket. You can wear a brightly colored beanie, a beanie with a pom-pom top, a beanie with a design, or a black or nude beanie if you are going for a subtle look.Consider the color of your boots and outfit when picking a beanie.
 Beanies aren’t the only type of hat you can match with boots. If you want to dress your look up, you can wear a beret, cloche, derby, or floppy hat. If you’re wearing long cowboy boots, a cowboy hat would be a good match. Consider the type of outfit you’re wearing. A beret can work for jeans or dress pants, but it would not look as good with a dress. A floppy and cloche hat would be a great match for a dress., Match your accessories with the material or color of your books. For example, if you’re wearing leather boots, wear leather accessories. Wear leather gloves and a purse with your boots. Look for velvet or suede accessories if you’re wearing suede or velvet. If you can’t find accessories made of the same material as your boots, choose a color that matches or complements them.With blue boots, you can choose orange accessories as a complementary color.

