 Don't forget protection though, although the overall damage output is not as high as the other specs, the plus side is you will not take hardly any damage and never have to stop and heal. Ive taken on 4-5 mobs at once and did not take any noticeable damage. It probably would be slower grinding in the long run, but its still an option.;
, Yes you can grind with greens, but its slower killing, so get your self some blues. Better gear increases grinding capacity with faster killing and more health. As a warrior, the stats you want are as follows: Strength, Stamina, + Crit, + Hit, + Attack Power, Expertise, and last and least Agility.
 Its also important they have a fast spawn rate. I found a place in Ice crown where the guys had 5k hp and dropped 25-50 silver a piece. Considering I could almost 1 shot these guys, that's pretty good money.


If you picked arms, repeat this process: charge, rend, victory rush, mortal strike, heroic strike, overpower. This combination should kill any mob at your level if you are decently geared.
If there are 2 mobs close to each other, charge one, rend him, use ranged attack to grab the other, activate sweeping strikes, and beat em down. Every hit will hit them both so this doubles your killing power. And its only a 30 sec cool down.
If there is 3-4 mobs grouped together, pop any attack power cool down you might have (Trinkets, racial) and possibly enraged regeneration if you feel you might take a lot of damage, and use your blade storm. It should take them down to at least 30% health and most likely kill 1 or 2. Then just finish the remaining off.
Don't forget your 5 min cool downs, So use this when there's 3-4 mobs as well and your blade storm is on cool down. These include Retaliation, Recklessness, and Shield wall if your using a shield

Fury, your options are limited. Your abilities are few to choose from. Blood thirst and whirlwind are really all you got. Cleave is an option but it uses a lot of rage and if used every chance you get, you will rage starve. It may or may not cause more damage per second than arms, its hard to tell nowadays, but you take more damage, so all in all, I don't think its the best for soloing. But still fine for groups. Some things to note about fury are +20% to strength, +5% crit for a short time every time you crit, and you can duel wield 2 handed weapons with the final talent, but you deal 10% less damage when using this. It is my opinion that Fury as been what is called "nerfed" to the point where it is not good anymore. Meaning it used to be better but has been reduced in certain ways in order to keep the game more balanced.
 In the past it was near impossible to grind or kill anything really in a timely manner. This has changed, and a couple of abilities can deal some good damage now, making it a viable option for soloing. Non elite mobs will barely be able to hit you at all. And every time you block, dodge or parry, you can use revenge which hits for 2-4k. In between revenges, use shield slam to hit for another 2-4k. The best thing about prot grinding is the fact that you can take on several mobs at once. I'm talking 6-10 somewhat easily. Shockwave hits them all, as well as thunderclap. It may take a little bit to kill all 10 mobs, but the overall time per kill is very comparable to a dps spec when using this method.


If using the protection spec, you should in fact find a place that has many mobs bunched together. Protection grinding is only good when fighting several mobs at once. One or two at a time would be very slow compared to a dps spec. It would be like using blade storm on 1 guy, kind of a waste. Take advantage of the fact that some of you abilities hit ALL the enemies. and EVERY TIME someone hits you, they take damage even if you don't (blocks)You can also kill level 80 elite mobs if you choose to. Its not quick, but you will win if you know what you're doing.

