 Protein is the main nutrient needed for muscle development. Muscle tissue burns more calories than fat tissue. Increasing your muscle mass helps you not only to lose weight but also improves your metabolism. To get more protein in your diet, incorporate more meat proteins into your daily routine. These should be high quality lean meats that contain complete proteins, which contain the amino acids necessary for muscle production.Try to get hormone and antibiotic free meat and grass fed beef when possible. Good meats include:Lean, skinless poultry, including chicken and turkey
Lean ground turkey
Lean ground beef or trimmed cuts of beef
Buffalo trimmed of excess fat
Lean pork trimmed of excess fat
Fish, including tuna, salmon, sardines and mackerel;
, In addition to meat proteins, you can consume protein in many other forms. This is especially helpful if you are a vegetarian or if you have health conditions that require you to limit your meat intake. Plant-based proteins also contain complete amino acids that will help with muscle growth. Incorporate more of these into your diet every day. These foods include:Eggs and egg whites
Nuts and seeds
Dairy products, such as low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese
Soy products, such as tofu and soy milk
Lentils, peas and beans, falafel
Hearty grains, such as oats and quinoa
Skimmed milk powder that can be added into milk shakes, soups, sauces, gravies, casseroles, etc.
Whey protein powder
Quorn

, The healthiest form of fats you can consume is omega-3 fats. Omega-3 fats reduce inflammation, which helps with excess fat, which is one of the most common types of inflammation. They also help balance blood sugar levels and regulate your overall metabolism.


Omega-3s are also thought to help regulate the response to certain hormones, such as leptin and adiponectin, that are instrumental to the control of hunger and weight.
These are found in many fish, including salmon, tuna, herring, mackerel, and sardines. They can also be found in flaxseed oil, walnut oil, and borage oils., Whole foods are foods that are not processed, which are those foods that are found in nature (such as whole fruits and vegetables). These foods are more complex and have more nutrients, which means it takes more energy and burns more calories as you digest them. By choosing whole foods, you force your body to work harder.Keep in mind the term "processed" can refer to many things — spinach that is washed and bagged, for instance, is considered processed. Minimal processing like this (or cutting up veggies, etc.) is fine. Just try to avoid highly processed foods such as fast foods or foods that are boxed and contain a lot of preservatives and additives.
 Although some easily digestible foods, such as smoothies, are good for you, avoid them if you are trying to kickstart your metabolism. Smoothies are easy for your body to digest, which means it works less to digest them. Instead, eat more complex foods that will make your body work harder to digest them.


Also avoid other soft foods, such as bananas, yogurt, and pudding.
These easily digestible foods should be limited to one a day, such as an add on smoothie with your breakfast or a yogurt cup for a snack.
 The best way to keep your metabolism active all day is to get active in the morning and intake most of your calories before 4 pm. This is so your body can digest your food properly and pep up your metabolism more. If you eat too many calories after this time, you won’t burn as many calories because your metabolism slows down as you sleep.


This means any excess calories can be turned into fat.
Never skip breakfast if you are trying to boost your metabolism. It is hard to get the right nutrients and boost your metabolism if you don’t eat early in the day.
Incorporate high quality, lean, and complete protein with your breakfast to ensure that your metabolism is super charged throughout the day, especially if you work out early in the morning. It also helps keep hunger down throughout the day., If you are trying to reduce your daily intake of calories, avoid doing so too quickly. When you cut your daily caloric intake too much at one time, your body responds by going into famine mode. This means your body conserves calories and actually lowers your BMR.A healthy way around this reaction is to calculate the amount of calories you need to maintain your BMR, which you can do with an online calculator. Measure the amount of calories you currently eat every day, then cut it by 10% every week or two until you match the caloric intake needed to maintain your BMR.
 The best way to increase body metabolism is to increase exercise levels. To kickstart your metabolism, increase your daily physical activity. This will make your body work more, which will burn more calories and increase your BMR. It also helps you build muscles, which will help your burn even more calories and increase your BMR even more.


When you increase your physical activity along with providing your body with quality nutrients, you help kickstart your metabolism into burning more calories more efficiently.Try incorporating more movement into your daily life. For instance, at work you can walk to colleagues to talk instead of emailing or messaging, walk or ride a bike to work, walk on your lunch break, wear a pedometer and set target steps for each day.
 Getting the proper amount of water every day is essential to have the optimal BMR and calorie burning potential. Although the daily recommended amount is six to eight 8-oz (237 ml) glasses of water a day, increasing that amount of water to ten to twelve glasses water may help boost your metabolism.It can also help you lose weight because water helps curb hunger.
 In addition to your daily water, drink green tea every day. Studies have shown that the catechins in green tea are thermogenic, which means they help burn calories.


Drink four to six cups or glasses of green tea, which can be hot or iced, daily.This can be used as a base in your morning smoothie or as a snack.
Avoid drinking it late at night unless you buy decaffeinated tea so you won't disrupt your sleeping patterns.
 If you are unsure of exactly how to integrate the needed foods, supplements, or changes into your daily life, think about asking a health professional, such as dietitian, for help. They can help you kickstart your metabolism in a safe, healthy, and effective way.


If you aren’t sure how to find a dietitian, ask your doctor for a recommendation.
 There are certain supplements that you can add to your daily routine in addition to your diet to help kickstart your metabolism. This does not mean they should take the place of adequate nutrients in your diet. Make sure you avoid supplements that claim to be for boosting your metabolism that are instead full of caffeine and ephedra derivatives. Always follow manufacturer’s instructions as well as those of your doctor. Helpful supplements include:


Turmeric and ginger, which is thermogenic, meaning it increases heat in the body to boost metabolism. Turmeric also contains antioxidants, which help eliminate harmful by products from the digestive process.B-complex vitamins, such as B6 and B12, which are essential for energy production to increase metabolismZinc and selenium, which are minerals required in many of the biochemical reactions that help with your metabolism. In addition to the supplement, zinc is found in scallops, oysters, dark poultry meat, and beef. Selenium is found in barley, mushrooms, Brazil nuts, and sunflower seeds.
Chili peppers contain capsaicin, a chemical compound that can boost metabolism.
 It is a common misconception that people will gain weight due to a slow metabolism. Although this does sometimes happen, weight gain is more than likely due to an abundance of bad calories that cannot be used by your metabolism to drive energy and charge your body.


In order to avoid this, eat proteins, whole foods, and good fats to provide your body with sufficient nutrients that will help your burn the ingested calories more efficiently., There is no strict guide to determine your exact BMR. It will vary depending on your body size and composition, which is measured through your weight and muscle mass. Your age and gender also play a major role in BMR levels.


Your BMR uses about 70% of the calories you ingest on a daily basis and this portion of your metabolic rate cannot change; however, the remaining 30% of your metabolic rate can change. Diet is one way, and increasing your physical activity and building up more muscle mass also help burn calories and increase your metabolic rate., The thyroid is a gland that plays a major role in metabolism. If you have an underactive thyroid condition, called hypothyroidism, you will have a low functioning metabolism. If you are worried about your metabolic rate or have the symptoms of hypothyroidism, consider having your doctor check your thyroid. These symptoms include:Unexplained weight gain
Fatigue
Lack of energy
Increase sensitivity to cold
Hair loss
Dry skin
Muscle weakness or aches
Abnormally heavy periods
Constipation
Depression

, Before you start any diet change, consult your doctor. You want to let them know what you are planning so they can let you know if you are making healthy choices. They may want to run tests for any conditions that might deter you from or limit how quickly you can go through the kickstart process.


Also let them know that you plan to change your diet. Make sure any new food items will not interact with any existing conditions you have.
Your doctor can also refer you to a registered dietitian who can help you plan meals and choose the best foods for your metabolism.

