 Debt settlement differs from debt management. With debt management, you pay off all your debt. With debt settlement, you try to get your creditors to accept only a percentage of your debt. For example, your creditors might agree to accept 60 cents on the dollar.Typically, you stop making payments on your debts. Instead, you pay money to the debt settlement company, which puts it in a savings account. After a certain amount of time—say, three years—the debt settlement company approaches your creditors and offers to settle the debt for the lump sum you have saved.
You can use these techniques and not go through a company. Debt settlement companies charge a fee. It might be a percentage of your total debt, or a percentage of the amount they save you.
There’s also no guarantee that debt settlement will be successful. Creditors are not required to settle with you.
Your credit score will suffer if you stop making payments. Your creditors might also sue you.
 Unlike credit counselors, debt settlement companies are usually “for profit.” Many advertise online, on television, and in the phone book. You should thoroughly research any debt settlement company you think you want to do business with.


Check with the Better Business Bureau for the city where the company has its headquarters. Look for complaints.
Do a general online search, looking for complaints. Type the company’s name and “complaints” into your favorite search engine.
Call a local consumer protection agency and ask about the company. You should also call your state’s Attorney General.
 There are many scammers out there, and you should be alert to signs you are dealing with a company that isn’t reputable. Run away from any company that does any of the following:Charges you fees before settling the debts, or asks that you make a voluntary contribution (which is really a disguised fee).
Makes promises that they can make your debt disappear or get debt collectors to stop calling you.
Doesn’t review your financial situation before getting you on a plan.
Advertises new government programs that can help erase your debt. There are no new programs.
Guarantees they can pay off debt for pennies on the dollar.
 Federal law requires that these companies make certain disclosures before you sign up. Avoid any that refuse to give complete disclosures. For example, you should receive information about the following:Any conditions of service.
How much they will charge you. The disclosures should contain detailed descriptions of how fees are calculated.
Length of time before they approach your creditors for settlement.
How much you must save before they will negotiate on your behalf.
Negative consequences of stopping payment to your creditors.
Your right to the money you have saved and any accrued interest.
Who will administer the fund. It shouldn’t be someone affiliated with the debt settlement company.
 Make sure the debt settlement company gives you a contract and read it with a lawyer. If you don’t understand anything, ask questions. Only sign the contract when you agree with everything in it.


Don’t delay complaining to the debt settlement company if they break the terms of the contract. Also report them to your Attorney General and local consumer protection agency if they scam you.

