 Diagnosis of the early stages of wear is very difficult so it's important that you keep a close eye on the condition of your teeth and have regular check-ups with your dentist. Patient symptoms are the most important thing in the diagnosis of erosion so having your teeth checked will give you the best chance of an early diagnosis.;
, As well as visiting your dentist, you should take time to monitor your teeth at home and look for signs of erosion or decay. In order to prevent enamel loss you need to stick to a good dental hygiene regime, brushing and flossing twice daily.If you get into good oral hygiene habits you will be more aware of your teeth and it is more likely that you will spot signs of erosion earlier.


The most common place for wear to begin is on canine teeth in most cases. It's the best place to see the beginning signs of wear or in this case, grinding.
 There are a number of symptoms of erosion and decay that you can see by observing the appearance of your teeth and their outer surface. As the enamel erodes and more of the dentin is exposed, your teeth may suffer discolouration and appear more yellow.


When you grind your teeth, the edges of your teeth may become rougher, jagged or appear more irregular, with cracks and chips.
You may notice indentations appear on the surface of your teeth. This is known as cupping and can be a symptom of erosion.
If your teeth appear very smooth and shiny this could be a symptom of grinding.A few other signs of grinding are tori (similar to callouses) formed on the outside of the upper teeth, in the gum region, and on the inside of the lower teeth in the gum region. Abfraction lesions on the sides of the teeth, linea alba (lines on the sides of the cheeks) and scalloped tongue (undulations on the sides of the tongue) are also signs that grinding occurs.
Research shows the cause of nocturnal grinding (and wearing) of the teeth is from obstructive sleep apnea, and the grinding is a sign of OSA, rather than stress.
 You should also pay close attention to the potential sensory symptoms. If your teeth ache, are sore or especially sensitive, don't ignore it, as it could be a symptom of a more serious dental problem. In the early stages of enamel erosion you may experience somewhat increased sensitivity when you consume certain foods and drinks.


If sweets or hot and cold drinks cause a twinge of pain, this could indicate the early stages of of erosion at the gumline of the teeth, also known as abfractions.
In the later stages of enamel erosion, this sensitivity and pain increases significantly and your teeth may become highly sensitive to temperatures, especially cold.If you notice this twinge, act quickly and make an appointment with your dentist to try and prevent the erosion from accelerating.

