 A "clean catch" is when you can get your son to urinate directly into a test cup. If that is not an option for your non-toilet trained son, you can also use a urine pad. Although using a urine pad has a higher risk of contaminating the urine sample, it is the next best option after a clean catch.Another option is a urine bag. Your doctor's office may provide you with one if they feel it may be helpful. This is placed inside the diaper, like the urine pad, to collect urine.
 Wash thoroughly with soap and water to prevent contaminating the urine sample., Set up your clean, sterile urine container, sterile wipes, sterile urine syringe (5 ml), urine pads, and any other supplies you might need prior to beginning the test. Make sure they are within reach and easily accessible during the test.
 Place your son on the changing table, and remove his diaper so that you can clean him and prepare him for urine collection.
 You must clean your son's penis in order to prevent contamination of the urine sample.


If your son is uncircumcised, gently retract the foreskin. Ask a nurse or doctor how to do so if you are unsure. Wipe the entire surface with the sterile/alcohol towelettes provided by the doctor's office.Using the sterile wipe, stroke around the urethral opening (end of the penis) toward his stomach. Discard the wipes.Replace the foreskin once the area dries.Gently pat the tip of the penis dry with a sterile cotton swab or gauze pad.Also wash the rest of your son's penis and bottom using soap and water or a sterile wipe.
 Turn a disposable diaper inside out and place it under your son with the outside (plastic) facing up. Place the urine pad on the outside of the diaper. Position it so that when you put the diaper on your son, the pad will cover his penis and bottom. Put the inside out diaper on your son with the urine pad inside.
 Check inside the diaper every 10 minutes until the pad is wet.


Once your son has urinated, take off the diaper and pad.
If your son has also defecated (moved his bowels), then discard the pad and start the test over again. You only want clean urine for the test.
Place the pad on a flat surface with the wet side up.
 Take your 5 ml syringe, and place its tip on the wet pad in the middle of the urine. If the urine is puddled on the pad, that is the best spot to place the syringe. Gently pull up the plunger. You will see urine slowly appear in the syringe as you suck the urine out of the pad.
 Hold the syringe over the urine testing cup. Push down the plunger so that the urine squirts into the cup.


If you need more urine, use the syringe to collect more from the pad.
When you have enough urine in the cup, put the lid on the cup.

