 It must be a good quality camera. The faster the shutter speed, the better, as these critters fly like the wind. Also, it needs excellent zoom-in capacities and if you have the capacity to take macro-shots (a little flower symbol on some cameras), then you are set for success. Digital cameras are really the best, as you can toss all those bad shots without a care.;
, Dragonflies love water - clear and unpolluted water. They also like plant cover at the edges of the water (like reeds, lilies, trees, etc). But you will also find dragonflies flitting about in a number of other places close to water, like cool forests, mossy embankments, beaches and your backyard. And don't forget your local botanical gardens - they often attract dragonflies due to the extensive variety of plants.
 Dragonflies are constantly on the move. They dart here and there without stopping much. However, they are often in groups around water, so there are plenty to take photos of. Keep an eye for those that alight on greenery or on a path, the road, objects, etc. Spend the first 10 - 30 minutes just watching their paths and alighting spots, so that you can get a really good idea of where to aim your camera.
 As soon as dragonflies land on the spot, click away, making sure you have already made the adjustments to the camera that are necessary for tiny insects. Take as many shots as your photo card allows (or your film processing budget).


It is important not to make any fast or obvious movements, as the dragonflies will react immediately and fly off again. Slowly does it, even if this means staying perched over your camera for a time.
Zoom in. The closer you can go the better. More dragonfly, less background. If you can't avoid the background, use a good photo program at home to remove it later.
Preferably, use a tripod as this will provide a steady image and stability. Unless you use a tripod, a lot will likely be blurry or unfocused due to the necessity of having to take a photo so quickly without waiting. With a tripod and a faster shutter speed, you have greater control and the luxury to take less shots.

