 In Texas Hold’em the dealer and/or the button-position will be passed to the next player toward the left after each hand. But, if one person deals all the time, then the button-position will rotate the table over time, otherwise the dealer job passes around. Understanding where you are in relation to the dealer/button will help you develop a strategy to win Texas Hold’em.The button has the strongest position because he/she will always wait to bet last on the current hand. The player who bets last will have the most information to work with as they’ve seen all other players bets/actions before making a move.
But, the player immediately to the right of the dealer, sometimes known as the “cutoff,” can potentially be in a strong position over the button as he has the ability to bet big enough to force the button into action/to bet-big or fold.
Players in early betting positions are the weakest as they have the least amount of information to go on. However, there is a bit of a balancing out for the first round if you are either the big or small blind, as you have a bet already on the table.;
, Narrowing the field means eliminating the other players for the hand. Some players will use a bet-big-early strategy to win Texas Hold’em, and while this may work, it also means you’re more likely to lose-big. Instead, try a strategy where you make smaller early bets to see some action before you try to over bet for other players to fold on the flop or turn (to tell them you drew something).


If you’re positioned at the top of the betting round you can make smaller bets (slow-play) and wait to see how other players react to the flop.
Regardless of where you are positioned, your hand will indicate how you should proceed. Pairs are often your option and the higher the pair the better off you are. Also look to see if your cards are of the same suit because suited cards give you a hopeful chance by allowing for drawing a flush.If you do have a good hand, you can make a larger bet to force other players out, especially if you have the position to wait to see how the other players bet. For example, if other players (act weak) aren’t betting very high, you can raise the pot and force some or all to fold.
 If you are in an earlier position you do have the benefit of being able to call the minimum and then waiting to see how other players handle the betting around the table. If a player bets big after you’ve called, you now know that he is either bluffing, or has a good hand. Chances are other players will make moves that indicate where the competition is going.


When you are later to act in a round of betting you are at a great advantage. This is helpful against predictable/tight players who you expect to "tell" you a lot by always checking weak hands and raising better hands. You can play marginal hands by betting when they check before you act. You can also re-raise players who bluff too often so that you don't believe they are betting good hands.
 Sometimes you just get a weak hand in an early position. This is a long game so sometimes your strategy for winning Texas Hold’em is folding-weak and waiting until you’re in a strong, later position.


If you’ve already bet but see other players raising the pot but you don’t have a good hand -- it might be best to fold your hand/not to call. This way when you’re in a better position in a later hand, you’ll still have those chips to work with.
Try not to fold before the flop unless a player is betting extremely large and you have a bad hand like a two and six. Even though this hand doesn’t look promising on its own it could create a straight, two pairs, three of a kind, or even a full house. But, if you’re in an early position and have to raise your bet to stay in with an unlikely winning hand, it might be best to fold.

