 The American Kennel Club favors a particular pumpkin dog treat recipe that’s easy to follow and especially healthy for your dog. Before mixing your ingredients, preheat your oven to 350 degrees F (177 degrees C).You’ll need a cup of flour, an egg, half a cup of 100% pure canned pumpkin puree, and a 4-ounce jar each of 100% carrot baby food, and 100% green bean baby food.
After mixing all the ingredients, add a bit more flour if it’s wet and sticky, or a bit more water if it’s not sticking together.
Substitute coconut flour or potato flour if you so desire, but expect your batter to be more crumbly.;
, This recipe will yield about two dozen treats. Use a spoon or spatula to place individual dollops onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. If you want, you can shape them in a way you think your dog might enjoy.Bake the treats for 35 to 40 minutes, or until the edges brown.
Don’t offer any to David Barkie until they’re cool to the touch.
 For this and any other pumpkin treat recipe, take care to avoid using pumpkin pie mix, which will contain additional sugar and spices Make sure whatever you’re using, if canned, is 100% unsweetened pumpkin.A sweetener called xylitol is especially important to watch out for, as it is dangerous to dogs.
 For the freshest flavor, make your own pumpkin puree instead of buying it canned. This homemade puree can be used exactly like the 100% pumpkin puree you can buy from the store. To begin, remove a pumpkin's stem, peel and quarter the pumpkin, and cut the meaty portion into chunks.Boil the chunks of pumpkin flesh in water in a covered sauce pan for about twenty minutes.
Once the pumpkin pieces are tender, drain them and allow them to cool.
Use a food processor of potato masher to puree the pumpkin.
Use the pumpkin immediately, or store it in the fridge or freezer. The puree will last three days in the fridge, and three months or so in the freezer.
 If you don’t want to subject Scruffy to vegetables, there are plenty of recipes that are more neutral. For a twenty treat batch, grab two eggs, half a cup of canned pumpkin puree, half a teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of dry milk, and two and a half cups of flour.Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (177 degrees C) while you blend the eggs, pumpkin, salt, dry milk, and flour together.
Add water until the dough is workable but still somewhat dry and stiff.
Roll the dough into a ½ inch (1.3 cm) thick sheet and cut however you'd like. Space individual treats at least an inch (2.5 cm) apart.
Bake them for 20 minutes, flip them over, and bake them another 20 minutes.

