 This is the most important factor in choosing a husband. Your choice must be well-educated. Make sure you know his personality, temperament, and goals before considering marriage.


If your partner is guarded, wait until he opens up to you. This may take some time but is a crucial aspect of a healthy, lasting relationship.
Some people marry men who they see as having the potential to be the perfect husband. This is often a mistake. While personal growth is always hoped for, it is never guaranteed. Marry the man you love now rather than one you think you can create., Your friends will be your most important sounding board when things start to get serious. Ask them for their opinions on your potential husband. If you consider them to be good judges of character, ask them if they have any reservations about him and take their words seriously. Don't worry if they have only minor or superficial issues with him, such as his appearance or career.
 If you have a close relationship with your family and they don't get along with your partner, this could be a bad sign. While it's normal for there to be some friction between a spouse and the "in-laws," if your family has serious reservations, find out what they are. Address any significant problems before tying the knot.


Likewise, if he maintains contact with his own family but still doesn't want you to meet them well into your relationship, this could be major issue. Talk to him about it directly before taking things to the next level.
 Moving in together for a time before marriage can give you a better idea about what marriage to him will be like without making a much more significant commitment.However, make sure your relationship is healthy and well-established before moving in together. Cohabitation, just like marriage, can prevent couples who should split from doing so to avoid the hassle.Premarital cohabitation is considered immoral by many religions. If it goes against your faith, don't feel pressured into doing it.
 Ideally, the two of you should have been dating and/or engaged for at least two to three years. That is not to say that marriages with a shorter courtship are doomed to fail; only that most serious, potentially marriage-destroying issues will have shown themselves in two to three years.Remember that divorces can take a very long time to finalize and are often extremely costly, both financially and emotionally.

