 On both children and adult clothing, there is generally a label that explains how the item should best be washed. You may find that aside from saying that it’s ok to wash this article of clothing in the washer and dryer, there might also be specific instructions, like ‘wash with like colors’ or ‘turn inside out before washing’. Following these instructions can help to help your child’s clothes to look new for a longer period of time.


Some of your toddler’s clothes may say ‘hand wash only’. If you find that this is the case, you can either wash your child’s clothes by hand, or take them to the dry cleaners.;
, In order to keep the clothes from bleeding on each other in the wash, they have to be sorted by colors. All the white clothes (like undershirts and underwear) can be washed together. Some colors are fine to be washed together.


Navy blue and black can be washed together as they are very similar.
If there are pastel colors that will not bleed onto other colors, they can all be washed together.
Denim should be washed alone. Most of the time, denim is the most likely to bleed onto other items, so all denim items can go in one load together.
 Toddlers have a tendency to stain their clothes. If this happens, you will most likely need to pre-treat the stain to make sure that it actually comes out of the clothes. There are different ways to pre-treat different stains which are described in the following steps.
 If the toddler has blood on his/her clothes, treat it with hydrogen peroxide. Pour some hydrogen peroxide into a small cup (or the lid of the peroxide container). Dip a cotton swab into the peroxide. Use the cotton swab to rub the peroxide into the blood stain.


Doing this will help to release the blood from the fabric before it is put into the main wash.
 A detergent rub can be made with a little detergent and some water. It should be about the consistency of a paste so that the detergent is not completely dissolved in the water. Rub it into the stain and let it set for a short period of time before you wash the clothes.


A stain stick, which can be purchased from the store, is used the same way. Rub it in and let it set for a few minutes (or an hour) before washing it in the laundry.

