 No matter what lender you end up using, paying the largest down payment you can afford is always smart. Even small down payments--$500, for instance—can make a difference in the terms of the loan you end up with.If you don't need a car right away, it might be best to forgo getting a loan altogether, and just pay cash for an older car instead.
 Friends and family may be able to help you afford a new car. Perhaps they can loan you money to help with the down payment, or perhaps they would be willing to co-sign your loan. Reach out to your family to see if there is anyone who is willing and able to help.

Remember that if a family member or friend co-signs and you default, they are responsible for the loan. This can severely damage your relationship with them.
 When you're visiting a lender, come with your documents in hand. Every lender needs to see several pay stubs, proof of identity (like a driver’s license), and proof of residency (like an electric bill in your name). Although they might need additional documents, those are typical, and you'll probably be able to get a good idea of what they'd lend you with those alone.It’s not that any one of these things changes your credit score, how much you have to spend, or much of anything on your end. What it does change is how they look at you. Someone who is prepared is more likely to get a fair deal than a person who seems hapless and disorganized.
 Since credit unions are not-for-profit, they typically charge lower interest rates on loans than banks do. Although some credit unions lend to nonmembers, members typically get preferential treatment. Since it’s easier than ever to become a member of a credit union, they should be your first option for loans.Not only will a credit union typically have a lower interest rate (an average of 2% compared to 4% on auto loans), they will also be more likely to take your unique circumstances into account, and see you as a more than a credit score.
Of course, there is a trade-off. Since credit unions aren’t trying to make a profit, they charge lower rates. Since they charge lower rates, their profit margins aren’t as high. So they do have to be cautious about lending to too many debtors in the subprime category. So think about it this way: if your credit is mediocre to poor, you might have a shot at getting a loan at a credit union. If it’s through the floor, you’re going to struggle.
 Most local banks are not going to be able to match the interest rate you’ll find at credit union, but that doesn’t mean they won’t have their advantages. A local bank is likely to be able to offer a few things a larger bank can’t. For example:Fewer fees and lower interest rates than the larger banks. Larger banks will have technological and logistical advantages over smaller community banks and credit unions, but the network of ATMs, cutting edge apps, and a branch on every block all cost money.
A local bank is less likely to be as rigid as a national bank. While they probably won’t be as flexible as a credit union, they will in fact be more able and willing to lend to a person rather than a credit score.
A local bank is also just a bit more likely to write a smaller loan for an older car than a large bank would be, which can really be ideal for someone who’s looking to minimize their car payment.
 While credit unions and local banks will be more flexible with respect to lending generally, don't forget about bigger banks. National banks are a big part of the conversation when it comes to lending to people with bad credit, and with good reason. Certain national lenders have a large presence in the subprime auto loan market, and they lend a lot of money that puts a lot of people on the road.For example, Wells Fargo and Capital One Auto are two of the biggest players in the subprime auto loan market, and two of the biggest banks, period. If you’re having trouble getting financing from more low interest lenders, take a look at these guys. They might charge higher interest rates than a credit union, but they won’t be as high as some of the online lenders.
 Online lenders are a pretty mixed bag. Whereas some lenders, like OneMain, have a decent reputation, others, like Santander, have anything but. Regardless, they are flourishing at the moment, and subprime buyers are making up the largest segment of auto lending. You can very well find some good deals, but you might end up getting fleeced as well. This is one area where you have to do your homework even more than usual.There's no one place you can go to get reputable, unbiased reviews of every single online lender in one place. Before you apply, you're just going to have to investigate their reviews and reputation. A good place to start is the Better Business Bureau, but that's not going to give detailed information about the bank as a lender, but rather as a business in general. If an online lender has anything other than an A rating from the BBB, look elsewhere.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would be another good resource for research. That agency regulates financial entities as they relate to the public, so you could find out if a lender was under investigation or had a large number of complaints.

