 The cheapest and most well known hair dye is Manic Panic, which you can get at Spencer gifts or sally's beauty supply. Make sure to bleach your hair before you dye. This step of course is optional. If you skip this step you will have healthier hair and less work to do, however the color will be much darker and may not stay as long.;
,, You may want to speed up your hair growth. If you are doing this, Make sure not to put it up every day. Eat lots of foods rich in protein, Use the healthiest shampoos and conditioners you can find. Try using Bioxin shampoo and/or Mane 'n tail shampoo. Use Mane 'n tail conditioner too.
 Straighten it if you want, comb it over, put it in a ponytail, put it in a hat, its best to put it in a headband so it doesn't irritate your eyes or your hair.
 Make sure it's firm but can still move, that indicates the healthiness.
 Soak it in warm running water until your hair flops down and becomes soft. Use any of the shampoos listed in step three for the best results. Only shampoo your Mohawk area for now. Be extremely gentle so that no hair breaks. While washing, to prevent hair breakage make sure you DO NOT comb through your hair with your fingers. This will rip apart your Mohawk structure but it will also cause hair breakage. Always use a liberal amount of shampoo and just scrub lightly with the palm of your hand. Rinse out and REPEAT, that's the key to getting it clean, do not skip doing so. As you shampoo a second time make sure to wash the sides of your head this time, as well as carefully scrubbing your Mohawk. After rinsing with cold water, your hair WILL untangle by itself and will be comfortable again so that you can now

, Leave in for 3-5 minutes.
 Because your hair is already very delicate due to the chemicals used to put it up, and also if you have dye, the towel will absorb the dye leading to quicker fading.
 Get on some latex gloves, now, carefully saturate hair bleach to the roots with your fingers but DO NOT bleach the already colored part of your hair, this runs a risk for breakage, If you don't want to worry about breakage; use peroxide. If not using peroxide its okay to leave a small unbleached imaginary line in between the colored part and your bleaching roots, THIS WILL BECOME UNNOTICEABLE after a few dyes.
 Its best to have a buddy do this as it costs no money and it promotes the DIY punk ethic. Also, if you have practiced enough than you can do it yourself.

