 Some workplaces are dog-friendly, which means that you can bring your dog with you during the day. You can ask your boss or human resources if this is an option for you.If they initially say no, you might convince them to let you bring your dog. You can point out the benefits of bringing a dog to work, such as lower stress and higher morale. Some shops have even found that having a dog at work increases their business.Be respectful of people who have allergies or fears of dogs. If you have a coworker who does not want dogs at work, you should find another solution.
 If you have enough time, you might consider spending your lunch break at home with your dog. This will give you an opportunity to feed your dog and play with them for a little while before you have to return to work., If you can spare a little sleep, you might try waking up a half-hour or hour earlier than usual, and spend that time with your dog. You can take them on a walk, play with them, or groom them. This will help your dog get in some social activity before you leave for the day.If you already wake up very early, you may want to consider a different way to increase your time with your dog.
 If you cannot manage to come home, you might want to consider asking someone if they can walk and play with your dog during the day. If you have a friend or family member willing to do this, you could ask them. You can also hire a dog sitter or professional dog walker.You do not need someone to spend all day with your dog. It may be enough to have someone visit for half an hour in the late morning or early afternoon.
Doggy daycares are another option to help socialize your dog during the day. Your pup can play with other dogs and people. This can be a more expensive option, however.
 When you can’t be with your dog, it is important that you provide ways for your dog to entertain themselves. The best way to do this is to leave the dog with a variety of interesting toys that they can play with. This will ensure that the dog does not become destructive or bored while you are gone, and it can reduce their dependency on your company while you are home.


Food puzzles are a great way for your dog to keep busy. Stick a treat or peanut butter inside of one. Your dog may spend a long time trying to get it out.Chew toys can keep your dog busy for long periods of time. If you want to give your dog a bone, make sure you buy specially marked natural bones meant for chewing. Cooked bones can splinter and injure your dog.If your dog grows tired of a toy, put it away for a while and give the dog a new toy. When the dog tires of the new toy, you can give them the old one back again.