 You can find them in arts and crafts stores as well as in the candle section of a supermarket. A white tealight would work best, but you can also get a white glitter one for a fancier snowman.;
, Set the candle down on the table first, then rotate it until the tip of the flame is pointing away from you. Most battery-operated tealights have a flame that curves slightly to one side, rather than pointing straight up.Having the flame tilted upward will make the snowman look more jolly.
 Make two dots above the flame for the eyes. Make four to five dots below the flame to make the mouth.Make sure that the tip of the flame is pointing upwards, towards the eyes.


For a more dimensional look, use black puff paint.
If you are using a glitter tealight, draw the face using black puff paint. Regular marker won't show up.
 The flame will look yellow-orange when it is turned on, but it will look white when its turned off. You can fix this by coloring the flame in with an orange permanent marker.Don't use a washable "kid's" marker. The color will rub off.
Don't use paint or paint pens. They are opaque, and the color won't shine through.
 Choose the thinnest ribbon you can find, about 1/16 to 1/8-inch (0.16 to 0.32-centimeter).
 Place a drop of hot glue on the back of the tealight, close to the top. Press the knotted part of the ribbon into the glue, and let it set.
 You can use any color you want, but red or green would work best.
 Draw a line of hot glue around the top edge of the tealight, right above the eyes. Quickly press the pipe cleaner into the glue. If you need to, gently curve the pipe cleaner first, so that you don't risk accidentally touching the glue.
 Choose two pompoms in a contrasting color. Place a drop of hot glue at either end of the pipe cleaner. Quickly press the pompoms into the glue., Use a color that matches your ear muffs.


If you can't find any ribbon, use a strip of felt instead.
 Cross the left end over the right to form a loop, sort of like the Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon. Secure the loop with a drop of hot glue., Place a drop of hot glue on the back of the tealight, close to the bottom. Press the inside part of the loop against the glue, so that the crossed part is in front. Make sure that the tail ends of the ribbon are pointing down., The ribbon should pop up against the bottom of the tealight. If it keeps hanging down, use a drop of hot glue to keep it in place.

