 Using a paintbrush and a roller, gently brush an even coat of the primer on the surface of the wood. Use a paintbrush along corners, edges, and harder-to-reach areas; use the roller to hit wide-spaced, even areas that aren't contoured. Allow the primer to dry before moving on to painting the furniture piece.









Do you really need to use a primer? If you want your coat of paint to adhere evenly to the wood, and you want the paint to last long, you're going to want to add a primer before you paint. Don't worry about getting even coverage with the primer; as long as it coats what you're going to paint, you're good to go.
If you're going for more of a weathered, distressed look on your furniture, you may want to skip the primer. Note that the paint may eventually chip if no primer has been set down before painting.
Prime often-used surfaces extra thick for added coverage. If you're painting a tabletop or a desktop, you may want to lather on a couple layers — or one thick layer — to give added protection and sheen to often-used parts of your furniture.
 Go over every area of primed surface with a fine-grit sandpaper. This will help your paint bond to the primer even better than it already does. Be sure, however, to wipe away any sawdust or residue with a tack cloth before you hit the surface with paint.
 Go over even surfaces of the furniture with a foam roller, if possible. Then, using even strokes, redo the area with a paintbrush, paying special attention to the places where rollers cannot apply paint — such as edges and corners. Allow the coat to dry, and inspect the piece for any areas that are not completely covered by the paint.









Consider using a paint conditioner to make your job easier. A paint conditioner, such as Floetrol for latex paints and Penetrol for oil paints, will slow down the drying edge of the paint, allowing you to get a more even look on your paint. (Paint that dries too quickly can look patchy or uneven.) Paint conditioners, although added to your paint, won't change the color.
Get a good quality paintbrush for the job. Poor-quality brushes will result in inferior looking projects; bristles will come loose and get stuck in the paint, or the coverage just won't look uniform. A good paintbrush is slightly more expensive, but with proper care, should prove you wise by lasting for several years.
 Most painters will find that a coat of primer and paint won't give the furniture that professional look that they're seeking. Wait for the first coat of paint to dry (overnight is best, but at least 6 hours), and then hit it with another coat of the same paint, using the methods described above.
 Once the paint is dry, apply a lacquer or sealant to protect the paint from nicks and scratches. This will also add a slight gloss to the piece, a feature that works well in many decorating schemes. Make sure the sealant is dry before moving the piece into the area of the home where it will be used.
