 Will your advertisement be printed in the newspaper, a magazine, your website, or Facebook? Knowing where you plan to publish the ad will influence the way you write your copy. Find out the perimeters of your advertising space, including how many words you're allotted, how large the font size will be, and whether you can incorporate graphics or video. Ultimately, the traditional classifieds-style ad will fly in almost any medium, but you might need to make small tweaks to tailor it to the space in which you're advertising.


If you're taking out a quarter to full-page advertisement in your local newspaper, you're going to have some room to play around with a paragraph or so of copy.
However, for a Facebook or other online ad, your copy will be limited to a sentence or so.
Either way, when you're writing an ad, every word counts. Being too vague or wordy will cause people to skim your advertisement instead of pausing to read it, so the same writing tenets apply no matter what type of ad you're writing.;
, Which consumers are you targeting? Ideally, everyone who reads your ad will want to buy your product, but in reality you'll have better results if you tailor your ad to a specific audience that is likely to be more interested than the rest of the world. Use language and references that appeal to the demographic to which your product appeals. It might be a turnoff for other groups of people, but it's important to speak to the hearts of the people who have the potential to become loyal customers.


For example, if you're selling a service that allows people to self publish their books, you'll want to use language that sounds writerly and elegant. That way your target audience - people who have written books they want to publish - will know they would be in good hands with your company.
If you're selling a product that appeals to a younger crowd, like a new type of candy that makes your mouth turn rainbow colors, lose the formality and use language that's familiar to your target audience - kids who want to spend their allowance on candy, or who could influence their parents to buy the candy for them.
 This is the most important part of your advertisement, because it's your one shot at getting consumers to actually read your ad. If your headline is vague, difficult to understand or in any way uninteresting, you can't expect people to take the time to read the rest of your carefully-written ad. You're immediately telling them that your company isn't innovative enough to come up with a compelling ad - which will reflect poorly on your product as well, even if it's excellent.


People riding the subway, scrolling through Facebook or flipping through a magazine have hundreds of little pulls on their attention. How can you cut through all the noise and make them focus on your product? Think of a headline so compelling that it essentially forces the person reading it to pay attention.
Your headline could be something shocking, strange, emotionally compelling, or exciting - it doesn't matter, as long as it grabs the reader. For example,

Write something mysterious: Don't be happy, be terrified.

Write something people can't pass up: Get 75% off a ticket to Paris.

Write something emotional: She has 2 weeks to live.
 You might be able to get away with a highly creative and compelling rhetorical question, but stay away from your standard "Do you need a new car?" type of opener. Consumers have already read thousands of similar questions, and they're tired of being asked. You'll have to dig a little deeper to capture their attention. Find a creative way to tell people that you have what they need without asking an obvious question.
 The next line after your headline is your short, sweet chance to create a solid impression of your company in the minds of your audience. After your mysterious/shocking/emotional headline, you need to follow up with something substantive - otherwise, your headline will be perceived as mere hype.Use the bridge to tell the consumer what need your product can fill.


Remember that every word counts. Your bridge language needs to be just as compelling as your headline, because there's still a good chance you could lose people before they get to the end of your ad.
Touch on the major benefits your product will bring the consumer.Your bridge should contain your strongest selling points.
 Your bridge also serves as a chance to create a strong desire for your product. It's a chance to play with your audience's emotions and make them feel as though your product will fill a need they have. If this sounds manipulative, it is - but if you're offering a product that will actually be helpful to people, there's no shame in writing copy that tugs on the heartstrings to get people to buy a product that will improve their lives.


Nostalgia can be an effective tool to capture people's hearts. For example, We use the finest heirloom peppers to make hot sauce as good as Grandpa's secret recipe.

Playing to people's health concerns can also work well: You're doing the hard work - quitting. Let us help you get your life back.

Don't forget to include the name of your company and your product somewhere in your copy.
 Finally, write a strong ending that tells your audience exactly what to do next. Give them an action to take that makes it easy for them to buy your product or get in touch.


It's common for ads to include a straightforward directive, like Call 555-5555 for more information.

You could also just list your website, and people will know to go there to buy your product.

