 By combining the steam method described below along with the massage techniques already described, you can significantly increase sinus drainage. While increasing sinus drainage is not very pleasant, draining the excess mucus can relieve the pressure in your sinuses quickly and effectively.


Steaming is an old method of relieving sinus pressure without chemicals or drugs. The steam helps open up the nasal passages and thin out the sometimes thick mucus, thereby enabling it to drain out of the sinuses.
 Boil the water on the stove for a minute or two or until it is steaming vigorously. Then remove the pot from the heat and place on a heat-resistant mat on a table.You want the steam to enter into your nasal passages and your throat but not at the cost of potentially burning yourself.
In addition, keep any children away from the pot while it is boiling and while it is steaming. Try to do a steaming treatment when there aren't any children around.
This method is for adults only — do not try it on children.
 Then, place your head over the steaming pot. Close your eyes and keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water so that you don't burn yourself., Do this for five counts. Then reduce the inhales and exhales to two counts. Do this 10 minutes or for as long as the water is still steaming. Try to blow your nose while you're doing the treatment and then afterwards., You can use this technique frequently, up to every two hours. You can do give yourself a steam every two hours or as often as you like by placing your face over the steam coming from a hot tea or bowl of soup when you're at work or out and about., You can also add herbs and essential oils (one drop per quart of water ) to your steaming water. Some people think oils and herbs can relieve symptoms, but these claims are not backed by scientific evidence.


Spearmint or peppermint, thyme, sage, lavender, and black lavender oil are all great options to start with.If you have been diagnosed with a fungal sinus infection, add a drop of black walnut essential oil, tea tree oil, oregano or sage oil to your steaming water. These are thought to have antifungal and antiseptic properties.Test your sensitivity to the herb you want to use before doing a full steam treatment. Try each herb oil for about a minute and then take your face away from the steam for 10 minutes and assess how you feel. If you do have any adverse reactions (such as sneezing or a skin reaction like a rash), reheat the water and do the full treatment.
If you don’t have the essential oils, substitute a 1/2 teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water. For dried herbs, boil for another minute after adding, turn off the heat and move the pot to a safe area in your home and begin steaming.
 Taking a long, hot shower can have a similar effect to the steam treatment above. The hot water from the shower creates warm, moist air that is helps to clear out blocked nasal passages and relieve sinus pressure. Try blowing your nose naturally. The heat and steam will help moisten and liquify the secretions in the sinuses to better facilitate their evacuation.You also achieve a similar beneficial effect by placing a warm compress on your face to help open up your nasal passages and relieve any pressure you might be feeling in your sinuses. Warm a moist washcloth in the microwave for two to three minutes. Always take care not to burn yourself.