 Almost all modern computers are equipped with a drive that can write CDs. You may run into an issue with an older machine, but in general if the computer was made within the last 10 years it can probably burn. Netbooks without an optical drive will need an external drive connected in order to burn.


If you want to burn audio CDs, you will need CD-R discs. These can be written to, but cannot be rewritten. CD-RW discs can be rewritten, but many readers will not be able to read these so they should be avoided if you are making an audio CD.
More expensive CD-Rs may last longer and may be prone to less error. The most popular brands are Memorex, Phillips, and Sony.
While you can burn an audio DVD, there are very few devices which can read these.
 This is located at the top of the RealPlayer window This will open the Tasks bar on the left side of the window.
 RealPlayer will prompt you to choose the type of CD you want to create. By default, Audio CD will be chosen. Leave it set to that in order to create a CD that can play in any stereo.


You can also create an MP3 CD. This is a Data CD that contains MP3 folders and files. You can fit a lot more songs on a disc this way, but not many players can read them.
 Use the Library browser in the Tasks bar to find the music you want to add. You can drag individual songs, playlists, or albums over. The progress bar at the bottom of the window will let you know how much time you have remaining on the disc.


Click and drag the songs in the Burn window to set the track order for the final CD.
 Click the "Edit options" link at the bottom of the Tasks bar. This will open the Audio CD Options window. You can set the write speed, CD text, gap between tracks, and volume leveling. Once you are happy with the settings, press OK.


Lowering the write speed from maximum on older computers can help prevent errors while burning.
 If you are ready to start burning, click the "Burn Your CD" button at the bottom of the Tasks bar. The CD will begin burning, and the progress bar will show how much time is remaining. Depending on the speed of your burner, the process may take several minutes., After the burn process is complete, you can test out your new CD. If it sounds good and all your tracks play correctly, you can label it and share it or use it yourself.