 Rather than trying to force conversation with a shy grandchild or playing sports with one who’s uncoordinated, maximize success by playing to their interests. Figure out what each grandchild enjoys and use that to strengthen your bond with them.


Use both face-to-face and long-distance check-ins to focus on their individual hobbies, passions, and talents. This allows you to recognize and appreciate the differences between each grandchild.
Ensure regular face-to-face time, even if it’s through the use of technology. This is especially important in their early years. The more bonding you have in their formative years, the easier it will be for them to willingly look for those special moments when you can connect with them and give them loving attention later on.
Just like parenting, being a grandparent is not one-size-fits-all. Trying to do the same thing with each kid won’t make them feel connected to you. Instead, show them that you are aware of what makes them unique. If you have a granddaughter who does ballet, take her to a show when you’re in town and send her videos of professional dancers.;
, Spending time with everyone at once is not only overwhelming but it doesn’t do justice for each child. Of course, some events like seeing a film or going on a vacation may require that everyone is in attendance. Otherwise, schedule an hour or two with each grandchild each time they visit you or vice versa.


One-on-one time offers you the best opportunity to develop and strengthen the bond you have with your grandchildren. Again, use the time to focus on each child’s passions. See a basketball game with a sports fan, or go to the botanical garden with the nature lover., There’s nothing that disconnects you from your grandchildren like favoring one over the others. While it may feel difficult not to spoil Little Henry who looks just like you, avoid it at all costs. Showing favoritism not only makes the other children dislike the favorite, but they also may develop negative feelings towards you in the process.


Treat all your grandchildren fairly. This problem is eliminated when you dedicate special time to focus on each child individually and are sure to focus on their interests. When they feel like Grandma or Grandpa provided them with quality time, they are less likely to care what you did with or for the others.