 Some fake news sites clearly state that they are fake. However, this information may be hidden in the fine print at the bottom of an article. In these cases, fake news sites count on readers to be shocked by a sensational headline without reading through to the article’s conclusion.For example, the fake news site “WTOE 5,” which published a fake news story about Pope Francis endorsing Donald Trump, openly states that it publishes “fantasy news.”Satirical articles can also be mistaken for factual news, although not by the intent of the site itself. Sites such as The Onion, the Daily Currant, Duffle Blog, and National Report publish satirical articles that are sometimes mistaken for actual news.If you think something may be satirical, search the website's name along with the word "satire" and see what comes up.;
, Fake news writers will often try to trick people by using a URL similar to that of an established news site. If you think a news site may be fake, check the URL for any extra suffixes or unexpected numbers or letters.For example, rushed readers may be fooled by the URLs of fake news sites “nbc.com.co” and “abcnews.com.co.”
However, the extraneous “.co” is a clear giveaway that these are not the sites of the real NBC or ABC News, and that the sites likely generate fake news.
Strange domain names usually mean that the content is also strange., A genuine news website should provide a method for readers to reach out with questions or concerns. The site should also offer detailed information about the individuals who work there. If a website does not have a “Contact Us” page, and no way to reach the author(s), the site is likely a fake.For example, the website of the Boston Tribune only lists an email address under the “Contact Us” section, which raises suspicion that the site may provide fake news.
Also, if a purported news site only lists a single individual as the author of every article on the site, it is likely fake. Genuine news sites have many staff members in a variety of positions., Official news sites are usually designed by professionals who know how to make sites look good. The format should be neat, and similar to how other news sites are formatted. Bad design often means the site is not legitimate.All caps is usually a sign that something is not professional.News websites always use plain fonts (usually sans serif), with black text on a white or whitish background.
 Search the website's name in a search engine and see what comes up. Read the "About Us" page, and descriptions of the site such as on Wikipedia and Snopes.Check their social media. Are they posting clickbait, and do the headlines match what the articles actually say?
If you suspect an organization might be biased or controversial, try adding the word "controversy" to your search terms and see what comes up.

