 You will need a large amount of fabric, at least 25 X 25 inches, in order to make multiple beanbags. The fabric is usually a cotton polyester blend and can be found either prepackaged or on the bar at your local arts and crafts store. You can buy material that serves as both the front and back of the bean bag, or purchase different fabrics for the front and back. You will also need:


Sewing machine
Sewing thread which matches your design
Ruler
Pencil
Scissors and/or rotary blade
Dried beans, corn, or peas found in bags at your local grocery store;
, For each bean bag you will need two pieces of fabric, each 5 X 5 inches. It is best to measure the distance with a ruler, making marks with your pencil. Then cut both squares out with a pair of scissors or a rotary blade.








If you use a rotary blade, make sure you are cutting on a safe surface like a cutting board.
 If you wish to iron the fabric so that it is not wrinkled, place a tea towel overtop each piece of fabric. Plug in your iron, wait for it to heat up, and press gently against the tea towel. Do not let the iron sit on the towel too long. Keep it moving.









Make sure you are ironing on a safe surface such as an ironing board. Keep the iron away from children.
 Take one of your pieces of fabric and lay it face up (design up). Then take your other piece of fabric and lay it face down, overtop of the other piece. Make sure the edges are flush with one another. You should not be able to see any of the front design of your fabric.
 First, take a few sewing pins and stick them through the two pieces of fabric. This will hold them together as you are sewing them. Next, place one of the edges underneath the sewing needle of your sewing machine. You will want to sew a 1








As you are sewing around the edge, hold the pieces of fabric tightly together with your hands. However, make sure to keep your fingers away from the needle.
When you get to the corners you can either reposition your fabric 90 degrees and begin stitching again, or make a diagonal stitch before you begin stitching the next side.
Stitch all the way around until you are about 3 inches away from where you started. Stop there, as you will use this "pocket" in later steps.
 Take your thumb and pointer finger and place them inside the opening you left. Grab the farthest inside edge and pull the fabric through the hole. After you have gotten most of the fabric out of the hole, you can go back in with your fingers to poke the corners so that they are sharp and crisp.








Slowly pour in either dried beans, corn, or peas. You can tilt the bag, grab some with your hands, or pour them through the funnel.
You do not want to pack them tight. The beanbags are meant to be grabbed and handled, so it still needs to be slightly loose. Try to leave at least a 1/2 inch of fabric empty on the inside.
 Take the two loose edges of fabric and place them back underneath your sewing needle. Stitch a 1







