 Fight the redness of a blemish by applying cortisone cream. Cortisone will help to fight inflammation and will reduce the surrounding redness of the scar, making it appear less noticeable.You will be able to buy cortisone cream without a prescription, at most pharmacies. It should cost about $10.Look for creams that are labelled as “non-comedogenic,” which means that they avoid ingredients that can clog pores, like cocoa butter, coal tar, isopropyl myristate, and pigments and dyes.Treating your scars while at the same time causing more acne is like fighting a losing battle.;
, Another tool in your arsenal is fade creams. Fade creams that contain kojic acid or arbutin will help to lighten the pigment of the blemished skin, and therefore reduce its visibility.


Such creams, again, should be available at your local pharmacy for a fairly low cost.
Be careful of hydroquinone. Hydroquinone skin fading topicals are fade creams that lighten pigments in the skin; however, they have recently fallen out of favor due to concerns about possible cancer-causing properties.
 Retinoids are topical or oral products that normalize “hyperkeratinisation,” meaning they help your skin cells slough off at a normal rate, which prevents them from clogging pores and causing acne. They also have anti-inflammatory qualities and can improve the look of the skin by promoting healing.Topical retinoids like Retin-A or Tazorac are used in the treatment of acne as well as scarring. Alpha-hydroxy acids and Beta-hydroxy acids, on the other hand, are chemical peels that remove the top layer of dead skin, revealing the newer, less blemished skin underneath.
You can usually buy retinoids in a cream or serum without a prescription.
Pregnant women should avoid them retinoids, as they are not safe for the fetus., Vitamin C not only contains antioxidants and reduces inflammation but it is essential in the production of collagen, which the body uses to heal connective tissue.You can buy specially formulated vitamin C skin creams or serums at drugstores and pharmacies.
An even simpler method is to apply lemon juice to your face with a cotton swab, after a thorough cleansing, leaving it for no longer than a half hour. You may feel some stinging or discomfort. Your skin may also dry out, so you should apply moisturizer afterward.Another variation of this home remedy is to mix lemon juice with honey and milk in a proportion of 1:2:3 and to apply it as a mask after cleansing. Remove after no more than one half hour.Avoid prolonged exposure to the sun while using lemon juice to lighten your skin. Prolonged sunlight is bad for your acne scars as it is, but with lemon juice on your skin, it's particularly bad.
Like many topical treatments, results are not immediate but regular safe use can help prevent and treat acne.
 Because it's a vitamin, we're tempted to think that it will be either beneficial or harmless. In fact, one University of Miami study reported that vitamin E treatment had no effect or worsened the appearance of scars in 90% of subjects, with improvement in only 10% of cases.