 A midi skirt is typically supposed to be worn at mid-calf-length. That is where the name “midi skirt” originates from. Depending on your height, it can be difficult to find a skirt that comes down to that length. If that’s the case, you can choose to wear it shorter or get it altered., If you’re short, a midi skirt can make you look even shorter. The skirt may not look quite right even if you do find a skirt that comes to mid-calf. Instead, choose a skirt that comes just below the knee. It won’t make you look even shorter and will still be considered a midi skirt., A midi skirt is meant to be pulled up to the narrowest part of your waist. When trying on skirt, look for one that fits snugly around that part of your body. Wear a belt or have the skirt altered if you have trouble finding a skirt that fits correctly around your waist., Midi skirts are most often worn loose around the legs, but they can also be worn tightly fitted. A loose skirt is great for a casual or business style. A fitted skirt would be better for a formal occasion or for a night out., It’s rare to find a midi skirt from the store that fits perfectly. Consider going to a tailor to have your skirt altered to your exact measurements. You could also use a sewing machine if you already know how to make alterations., This type of skirt looks best when the shirt is tucked into it. The outfit can look shapeless if a loose top is worn with a loose midi skirt. Choose a relatively short, fitted shirt that can be easily tucked into your skirt., A crop top is a great choice to wear with a midi skirt because it allows your waist to be shown off. You can wear a long sleeve, cap sleeve, or a sleeveless crop top. This look works for both a day or night out., A loose shirt can work well if the midi skirt is fitted. Wear a loose sweater or a long sleeve shirt with the skirt. Tuck in the skirt if it is longer than the waist of the skirt. This look works well for a slightly dressed up outfit on a day out., Depending on your dress code, a button-down shirt paired with a midi skirt is great for an office look. You can wear the button-down with a loose, flowing skirt, or a fitted midi skirt. Tuck the shirt into the skirt., A simple T-shirt is great to wear with a midi skirt because it can be dressed up or down. You can wear it loose or fitted, but it should be tucked in. Wear a statement necklace to dress the look up. Wear simple or no jewelry at all to keep it casual., Shoes with ankle straps can make your legs look shorter when wearing a midi skirt. This may not be a problem if you already have very long legs. If you do not, opt for a pair of basic pumps or stilettos., It is possible to wear flats with a midi skirt without shortening the look of your legs. Look for a pair of flats with a pointed or almond toe. It is also best to wear a shorter midi skirt when wearing flats., Avoid wearing a pair of ankle boots that leaves a portion of the leg exposed. Instead, wear a pair of boots that are long enough that come under the midi skirt. If you don’t have a pair of long boots, wear ankle boots with opaque tights underneath., Choose a basic pair of sneakers for a comfortable and casual look. Look for a pair of sneakers that have a very simple design and are only one color. Pair the sneakers with a loose midi skirt and basic T-shirt.