 Just because your dog’s vision is impaired doesn’t mean his other senses don’t work. Your dog will find your voice soothing and familiar, which can help with the stress of not being able to see as well.This is a great opportunity to talk to your pet even more. Let him know when you are coming near and before you touch him. This will reduce the chances of you surprising him, which can be more likely and more stressful when he is visually impaired.;
, Having a visually impaired dog can be tough on both of you, especially if this is a change for your pet. Do your best to remain positive and keep his routine the same. Developing blindness can make your dog depressed and withdrawn, so keep a cheery sound to your voice when you play to keep his (and your) spirits up., This is a good step to take when you are out walking with your dog. It will be pretty difficult for other people to tell that your dog is blind, so you’ll want to make sure they know when they approach. Let them know it is okay to pet your dog, if you want to let them, but they should tell the dog they are near, and let him sniff their hands first.One way you can help is to give your dog a bandana or other clothing that clearly says “I’m Blind,” or something similar. This can be especially helpful if you are walking in an area with lots of people, and don’t want to have to stop all of them., If you think, or know, that your dog’s eyesight is weakening, talk to your vet about care and other changes you should make in your life. You should also consider talking to trainers who have experience with blind dogs to think about new ways to interact with your pet. While having a visually impaired dog can be challenging, it is not uncommon, and there are many professionals available to help you and your pet adjust.


Vets in particular can be helpful because they can more accurately describe the circumstances of your dog’s blindness. Depending on the reason, and if caught early and treated aggressively, vision loss or blindness can be reversed with medical care., Owning a visually impaired dog can be tough on you at times, and it’s good to know that you aren’t alone. Talk to your vet, trainers, and other dog owners to find other people in your situation. You can share tips on how to best take care of your friends, and have a circle of people to provide emotional support when you need it., The adjustment period for a dog that is losing its eyesight can be tough, and it is easy for you to get frustrated watching him struggle. You need to remember that this is a process, and he will get there.As much as you try to help, there will be some things that your dog needs to learn on his own. For you, this means letting try doing new things, like finding his way around the house. You may be tempted to pick him up and carry him where he wants to go, but it is important that he is able to figure it out on his own.
 Some dogs treat oncoming blindness as if it were an enemy, something they can fight against. This will make your dog more aggressive, which can lead to him lashing out at you or others in your house. You’ll want to find ways to minimize situations that lead to aggression. This is a careful balance between being too kind, which will only encourage the behavior, or being too stern, which will help escalate the situation., When dogs would rather back down from an aggressor, they will probably react to losing their sight by retreating. These dogs will move slowly, lower their heads, ears, and tails, eat and do less, and sleep longer. The best thing you can do is not reinforce these feelings by remaining positive and connected to your dog, touching and petting him whenever possible. If you feel like you might be sad or cry, give your dog a toy and separate yourself from him until you feel better., Some dogs will use you as a crutch, following you around and making you do everything with them. It can be very tempting to want to help your pet, but you need to resist this impulse. Make sure your dog is able to learn to do new things without you. It may take a little time, but as your dog learns to cope, he will gain more confidence in his ability., Your dog is going to need some assistance navigating the world with more limited sight, so this is an opportunity to teach your dog new commands. You want to focus on commands that will help your dog adjust, so teach things like “Stop” or “Step” to alert your dog when he is coming near an obstacle.Another good command is to get your dog to respond to a sound like your fingers snapping. This is a simple, repeatable sound that your dog can associate with you. This can be very effective if you are somewhere loud or with other people, as you’ll want something more distinctive to get your dog’s attention., This will let your dog get some exercise while not over-exerting his limited vision. Look for games that force him to rely on his other senses, especially hearing and smell. Play catch on a driveway or hard surface, making sure your stick or ball bounces on the hard surface to let your dog hear where it is., When you take your dog out for a walk, make sure to use a harness rather than a collar, and use a shorter leash. The harness will feel more secure for your pet, while the shorter leash gives you greater control, and can prevent tripping., Dogs communicate a lot with body language, especially the way they approach one another. Because your dog can’t see very well, he won’t react as much when meeting a new dog. The new dog may interpret the lack of reaction as an aggressive posture, creating potential trouble. Make sure new dogs approach yours slowly, giving both of them time to figure one another out.


In spite of this difficulty with meeting new dogs, it is important for your dog’s mental health to spend time around other dogs if possible. Dogs are social animals, and generally enjoy interacting with each other., Put your dog’s food, water, crate, and other familiar items in the same area. This will give your dog a familiar and comfortable place to go to if he starts to feel lost or disoriented. Plus, he will always know where his food and water are, which can be very helpful.For the water bowl, you may consider using a drinking fountain that provides water to the dish. The bubbling sound will help your dog find the bowl when he needs the water, and can help lead him to his base camp., If your dog can’t see, it will be a big help to him that you keep large furniture arranged in the same way. If your dog’s eyesight is starting to fade, he may try to walk around the house to get a good sense of where large obstacles are. Keeping a standard layout will help your dog’s confidence in his surroundings, making the visual impairment easier to handle.This doesn’t mean that you can’t rearrange furniture. Assuming your dog is in a positive mood, and you are willing to help him navigate around the new layout, you can lead guide him through it for a few days. Just avoid doing this too often, for both of your sakes.If you do rearrange things, take some time to crawl on the floor at your dog’s eye level. This will help you see potential problem areas, and let you cover up future danger spots like sharp corners.
 When your dog has limited vision, you’ll want to find some ways to make certain items and areas recognizable for him. Using his sense of smell and hearing, you can create signals that let your dog know that something, or someone, is near.The easiest thing to do is add bells to yourself and your family members. The jingling sound helps to let your dog know you are nearby. Consider adding bells to the collars of other dogs, as they are more likely to approach their housemate without talking first.Using scents and odors is another way to help your dog understand where he is. Place flavored extracts, scented oils, colognes, and other smells in important areas like stairs or doorways so your dog can recognize those areas when he gets near them.
If you are out of the house, consider leaving on a TV or radio for some additional ambient noise. The extra sound will be familiar to your dog, and help calm his anxiety from not knowing where you are. Plus, knowing there the TV is will help him stay oriented in the house.
Outside your home, a wind chime is a nice, unobtrusive addition that can help your dog always “hear” where the house is when he wants to go back.
 Not in your whole house, but in areas where your dog will be. Put down rugs or plastic mats in specific places, say your dog’s base camp or near the top of stairs. This will help your dog recognize where he is around the house, and let him know that he is in a safe place, or near something dangerous. When you place these new textures down, it can be helpful to take your dog to them, and walk him over the transition areas so he gets comfortable with what the new floor means.Just make sure to make these textures varied depending on what you want your dog to know. It won’t help your dog if “top of the stairs” feels the same as “my safe space.”
Outside, it can be helpful to put a “warning track” of mulch or bark chips around trees, buildings, or other large objects. This will let your dog know he is getting close to something, and either slow down or change direction.
 If there are parts of your home that you can’t make safe for your dog, say a room with lots of heavy furniture or a pool, consider closing it off. A baby gate can work inside the house, though for something outdoors like a pool you may need to install a fence. This will help keep your dog from wandering into areas where he can get hurt, and gives him another landmark to look for.