 Child custody is a major issue in a divorce or separation where the couple has children. If both parties can agree to a parenting plan, the court will not have to hold a hearing or trial to determine custody. Talk to the other parent about how best to schedule custody and visitation. Remember to take into account each parent's work schedule and the child's school schedule. For example, if you work during the times that your child is home from school, let the other parent have the child at those times.


Decide who will get physical custody. Physical custody means that the child primarily lives with that parent. The other parent has visitation rights, and can visit the child or have the child visit him or her.Decide who will get legal custody. A parent with legal custody has the right to make decisions about the child's health care, education, and religious upbringing.Both parents can usually share legal custody even if one parent has physical custody.;
, Try talking with a third party who can act as a neutral negotiator if you and the other parent are having trouble reaching a parenting agreement. Your county may have a court-sponsored mediation program to help parents construct a parenting plan. Ask the court clerk whether your county has a mediation program and how you can schedule mediation with a court-sponsored mediator. If you call the clerk, he or she may be able to refer you to mediation information on the court's website. If you visit the clerk in person, he or she may direct you to a pamphlet with that information.
 You can find blank Parenting Plan forms at supremecourt.ohio.gov. On the form, write down the details of your parenting agreement. The form will prompt you to enter holiday and vacation schedules. There is also space to arrange for other special events or occasions.You can type into the forms before you print them, or complete them in blue or black ink. Follow the included instructions and attach additional pages if necessary.
If you cannot agree with the other parent on the details of your parenting plan, consult a mediator. If you still cannot come to an agreement, you will need to ask the judge to make a custody determination at a hearing or trial. The judge will hear argument from both sides and try to make a decision that is in the best interests of the child.
 Make copies of your forms and take them to the court clerk. The clerk will stamp the original and the copies as "filed" and keep the original document for the court's file. The judge will review the agreement. As long as there are no problems, the judge should sign the bottom of the form, making the agreement a court order. Both parents are required to follow the agreement.


You should submit your parenting plan along with your divorce/dissolution paperwork. The filing fee for a divorce action in Ohio is approximately $250.If you cannot afford to pay the fee, ask the clerk for information on how to apply for a fee waiver. You will be required to provide detailed information about your income and expenses for the judge to review before your waiver is granted.

