 Avoid the sides of the trampoline as they may not give you enough bounce to complete a swivel hip. Give it 1-3 good bounces. Try to get as much time in the air as possible. The higher the bounce, the more time you have to complete a swivel hip.









Bend at the knees as you land. As you jump up vertically from the trampoline, rebound from the trampoline by pushing from the trampoline with your feet.Use both arms to make a scooping motion near the trampoline. Your arms should be naturally swinging, not clenched or at your sides. Bring your arms quickly up into the air, stretching to reach the sky. This will allow your body to stretch naturally and gain more air time to bounce higher.;
, A seat drop is a move where you land in a sitting position while your toes are pointed in front of you. Your back should be straight and not hunched over. A seat drop is essentially jumping high in the air, then landing in a sitting position on the trampoline.









Your hands should be sitting on the trampoline as you land, pointing into the direction of your legs. They should be parallel to your thighs to aid in balancing your seat drop., Practice a seat drop and landing on your feet until you feel comfortable doing it. Make sure that your hands are high up in the air as you land on your feet in the middle of the trampoline.









Your arms should be moving naturally in a swinging motion to help you in achieving more time in the air.
 As you are about to land on your feet from a seat drop, twist your body so that you're facing the opposite direction. Swing your hips and your arms will naturally following into the direction of the twist. Land on your feet in the said opposite direction. Note that it is important that the arms go up high and fast.









Do not twist straight from seat position, as you will not move properly. Wait until you nearly land on your feet, then twist quickly.
 Ensure that your arms are located high above your head. Remember, bring your arms up as quickly as possible. Keep trying!








, After your seat drop half twist out, swing your hips forward into the opposite direction, and land on your bottom for another seat drop. Again, your hands should be near your thighs, touching the trampoline and pointing into the direction of your toes. Now you have completed one set of swivel hips. Keep practicing until it becomes a natural, fluid motion.
 See if you can put a few together in a row. Once you get the hang of it, your hips will begin to look like you're swiveling on the trampoline.
 After you've mastered swivel hips on the trampoline, invite your friends over and show them your new move! See if you can beat the world record and perform 44 consecutive swivel hips.







