 Whether you are moving and want to take your lilies with you, your garden is becoming too crowded, or you have some other reason to transplant your lilies, you should try to divide and transplant every three to five years. Doing this will help to keep the plants from becoming overcrowded and will boost their flower production.


Lilies will divide themselves in the soil and become crowded. This will cause the patch to produce fewer blooms. Having fewer blooms is a sign that it’s time to divide and transplant the patch.;
, Because you need to wait until the lily is dormant before transplanting, it may be hard to find the plant once the foliage has died away. This can be make it hard to know where to dig to gain access to the roots of the plant without damaging them.


One solution is to draw a circle around the plant using spray paint before the flowers fade.
Alternately, mark the spot with a circle of stones, or insert plant markers into the soil (without damaging the bulb).
 At the same time as you mark the plant’s location, it’s a good idea to prepare the new planting area so it has time to settle ahead of planting. Lilies will want a sunny spot with good drainage.


If you know your soil to be clay heavy or have poor drainage, or if you observe puddles forming and disappearing rather slowly when it rains, you’ll need to improve drainage by digging in plenty of grit or compost. Alternately, consider raising the beds.
Weed the soil at the new planting site and incorporate some organic matter into the soil. This organic matter can be compost or manure. Leave the bed to sit for a few weeks or months.
 Resurrection Lilies should only be transplanted when in their dormant stage, which occurs in the late summer and into the fall and winter. Try to transplant you lilies in the fall about a month before you expect the first frosts.


You should note that, while it’s better to transplant the bulbs when dormant in the fall, it probably won’t harm them to be moved in the late summer or winter. However, this can lead to a delay in flower production during the next season.
 Be aware that the lilies won’t always flower again the following year after being transplanted. Sometimes they refuse to flower for several years after the shock of the move. You might want to consider transplanting your patch of Resurrection Lilies in stages over a number of years to ensure you get at least some blooms in the year after transplantation.

