 Your suede couch should have a care label that tells you how to clean it. A W-label indicates that it’s safe to use water when cleaning your couch. An S-label couch will react well to solvents like rubbing alcohol, but you should avoid using water. A S-W label means you can use either water or a special solvent, but a X-label means you can’t use any liquid at all. For X-label couches, you should only use your vacuum for cleaning the couch cushions.If you can’t find a care tag on your couch, a safe way to proceed is to treat it as if it has an S-tag.;
, If you can, remove the cushions from your suede couch. This will allow you to clean both sides and make it easier to get the entire cushion clean. If your cushions are not removable, be extra careful to clean the whole cushion.
 Working against the grain of the suede in your cushion, gently brush the cushion with a suede brush. This lifts up the nap, which helps you saturate the cushion with cleaner.If you don’t have a suede brush, a clean bath towel will work just as well.
 For couches with W-labels, fill a spray bottle with warm water and then add a few squirts of mild dish soap. If your couch has an S-label care tag, fill a water bottle with undiluted rubbing alcohol., To clean your whole cushions to refresh your couch, work on one small area at a time. Spray a small area so that’s it damp, but not soaked, with the cleaning solution you’re using., Use a white towel to rub the section you sprayed in a circular motion. Work from the inside of the damp area out, rubbing the cleaning solution gently in to the fabric. Using a white towel will prevent any color transfer from your towel to the couch., Repeat the circular motions you used to clean the cushions to work clear water into the suede. This will rinse your cushions. Use the towel to buff at the edges of your clean area to prevent water marks., If you’re cleaning both sides of a cushion, let the first side dry before you flip it over and work on the other side. If you’re cleaning cushions that are permanently attached to the sofa, let them completely dry before sitting on the sofa again., Once the cushions are dry, brush them with a soft brush or bath towel. This fluffs the suede fibers back up and gives your couch a clean, refreshed look.