 Because it is an antioxidant booster and encourages blood flow, ginkgo biloba is believed to help promote hair growth. Proper circulation is essential to maintaining a health scalp and preventing hair loss and, although there is little evidence linking it to hair growth, ginkgo biloba may prevent baldness.You can find ginkgo biloba at most pharmacies and health food stores.


Take 40-80 mg, 3 times a day for best results.
 This supplement is thought to prevent the hormones that cause hair loss.It can be ground up and taken as a supplement or the plant’s extract can be applied directly to the scalp as topical oil. However, there are not clinical studies that have shown that stinging nettle prevents hair loss.In order to properly treat baldness, it is recommended that you take 500 mg of stinging nettle a day.Combine with saw palmetto for best results.
Stinging nettle can be found in most pharmacies and health food store

, Much like stinging nettle, saw palmetto is believed to prevent the release of the hormone associated with baldness.However, there is no clinical evidence that saw palmetto can prevent baldness.For best results, consider taking with stinging nettle.Take 160 mg, twice a day or follow the manufacturer’s instructions., This East Asian herb is commonly associated with improving brain and nervous system function.It is also believed to prevent baldness and is included in many shampoos and conditioners.However, there is no scientific evidence to support these claims.


There are multiple products, so be sure to follow the manufacturer’s guidelines.
 This supplement is believed to strengthen bones and treat osteoporosis. Because of this, it also believed to promote hair and nail growth.However, there is no clinical evidence that horsetail prevents baldness, strengthens hair or promotes hair growth.


For best results, take one capsule once a day or follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Some studies have shown that fenugreek extract may increase hair growth and prevent baldness.This is believed to be because of its anti-inflammatory properties. However, there is little clinical evidence that fenugreek actually prevents baldness.Because there are multiple products, be sure to follow the manufacturer’s recommendations

