 There are many ways of playing Stepmania. While the possibilities are pretty much endless, there are some main styles you should probably try first. Stick with what fits you best.


Note that to change the keys with which you play, go to Options>Config Key/Joy Mappings.


One-Handed. One-handed is a style in which you only use one hand to play the game. This hand will almost always be playing on the arrow keys, because anywhere else would require a huge amount of hand-stretching. This form is probably the hardest to master.
Index. Index is when you use two hands, but only the index fingers of both. While this style is mostly played on the arrow keys, you can also play it on different places, like the alternate keypad (with 2468).
Four-fingered. Four-fingered is when you use both of your hands, using two fingers from each. The most common form of this is (← = Left Middle Finger, ↓ = Left Index Finger, ↑ = Right Index Finger, → = Right Middle Finger). This is probably the most common form between casual players, and is quite versatile between all patterns.
Spread. Spread is fundamentally the same as Four-Fingered, but the position of your fingers are different. The most common form is ASKL spread, where it is (A = Left Middle Finger, S = Left Index Finger, K = Right Index Finger, L = Right Middle Finger). There are also other forms of this, such as diagonal spread (QSLP Spread).;
, There is much terminology to be learned in Stepmania. Try to keep these in your head when playing.


Learn the Scoring System. When playing Stepmania, you may be given a score that confuses you. Here is what most of the scores mean.


AAAAA: Passing a song with all Ridiculous notes. The chances of getting this score is nigh impossible, so don't be surprised if you never get it. You will also need to download Ridiculous Timing to even have a chance at getting this.
AAAA: Passing a song with all Marvelous or better notes. Once again, getting this score is very very very hard, unless on a very easy song, so don't expect to get this. You will need to turn Marvelous timing on to get this (which is included with Stepmania, unlike Ridiculous Timing).
AAA: Passing a song with all Perfect or better notes.
AA: Passing a song with either a Full Combo, or very near it, with good accuracy.
A: Passing a song with only a few Combo Breakers and good accuracy.
B: Passing a song with a good amount of Combo Breakers and OK accuracy.
C: Passing a song with a lot of Combo Breakers and perhaps decent accuracy.
D: Barely passing a song. Lots of Combo Breakers and bad accuracy.
E: Failing a song.


Learn the Terminology. There are other terms to learn to when playing Stepmania, such as names of patterns.

Learn the Patterns. There are many patterns you must learn in Stepmania, some of which will give you trouble. Note that, in this section: ← = 4, ↓ = 2, ↑ = 8, and → = 6 (as seen on the numpad).




Stream. A constant string of 16th notes (yellow notes).
Rolls. A rolling pattern between all 4 arrows (68246824). It may also refer to a long note that requires you to repetitively tap in order for it to count.
Staircases. A pattern similar to rolls but with a staircase pattern (6824286824).
Trills. A repeating pattern between 2 arrows (686868 or 646464).
Jacks. A pattern consisting of quick, repeated taps to one arrow (888888 or 666666).
Triples. A pattern involving 3 quick taps and a pause (686, 424, 464).
Jumps. A pattern involving 2 arrows hit at the same time.
Jump stream. A stream with jumps in it.
Gallops. A pattern consisting of 2 quick arrows in a row, making a galloping sound (tap-tap).
Crossovers. Patterns of 4262426, 4868486, etc. in which pad dancing would require you to cross your foot over to the other side of the pad.
Runningmen. A pattern where there is one constant arrow hit with 2 arrows alternating in between. ( Note: The two alternating arrows must each be on the same side of the constant arrow, otherwise it's a mini-staircase or crossover staircase).
Chains. A pattern consisting of alternating jumps and single notes, connected by a single common note. (46), 6, (26), 2, etc.
Hands/Quads. A hand is three arrows at once, and a quad is four arrows at once.
 If you are just beginning, do not download a pack full of hard songs. If you play index, don't download a pack full of songs for people who play spread. Start easy, then slowly build up.

