 This hair style works well for men with short hair, and can work just as well for women with short hair. If you have short hair, this will flatter your hair type, because it gives you a clean look while showing off how thick your hair is. With this cut the back and sides of your hair are cut down closer to your head but not quite as short as an undercut. This cut will give you lots of styling options:You can do a trendy updated pomp. With this style, your hair is styled upward from the forehead and gives you a taller look. Apply gel to your damp hair and style up with a round barrel brush and blow dryer. Apply a clay based finishing product, like a pomade, to give your hair a matte look instead of a shiny finish.
You can go for a messy style with your new cut. You can use a matte hair product from Sebastian, Axe or Bed Head. Once your hair is mostly dry, rub the workable wax in your palms, and give your hair the beginning of a side part by styling your hair more to one side. Grab smaller pieces of hair and gently twist them in different directions. Do this around your head, and it will give your hair a piecey, messy look.;
, If you have medium, shoulder length hair, this could be a great cut for you. Long layers can frame your face while giving your hair more motion and less poof. You can start the layers around your cheekbones and have them continue down your hair. This hairstyle is great because it can be low maintenance, and you can easily go the natural wavy route following method 2 with this hair style. This is a great haircut for people with long face shapes. However, avoid extremely long haircuts with the long layers and this face shape.Wear your hair half up and half down. Leave out the layers in the front that frame your face. Pull half of your hair back into a barrette or ponytail. This is a very flattering style for people with thick, wavy hair, because it will show off your hair’s natural volume. Use this hairstyle on a day that you don't want to thoroughly style your hair. , This cut could be very flattering for your thick, coarse hair. Your hair is a great match for this cut, because when you have thick hair the strands will hold better. However, consider your face shape before you get blunt cut bangs:


Go with this cut if you have a long face shape. Blunt cut bangs will shorten a long face if it is paired with long hair. Be careful with blunt cut bangs if you have a round face shape. If you get this cut, tell your hair stylist to cut the bangs longer on the sides and shorter in the middle. This gives your hair some angle. Avoid getting blunt cut bangs if you have a heart shaped face. Consider getting long layers instead.Blunt bangs do a great job framing square face shapes.Put your hair in a thick side braid if you have blunt cut bangs. This is a good option on a day that you don't have much time to style your hair. This will flatter your thick hair and at the same time tame it in a braid. 