 Use a computer or notebook that can be connected to your iPhone via a USB port. You can find the iPhone Data Eraser software at http://www.recover-iphone-ios-8.com/iphone-data-eraser.html. Be sure that you check the "Mac" circle next to the "Supported OS:" text. Then either click the "Free Trial" option or purchase the product.iPhone Data Eraser will work with iPhones (versions 6/5s/5c/5/4s/4/3GS), iPads (including the 1/2/Mini/New iPad) and iPods (including Classic/Touch/Nano/Shuffle).;
, Simply click on the download location and wait for the file to open. Then drag the "Wondershare SafeEraser" icon over to the Applications folder that appears next to it in the installation window. The program will then appear as "Wondershare SafeEraser" in your Applications folder unless you opt to move it elsewhere.
 Locate the file under Applications or wherever you chose to store it. Click it to open and launch.
 You'll want to connect your mobile device to your computer or notebook's USB port with a cord. Once connected, iPhone Data Eraser will detect your mobile device display an interface that shows your used and free storage space.
 You'll notice four options listed alongside the introductory "Hello iPhone" screen. Each of the four options offers a different level of file removal.
 This removes junk files from your iOS device. After clicking this option, select the "Start Scan" button so that the program locates removable junk. Once completed, the scan will display various junk files and allow you to select those you'd like removed. You may view additional details about those files by clicking on the blue file-size icon to the right of each category. After sorting through the files, check the boxes next to the files you wish to remove and then click the blue "Erase now" button.
 This removes your search history, cookies and a number of other forms of private information. After clicking this option, select the "Start Scan" button so that the program locates private data. Once completed, the scan will display various private files and allow you to select those you'd like removed. You may view additional details about those files by clicking on the blue file-size icon to the right of each category. After sorting through the files, check the boxes next to the files you wish to remove and then click the blue "Erase now" button. You will be prompted to type "delete" in order to confirm your request.
 This removes files that have already been moved to the Trash. After clicking this option, select the "Start Scan" button so that the program locates trashed data. Once completed, the scan will display various deleted files and allow you to select those you'd like permanently removed. You may view additional details about those files by clicking on the blue file-size icon to the right of each category. All file categories will be checked for removal by default, so uncheck any boxes for files you wish to keep and then click the blue "Erase now" button. You will be prompted to type "delete" in order to confirm your request.
 This removes all personal files and restores the device to its factory condition. You'll be presented three security levels associated with different removal procedures, so read the explanations and choose that which is most appropriate for your needs. You will be prompted to type "delete" in order to confirm your request.

