 Physical activity is a known energy booster, and can also help you get a better night's sleep.If you're feeling fatigued and low on energy, a vigorous workout every day or several times each week can help you feel more energetic and get better, more restful sleep.


Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day or follow the guidelines here.Opt for cardio workouts like walking, running, and biking.Talk to your doctor before beginning a workout routine.
 Whether you're lounging at home or tied to your desk at work, stretching can help give you a noticeable boost in energy.Stretch your arms and hands above your head as high as you can reach, and hold them for 10 to 15 seconds.With your arms outstretched to the side, lower your torso to one side so that one set of hands touches the floor and the other set of hands points upward. Hold this for 10 to 15 seconds, then reverse to the other side.
Touch your toes while your legs are as straight as possible., If you're constantly feeling low on energy, you may not be getting enough sleep, or you may be getting poor quality sleep.Teenagers typically need between eight and 10 hours of sleep each night.Adults ages 18 to 64 typically need between seven and nine hours of sleep each night.Older adults ages 65 and up typically need between seven to eight hours of sleep each night.Limit caffeine and stimulants to help ensure a good night's sleep.Turn off all electronics at least 30 minutes before bed to ensure a better night's sleep., Stress has been recognized as a trigger for worsening symptoms associated with chronic fatigue syndrome, as well as general problems with sleeping and getting adequate rest.Take deep breaths from your diaphragm to help lower your heart rate and reduce stress.Try progressive muscle relaxation to unwind. Slowly tense each major muscle group in your body, focusing on one part of the body at a time. Hold that tense pose for about five seconds, then release the tension and relax for 30 seconds before moving on to the next muscle group.Take a vacation or work on issues that are adding to your daily stress, such as relationship issues, to help relieve stress.Consider taking added steps to address your stress and help you to relax such as participating in classes for meditation, mindfulness, or yoga., If you're experiencing consistently low energy levels, your doctor may recommend that you take supplements to help. Always consult your doctor before beginning any supplement regimen.


Examples of supplements used to boost energy include 300 mg to 1000 mg of magnesium, sometimes combined with malic acid, and omega 3s and 6s, taken cautiously to avoid interactions with existing meds.Some doctors recommend taking NADH at a dose of 5 mg to 20 mg per day, DHEA, dosed at 50 mg to 200 mg per day, vitamin B12 by injection, dosed at 2500 mcg to 5000 mcg every two to three days for several weeks, and beta-carotine, 50,000 IU each day to strengthen the immune system.Other supplements include L-carnitine, 500 mg to 1000 mg three times day for eight weeks, vitamin D at a dose of 600 to 1000 IU each day, and melatonin, 0.5 mg to 3 mg nightly about 8 hours before bedtime., Some people find that certain herbal treatments help boost energy levels and fight fatigue. However, herbal treatments can cause problems with existing medical conditions and prescribed medications.Do not take any herbal remedies without consulting your doctor.


Herbs that may prove helpful with treating chronic fatigue syndrome include ginseng and echinacea. Both have been shown to be possibly helpful in increasing the immune response in people with chronic fatigue syndrome.Essential oils including jasmine, peppermint, and rosemary oil may possibly be helpful with reducing stress associated with this syndrome. You can use the essential oils as aromatherapy by applying the oil to a cotton ball, by adding a few drops in a warm bath, or by using a unit that disperses aromas within the room.