 The Alzheimer's Association does not recommend using home tests instead of a doctor's visit.Use this quick, 10-minute test only if you do not have immediate access to a doctor, or if you cannot convince a family member or friend to visit a doctor.


Do not take this test if you are not fluent in the language it is being given in, or if you have a learning disability or dyslexia.Visit a doctor instead.
 The person who has possible dementia-like symptoms just needs to listen to instructions. A second person reads the steps below, and gives instructions or asks questions directed at the person being tested. Take note of how many points the test-taker earns for each section. At the end of the test, add up the scores in each section. Any score of 23 or below (out of 30 total) suggests possible cognitive impairment, which could indicate dementia or other health issues.


No calendars should be visible during the test.
Usually, 10 seconds are given to answer each question, with 30–60 seconds for questions involving spelling, writing or drawing.
 Ask the person suspected of dementia the following questions, one at a time, in order. Score one point for each correct answer.


What year is it?
What season is it?
What month is it?
What is today's date?
What is the day of the week?

, Ask where the person is currently located, in five separate questions. Score one point for each successful answer to the following:


What country are you in?
What state are you in? (Or "province," "territory," or similar term)
What city are you in? (Or "town")
What is the address of this house? (Or "What is the name of this building?")
What room are we in? (Or "What floor are we on?" for hospital patients.)

, Name three simple objects (for example, "table, car, house"), and ask the person to repeat them immediately after you. You must say them all together, with pauses in between, and the test-taker must also repeat them back to you all at once. Also, tell them that you will ask them to recall these words in a few minutes.


Score one point for each word successfully repeated on the first try.
Keep repeating the three objects until the test-taker succeeds. Do not score any points for successes after the first try, but write down the number of repetitions it takes for the test-taker to remember all three objects. (This is used in some expanded versions of the test.)

, Spell the word WORLD ("W-O-R-L-D"). Then ask the test-taker to spell the word WORLD backwards. Score 5 points if he succeeds within 30 seconds, and 0 points if he does not.


Some medical professionals find it helpful to write down the exact response the test-taker gives to this question.
This step should not be translated into another language directly. Try to find a version of the MMSE in that language to see what word is usually used.
 Ask the person to repeat the three words you told him to memorize earlier. Score one point per word remembered.
 Point to a pencil, and ask "What is this called?" Point to a wristwatch, and repeat the question. Score one point per correct answer.
 Ask the person to repeat the phrase "no ifs, ands, or buts." Score one point if he succeeds.


This is another step that cannot be translated directly to other languages.
 Ask the person to follow a 3-step command (3 points). For example, tell the person to take a piece of paper in their right hand, fold it in half, and put it on the floor.
 On a piece of paper, write "close your eyes." Pass the paper to the test-taker, and ask him to follow this command. Score one point if he does within ten seconds.
 Ask the person to write any complete sentence. If it includes a noun and a verb, and makes sense, score 1 point. Spelling errors do not matter.
 Sketch a geometric design on a piece of paper: one pentagon (five-sided figure), with a second pentagon overlapping on one corner. Ask the test-taker to copy this design on his own piece of paper. Score one point if he succeeds in matching the following characteristics:


Two shapes, both pentagons
An overlap that creates a four-sided shape (or however many sides your original figure had).
 If the test-taker scores 23 or below, visiting a doctor is recommended. Do not attempt to tell the test-taker what the results mean, if you do not have medical training in this area.


If the results are 24 or above, but symptoms are still concerning, try taking the MoCA test as well.

