 You can position them anywhere on the cross, but it is important to keep a couple of things in mind.


The higher the eyes sit, the smaller they might have to be to account for eyebrow and forehead space. Visa versa, the lower they are set, the larger and more dramatic the eyes can be.
You will likely want the eyes to be an equal distance from the vertical line of the cross as well as levelly placed on the horizontal line of the cross.
 Your ovals can have a few different shapes.


Straight up-and-down (Note: In this style, you may want your ovals touching on their inner sides right in the middle of the face.)
Slanted to the outside edgesOverlapped, with a small semicircle drawn at the bottom of the eye, cutting off the bottom of the oval, These again take on your creativity, as you can choose how big they are and where you want them. Here are a few ideas:


Shade small pupils into the center of the ovals
Draw and shade large pupils that fill the bottoms of the ovals
Draw the pupils on the inside of each oval, making the character look cross-eyed
Leave a small spot of the pupil unshaded to hint at the glint that often appears on human eyeballs in light

, This will give your character a little more life and realism.


Common colors for eyes include blue, green, brown, gray, and hazel. However, you can get creative with your cartoon and use other colors, such as purple, orange, or red.
Depending on the size you made your pupils, you can make the iris thicker or thinner. The size of the pupil indicates the emotion of the character, i.e. if the character is scared, then his/her pupils will be larger, showing less iris.
 It is up to you how you draw these characteristics, as it will depend on whether your character is male or female.


Shade in the top edge of the oval to be a thick line that tapers at either edge to demonstrate more masculine eyelashes.Draw wispy eyelashes from the top of the oval to demonstrate more feminine eyelashes. You might still want to add in the tapered shading mentioned above to give the appearance of makeup.
Only add a few thick eyelashes to make the eyes and face look very rudimentary and simple.Shade in the eyebrows to a style of your liking. You can make them thick and bushy for a male or slender and arched for a female. You can also play around with the emotions of the eyebrows, making them angry, surprised, shocked, worried, et cetera.

