 If you are in an immediately threatening situation, stay out of places in your home where you could become trapped. This includes rooms such as closets, bathrooms, and other small spaces where you might not be able to leave. Find a room with a door or window if you can. If the situation escalates, you’ll be able to leave.
Avoid rooms like the kitchen. Abusers can use many things in a kitchen, including knives, as weapons.
If you can, find a room that locks from the inside. Lock your abuser out.;
, If you are in a dangerous situation, consider giving the abuser what s/he is demanding. Remember that you have a right to protect yourself and stay safe. There is no reason to feel ashamed or wrong for doing whatever is necessary to preserve your safety., If you have a cellphone, keep it with you at all times. If you don’t have a cellphone or can’t find it, get to a room with a phone so that you can call for help.In the United States, you can call 911 for free on almost any public phone or landline., Call the police once you are in a (relatively) safe place to do so. Tell the dispatcher that you are in danger from your abuser and that you need someone to come to the house directly.If you are able to leave the house, tell the dispatcher where you are going and how to contact you.
 It could take some time for the police to respond to your call. If it’s possible, run to a neighbor’s house for safety. Just be sure you let the emergency services dispatcher know where you are going so that the officers can find you., When the police arrive, tell them exactly what happened in as much detail as possible. If you can, show them any injuries or property destruction that occurred.Make sure you get the officers’ badge numbers and names.
Seek medical attention if you were hurt.
Ask for a copy of the police report and your case number.
Document any injuries or property destruction with photos. Get statements from any witnesses.
 In some cases, the police are obligated to make an arrest for domestic violence incidents. However, in some cases they are not able to make an arrest. You need to find a place to stay safe from your abuser. Domestic violence hotlines can help you find safe shelters in your area.


If you were injured, the shelter can often help arrange medical attention.
You do not have to give any personal information about yourself to shelters. If it helps you feel safer, give a false name.