 Lay down newspaper or a drop cloth on the floor underneath the oak piece you will be working on. Put on protective googles to protect your eyes from the potent chemicals in the furniture stripper. You should also put on gloves to protect your hands.If possible, apply the chemical stripper outdoors for proper ventilation. If you do it indoors, open as many doors and windows as possible.;
, Use a large paintbrush to apply a paste furniture stripper (available at hardware stores) to the oak piece you are treating. Work from the top, downwards to apply an even coat to the entire surface. For hard to reach spots, try using a small amount of liquid furniture stripper, which is best suited to small or irregularly shaped surfaces.If any furniture stripper gets onto your skin, stop working and flush it off immediately with clean water.
 Follow the manufacturer’s directions for how long to leave the chemical stripper on your oak item. Many furniture stripping products are meant to be left on for 20-30 minutes. Set an alarm to keep track of the time to avoid leaving the product on too long, which could damage the wood., Try inserting the knife into the paste. Begin removing it if it is soft enough for your knife to go through to the wood. Remove as much paste as possible.Soak a piece of medium-grade steel wool in the chemical stripper and use it to remove any stubborn bits of the paste.
 Many brands of furniture stripper require that you use water to wash away the chemicals from the wood. Fill a bucket with warm water and use a clean cloth to wipe down the entire surface of the wood item. Allow it to dry for several hours, or overnight., Before apply a lime finish to your oak, fill in any holes or gaps with wood filler (available at hardware stores). Use a putty knife to fill in holes just above the surface. Let the filler dry, then use a piece of coarse sandpaper to even out the bumps., To bring out the grain of the wood, use a bronze brush (available at hardware stores) to rub the wood. Be sure to move in the direction of the grain to avoid scratches or marks. Avoid using a steel brush, which may harm the oak., Use a handheld vacuum to remove sawdust and other debris from the surface of the wood. Clean the floor and surround area as well to ensure that all the fragments are removed. Use a tack cloth to wipe down the surface of the wood after vacuuming., Purchase lime wax at your local hardware store and apply it to your oak wood item with a clean cloth. Wipe in the direction of the grain, pressing firmly and working the wax into it for a textured look. Be sure to cover the entire surface of the wood.</ref>

, For a more pronounced look, use a plastic putty knife to push the lime wax into the grooves of the wood. Press the wax into the grooves, gently scrape the surface (in the direction of the grain) and pull the knife away to smooth the surface.Avoid using a metal putty knife, which could damage the surface of the oak.
 Scrape off excess wax with the putty knife. Use a clean cloth to wipe the surface of the wood in the direction of the grain. The cloth should wipe the wax residue from the surface of the wood but leave it intact in the grains of the wood.A gentle scouring pad may help to remove stubborn wax from the wood surface.