 Place the salt, sugar, and water in a large resealable plastic bag. Seal and shake to combine.


Continue shaking up the brine until the salt and sugar completely dissolve.
Mixing the brine in a resealable bag works best, but you can also prepare it in a large mixing bowl. Simply stir the ingredients together until the salt and sugar dissolve, then cover the bowl with plastic wrap while brining the chicken.
 Place the chicken in the brine and seal the bag. Let it sit in your refrigerator for 45 to 60 minutes.


Turn the bag after the first 30 minutes so that the brine evenly soaks into all sides of the chicken wings.
 After 60 minutes, remove the chicken from the brine. Rinse off the excess brine and dry each piece with clean paper towels.


Discard the leftover brine after removing the chicken.
You can grill the wings immediately after removing them or wait another hour. If you choose to wait, place the wings on a baking sheet lined with clean paper towels and return it to the refrigerator. Allow the chicken to dry and chill uncovered.
 Lightly coat the grate of a gas or charcoal grill with oil, then preheat it for cooking with indirect heat.For a charcoal grill: pile the coals on either side of the grill and place a foil drip pan in between the two mounds. Keep the grill grate above the coals and the pan.
For a gas grill: preheat the grill with all burners set on high heat, then turn the center burner off and adjust the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). Place a drip pan in the center, keeping it beneath the grill grate.
 Place the wings in a large mixing bowl and add the olive oil. Toss well to lightly and evenly coat the wings.


If excess oil remains in the bowl after you coat the wings, drain it before proceeding to the next step.
 Sprinkle in the lemon pepper seasoning. Toss the chicken wings to coat all sides.


Add the seasoning 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time, tossing well after each addition. Continue until the chicken pieces are coated to suit your own personal tastes.
If you don't have lemon pepper seasoning, you could prepare your own by combining equal parts dried lemon zest and ground black pepper.
 Place the chicken wings on center of the grill grate (the indirectly heated area). Grill, flipping as needed, until the skin is crispy and the chicken is done.You'll need to flip the wings with tongs every 15 minutes or so to evenly brown the skin.
The finished chicken pieces should reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius). The juices should also run clear, and the inside should no longer be pink.
 Remove the lemon pepper wings from the grill and transfer them to a serving platter. Enjoy the wings while they're still hot.

