 How do you like to prepare lists? Do you prefer digital list via an app, word processing document or some other similar format? Or, are you someone who is more content with the paper list, such as in a diary, on a notepad or on sheets of paper? Perhaps you like a combination of both. The important thing is that the format works for you in that you will look at it, you will use it and you will rely on it regularly.


The list format should include a column for what needs doing, a comments box and a check-off box at the end for "done". You can include other things, as needed.
Note that a digital list can be easier because it's faster and simpler to reprioritise the to-do's as priorities change, without crossing things out. On the other hand, rewriting a list by hand can be a great way of mind-to-hand coordination that helps you to both focus on the matters clearly and remember them better. Really, it's up to your preferred way of list making.;
, This is fairly basic and the breakdown will depend on what tasks you're focused on, be they workplace, home life, studies or social/sports/hobby/club related. The breakdown should consist of something like:


Top priority (to be done within the next few hours or day); break down into urgent/important, semi-urgent/important and somewhat urgent/important.
Medium priority (to be done within the next few days or week); break down into pressing/essential, needs completion but can wait and somewhat pressing/essential.
Low priority (to be done within the next few weeks or month); break down into
Lowest priority (to be done some time but it's not a big deal if it waits a few weeks or even months).
Nice but not necessary: Things you'd like to do but that can wait a very long time until there is spare time. For example, clearing out a filing cabinet, rearranging your wardrobe or selling off your old record collection.
Use numbering to help keep the to-do list in order.
 Colour can help you to see quickly what is most important and what needs to be tackled first. You can choose your own colour range but it is recommended that you have colours that signify the level of priority. Colour can be added by highlight, using different pen colours, using colour tabs or sticky notes, underlining in colour, changing font colour, and so forth. You'll need to match the technique to the type of list you're maintaining.


For example: Bright yellow is priority one; orange is priority two; red is priority three; purple is priority four; and blue is the lowest priority. You can choose whatever colours you prefer the most, and have as many, or as few, as needed.
 Each day, reprioritise what is on the list to ensure that the most important matters are always at the top and will be completed first. This requires setting aside five minutes at the beginning of your day to focus on this aspect. It will be five minutes well spent, to ensure that you're on track and focused on the tasks that matter.
 Don't make the list, then shove it in your pocket or at the bottom of your bag. Make use of it and put its guidance into action. It'll make your day a whole lot easier and will provide you with a sense of satisfaction and achievement when you check off the tasks completed.
 This may sound obvious but when you are juggling many tasks, it can become a challenge at times, especially when you're focused across a group of different things in your life, such as work, home life and studies. However, it is doable with a little focus and attention to the details.
 Consider what will happen if the task is not completed by a certain time, such as missing work or study deadlines or not having ingredients to cook tonight's meal.


For example, if you have a plumbing problem at home, that becomes a priority to avoid your home getting soaked––it may even take precedence over a work deadline because a soaked home is expensive, time-consuming and destructive, while a delayed work deadline can usually be explained in terms of this emergency.
 This is important where your input is relied upon by others, such as your boss, your coworkers, your group study buddies or your family. In work especially, you need to find out what expectations others contributing to your work have in terms of deadlines; there may be one single deadline for the work's completion but lots of interim deadlines to ensure that all coworkers get to see and work on the matter too. This needs to be included in your prioritisation thinking.
 What was urgent yesterday may be replaced by something far more urgent today. Learn to demote items that become less important due to circumstances changing and to shift up things that have become more important for the same reason. Rearranging the list must be a regular task, to ensure that the priorities are always in the most helpful order.
 Life isn't all urgency and speed. There must be time for the other things that matter too; be sure to get around to those now and then, when the other things aren't chewing up your precious time.

