 When you're back protecting the box you're getting a lot more action coming at you, from hard shots to attacking players. As such, defenders tend to prefer something with a bit more protection than a striker. For youth defenders, it's not a bad idea to keep using ankle guards or something with ankle protection., When you're sprinting at the goal, you want something small that in no way limits your mobility. If there is any difference between strikers and midfielders, it is that forwards and strikers sometimes opt for added ankle protection, like longer shin guards, to protect against tackling defenders., The last thing you want to do in net is keep adjusting or worrying about your guards. Since they're generally much less needed in the box, keepers tend to get the smallest guards they can get away with.
 These are the two most common shin guard materials. Both will work great, but depending on your needs as a player one may be better than the other. Plastic is generally most budget-friendly for less serious players, whereas carbon fiber is both lighter and stronger for high-level play.


Carbon fiber is recognizable by the distinctive "cross-hatching" pattern it has, where the materially looks like a tightly woven basket.
 No player wants to constantly look down and readjust their shin guards. If you're wearing slide-ins, you may want a thin, breathable sleeve that slides on under your socks. You can then slide the shin guard into the sleeve, pulling the sock over both. Some players prefer simple Velcro straps, as well, which can go above or underneath your sock.


In a pinch, athletic wrapped above and below the shin guard and sock can keep them in place all game long.
 The National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment, NOCSAE, must approve all US high school shin guards. This is only true for games through your actual school, not for high-school aged players on other teams. There should be a NOCSAE seal or stamp on the shin guard or attached tag.


All NOCSAE approved guards will be clearly labeled on the packaging when you go shopping. No stamp, no approval.