 Place 2 cups (250 g) all-purpose flour in the bowl from a stand mixer. In the center of the flour, create a small indent with your finger or a spoon to serve as a well. Pour 3/4 cup (180 mL) lukewarm milk into the well, but do not mix the flour and milk together.The easiest way to heat milk is in the microwave. Pour it into a microwave-safe bowl, and microwave it on medium-high (70% power) in 10 seconds intervals until it's warm enough. Stir after each interval to ensure that a film doesn't develop on the milk.Lukewarm milk should typically be between 98 and 105 degrees Fahrenheit (36.5 to 40.5 Celsius). Test the temperature of the milk by splashing a little on the inside of your wrist. It should feel a little warmer than your body temperature, but not hot at all.;
, Over the milk in the center of the flour, sprinkle a packet (7 g) of yeast. Use a fork to gently stir the yeast and milk together. Allow the yeast to proof, which means letting it sit until it develops bubbles and appears foamy.The proofing process usually takes about 10 minutes.
When the yeast is fully proofed, the foam should make it appear to have doubled in size.
 While you’re waiting for the yeast to proof, attach the dough hook to your stand mixer. Set the bowl with the flour, milk, and yeast on mixer, and turn it to the medium low speed once the yeast has proofed.You can use a hand mixer to prepare the dough. In fact, there are dough attachments available for purchase with some hand mixers that make mixing up the dough easier.
You can also mix your dough by hand with a spoon, but it is a labor intensive process, and will take longer for the dough to come together.
 To the stand mixer bowl, add 1/4 cup (45 g) butter that’s been melted and cooled, 1/4 cup (50 g) sugar, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) salt. Allow the dough hook to knead the dough until it pulls away from the sides of the bowl.You can melt butter in a heavy pan on the stove at medium-low to medium heat, or place butter that’s been cut into pieces in a microwave-safe bowl and microwave at 30% power for intervals of 10 seconds until it’s completely melted., When you’ve formed a stiff dough, remove it from the bowl to a floured work surface and form a thick square. Put in in a buttered dish, and loosely cover it with a small dish towel. Chill it in the refrigerator for approximately 2 hours.If you don’t have a tea towel on hand, you can cover your dough with plastic wrap. Just make sure that it’s not clinging to the dough too tightly.
 Place 2 cups or 4 sticks (360 g) of butter in a gallon size plastic bag. Next, use a rolling pin to beat the butter on a cutting board or other work surface. Continue working, alternating between beating and rolling the butter until it forms a flat 6-in by 8-in (15 cm by 20 cm) rectangle that’s approximately ½ inch (1.27 cm) thick. Once it’s done, put it in the refrigerator.Don’t worry if your butter doesn’t form a perfect rectangle. Get as close to the shape and size as possible.
If you don’t have a large enough plastic bag to hold the butter, sandwich it between two pieces of plastic wrap before you flatten it.
 Once your dough has chilled, lightly flour your work surface and a rolling pin. Place the dough on the surface, and use roll it out to form a 16-in by 10-in (41 cm by 25 cm) rectangle.If the dough starts to stick to the rolling pin at any point, add a little more flour to the pin so you can work more easily.
 After your dough is a rectangle shape, remove the butter from the refrigerator. With the short side of the dough facing you, place the butter rectangle on top of it so it lines up as closely as possible., With the butter in place, take the top half of the dough and fold it down over it. Next, take the bottom half of the dough and fold it up to meet the end of the top half. Press the ends of the dough together to seal them over the butter.If you find that the dough is sticking to your hands as you’re working, coat your skin with a little cooking oil.
 With the butter inside, turn the dough so the short side is facing you. Use the rolling pin to roll the dough out again to create another rectangle. This time, aim for one that is 15-in by 10-in (38 cm by 25 cm).Press down on the rolling pin as you work to ensure that you’re getting the dough as flat as possible.
 With the short side facing you, take the bottom portion of the dough and fold it up. Next, take the top portion of the dough and fold it over the bottom to tri-fold it as you would a letter.You should wind up with a rectangle that’s roughly 11-inches by 6-inches (28 cm x 15 cm) when you’re done folding.
 Take the rectangle of dough, and wrap it in plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for approximately 30 to 45. Afterward, place the dough back on the floured surface and repeat the entire folding and rolling process, also known as turning the dough, three more times.In all, you’ll have turned the dough a total of 4 times.
 After you’ve turned the dough for the last time, it needs to be chilled again.Wrap it in plastic wrap, and leave it in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.The longer you chill the dough, the better your croissants will be. Refrigerate it overnight if possible.
 After it’s chilled sufficiently, divide your dough in half. Leave half in the fridge, and return the other half to your floured work surface. Use the rolling pin to once again roll it out into a rectangle. It should be approximately 9-in by 18-in (23 cm by 46 cm) when you’re done., With a sharp knife or a pizza cutter, cut the rectangle of dough in half lengthwise. Next, cut each each section of dough into triangles. Make sure to cut a small vertical slit in each triangle in the center of the wide base.You should be able to cut approximately 7 to 9 triangles from each section.
 Place a piece of bittersweet chocolate on the dough. It should be parallel to be base and near the slit that you’ve cut. Fold the base of the triangle up over the chocolate, and roll it back toward the tip, keeping it tight.You can use whole pieces of chocolate, shaved or chopped chocolate, or even chocolate chips to fill the croissants.
 Once you roll up the croissants, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.Cover them with a towel or greased plastic wrap, and allow them to rise 2 to 3 hours.Make sure the croissants are approximately 2-3 inches (5-8 cm) apart on the baking sheet.
The croissants will rise best in a warm environment, so you may want to set the baking sheets near a window that gets heavy sun or another source of heat.
Repeat the entire process of cutting, adding chocolate, rolling, and rising with the second half of the dough that you’ve left in the refrigerator.
 When you’re ready to bake your croissants, you want to ensure that your oven will be at the right temperature. Preheat it to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius) so it will be hot enough for the croissants.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the correct temperature. It should beep or flash an indicator light when it’s ready.
 In a small bowl, beat 1 egg yolk. Add 1 tablespoon (10 g) of milk to the egg, and mix until thoroughly combined to form an egg wash glaze. Use a pastry brush to apply the glaze to all of your croissants., Place the croissants in the oven, and bake for 10 minutes. When the time is up, reduce your oven’s temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), and bake for 5 to 10 minutes or until the croissants are golden brown.Bake your croissants one sheet at time to avoid crowding the oven.
 When the croissants are done, remove them from the oven. Let them cool on the baking sheet for approximately 1 to 2 minutes, and then move them to a wire rack to cool completely.If desired, you can drizzle melted chocolate over the croissants so friends and family will know what’s inside.

