 Certain areas of skin such as your elbows, hands, knees, and ankles soak up more self-tanner than others. You may need to tone down or smooth out the color and a simple exfoliating wipe can do this without completely removing the color.Get exfoliating wipes at any pharmacy, large retailer, or specialty cosmetics store. You may want to choose one for sensitive skin so that you don’t rub your skin raw.
Rub the area on which you want to smooth in a gentle motion. This can help ensure that you don’t harm your skin or remove too much of the self-tanner. Check the area occasionally to make sure that you’re not rubbing off too much self-tanner.
Consider trying baby wipes, too. Although not all of them work for sunless tanner, some do and have a pleasant scent, too., Streaks of sunless tanner can develop when you don’t apply enough product or miss a spot during application. Using a sugar-based exfoliator can gently even out the color of your skin.Find a sugar-based exfoliator by reading package labels. Sugar is a common product in many exfoliators and you may notice that it has a gritty texture. You can get these products at many large retailers, pharmacies, and cosmetics stores.
Apply a generous amount of the product to your skin and lightly rub it to remove the sunless tanner. After 30 seconds to a minute, rinse off the exfoliator with warm water and check to see if the color is even. If not, repeat the application until you reach the desired color.
 Lemon is a natural exfoliator and can lighten your skin, too. If you have a few streaks or spots you want to remove, cut a lemon and gently massage it on your skin.Rub the spot for two to three minutes. Check the spot and see if your streak is lighter. If not, repeat the process until the streak is the same color as the surrounding skin.
 It may sound unusual to use acetone, which is nail polish remover, to smooth out self-tanner streaks. But applying a bit to the streaks you want to smooth out can quickly and effectively hide any mistakes and streaks.Make sure to get an acetone polish remover by reading the packaging label. Non-acetone polishes may not smooth or remove self-tanner streaks. You can easily get acetone polishes at pharmacies, large retailers, and specialty cosmetics stores.
Soak a cotton ball or pad with acetone and rub it into the area you want to smooth. Check every few seconds to see if the spot is smoothed. If not, continue to rub the area with acetone until you smooth out the streak.
Be aware that acetone can cause serious harm if you ingest it by drinking. It is safe to use on your skin, but rinse off acetone if it burns your skin or causes any discomfort., Depilatory, or hair-removal, creams may also seem like an unusual way to smooth out streaks, but it also can gently take down the color of mistakes. Applying a hair remover cream for half the recommended time may quickly and gently remove color to smooth out streaks.Dab a small about of hair remover cream onto a cotton swamp. Gently apply this to the streak and leave it on for half of the application recommended time. Rinse off the product with warm water and check the color. If necessary, repeat the process until the streak matches the surrounding skin.
Avoid leaving the hair remover on for the whole application time suggested on the packaging. This can completely remove the tanner and cause a white streak.
 Hands and fingers are one of the areas most prone to getting streaks of sunless tanner. Applying a dab of whitening toothpaste to them has the same effect as it does on your teeth—it lifts stains. Try rubbing a thin layer of whitening toothpaste to any areas on which you want to smooth out the color. Consider trying a whitening toothpaste that also has baking soda and peroxide, which may help to boost the effect of the product., Streaks or splotches are often the result of dry skin patches. This is especially true on areas such as the hands, elbows, feet, and ankles. You can easily remedy this by using moisturizer to your benefit with an exfoliator.


Exfoliate the areas you want to lighten or smooth out. Check the spot after a minute to see how much of the sunless tanner you’ve removed. When you think you’ve blended out the streak, moisturize the spot.
Prevent these types of streaks and splotches by moisturizing your hands, feet, ankles, and elbows before you apply sunless tanner. This can keep the areas from absorbing too much product.