 To ready the oven for baking the veggie melt, place the rack so it’s in the middle of the oven. Next, set a large baking sheet on rack so it will preheat along with the oven.To make cleanup easier, you can line the baking sheet with parchment paper or foil in case any of the cheese drips out of the melt as it bakes.;
, In order to ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the veggie melt, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat., Add ¼ cup (58 g) of mayonnaise and 3 tablespoons (54 g) of whole-grain mustard to a small bowl. Whisk the two together until they are fully blended, and set the mixture aside.You can prepare the mayonnaise-spread up to a day in advance. Cover and store it in the refrigerator.
Instead of the mayonnaise-mustard spread, you can use either the mayo or mustard separately if you prefer.
You can also use an entirely different spread or dressing for the sandwich if you prefer. Pesto, balsamic vinaigrette, or even jalapeno cream cheese are tasty options.
 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large skillet. Heat it on medium until the oil begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.If you prefer, you can roasts the veggies for the melt instead of sauteing them. Toss them with olive oil and roast them on a baking sheet at 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius) for approximately 10 minutes, or until they are tender.
 Once the oil is hot, add half a small onion that’s been diced to the skillet. Let the onion cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it softens.Be sure to stir the onion occasionally as it heats to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 When the onion is soft, add 8 ounces (224 g) of asparagus that’s been cut into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces, 8 ounces (240 g) of fresh mushrooms that have been thinly sliced, and a medium red bell pepper that’s been cut into ½-inch wide strips to the pan. Season the mixture with ½ teaspoon (3 g) of kosher salt and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of freshly ground black pepper, and stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined.You can use substitute with or add your favorite veggies to the melt. Some other options that work well include chopped broccoli, plum tomatoes, and fennel.
 After you’ve mixed and seasoned the veggies in the skillet, let them cook for approximately 5 minutes, or until they become tender. Stir the veggies occasionally to ensure that they cook evenly., When the veggies are tender, add a minced clove of garlic and 3 cups (300 g) of shredded kale leaves. Saute the mixture for 2 to 3 minutes or until the kale wilts, and remove the pan from the heat.You can substitute other greens, such as spinach or arugula, for the kale.
You can saute the veggies up to a day in advance. Place them in a covered container and store in the refrigerator, but bring them to room temperature before assembling the sandwiches.
 To assemble the sandwiches, lay out 8 pieces of your favorite bread. Use 2 tablespoons (28 g) of softened, unsalted butter to cover one side of each piece.Some breads that work well for the veggie melts include sourdough, whole-grain, and Italian. For the best results, though, make sure the slices are at least ½-inch (13-mm) thick.
 After you’ve applied the butter to one side of the bread slices, turn them over. Add the mayonnaise-mustard spread that you made earlier to the other side, and place the bread, butter-side down, onto the preheated baking sheet from the oven.Make sure to use a potholder or oven mitt to remove the baking sheet from the oven because it will be extremely hot.
 After you’ve set the bread slices out on the baking sheet, divide the veggie mixture between four slices of the bread. Spread them in an even layer over the mayo-mustard mixture so the vegetables don’t fall out the sides.You should have four slices of bread that don’t have any veggie topping on them when you’re done.
 Once the veggies are spread on the bread slices, divide 1 ½ cups (170 g) of grated Gouda cheese between the covered slices. Sprinkle the cheese evenly over the veggies so they’re all covered.You can substitute another cheese for the Gouda if you prefer. Mozzarella, Swiss, and Havarti are tasty options.
 After you’ve layered the veggies and cheese on half of the bread, return the baking sheet to the preheated oven. Allow the sandwiches to bake for 5 to 8 minutes, or until the cheese melts and is bubbling.If you prefer, you can grill the sandwiches in a nonstick saute pan. Put both pieces of bread together first, and then heat them on medium for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until the cheese melts.
 Once the sandwiches are finished baking, transfer the veggie and cheese-covered pieces to a cutting board. Place the untopped slices of bread on top of them and press gently to close the sandwiches.When you place the untopped bread slices over the topped pieces, make sure to set them down with the mayo-mustard spread-covered side face down.
 When the sandwiches are closed, use a sharp knife to cut each one in half. Place the melts on individual plates, and serve.The veggie melts pair very well with soups, especially tomato.

