 PTINs are assigned to people who legally prepare another person's taxes (in full or in part) for compensation. Anyone over 18 years of old who wishes to prepare another person's taxes for money (including enrolled IRS agents) must be assigned a PTIN to do so legally.A PTIN must be renewed annually to remain valid. Be aware that you do not need a PTIN to prepare some forms.
Refer to the list at http://www.irs.gov/Tax-Professionals/Frequently-Asked-Questions:-Do-I-Need-a-PTIN%3F to determine if the forms you will be preparing and filing require a PTIN.For additional assistance, call 8-877-613-PTIN(7846). The international number is 1-915-342-5655.
 You can apply online at https://rpr.irs.gov/datamart/mainMenuUSIRS.do;jsessionid=36E3D37CC086F168E5BEBD20CDC86611.bm9kZTR or you can download the current year’s Form W-12 at http://www.irs.gov/Tax-Professionals/PTIN-Requirements-for-Tax-Return-Preparers.
 Print your entries in blue or black ink or type them onto the form. Enter your first, middle, and last name in the space provided in block 1. Also check whether this is an initial or renewal application. If it is a renewal application, enter the PTIN you are renewing in the space provided.


Indicate whether an initial PTIN application is for the current calendar year or the upcoming calendar year in block 2. For instance, if you are applying in October 2014 to be able to prepare taxes in 2015 for the 2014 tax year, check “Next calendar year”. If you are applying in October 2014 to begin preparing taxes prior to December 31, 2014 for any tax year, check “Current calendar year,” and remember to renew your PTIN if you want to continue preparing taxes in 2015.
If you are renewing your PTIN and need to also renew a prior year, enter those prior years in the appropriate space in block 2. (If your PTIN has not been renewed in over a year, you will need to renew for the years between the last year you had a PTIN and the current year unless you were inactive during that time.)

If your PTIN has been expired or you have been inactive for more than 3 years consecutively, you must file for a new PTIN, not a renewal.
 Enter your Social Security number and date of birth (in MM/DD/YYYY format) in block 3.


Enter your personal mailing address and telephone number with area code in block 4. Only use a PO Box if your post office will not deliver mail to your street address. Include the country (not abbreviated) if you are outside the United States.
If your business address is different than your personal address, enter the address and telephone number(s) in block 5a. Only use a PO Box if your post office will not deliver to the street address, and if your business address is in a foreign country, do not abbreviate the country name.
In block 5b, you may enter the business name and website address, but you may also leave this block blank if you choose not to provide that information.
Enter the email address at which you would prefer to be contacted in block 6.
 If you have been convicted of a felony in the past 10 years, check “Yes” and list the date and convicted offenses in block 7. If you have not been convicted of a felony in the past 10 years, check “No” and leave the remainder of block 7 blank.


If you are not current on any individual, business, corporate, and/or employer tax obligations, check “No” and provide an explanation for any delinquencies in block 8. If you are current in all of those obligations or have never been subject to those obligations, check “Yes” and leave the remainder of block 8 blank.
 In block 9, check all credentials that you hold and enter the additional information about each. If you do not hold any of the listed credentials, check “None”.


If you do not prepare Form 1040 series tax returns or you only prepare Forms 1040-PR or 1040-SS for residents of Puerto Rico, check “No” in block 10. If you do prepare Form 1040 series tax returns other than Forms 1040-PR or 1040-SS for residents of Puerto Rico, check “Yes” in block 10. If you are an attorney, CPA, or Enrolled Agent (and checked the appropriate box in block 9), leave block 10 blank.If you are self-employed or an owner, partner, or officer of a tax preparation business, check “Yes” in block 11 and enter the information requested if you have those numbers. A CAF is a Centralized Authorization File number that is issued by the IRS when someone files a third-party authorization. An EFIN is an Electronic Filing Identification Number, and is issued to Authorized IRS e-file Providers. An EIN is an Employer Identification Number and is issued to businesses for various reasons.
 If this is a renewal application, leave blocks 12 and 13 blank. If this is an initial application, enter the address used on your last US individual income tax form in block 12. If you legally have never filed a US federal income tax return, check the box, and you will be required to submit additional documents.


If this is an initial application, check the filing status you used on the last individual income tax return you filed. If your last individual income tax return was filed more than 4 years ago, you will be required to submit additional documents.
 Block 14 is informational and identifies the amount you will owe for PTIN fees. You will need to attach a check or money order to your application.


Sign and date your application at the bottom. By signing the application, you are swearing that the information provided in it is true and correct to the best of your knowledge and ability. Knowingly submitting incorrect information can subject you to criminal penalties, including perjury, as well as denial or revocation of your PTIN.
 All applications must be accompanied by a check or money order for the appropriate fee. If you have not filed a US federal income tax return within the last 4 years (including checking the box in block 12), you will need to attach 2 additional documents. One of those documents will need to be an original, certified, or notarized copy of your Social Security card. The other will be the original, certified, or notarized copy of one other government-issued document that contains a current photo ID. Common examples of this second document are:


Passport/Passport card
Driver’s license
US state ID card
Military ID card
National ID card

, Make a copy of the application and all attachments for your records. Mail your application and all attachments to: IRS Tax Pro PTIN Processing Center, 104 Brookridge Drive #5000, Waterloo, IA 50702.
 You should receive a letter with your PTIN in 4 to 6 weeks. If your application is denied, follow the instructions on the letter that tells you why the application was denied.


Alternatively, if you applied online, you should receive your PTIN immediately after completing the application and paying your fee.

