 A fun-loving party girl will be discriminating about which parties she chooses to go to. Choose ones you know will be packed. A near-empty house party is no fun. Try to hit up the popular clubs in your city on a regular basis.
 Squads, posses, or "girl gangs" are all the rage right now.While you and your friends may not be celebrities, you can always form a hip group of your own. Going out with a large group of other girls makes socializing much easier. When you're with a bunch of friends, you'll always have someone to talk to. Are you self-conscious about getting on the dance floor? Just ask some of your girlfriends to join you!

, If you're going to a party, don't arrive when the invitation says it starts. Ten to twenty minutes later than that is the minimum for looking cool, but holding off for an hour or more may be more appropriate. Regardless, you don't want to be one of the only people there.


Peak hours for nightclubs are usually around 11 pm or midnight until closing. This is the window you'll want to arrive during if you want to have a wild time.
If you have trouble getting into trendy clubs at peak hours, showing up early may be for the best. That way, when the place fills up you'll already be there and ready to have fun., If you can't dance, watch the others and copy them. You'll get the hang of it soon enough. Just let the music move you and keep your movements minimal until you feel more confident. If you're already a great dancer, weave lots of dancing into your party nights out. Dancing is liberating, energizing and a good excuse to work around the floor and connect with many people. Dance with your friends or anyone on the floor you'd like to dance with.
 Most party girls are known for their heavy drinking, but this doesn't mean you have to follow suit. If you're drinking, drink just enough to have fun and be a little more outgoing. Don't drink so much that your speech slurs or you have problems staying upright in your heels. Remember this: Vomiting and talking to the wall are neither sexy nor fun.


Learn to pace yourself. Alcohol tolerance is different for every person. If you're new to alcohol, it's best to practice with a few friends in a controlled environment like your house. You don't want to find out what your limits are at a crowded, chaotic club. Know when to stop and know when to say no.
If you're not drinking, or at least drinking at a slower pace than everyone else, do your best to hide it. Always have a drink in your hand; it just doesn't have to be alcoholic. Instead of sipping water from a cooler cup, have it in a glass, preferably with a slice of lime. This will help you keep from standing out, which may make people pressure you into drinking more than you want to.
Consider caffeine instead. Energy drinks are popular in the party scene and will help you to keep dancing all night.However, don't overdo them, since they tend to be loaded with sugar.

