 In a dry pan over low heat, roast 3 tbsp (45 mL) chickpea flour, also referred to as gram flour or besam. Stir constantly until the flour starts turning brown and releasing an aroma, typically after 4 or 5 minutes.Remove from heat.;
, Including peanuts will give the stuffed bhindi a thicker texture, and provide an additional flavor. If you have whole peanuts, you may increase the flavor and aroma by roasting approximately 2 tbsp (30 mL) peanuts in a dry pan over medium heat. Stir continuously for 3–4 minutes, then remove the nuts from heat.Wait a couple minutes for them to cool before chopping with a knife or crushing roughly with a mortar.


If you have pre-crushed peanuts, or pre-roasted peanuts, skip this step. Crushed nuts area easily burned by roasting, which ruins the flavor., These ingredients benefit from additional frying before the okra is cooked. Cover the bottom of a pan with a light layer of oil, then fry the following over low heat for about 5 minutes, or until the onions start turning brown:1 jalapeño, or other spicy chili, deseeded and chopped
1/2 small white or red onion, peeled and finely chopped
2 cloves garlic, peeled and finely chopped

, Mix the chickpea flour, chopped peanuts, chile, onion, and garlic together, along with the remaining stuffing ingredients. The masala spice mix used varies from chef to chef, so feel free to experiment with your favorite spices. A typical mix adds all of the following spices to the ingredients listed above:


1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) cumin seeds
1/4 tsp (1 mL) turmeric powder
1 tsp coriander powder
1/2 inch (1.25 cm) piece fresh ginger, peeled and grated. You may substitute 1–3 tsp (5–15 mL) ground ginger according to taste.
1 tsp (5 mL) dried mango powder (amchoor), available in South Asian grocery stores

, If you prefer a sweeter dish, you may add 3 tbsp (45 mL) grated coconut, and 2 tsps (30 mL) sugar of any kind.Other optional ingredients are listed with suggested amounts in the ingredients section, but read the following descriptions before you decide to add them:


Cilantro, also known as coriander, tastes like soap to people with a certain gene, making it a controversial ingredient.Fenugreek, or methi, is often used in Indian cooking, but often has a strong, bitter aroma and taste. Taste it before using in your dish if you are not familiar with it.
Garam masala is a spice mix that varies greatly, depending who makes it. Taste it first or read the ingredients. Typically, it contains at least cinnamon, clove, pepper, and cardamom.
 Wash the okra while rubbing its skin, then wipe dry with a clean towel. Leaving the okra wet may cause the vegetable to become slimier. Cooks disagree over whether this slimy texture is reduced or increased if you wash it in advance, rather than directly before cooking.Select small okra pods if possible, as these are more tender and flavorful.
 Remove the pointed tips from each end of the okra. Cut a slit lengthwise in the okra, stopping about 1/4 in (6 mm) from one end. Gently pry apart the okra enough to reveal the seeds and opening inside, without breaking it in half.
 Spoon the stuffing into the okra pods, filling them completely. If you have leftover stuffing, set it aside for later.
 Add enough oil to cover the base of a pan or skillet. Heat on medium heat until an okra seed dropped it in sizzles. Ideally, avoid pans made from iron, copper, or brass, which may turn the okra skin black. Steel, enamel, or nonstick surfaces are all unlikely to cause this problem.


You may use any type of oil, but oil with a medium or high smoking point is less likely to burn. Canola oil and peanut oil are examples of oils with high smoking points., Reduce the heat to low to avoid burning the masala stuffing, then add the stuffed okra to the pan. Stir the ingredients occasionally, turning the okra over once the cooked side become dark green. This typically takes about 5–6 minutes on each side. It may take less time if you cover the pan, but the trapped moisture may cause the okra to become slimy, which many people do not enjoy.


If you have leftover masala, you may add it after the other ingredients have cooked for two or three minutes.
 Stuffed bhindi can be a side dish to a large meal, or the main entreé. It is often served with South Asian bread, such as roti or chapati.Raita or yogurt is commonly served with it as well, to balance out the spicy flavor.

