 The types of neurons in the human body include sensory as well as motor neurons. Generally speaking, neurons are specialized cells of the nervous system of all living systems including mammalians. The two main neuronal types in humans are motor and sensory neurons. Sensory neurons are one type of cells that is very important for the proper communication of the body with the environment. Without these neurons the body would be considered in a state of partial death due to the lack of its ability to communicate with the surrounding environment.;
, Sensation is an important physiological process that is crucial for the sustaining of life of the living tissue. For example instinctual needs of humans such as the need to urinate and defecate are mediated through sensory neurons that are located in the urinary bladder and in the nervous system of the alimentary canal. These sensory neurons send electrical signals that are formed through action potentials to the brain where it is perceived by specialized neurons in the sensory area of the cerebral cortex. In turn motor neurons of the cerebral cortex also initiate the processes of defecation and urination by giving orders to the urinary bladder muscles and the muscles of the colon. These orders include the relaxation of the sphincters of the urinary bladder and the increased peristaltic motion of the colon wall. These two actions involve the muscles of these two structures.
 The result is the expulsion of urine from the urinary bladder and the feces from the colon. These two processes are two basic but very important physiological processes that maintain the normal function of the body. Neurological defects in these sensory or motor neurons can lead to problems in performing these two processes. This can have clinical manifestations such as the development of megacolon and the retention of urine in the body. Retention of urine in the body can lead to the accumulation of waste chemicals in the body to toxic levels such as ammonia and creatinine. Also high blood pressure and edema can develop as a result of this. These two basic processes are just one manifestation of the importance of sensory neurons in humans. Also other instinctual needs of the body are very dependent on the intact structure of sensory neurons in the body.
 The ability of humans and animals to see is dependent on sensory neurons in the eyes that are located in the retinal structure of this essential organ. These sensory neurons of the retinal eye are of two types. One is called rods and the other is called cons. These two types of sensory neurons are specialized in converting light waves into electrical signals that propagate through the optic nerve of the eye to the brain stem where they are perceived by other neurons that have synapses with the rods and cons neurons of the retina. This are of the brain is called the geniculate body. From there the signal proceeds through other synaptic neurons into the visual sensory cortex at the posterior part of the brain in humans. This is basically the process that involves the sensation of vision in humans. Other types of sensations in humans include the sensation of hearing and smelling. Both of these two types of sensations have specialized types of neuronal cells that are sensory in its nature.
 Sensory neurons of the ear are located within the inner ear in a structure that is called cochlea. This structure contains a liquid material within it that can lead to the propagation of auditory signals if deformed mechanically. This deformation process can lead to the formation of action potential in the sensory neurons of the inner ear. This in turn can lead to the propagation of hearing sounds that were converted into electrical signals to the brain stem of the brain. In the brain stem specialized auditory sensory neurons synapse with neurons of the inner ear. These neurons in the brain stem in turn synapse with other sensory neurons that terminate in the sensory auditory cortex of the brain in humans. There they are evaluated and perceived as intact sound.
 The sensation of smelling has similar anatomic progress along the sensory neurons of the nervous system of humans. The sensation of smelling is initiated with specialized sensory neurons at the upper side of the inner nose in humans. These sensory neurons are specialized in converting smelling sensations that are usually obtained through the action of special organic chemical compounds on the epithelial neuronal cells of the nose. These chemical compounds induce action potentials in these sensory neurons that initiate and propagate electrical signals into the brain stem of humans brain. There they synapse with other sensory neurons that are located in specialized clusters of neurons that are called nuclei. From there these electrical signals propagate through other synaptic sensory neurons into the specialized area in the cerebral cortex that is specific for the modality of smell sensation.
 In general, all types of sensory neurons in the intact nervous system of humans synapse with other sensory neurons at two basic levels. One of these locations is the spinal cord. The other location of synaptic sensory neurons is the brain stem in humans. The eventual processing of these sensory signals occurs in sensory neurons that are located in specialized areas of the cerebral cortex. This is a general anatomical map of the pathways for the propagation of electrical signals along sensory neurons in the nervous system of humans.
 Similar anatomical pathways are seen with motor neurons with the difference that these motor neurons descend to the spinal cord and the neurons of skeletal muscles instead of ascending to the brain as occurs with the sensory neurons. The other sensations such as heat and cold sensations occur mainly within sensory neurons that are located within the epithelium of the intact skin in humans. These sensory neurons of the skin are very developed neuronal systems that are of different anatomical structures. These sensory neurons contain free nerve endings that can sense and evaluate various modalities of sensations such as pain sensation. Free nerve endings are the main type of receptors for sensory stimuli in the intact nervous system of humans. Similar situations occur in organs of the body that are located within the digestive system for example.
 Internal organs of the body have also specialized sensory neurons that mostly are specialized for the mediation of pain sensation into the brain. This is very important in the case of pathological conditions of these organs of the body. For example pathology of either the kidney or the liver can lead to the sensation of pain. This can occur for example by the stretching of the tissue of the capsules in these two structures.

