 Some owners find rewarding their dogs for eliminating outside is helpful. Shih Tzus are people-friendly animals who tend to want to please their owners. Offering a reward when your Shih Tzu eliminates outside can help encourage the behavior.


Praise and treats are the main forms of rewards you can use. You can carry a small bag of treats with you and offer your dog a treat when she goes outside. You can also praise the dog after she eliminates outside. Say something like, "Good girl!" and then pet your Shih Tzu.You may want to use treats at first, when your Shih Tzu is first learning. However, many owners wean their Shih Tzus off treats as they get accustom to a new bathroom schedule. You may not want your Shih Tzu to always expect a treat for basic behavior. Consider tapering off the treats as your Shih Tzus begins to learn to go to the bathroom outside., Dogs live in the immediate. Reward your Shih Tzu as soon as she eliminates outside. Say "Good girl!" or give your Shih Tzu a treat as soon as she finishes urinating or defecating. Be consistent. Make sure to reward every time your Shih Tzu engages in the desired behavior., It can sometimes be helpful to have a command to give your Shih Tzu. Something like, "Go potty!" can be helpful. You can use this to remind your Shih Tzu she should use the bathroom when outside, further reinforcing the desired behavior.Say "Go potty!" when you know your Shih Tzu is about to eliminate. If you see her squatting or sniffing, for example, say, "Go potty!"
Eventually, your Shih Tzu will learn "Go potty!" means she should use the bathroom. If your Shih Tzu is dawdling on a walk, saying "Go potty!" may encourage her to eliminate.
 In the event you catch your Shih Tzu eliminating indoors, scold in the immediate moment. Give a firm "No!" as you clap your hands. Then, immediately take your Shih Tzu outdoors to eliminate. As stated, dogs live in the immediate. If you don't scold your Shih Tzu in the moment an accident is happening, the dog will not understand why she is being scolded.