 In order to stream your games, you will need to sign up for a service that will host your video. The host will provide the bandwidth and the chat program for your viewers, as well as the tools you will need to broadcast your game. The most popular game streaming sites are:


Twitch.tv
Ustream.tv
Twitch is the one site dedicated to video game streaming, and you are likely to find the biggest audience for your game stream through them.
 In order to stream your game, you will need a program that can capture and stream your computer’s display. There are a variety of programs available, both free and paid, but two of the most popular options are free:FFSplit
Open Broadcaster

, If you’re going to be broadcasting from a video game console such as an Xbox One or PlayStation 4, you’ll need to install a video capture card in your computer. This is a physical piece of hardware that you connect your game system to in order to record directly from the game console. The computer will then capture the video and audio from your video game console.


This is not required if you are streaming games played on a PC.
Installing the capture card is very similar to installing a graphics card.
 Streaming games can take a significant amount of system resources, as you need to be able to both play the game as well as stream at the same time. Twitch recommends the following specs for streaming computers:CPU: Intel Core i5-2500K Sandy Bridge 3.3GHz or AMD equivalent
MEMORY: 8GB DDR3 SDRAM
OS: Windows 7 Home Premium or later

, Open the Service tab or menu in your broadcast software. Select your streaming service from the list of available options. Programs like FFSplit offer Twitch and Justin.tv support built in.


Enter your stream key. In order to use the broadcast software with your stream, you will need to link it to your Twitch or Justin.tv account via the Stream Key. You can get this key in Twitch by clicking the Streaming Apps button on the Twitch website, and then clicking Show Key. Copy and paste the key that is displayed into the correct field in the broadcast software.
Select a server. In FFSplit, there will be a server list underneath the Service list. You can click the “Find Best Server” button to automatically detect the best server for your location.
 In the Encoding menu, you can adjust the encoder settings which will affect video quality and stream speed. Many programs and services have recommended settings for various types of games and connection speeds.
 This will allow you to get familiar with your broadcasting software and ensure that your encoding settings are set optimally.

