 M is currently only available for a small group of users in California. Some of these users may be able to send out invites, but the program is very limited at the moment. You'll receive a message from "M" in Messenger if you are invited to the program., You'll be communicating with M using the Messenger app from Facebook. After being invited, you'll be able to find M in your Messenger contacts.
 M is designed to converse with you in a natural way. It can respond to regular questions and comment on your responses. This is because M is more than just a chat bot; there are actual people overseeing the process. Any time M cannot complete something automatically, a real human steps in. You'll never know if you're speaking to a real person or to the AI., Simply say "Where's a good place for a cheap date downtown?" and M will respond with some options for you. You can then ask about each one for some more information, such as, "How late is the ice cream shop open?"

, You can use M to automate a lot of the things you used to do over the phone or through an online ordering system. M can call customer service, order food, book reservations, and more. You can even find, book, and pay a flight from start to finish.Ask M to perform a variety of different tasks, and you may be surprised what it's capable of.For example, you could ask M, "What are some good steakhouses around my work?" M may ask to clarify your current location, then it would return results based on reviews and location. You could then say, "Make me a reservation for 4 people at 6:30 tonight" and M would call the restaurant and place your reservation. After the reservation has been placed, you'll be notified that your table will be waiting.
You can have M call customer service lines for you. M can call your power company and request your last bill be sent again, or it can call Amazon to check on the status of a refund. Simply ask M to do it, and in most cases M will start working without issue. In cases like these M, may ask for a bit more information, such as what you ordered or your email address.
 You can set reminders with M and you'll receive a message at the appropriate time. Just tell M what you want to be reminded about and when.


For example, you can tell M to remind you to clean out your gutters this weekend. M will end you reminders throughout the weekend until you let it know that you finished the task.
 Ask M to send you an inspirational quote every morning and you'll receive a new quote at the same time each day. Try asking for different types of quotes to see what M can do., There are a lot of reports that M is rather slow when asked to perform tasks. This is likely because real people are performing them for you behind the scenes. Try to use M for less important activities, such as setting reservations for dinner later in the evening, or purchasing movie tickets for the weekend.