 One foot is a good place to start -- the longer the tape, the bigger your flower will be. This length will create a flower that you can comfortably pin on your dress or bag. Each strip of tape should be the same length. Use a ruler to mark the place where you should cut along each strip of tape.;
, Fold each piece so that the sticky sides stick to each other. You'll have created eight pieces of tape that are half as wide but twice as thick.
 Make sure that you're really laying them across each other at their centers. Repeat this process four times. You should have created four "plus sign" shapes.


Set aside one of these "plus signs" for later -- in the meantime, work with the other three "plus signs."

, Just line them up so that their centers match up while the sides fan out at different angles. They should be evenly spaced apart. If you have a strong stapler, try stapling all of them together at their centers.
 Take the two ends of each strip and fold them toward each other until their edges touch. Then, staple this place to hold them together.
 To do this, just take the last "plus sign" shape and cut each of the four sides into thinner strips by cutting down the lengths of each side until the center, where they are connected. Then, do what you did to create the flowery effect with the other "plus signs". Just fold the ends of the thinner strip towards each other and staple them together where they meet. This will create a unique-looking shape that will add some variety to the original flower.


Staple this smaller flower to the center of the other flower.
 To make the bow stick together, you'll need to fold a strip of duct-tape into a square shape and cover the center of the bow with it. You can keep the extra square in shape by duct-taping it down, gluing it with craft glue or a hot glue gun, or even placing a colored tac in the center of the flower for additional reinforcement.


Once you've finished the flower, you can use a hot-glue gun to glue a pin with a flat surface onto the back so you can pin it to your dress, purse, or other accessories.

