 Most stores that sell perfume have open bottles on the counter for customers to try. While you can't take these bottles home, you can spritz some of the fragrance on a piece of cardboard to sample the fragrance.


If you want to try a new perfume before buying, spray some from the sample bottle on yourself. Spritz it on your wrist or behind your ears. Allow it to dry and see how it smells on your body. Go into a store to spray some sample perfume on yourself before a big date.
Carry empty glass vials around with you and ask the retailers if you can make your own samples. Higher end stores, like Bergdorf Goodman, Saks, Neiman Marcus, and Bloomingdales, let people make small samples of their perfumes.Be prepared to be told no, however.
 Many retailers have perfume samples on hand that they give away to customers. Some large department stores with perfume counters will have perfume samples attached to cardboard cards lying on the counter next to the products. Other retailers will supply the samples when asked.


Browse around the perfume sections of stores. Keep an eye out for free samples. If you don't see any, find a sales representative and ask if they have any samples.
Some of these samples are dependent on whether the store has run out and if the manufacturer has sent them out.
Try Sephora and Nordstrom, who commonly have perfume samples. Other retailers that may provide samples are Bloomingdales and Neiman Marcus., Swapping is a way to get rid of the samples you don't like and get something you want to try in return. You also can share some of the perfume you own with someone who has the scent you just have to have. Basically, you send samples to people and people send you samples in return.


Swapping can be a great way to obtain samples, but also comes with some cons. People don't always consider the same things as fair trades. You can get old samples. The sample might not be what you thought. In rare cases, you can get cheated. However, most of the online swapping forums have terms of service and review systems that help try to make it a safe, fun environment for everyone. Just use caution.Try the forums at Basenotes. They have an "items for sale" and "items for swap" section. Other perfume exchanges include Reddit's perfume and cologne exchange and Perfume Posse's Swapmania.

