 Even though it is legal to send money to someone in Cuba, there may be certain restrictions on how much money can be sent, or how often money can be sent. These restrictions will vary from country to country. In the United States, for example, US citizens may only send a maximum of $2,000 (US dollars) every three months.If you are unsure about your country's policies on sending money to Cuba, contact the appropriate authorities in your country, such as the State Department or Department of Foreign Ministry.
 Depending on from where you are sending money, your currency may be worth more or less than the currency in Cuba. While the exchange rate from one form of currency to another is determined by fluctuations in the international currency market, money transfer services and other institutions often set their own exchange rates. For senders wishing to transfer money to a Cuban recipient, it's best to look for services that offer a guaranteed exchange rate, rather than an indicative rate, to ensure that your recipient gets the most out of the money you send.You can compare international exchange rates online, and know how much your currency is worth in Cuba.
 Some services charge higher fees than others to send the same amount of money to Cuba. In fact, for some services, such as wire transfers, the cost to complete the transfer may be determined by how much money the sender is trying to deliver to the recipient.Money transfer services are generally a more cost-effective option for senders who wish to deliver a relatively small amount of cash (under $1,000, for example).Bank wire transfers are preferable for transfers over $1,000, as banks tend to charge a uniform fee regardless of the amount being transferred., If the recipient in Cuba is in dire need of fast cash, you may want to consider the delivery time of the various transfer options available. Something like a prepaid debit card will take time to travel through the mail, but can be reloaded from anywhere in the world almost instantaneously. Bank transfers may require a day or two to process the account transfer, but that money becomes available in the recipient's bank account, and the recipient will not have to worry about any other facts like whether or not her bank can cash foreign checks, for example. If time is of the essence, it may be worth paying extra costs or fees to ensure that the recipient receives the money you send as quickly and as easily as possible.