 This can provide useful information for what caused the stain. Certain stains will need special cleaning procedures to be removed from the stone. Note the color, size, shape, and pattern of the stain, along with anything in the area that might have caused it., Some common examples of oil based stains include grease, tar, or cosmetics. These will cause your tile to darken. To dissolve oil based stains, clean the area by gently wiping it with a soft cloth and a household detergent, like dish soap, or ammonia. Afterwards, dry the area with a soft towel.


If detergent and ammonia fail to remove the stain, try mineral spirits or acetone. Use these sparingly and as a last resort. Flush these cleaners with water after applying, then dry the area., Mix a diluted cleaning solution containing a half cup (237 ml) of ammonia, bleach, or hydrogen peroxide with a gallon (3.8 L) of water. Clean the surface with the solution with a soft cloth, rinse the area well, then dry it with a soft cloth or towel.


Never mix bleach and ammonia. Doing so will create toxic fumes that can result in serious harm or death., The most common kinds of organic stains come from bodily fluids, like urine or feces, tobacco, paper, and food. These may create a brown-pink stain. Clean these areas as you would normally with 12% hydrogen peroxide and a couple of drops of ammonia.


In some cases, you may be able to get rid of an organic stain just by removing its source. After removal, wait a few days to see if the stain disappears.
Hydrogen peroxide may fade or lighten the color of your stone. Test it on an out of sight location before you use it. Only use this technique occasionally to prevent color loss., Mix the poultice according to its directions. Usually this will result in a paste that is the consistency of peanut butter. Wet the stain with distilled water. Apply the paste to the stain so it is roughly ¼ to ½ in (.64 to 1.3 cm) thick. The paste should extend beyond the stain by roughly an inch (2.5 cm). Tape plastic over the poultice, wait the time indicated on the label, then remove it according to its directions.


For severe stains, you may have to reapply the poultice a few times before it is fully removed. Some stains may take five applications or more.
Stain removing poultices can be purchased from your local hardware store or home center. Look for it among stone care products.
Some kinds of poultice are sold as pre-made strips of treated paper. These are generally applied to stains similarly to paste poultices., Hard water can leave rings, a white film, or scale on your stone. When the stone is dry, buff the surface in a circular motion with a dry piece of 0000 rated steel wool. Wipe the surface with a clean, dry, soft cloth or rag after.


Use light to moderate pressure when buffing your countertop. Too much pressure may harm the appearance of your stone.