 The Salvo variation of Battleship is similar to the regular version of Battleship. The major difference is in the number of shots called per turn.This version of the game is recommended for more experienced Battleship players, so if you are new to the game you may want to practice the regular version a bit more before trying Salvo.;
, Each player gets 5 ships and some red and white pegs. You should have more white pegs than red pegs, since it is likely that you will call more misses than hits as you play the game. Keep your red and white pegs in the storage trays attached to your game board. Put the red pegs in the smaller tray and the white pegs in the larger tray., Each player gets 5 ships to start and they may place those ships anywhere on the board. The ships cannot be placed in positions that are diagonal or overlapping. But they can be placed next to each other or spread out around the board. Once you have placed your ships, you cannot move them. Hang on to our pegs until the game gets underway., In Salvo, you get to call out more shots per turn, which is what makes it more challenging. In the beginning of your game, you will call out 5 shots per turn because you have 5 ships. As you lose ships, you will have fewer shots.For example, if your opponent sinks one of your ships and you are left with only 4, then you will only get to call out 4 shots on your next turn.
 Use the red pegs to record the ships that hit your opponent’s ships and the white pegs to indicate shots that missed your opponent’s ships. This will help to ensure that the shots you call on your turns are not ones that you have called already. It will also help you to determine the areas where your opponent has ships that you need to sink., After your opponent has sunk one of your ships, make sure that you place a red peg at the top of the Battleship board. It should be visible to you and your opponent., Any time your opponent makes a hit on one of your ships, it is also important to place a red peg in the ship over the space that was a hit. This will help you to keep track of the hits that your opponent has made on your ships and determine when your opponent has sunk one of your ships., Every time your opponent hits or sinks one of your ships, you are required to announce the hit or sunk ship. Make sure that you say what space was a hit and which ship was hit.For example, if your opponent calls D-1, A-4, B-3, E-6, and F-9, you might respond with, “F-9 was a hit on my Destroyer.”

, As in regular Battleship, you win by sinking all of your opponent’s ships. Your opponent must announce every time a ship has been sunk as well as when you have sunk his or her last ship.