 If your pot cannot hold that much, fill it up as much as you can. Keep in mind that your soup will be more concentrated and that you may have to scale back on some of the seasonings.
 Even though you will be serving the soup clear, it still needs to have some flavor to it. Because you will be straining everything out of the soup later on, it is best to leave the vegetables whole or in large chunks. If you have not yet done so, get out your vegetables, and prepare them in the following ways:


Peel 4 large (or 6 small) beets, then cut them in half.
Cut the stem off of 1 medium-sized carrot, then peel the carrot. If the carrot is too long for the pot, cut it in half.
Cut the stem off of 1 medium-sized parsnip, then peel it.
Peel 1 large onion, then cut it in half.
Rinse 1 leek, then trim off the leaves. Cut it in half lengthwise.
Peel a celery root, then cut it into fourths. Save one of the pieces for your soup, and save the rest for another recipe.
Peel 8 garlic cloves. Do not crush or mince them.
 Place the prepared beets, meaty bones, carrots, parsnip, onion, leek, celery root, mushrooms, garlic, bay leaf and marjoram into the pot. There should be enough water in the pot to cover all of the ingredients. If there is not enough room in the pot for more water, take out some of the ingredients.


Start with 8 garlic cloves. You can always add more, if needed.
For a spicier soup, add some peppercorns.
Don't add the salt, pepper, lemon juice, or sour cream/yogurt just yet.
 You are ready for the next step when the meat falls off the bones and the vegetables turn soft.
 Place a colander or strainer over a new pot, then pour the borscht through it. Press the ingredients against the mesh with the back of a spoon or rubber spatula to strain out any excess liquid.


At this point, you can discard the meat and vegetables or save them for another recipe.
Don't worry if some of the dried marjoram gets into the strained soup.
 If it is too watery and flavorless, let it boil over medium heat for 30 minutes, or until the flavor intensifies. If it is too flavorful, add more water.
 The ideal taste should be sour and somewhat garlicky, with beet-y sweet undertones. At this point, you can add in more seasonings, such as salt, pepper, lemon juice, or dried marjoram. You can also add a few more garlic gloves, then simmer the soup for another 1 to 2 minutes. At this point, do not let the soup boil, or it will discolor.


Peel the garlic cloves first, then press them with the flat side of a knife before adding them in. Be sure to scoop them out before serving.
 If you'd like a richer borscht, stir in a spoonful of sour cream or yogurt.