 Today is a new day, and you should treat it as such when you begin your productive tasks. If you have unfinished work from the previous day, set it aside for the first hour or so (it's not going anywhere!).If you've begun your day the right way to this point, you should have a burst of energy and focus when you start your workday. Circling back to yesterday's unfinished business may sap that energy more quickly than starting fresh. If you have to complete yesterday's work first, try to treat it as a new task for a new day.
Organize your workspace so that it is ready to go first thing in the morning. This probably means you need to take a few minutes at the end of the previous workday to clean up and organize the space. You may just want to get out of there at that point, but the time is well-spent if it enables you to be more productive at the start of the next day.
 If you have the early morning burst of energy, you may want to jump right in to work before it runs out. It will be worth your while to use a few minutes of this energy to plan out your day and beyond, though.Before your focus becomes clouded by all the little things that come up during a workday, plot out what you want to accomplish that day and how you will do so. Prioritize your tasks, and budget your time accordingly.
Don't just focus on the short-term, however. Think about how your daily plan fits into your larger monthly, yearly, and even career goals. Are you budgeting your time in the best way to get that promotion, or to graduate a semester early?

, Once you've taken a few minutes to plot your strategy, the time has arrived to maximize the burst of workday energy you are hopefully experiencing. Even if you aren't feeling overly energetic during your first hour or so of work, your mind is still likely to be less cluttered than it will become as the day goes on.Use this time for a task that requires more intensive focus, such as writing. You will almost certainly be more productive and efficient now than at 4:00 pm (or 11:00 pm, for that matter).
When possible, put off meetings, scrolling through emails, and dealing with "people conflicts" until later in the morning. Direct your focus inward as much as possible until your burst of morning energy begins to wane, then let the outside world in. Once again, don't worry, these things will be waiting for you!

