 Before you can decide on a great back to school outfit, make sure to consider what you are and are not allowed to wear. Thoroughly read through your school’s policies on attire, so that you can make practical choices when deciding on your ensemble. If your school has a strict dress code, be sure to follow it.


If you can’t locate the dress code, call your school or ask a fellow student.;
, If you’re tired of your current look, consider trying out a new style. When you’re choosing your outfit, specifically choose colors and styles that you like, but don’t often wear. Choose accessories that show off your interests, like with a necklace of a paint brush or favorite movie character. Make sure that you are still choosing clothes you feel confident about, even if they’re different than your usual look. You can change your look without breaking dress code or dressing uncomfortably.You can also change up your look by getting a new hair cut and/or color.
If your everyday outfit is a pair of jeans and t-shirt, considering wearing a casual dress or skirt to school.
 Draw some inspiration for your back to school outfit by choosing your own fashion role model. Whether this person is a celebrity or someone you know, spend some time looking at people who dress in ways you love. You can use this inspiration to figure out exactly what your ideal back to school outfit would look like, and can then work on putting the outfit together. You don’t have to dress extravagantly to channel your icon’s style. You can tone down the style to create a simpler and more practical version of their style.You can choose whoever you want to be your style icon, so long as their fashion inspires you. Many people see Audrey Hepburn as a classic and elegant style icon, while some prefer the wilder side of Madonna, or the glamorous Diana Ross.
Some other style icons are Steve McQueen, Basquiat, David Bowie, and the more modern style icon, Pharrell Williams., Think about what the weather will be like on the day you go back to school before putting together your outfit. Your first day back may be during the summer or winter. Don’t wear heavy, thick clothing if the weather will still be hot and sunny. You should also not wear thin and short clothing, like skirts without tights and T-shirts, if the weather will be very cold outside.


Bring a light jacket with you even if the weather is still hot outside. The air conditioning may be turned up in your classrooms.
Wear a jacket or sweater over a T-shirt that can be pulled off just in case the heat is turned up in your classroom.
 Whether your favorite store is a trendy shop in the mall, a vintage boutique, or a quirky thrift shop, take a trip to get inspired. You can buy a completely new outfit, a new piece to build your outfit around, or simply look around for inspiration. While you’re shopping, choose outfits that you know you can wear at school. Look for clothing that fits together to create your ideal back-to-school outfit, but can be worn again without being too recognizableIf you go shopping for a new outfit, look for articles of clothing that can be worn with other outfits. Button-down shirts, simple dresses and shirts, bright blazers, and printed pants can be mixed and matched.
Save up your money or ask your parents if they would be willing to help you buy a new outfit.
 Take your style icon’s fashion and your own personality into consideration when putting together an outfit. Base your outfit choices on the fashions you love the most. Select clothes that are your favorite colors and ones that make you feel confident.You may also identify your personality with styles like punk , Goth , hipster , and preppy .
If you always like to stand out from the crowd, start choosing bright colors or pieces with lots of detail.
If you prefer a subtle look, choose pieces that are understated, but still elegant.
 Even if you love a bold look, keep your outfit for the first day comfortable. You can still wear bright colors, interesting patterns, and unique styles without feeling uncomfortable in class. Remember, you’re going to be sitting in classes for most of your day, so avoid clothes that are made of itchy fabrics or that are too tight. Select clothes that will be easy to wear all day.Adding a flannel to jeans and t-shirt will give you a vintage look, and can add some style to an otherwise basic outfit.
You can make a dress more comfortable for a school environment by adding tights underneath and bringing a sweater.
You can create a bold look that is still comfortable by selecting brightly colored clothes, or wearing soft layers under fabrics that look stylish, but are uncomfortable.
 If you’ve changed your style and want to express that, wear a new outfit, but don’t be afraid to wear an older article of clothing with the outfit. Remember that you want to look stylish, but also be comfortable. If you have a brand new pair of jeans or t-shirt, compliment your outfit with your favorite cardigan or shoes. Or, bring an older, but loved hoodie to wear with your outfit. The familiarity can be comforting, especially if you are trying out a new style.Remember to focus on choosing pieces for your outfit that look great on you and express your own personal style, instead of wearing things that you don’t love but are trendy.
 School often starts back during the hottest part of the year, but it is good to bring a sweater or cardigan with you. A sweater can come in handy if the air conditioning is too cold in your school. It can also be useful if you’re wearing a shirt that is lower cut.You can keep the sweater in your backpack, or tied around your neck or waste when you’re not wearing it.
You can also bring a hoodie, but it will cover up most of your outfit.
 Once you’ve selected an outfit that makes you feel cool and confident, use accessories as a finishing touch. Adding accessories can make a casual outfit feel more stylish. Remember to keep your choices of accessories simple. Jewelry, scarves, belts, ties, bowties, and headbands count as accessories.If you’re wearing a casual outfit, wear an elegant silver or gold necklace or bracelet to pull the outfit together.
Wear a black or brown leather belt to make a casual outfit, like jeans and T-shirt, look nicer.
 It may be tempting to wear a new pair of loafers or heels, but try to wear shoes that will remain comfortable throughout the day. The shoes you wear should have been already worn and broken in. Blisters and uncomfortable rubbing could be caused by brand new shoes. Wear a pair of flats that you wouldn’t mind spending walking and sitting in throughout the day.You might wear a pair of boots, sneakers, or sandals, depending on the time of the year.
 You won’t want to carry around your school supplies all day in your arms. Bring a backpack that can fit all of your school supplies and necessary personal items. You should try on the backpack before brining it to school to make sure it doesn’t feel too heavy or uncomfortable.


You can also bring a small purse with your backpack. Or, you can bring a large bag that acts as your purse and backpack.

