 You can create reminders from both the app and the web browser version of Google Inbox.;
, This will allow you to create a new reminder.
 This is a simple way to replace the old "email yourself" trick. You can choose from suggestions as you type.


Typing "Call Name" will bring up a list of suggested contacts and businesses. Choosing one of these will display the phone number along with your reminder.
Suggestions may also provide directions or business hours, depending on the reminder you type.
 Tap the Snooze icon to change your reminder's time. There are several options to choose from here.


You can set the reminder to appear later today, tomorrow morning, or next week.
You can set a specific day and time by tapping "Pick date & time".
You can set the reminder to appear at a specific location, such as when you get home or when you get to the store. You will be asked to enable Location Services if you haven't. You must do this from a mobile device before you are able to do it from a computer.
 It will appear at the top of your inbox when the time or place you set matches.
 If you've got an email that you need to take care of later, you can set reminders so that the email is moved to the top of your inbox.
 This will pin the email to the top of your inbox.
 This will allow you to add a note to the email reminder.
 This will let you set a time or place that you want the email reminder to appear. If you don't Snooze your new reminder, it will stay pinned at the top of your inbox until you take care of it.
 See the first section for details on creating a reminder.
,,,, You can create a custom interval if you don't see one you want.
 You will now be reminded every time the interval passes.
 If you need to make changes to a repeating reminder, you can do so from the Google Inbox menu.


Select the "Snoozed" section.
Tap your reminder. Repeating reminders are indicated by an orange circular arrow.
Make any edits you want. Changes will be reflected in all future reminders for this series.
 This will hide it from your inbox.
 You typically don't need to worry about manually deleting old reminders.


Open the "Reminders" section.
Press and hold the reminder you want to delete.
Tap the menu button
Select "Trash".

