 These professionals can tell you what motions to avoid while you heal. They can also give you a prescribed list of exercises to build stomach and back muscles.
 10 to 30 minute sessions of swimming, walking in water or aqua jogging can reduce back pain within a week or 2. Swimming is a low-impact, whole-body workout.


Use a paddle board or a leg rest to work your arms and legs separately at the beginning of your swimming sessions.
Then, try strokes like the crawl stroke and backstroke that work your arms and legs at the same time. Keep your stomach pulled in to reduce pressure on your back.
 The spine is designed to move and upright sitting postures are the worst because they increase the pressure on your lower back. Set a timer on your cell phone if you have trouble following this rule at home or at work.Do the knee-to-chest stretch. Lay on your back with your knees bent. Lift your right knee and grab it with both arms. Gently pull the knee toward your stretch for a count of 20 seconds. Repeat with the opposite leg.
Do the straight-leg hamstring stretch. Place your knees back on the floor. Lift your right leg. Wrap a towel or belt around the bottom of your foot and grasp the ends of it. Pull the leg toward your chest, keeping a slight bend in your knee and your hips firmly on the ground. Hold for 20 seconds. Repeat on the opposite leg.
Do the number 4 stretch. Return your knees to their bent position. Cross your right ankle over your left thigh. Thread your right arm through the area between your knees and wrap the left arm around your left thigh. Pull the left leg toward you for 20 seconds to stretch your piriformis muscle. Repeat on the opposite side.
Kneel on a pillow or an exercise mat. Bring your right knee forward until your shin is straight, at a 90 degree angle to the floor. Move your right foot forward several inches. Lean forward, placing your hands lightly on your right thigh. You should feel a stretch in your inner hip, called the hip flexor. Hold for 20 seconds, and then switch sides.
Stand up with your hands on a wall or chair. Grab your right foot with your right hand. Place your thighs side by side. Pull your right foot up slightly and toward the back of your right thigh. Hold for 20 seconds while you stretch your quad. Repeat on the opposite side.
 Get a list of prescribed exercises from your doctor or go to a pilates mat class several times each week.


The pelvic tilt is an excellent exercise to build back strength. Lay on the floor with your feet bent. Find your neutral pelvic position. Place a hand underneath the curve in your back. Press down into the hand with your lower back for a count of 3. Release and repeat 10 times.
Do a kneeling plank. Turn over onto your hands and knees. Do this when you are facing a mirror sideways, so you can ensure you keep the proper form. Lean forward until your knees are behind your hips and your back is in a straight plank between your buttocks and your shoulders. Keep your hands directly below your shoulders. Keep the plank for 10 seconds to 1 minute. As you grow stronger, do a full plank with your body in a push-up position.
Do the swimming exercise. Lay on your stomach. Reach your arms above your head at shoulder height. Pick up right arm and lower it, then pick up your left arm and lower it. Hold for 1 to 2 seconds while it is in the air. Switch your arms up and down for 20 seconds. Repeat with your legs. When you grow stronger, lift your left leg and right arm at the same time, lower them, and lift your right leg and left arm. Switch back and forth for 30 seconds to 1 minute.

