 Body wraps are usually done in a warm environment, so you will want to increase your water consumption to avoid becoming dehydrated during the process.;
, You will want to choose a spot that you can easily dry if some of the moisture leaks out. Grab a bath towel or extra blankets and make a comfortable area in the room.
 (113 to 170 g) of Dead Sea salts in 4 cups (1 l) of warm water. The water should be no more than 2 degrees over your body temperature. Use a thermometer to check the temperature before beginning your wrap.


Use 1 cup (907 g) of Dead Sea salt and 1/2 gallon (1.9 l) of water if you plan to wrap your whole body or if you are treating psoriasis. Allow the ingredients to sit for approximately 10 minutes.
 These are not recommended if you are treating skin conditions, such as psoriasis:


Add 2 cups (400 g) of clay powder to your wrap. Preferred types of clay include bentonite and sea clay, but you can add any type of clay that is used for skin purification purposes.
Add 1 cup (20 g) of powdered herbs or 2 to 5 drops of essential oils. Powdered herbs are especially popular with Ayurvedic medicine. Popular essential oils include lemon, lavender, juniper berry, grapefruit, basil and rosemary.
Add no more than 2 tbsp. (30 ml) of oil if you suffer from dry skin. Good oils include grapeseed, jojoba, sweet almond, shea and vitamin E.
Add yogurt or cucumber puree to calm irritated skin.
 In dry skin brushing, you should start at the toes and work up the body in slow circular motions toward your heart.
 Don't let the water get too hot or it will dry your pores.
 Place small towels, strips of linen or strips of cotton in the Dead Sea salt mixture.
 Wrap them around your body, starting with your legs and working up to your torso or arms.
 This will help to keep moisture and heat inside the body wrap.
 Sit for 1 hour with the body wrap intact.
 This will help to close the newly moisturized pores.
 You can repeat the Dead Sea salt wraps up to 3 times per week for the first month. Reduce your wrap frequency to once per month when you have effectively treated your psoriasis, dryness or irritation.

