 If you have used your brush for cream-based makeup, soap and water alone won't be enough to dislodge the makeup. You will need some oil to help loosen the makeup—especially if it has been on the brush for a while.
 Fold up a paper towel, and pour a small drop of oil onto it. You can use light olive oil or almond oil.Dip the bristles of the brush into the oil and give it a swirl. Do not soak the brush in the oil.Gently run the brush back and forth across the towel, loosening the dirt.
 Make sure the brushes are angled downward into the stream of water. Avoid wetting the part where the bristles meet the handle. It could cause the metal clip to rust, or the glue inside to loosen. Keep running the water through the bristles until you've rinsed away most of the old makeup.


Don't use hot water, as the heat may damage the bristles.
 If you do not have baby shampoo, you can use liquid Castile soap instead.
 Dip the bristles into the puddle of shampoo in your palm. Gently swirl the brush using circular motions. The bristles should be continuously touching your skin. You will see the shampoo in your palm become dirty. This is due to the dirt leaving the bristles.
 Use your fingers to gently massage the bristles as you rinse the shampoo. Once again, try to avoid getting the part where the bristles join the brush handle wet. Keep doing this until the water runs clear.
 Once the water runs clear, take the brush out from under the water and gently fold a towel around the bristles. Squeeze the excess water out using your fingers. Remove the brush from the towel and reshape the bristles if necessary. You can do this by gently pressing on them, fanning them out, or pulling them together into a point. Try to recreate the original shape as much as possible.
 Do not set the brush down on a towel, as this can cause mildew to form. Instead, lay the handle part of the brush on a counter or table, and let the bristles stick out over the edge.
 If you had a poofy brush, some of the bristles may be stuck together, even after it has dried. If this happens, pick up the brush and give it a brisk flick.

