 Plants can be a great addition to a buffet table. If you're unsure how to decorate your buffet, try throwing in a few plants or flowers. This can make the room feel fresher as well, and may add a nice fragrance.If your buffet is near a window, it can be very easy to use a plant or flower to decorate. The plants will be close to a source of natural sunlight.
If the buffet or the room smells a little musty, a fragrant flower can freshen things up.
If you have pets, like cats, that may eat plants or flowers, you can also try plastic flowers or plants.
 Many people like to use their buffet to show off photos of friends, family members, and loved ones. If you're unsure how to decorate your buffet, stop by a local print shop and print out some of your favorite photographs. Then, buy some attractive frames to set on your buffet.You can place photos based on things like their height, shape, and type. For example, try keeping things symmetrical by placing frames and photos of similar height and shape on corresponding ends of the buffet. You could also think about grouping photos by type. One area could have family photos, the other could have friends photos, and so on.
If you have young children, be careful about breakable objects on your buffet. You may want to remove the glass from photo frames to prevent injury in case children knock them over.
 If your buffet is in a room where you frequently have guests, consider a minibar. Bottles of expensive liquor or wine can be assembled near nice glasses and tumblers. If you entertain frequently, refreshments can double as decoration for a striking, attractive buffet.Showcase your nicest bottles and glasses if you use your buffet as a bar. Even if you rarely use the crystal tumblers you got as a wedding gift, they may look nice displayed next to a few attractive bottles of wine.
You can also invest in a nice serving tray and placemat. Try placing the tray on the placemat and arranging nice bottles and glasses on the tray.
This can be a particularly great option if your buffet has storage below. You can keep spare bottles beneath the buffet and replace them as needed.
 You can purchase decorative candle holders at antique shops, craft fairs, and other places. Attractive candles and candle holders can really brighten up a buffet.Candles can be great if you're striving for symmetry, as you can use candles and holders of varying heights to mirror another object. A large plant, for example, can be mirrored with a tall, thin candle and holder.
Many people love seasonal candle holders. You can try swapping out candles and candle holders by season. You can, for example, have snowflake decorated candle holders for winter and replace them with pastel colored holders for the spring.
 If you have a lot of knick-knacks hanging around, your buffet can be a great place for some of them. Many people receive small decorative items for holidays and birthdays. If you have something like a fancy paperweight or tiny sculpture in storage, try placing on your buffet as decoration.Use discretion when selecting your knick-knacks. You certainly should not put every knick-knack you own on your buffet, as this can make it look crowded. Instead, opt to include your nicest knick-knacks that best match the scheme you're going for.
For example, say you're going for a pastel color scheme. You should not display a miniature sculpture painted in bright, primary colors. However, a decorative woodblock painted in a soft shade of purple can be a nice touch.

