 Make sure she's not shy or afraid. Cover her eyes when something scary is happening, and read about her online to make sure she is comfortable with any activity you might do with her.;
, You don't want to be in the same outfit for two days, and neither does she! Buy her new clothes at a toy store or other shops. You could also use other doll clothes that fit. You can even try to make your own. Also have a container or such to keep her clothes in. You don't want to lose them.
 They need fresh air like we do. If you bring Draculaura outside, make sure she has a toy umbrella or "sunscream" on so she doesn't burn. If you bring Lagoona, make her wade in water.
 You are her mom, so you need take care of her. Give her food, baths, and basically follow these instructions to make sure she is a happy doll!

, She might get broken if you don't, or worse.
, Where is home for your doll? In your drawers? Under your bed? Well. Imagine this, a nice house for you doll to sleep in at night, a place to have parties with friends, or just to eat pizza! Try making a house for your doll, all you need is a box, some glue, pens, and scissors. Use your imagination! If it's Gillington Webber's home, make it underwater, draw bubbles and coral, draw tiny fishes, or treasure chests and shipwrecks. If it's for Clawdeen Wolf, make a big round moon for her to howl at, or some dead trees to give it the full affect that she is in the woods at night.
 Fill it with furniture, and make sure there is a bathroom! You may also choose to give it a "theme". If you had Draculaura, you could make the walls black/pink, and make sure she doesn't have any windows. Design the house depending on what the doll is like.
 Style it to make sure it matches her outfits. You could even buy mini bows, or hair ties, to accessorize it for maximum cuteness.
 She might need one if she gets dirty. Even if she isn't visibly dirty, you should still wipe her with a wet cloth.
 Find or buy some nail varnish/polish remover and get some Q-tips. Dip the Q-tip into the nail varnish remover, but after you've done that screw the lid back on. It will help to stop it from tipping over and spilling everywhere. Take the wet Q-tip, and rub it on any part of the body, except the parts of the face (where the makeup or eyes and lips are, it will rub them off). Rub off any dirt or grime that has collected over time.
 If you have any spare doll clothes, why not give them a change of outfit. Imagine if you had to wear one item of clothing for your whole life? Not so fun, is it? But if you don't have Monster High clothing, try sewing/gluing some dresses or t-shirts. Then you could style it however you want!

, Use a small container of warm water and some dish soap or shampoo and clean them. Remove the clothes from the container and leave them out to dry. Pour out the dirty water and replace it with clean water., Hang the doll's head over the side of the container with its hair over the water and use the small cup to wet the doll's hair. Use a small drop of shampoo to clean the doll's hair. Rinse the hair with cold water. Smooth a small drop of conditioner into the doll's hair to help with detangling.

Don't scrub the dolls hair with the shampoo. Scrubbing can pull out the doll's hair. Instead gently smooth it through the doll's hair.
 If you have Venus McFlytrap or Robecca Steam, make them her roommates. If you are giving her a job, an architectural one would be a great choice as Rochelle is a gargoyle. Since Rochelle is a gargoyle from Scaris, make her posh, friendly and loyal to her friends (maybe you could even get her a house in Scaris or Garrott, Rochelle's boyfriend). If you are trying to act out her voice while playing with her, sound really posh and say "Hello Garot! They are trashing our school."


Feed Rochelle rock candy as it's her favorite food.
Give her a good pet (if she came with Roux, perhaps give Roux a little room and friends).
 Try not to get her near water as she will electrify all her friends along with it. Remember, Frankie is sweet, friendly and is voted to cure any friendship. This is her famous personality. Sometimes let her arm go loose but don't worry, it pops right back on.


Feed her anything you like, because she has said that everything she's tried is delicious.
If Frankie came with Watzit, make him bark and meow at random times.
Give her a boyfriend if you trust her.
 If you have this doll, don't forget she's a vegan, so she can't eat meat. Since Draculaura's a follower of the ghostly gossip, give her a phone so she can see the latest news on Spectra's blog. If you also have Clawdeen and Frankie, make them her ghoul friends forever (maybe you could make them a mansion and give them bunk-beds so they can be roommates or buy them a Barbie dream house to live in). If you have Count Fabulous make her look like a girl because Draculaura loves dressing him up.


Make sure her room is pink and black.
Don't keep her in the sun without sunscreen, as she is a vampire.
 Don't forget that as Clawdeen is a werewolf she howls at the moon so make sure you make her howl when the moon is up. Clawdeen only eats meat so give her things like hot-dogs, burgers, lamb, pork, horse, cow, pig and ribs. Make her loyal to her friends. If she came with Crescent, make sure you don't loose her as Clawdeen would be very upset. Clawdeen's a fierce fashionista and has an eye for fashion.


Make sure that when you turn of the light, Clawdeen goes crazy.
Make sure you buy clothes for her in case they get dirty. This goes for all Monster high Dolls.
Make sure to buy her sister.
Pair her up with her social group; Frankie and Clawdeen would be in the same group.
 Make sure she's most of the time in the water otherwise her skin will dry. Make Lagoona walk in shallow water and always give her baths. Always bring her to the beach (Lagoona loves water and playing on the sand). Make her the captain of swimming club.


Feed her seaweed and all the other things that a sea monster would eat.
Give her an under water pet.
 Since Abbey's a bit of a tomboy make her play sports such as snow boarding. Feed her yak, cheese and pancakes. Every time she touches something, make her turn it to ice.


If you're looking for a pet, a snow leopard or a mammoth would be good.
If she's looking for a job, why not try a snowboard instructor or a waitress?
Don't make Abbey flirt with any boys (she says is not honorable).
 Give her a room fit for a queen. Maybe you could use some Barbie dolls to use as servants. Let her boss people around. Make her the leader of the fearleading squad.


Feed her grapes.
For a pet, give her something that lives in the desert like a snake for example.
 Get her a lap-top and a phone so she an write the ghostly gossip. Let her swoop through walls and floors to find something juicy.


Feed her angel food cake.
For a pet give her any kind of animal only make it a ghost animal like a ghost giraffe.
If you also have Twyla make them friends.
Decorate her room in purple or black.
 Make her not want to have baths (cats hate water so do werecats). Make Cleo her rival. If you also have Melody and Persephone, make them ghoul friends forever. Let her boss people round.


Sometimes she might scratch the furniture.
For a pet, give her an animal in the cat family.
 Give her a computer. Make her raise up her hand every time in mad science with the right answer. Find a way to translate her zombie language. Make her the smartest ghoul. Make Cleo boss her around a lot.


Feed her brains and fast food.

