 Classic iPods could be connected to your computer as external hard drives, allowing you to extract the music files from it with relative ease. The iPod Touch (and iPad and iPhone) no longer support this, as they are running iOS. There are a lot of technical reasons as to why this is, but all you need to know is that methods that you used to use with a classic iPod no longer work.


This method also works for classic iPods.;
, In order to get your music tracks off of your iPod Touch, you'll need a transfer program that can access your iPod Touch's file system. Some of the more popular programs include:


Sharepod (Windows) - You can download Sharepod from getsharepod.com

Senuti (OS X) - You can download the free version from wstein.org/senuti/

gtkpod (Linux) - You can download gtkpod from gtkpod.org/wiki/Home


, Don't worry, you won't be using it. Sharepod (and most other iPod management programs for Windows) requires iTunes in order to function so that it can use the connection services that iTunes installs. Once you install iTunes, you never have to open it and can uninstall it as soon as you're finished.



Click here for instructions on installing iTunes.
 Close iTunes if it opens automatically. For most transfer programs, you'll have greater success if you start with the iPod Touch already connected.
 It should detect your iPod Touch automatically and list all of your music tracks in the main window.


If you are using Senuti, you'll be asked to specify a few things before you can access the main interface, such as where you want to store transferred songs.
 Depending on the program you are using, you may be able to check individual songs that you want to transfer or select all of your songs at once.
 Click the "Copy to computer" or "Transfer" button to begin copying the selected tracks to your computer. If you're using Sharepod, you'll be prompted to select the location that you want the copied tracks to be moved to.


If you're copying a lot of music, the transfer process may take a while.
 Once the transfer process is complete, you'll be able to find the copied music at the location that you specified.