 Many studies have found that the best treatment includes both medication and psychotherapy.Antidepressants affect the neurotransmitter system of the brain to try to counteract problems in how neurotransmitters are made and/or used by the brain. If you have been prescribed medication, it is important to take it regularly. Try to take it at the same time every day. It helps to take the medication with some food.


If you forget to take your medication, follow your medication’s instructions for returning to your scheduled medication time. Don’t take two doses of the medication at once.
 Some medications can have side effects, such as weight gain, insomnia or other issues. If the side effects are noticeable and disruptive for you, track what you’re experiencing. Talk with your doctor.


Do not stop taking your medication. Be honest with your doctor or counselor about your side effects. Some people stop taking their medication because of unwanted side effects, but this also risks bringing back unwanted effects of depression as well., Choosing a particular treatment option can be a trial-and-error process. When working with a mental health professional, don’t be discouraged if the first treatment or two doesn’t work; it just means a different treatment should be tried.


If you feel like your medication is not helping your symptoms, talk with your psychiatrist or doctor to determine an alternate course of treatment. Your psychiatrist may prescribe an antipsychotic along with an antidepressant if the antidepressant alone is not working., If your treatments are working, this is usually a sign that they are effective against your particular symptoms. Continue these treatments in some form to avoid worsening your depression.


In some cases, treatments may be modified after a period of time, but any change in treatment should only occur after consulting with a mental health professional, preferably the one that prescribed the treatment in the first place. The good news is that, with the right treatments, you may be able to minimize the symptoms of depression and reduce the impact of depression on the quality of your life.

