 Go to the bathroom at the same time each morning. Make this part of your morning routine because it is at this time that colonic motor activity is highest. In addition, the urge to have a bowel movement generally increases after you've had a meal, so try to take advantage of these natural signals from your body.Eat on a regular schedule to help "train" your body to regulate defecation. Try to eat your main meals around the same time each day. Your bowels love a routine!Since the mornings are peak times for bowel movements, make sure you eat high-fiber foods after you wake up. You may also want to include a hot drink (such as a cup of coffee) since warm beverages are calming and can help get the bowels moving., Start listening to your body and don't ignore the urge to have a bowel movement because you want to wait until you get home or you want to finish the movie you were watching. The movements that trigger a bowel movement, called peristalsis, come and go, meaning that if you don't go immediately, that urge may disappear. The longer stool stays in the bowel, the harder it gets as more water is reabsorbed, usually resulting in a more painful and uncomfortable bowel movement when you finally have one. , The position in which you try to eliminate stool can help you stimulate the bowels, although it is important to note that there is no right or wrong way to sit on the toilet. The following tips, however, might help make having a bowel movement easier and less painful: When you sit down on the toilet, place your feet on a small footstool. This helps to get your knees higher than your hips, which positions the rectum at such an angle that makes it easier to pass feces.Try leaning forward when sitting on the toilet. Rest your hands on your thighs. The leaning forward action will also help to get your rectum at a better angle.Try to stay relaxed and breathe deeply. Relax your anal sphincter to open your rectum and let the stool pass out., Many people experience an improvement in their constipation when they begin exercising or increase the amount of exercise they get. Doctors believe exercise helps food move more quickly through the large intestine. This means the colon has less time to absorb water from the stool. Aerobic exercise increases breathing and heart rate which can also stimulate the intestinal muscles to contract, which is an important factor in moving stools through the intestines.Do an aerobic exercise that gets your heart rate up for a period of at least 20-30 minutes, 3-4 times a week. If you can, try to do some exercise every day, even just walking for 15-20 minutes. Daily exercise will hopefully stimulate daily bowel movements because as you become active so do your bowels.Incorporate a more intensely aerobic exercise or non-competitive sports into your routine if you are already moderately active. Try running, swimming, or aerobic classes.
Abdominal strengthening exercises can also help stimulate the muscles in the digestive system., Lack of adequate sleep over a long time aggravates constipation and can lead to a more severe condition.Try to get between 7-8 hours a night of restful sleep. The bowels can also "sleep " night, so when you wake up, you may be able to have a bowel movement since that is the peak time!

, Because mental stress can interfere with relaxation of the whole body, including the bowels, it's important to use some type of relaxation technique daily. Doctors believe that some patients cannot push properly when having a bowel movement because they feel rushed and stressed out. In other words, stress increases constipation.Take up relaxing activities like yoga, meditation, swimming, etc. Read a book or watch a movie to escape to another world.

