 The value of a currency depends on the stock exchange rate at any given time. Real-time quotes can be found on the NASDAQ, NYSE and AMEX stock exchanges or other financial websites, but the easiest way to see this is by simply Googling "Convert dollars to pounds." No matter where you find it, look up the current "dollars to pounds" exchange rate. It should look something like this:

 1 GDP = 1.4635 USD (5/24/16, 2:00PM rate)


GDP Stands for Great British Pound. The symbol is "£."


USD Stands for United States Dollar. The symbol is "$.";
, This is all you have to do to convert currencies. Think of it this way -- if 1GDP=1.4USD{\displaystyle 1GDP=1.4USD}, then 2GDP=2.8USD{\displaystyle 2GDP=2.8USD}, or 1.4∗2.{\displaystyle 1.4*2.} So, for every pound, you end up with an extra 1.4 USD. So just multiply the amount in pounds by the conversion rate to get your number of dollars. Say you want to buy a £35 sweater in London's Heathrow Airport. In dollars, you'd be spending:


Conversion rate:  1 GDP = 1.4635 USD

£35 = ______ USD.

35 * 1.4635


£35 = $51.22


, Remember that currency rates can change by the minute, meaning your hand conversion may not be useful shortly after you find it. This is why the quickest and easiest method to use in converting currency is one of the free online converters. Many phones offer apps as well that are capable of keeping up with changing rates.

 Open your web browser. Clear the address line and type "currency converter." Several websites for currency conversion will appear.

Enter or click on British pound in the "from" column and enter or click on USD or dollar in the "to" field.

 Enter the amount of currency you want to convert from pounds to dollars.

Click "convert" to get a perfect representation., There should be a date on the website to indicate the last update. If this is not within 24 hours of your current date, then don't use the site unless you only need rough estimates. That said, sites like the NYSE will have to-the-minute rates, and should be trusted before any 3rd party sites.
 If you want to change pounds back to dollars, simply divide by the exchange rate. Make sure, however, that you're using the GDP → USD conversion rate, and not the USD → GDP rate. The former number tells you how many dollars one pound is worth, the later tells you how many pounds one dollar is worth. Think of it as dollars per pound vs. pounds per dollar -- they are based on the same information, but they are different numbers!

If you have dollars and want to convert to pounds, you can multiply the dollars by the USD → GDP conversion rate, OR divide it by the GDP → USD conversion rate. 


, Currency prices are always in flux. This is because currency, like anything else, is a tradable good. Image a firm in London wants to sell to the US stores. In order to buy their goods, the US store must purchase the goods with pounds, then sell them for US dollar. This means that pounds are flowing out of England and being converted to other money, making the pounds left in England a more valuable good that the US has demand for. There are fewer pounds now, so the value of each pound goes up. Meanwhile, the US market, which spent pounds to get dollars, sees the USD decrease in value, since more of the wealth is in Dollars, giving them less demand. A high demand for a currency usually means that currency increases value.Other things that affect currency include:

Concerns about the safety/health of the country's market (which is why a war-torn country has a low-value currency).

Amount of business interest or growth in a market.

Tourism.