 The DMV will handle complaints and enforce the laws surrounding vehicle dealers, automobile body and repair shops, driving schools, car rental agencies and all other organizations that deal with vehicle-related services.
 The Nevada DMV maintains a website at www.dmvnv.com. From that homepage, select “Forms” at the top of the screen and then make the choice for “More Info” at the bottom of the dropdown list. This will redirect you to the full “Forms & Publications” screen. Scroll down the page, past all the information about driver’s licenses and registrations. Almost at the bottom of the page you will find a heading for “Complaints.” You can make one of five selections:Compliance Enforcement Complaint Form (CED 20). You will use this form for most complaints regarding auto dealers, driving schools, or other consumer businesses related to motor vehicles.
ID Theft Complaint Form (CED 13). You will use this form to report any fraud or misuse of DMV-issued identification.
Fuel Dealer Complaint Form (MC 083). This form is to report complaints about retail fuel dealers.
Smog Spotter Smoking Vehicle Report.
Potential Fuel Tax Evasion Report.
 You can either complete the form online and then print it fully typed, or you can print the blank form and then fill it in. Be sure to provide as much of the requested information as possible, so DMV can act accordingly with your complaint., An anonymous complaint will not receive any attention. You need to sign it before sending it in. Your signature is your verification that all the information is true. Additionally, if the DMV requires, you may be asked to testify at any hearing related to the complaint., When you have completed the complaint and printed and signed it, mail it to the appropriate office. There are two offices of the Compliance Enforcement Division, which will receive your complaint. Select the one that is closer to you and submit your application by mail.For Northern Nevada, mail your complaint to Department of Motor Vehicles, Compliance Enforcement Division, 305 Galletti Way, Reno, NV 89512.
For Southern Nevada, mail your complaint to Department of Motor Vehicles, Compliance Enforcement Division, 8250 West Flamingo Road, Las Vegas, NV 89147.

