 Commercial parts kits include all the hardware necessary to make your own gun. Often, the kits are for a restricted non sporting or semiautomatic "machine gun," but also black powder rifles and other niche weapons are sold in kit form for you to build yourself.


Often these parts kits are compiled from guns like AK-47s that have been deconstructed in demilitarized regions and legally imported as parts. To be legally acceptable, such a gun must be sufficiently redesigned. Basically, the receiver must be incapable of accepting the original fire-control components that are designed to permit full automatic fire.
An acceptably redesigned semiautomatic copy of non sporting firearm must be limited to using less than 10 of the imported parts listed in 27 CFR ยง 478.39(c). Otherwise, it is considered to be assembled into a nonsporting configuration per the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 925(d)(3) and is thus a violation of ยง 922(r).The parts list includes:

Frames, receivers, receiver castings, forgings, or castings
Barrels
Barrel extensions
Mounting blocks (trunnions)
Muzzle attachments
Bolts
Bolt carriers
Operating rods
Gas pistons
Trigger housings
Triggers
Hammers
Sears
Disconnectors
Buttstocks
Pistol grips
Forearms, handguards
Magazine bodies
Followers
Floor plates



, These can be somewhat difficult to find and you might not be comfortable ordering such a package online, if you don't know the source or the location of the seller. Use your judgment. You don't want ATF agents coming to your door for ordering illegal parts.


Consider attending a gun show in your area and asking around if you want to purchase a parts kit. They may be available (most owners of semiautomatic weapons purchase them at gun shows), or they may be able to instruct about safe and legal retailers of kits., It's common for gun enthusiasts to hold build parties, sometimes making kits available to attendees for the right price. Generally held at gun clubs or private residences in many areas, build parties will have all the hardware available to build your gun in the span of an afternoon.


At a build party, you'll generally have to sign a safety waiver and a non-disclosure agreement, making information about these types of "parties" somewhat difficult to come by. Your best bet is to visit your local gun retailer, gun event, or just to ask around.

