 Note the date and time your dog was stolen. If you saw who took the dog, then write down a description: height, weight, age, gender, race, clothing, vehicle identification, etc. Write down these details while they are fresh in your memory.


Your dog might have disappeared while you were away from home. In that case, talk to your neighbors and anyone else who travels through your neighborhood regularly, such as delivery drivers, meter readers, or mail carriers. They might have seen something.Write down the names and contact information of any witnesses. Also write down their description of the thief, if they saw someone.;
, You need to give the police a full description of your dog. Gather the following information as soon as you can:


name
breed
markings or color
weight
age
a current picture of your dog

, Don’t delay.The sooner you report, the sooner the police can find your missing dog. Some police might hesitate to file a police report for a missing animal. Remind the police that your dog is valuable property. Stealing an animal is a misdemeanor or a felony.


If your dog has microchip, then ask the police to post the serial number and your dog’s description in the National Crime Information Center database under “stolen article.”Make sure you get a copy of the police report. You might need it later when going to pick up your dog.
 The thief might be close to home. Walk around your neighborhood in the evening when noise has died down. Call your dog’s name and listen carefully for any response.You can bring your dog’s favorite treats with you or favorite toy (if it makes a lot of noise). These might prompt your dog to bark out in response.
If you see your dog, don’t approach it unless you are absolutely sure it is safe to do so. This may be hard. However, the thief might catch wind that you have found your dog and move them to a new location before the police can arrive.Instead of approaching your dog, call the police promptly and report where the dog is located. Insist that an officer come out immediately.
 If more dogs go missing where you live, then call the police and report those as well.You can’t rely on the dogs’ owners to report the theft, so take it upon yourself to call.


Also write down in a notebook the dates the animals have gone missing.

