 A lot of factors go into a child's height, one of which is age. Children who are younger and shorter may find it more difficult to complete tasks that require them to get very high, like dusting the top shelves of book cases or blinds. Similarly, children who are older and taller may have to stoop to perform tasks like scrubbing baseboards or picking weeds.
 A child's strength is affected by a lot of factors much in the same way that height is, including age; as your child grows, their core muscle strength will improve. However, until around the time they are 11, generally speaking, children tend to be much weaker than they are as adolescents or teenagers.When assigning tasks to your children, consider their muscles' limitations.


If you ask an 8 year old to push a heavy lawn mower or try to walk an excitable 60 lb dog, chances are that your child will not be able to complete the task satisfactorily. Instead, pick tasks that don't require a great deal of muscle strength, like folding clothes and towels or watering the lawn with a hose.
 From time to time, children will become ill. At those times, you will want to lighten their overall load and avoid anything very strenuous like vacuuming or mopping to promote healing. It's also important to account for chronic conditions like severe allergies to pollen or grass or mental disorders like ADD that make completing certain tasks difficult. Doing so will reduce potential frustration and stress for both you and your child.


If your child has intense allergies, try to assign them chores that won't expose them to dust, pollen, grass, and other potential triggers, like mowing the lawn, dusting blinds, or picking weeds. Instead, consider chores that won't expose them to allergens like doing the laundry, doing dishes, and taking out the trash.
If your child has a disorder that compromises their ability to concentrate, consider assigning a series of small tasks that they can complete quickly but potentially do many times throughout an evening, like folding socks, taking out the garbage, and making beds. Consider too being more lenient about the time it takes them to finish their chores and encourage them to take breaks for their busy minds before returning to the assignment.
 Children continue to develop and fine tune their motor skills all the way up until they are roughly eight years old.However, somewhere between 6-8% of kids have developmental difficulties that effect their coordination.Take this into account when assigning tasks to your children.


If Tommy has difficulties gripping things, you won't want him unloading the breakable dishes from the dishwasher or dealing with anything sharp. Instead, have him perform tasks where there is no risk of breaking things or injuries, like making the bed or folding clothes.

