 Smiling is an essential part of good flirting. Studies have shown that smiling makes you more attractive to the opposite sex -- so what are you waiting for? Flash those pearly whites!



Smiling and laughing also makes you seem much more approachable to men. Which is good if you've been dying for that guy across the bar to come over and talk to you!
Smiling will also make you feel happier and more confident, two very important feeling when it comes to flirting.
 Making and holding eye contact is a classic flirting technique which is as effective now as it was hundreds of years ago!


There's something intimate about looking a person directly in the eyes, so making eye contact is a good way to communicate your interest without saying a word.
One trick that guys find particularly irresistible is to stare at the object of your interest until they catch you looking. Hold eye contact for a moment, then smile and look away (while blushing , if possible). He'll be hooked!

, No matter how beautiful you look, how good you smell or how bright your smile, you won't be able to hold a guy's attention for long if you can't hold your own in a conversation.


Ask lots of questions -- this gets the guy talking about himself and gives him a chance to show off, which men love. It also prevents you from talking about yourself too much, which can come off as self-centered.
When you're talking, try to drop the guy's name into the conversation as much as possible. As simple as it sounds, this is actually a big turn-on for guys and creates a sense of intimacy between you.
Try to find some common ground, whether it's a love of black and white movies or a passion for your local ice hockey team. This shows him that you're compatible with one another and will allow the conversation to flow more easily.
 If you've got a good conversation going with your man of interest, you can reel him in even further by breaking the touch barrier.


By making physical contact, you're signalling your interest while also setting his senses tingling and making him want you even more.
The contact can be very subtle -- a light touch on the arm or shoulder, an "accidental" brush of your hand against his, or a gentle lean against his shoulder.
If you're feeling really bold, you can be a little more forthcoming by pretending to fix his collar, tie or hair so you can brush your fingers against his neck or forehead. This also gives you an excuse to get a little closer to him, so take advantage by smiling and making eye contact as you make your move.
 One of the most important tricks when it comes to flirting is to always leave the guy wanting more. This makes you a little bit mysterious and unattainable and allows the guy to experience the thrill of the chase.


Don't wait until the conversation becomes awkward or boring, try to leave things on a high note. This will require some serious self-control, but the results will be worth it.
Take some initiative and give the guy your number before you leave.You can write it on a scrap of paper and slip it into his pocket, or you can grab his phone and enter it into your contacts. Men love forward-thinking women who are willing to go after what they want.
As you leave, lean in towards him as if for a kiss, but at the last minute turn your head and whisper "I had a great time" in his ear. With those words you'll have him wrapped around your little finger and he won't be able to resist calling you for a date!

