 Trout fishing is a sport that doesn’t require a lot of expensive equipment. To be successful, all you’ll need (besides luck) is:A fishing pole (4 to 5 feet long, spinning or spin-cast)
Thin line (4 pound test is usually fine, but use 6 pound test in cloudier waters)
Small bronze hooks (#10 or #14 size)
Sinkers and bobbers, if desired
Bait (nightcrawlers work best)
Lures, if you are not using live bait (any kind of small, minnow-like spinner or jig)Wading boots (if you don’t want to get wet)
A net and canvas creel (to help you catch and hold your fish, if needed);
, While still on dry land, place half of a nightcrawler on the end of a small hook.Pierce it only once, at either end. If you are using a lure, attach it securely to your line.
 Walk up to the water quietly, from downstream.Try to keep yourself hidden from the fish—avoid casting any shadow on the water in front of you, for instance. Get to the side of the stream, and find a good spot to stand and cast. Do not, however, enter the water.
 Throw your line swiftly and smoothly, aiming upstream.This allows your bait to drift back to you.


If you are using a lure, you can cast in any direction. This will imitate the natural free movement of minnows.
 The light line used for brook trout fishing will float on the water.Keep an eye on it as your bait drifts back to you. If the line goes from slack to stretched out, you may have a bite. Reel it in and enjoy the catch!


If you are fishing in deeper water, you can also add split shot sinkers to your line., Work slowly and gently to avoid scaring the fish.


If you disturb the water, kick up mud, make too much noise, etc., then move across the stream or to another location and try again.
 If you catch a fish and intend to release it, wet your hands before handling it.This will preserve the fish’s protective coating and keep it healthy. If you want to keep the fish, remove the hook and put the fish in your creel.


If you have caught a fish and it is deeply hooked, just cut your line to free it., If you’ve tried and tried, but still haven’t had a bite, move upstream.You may find more fish there, and you can fish your way downstream when you are coming back.
 Good fishers care about their catch and its environment. Make sure to be familiar with all laws regulating Brook trout in your area before you go fishing, and follow them. If required in your area, you must also have a valid fishing license.


Many states have laws regarding the number of Brook trout you can catch and keep. They may also impose weight or length minimums. These regulations are designed to conserve Brook trout populations, which have been reduced in some areas.Certain locations, such as National or State Parks, may have regulations that differ from a state’s regular laws. Heed all posted information.
In some areas, there are restrictions on how you can fish for Brook trout. For instance, some may have laws stating that you must use artificial lures.
 Check with your local department of natural resources for tips. Your state’s DNR may share maps or other information sharing which waters are known to be best for fishing for brook trout, for example.,, Brook trout tend to live in small streams with good water.When choosing a spot to cast your line, don’t overlook small pools and riffles. Brook trout often gather in water that is relatively shallow, and around logs, overhangs, and other cover in the water. In larger streams, you can also try near the headwaters, since brook trout like to congregate there., The best time to catch brook trout depends on the season.You are most likely to catch them in the afternoon during the springtime, and in the morning hours in warmer summer months., Brook trout seem to be especially active during times that insects are hatching, such as when midges hatch in the spring.Cloudy or unpleasant weather can also be a surprisingly good time to fish for brook trout. In locations where ponds freeze over, brook trout may be easiest to catch just after the ice melts, since they will be hungry.

