 When dry detangling your hair you can use your fingers, a wide-tooth comb, or a paddle brush. It will depend on the kind of hair you have. For thin or tightly curled hair, a wide-toothed comb works best. A paddle brush works well on long loose curls. Using your fingers first can make it easier to find and work through smaller knots., Part your hair in the middle and go all the way down the back of your head. Then do a horizontal part around your head just above your ears. You can do this easily with hair clips or pins. Though this may seem like an unnecessary step, tackling each section separately will safeguard against over brushing and provide better consistency. If your hair is especially thick or tangled, it might help to separate your hair into more than four sections.
 These products, available at beauty supply and drug stores, might be all you need to get through the tangles. For some people, just using the spray is enough to get rid of all the knots. If you have more tangles, keep going.








Spray some evenly over your hair
Comb your hair, working your way in small increments from the bottom.
 Pull the knotted area away from the rest of your hair if possible. If you can see it in the mirror, it might help to take a quick look at it. Then you can see what you’re dealing with and how you might begin untangling. Start with a small amount of hair
Begin near the bottom and run your fingers through
Apply gentle pressure
When you find a knot, run your thumbnail gently over it and keep going.
 Once you have done as much as you can with your fingers, start with a wide-toothed comb. Again, start down near the end and work slowly up the length of the hair. 








If there are tangles you absolutely can’t get through, use either some hair smoother (available at drug stores) or a little coconut oil or avocado oil.
Use only a dot on the knot and try the comb again.
 If you’ve gotten out as many tangles as you can with the wider teeth, use smaller teeth this time. This will often lead to finding small knots in your hair. Work these the same way as the larger tangles. Sometimes these knot simply will not come out.








Don’t pull at it or rip it out with a comb -- this is bad for the hair.
Gather the small amount of hair in the knot and cut it just above that tangle with a very sharp pair of scissors.
 As you finish one section, loosely twist it and pin it up. Continue working through the rest of your hair. Move through it systematically, section by section. Pin up detangled sections until all of your hair is detangled. If your hair benefits from brushes, you can brush it at the end.
 Using combs and brushes can result in some breakage, as your hair is not very flexible when it is dry. You should avoid over combing to prevent split ends.

