 You need to make sure your dog is comfortable with you, and you need to know when it needs to go to the bathroom. Keeping it nearby allows you to react to a mess and train your Corgi more quickly.


If you must leave your corgi, put it in a room that is easy to clean, such as one with a tile or linoleum floor.;
, Schedules are very important for a puppy. It teaches it when to expect a meal, and when to expect time outside. In the beginning, do not "free feed" your puppy by leaving food out all the time. Provide food at scheduled times.


Veterinarians typically recommend two meals a day.
 Usually, corgis need to use the bathroom after eating or drinking, after playing, and after napping. Watch your corgi carefully and check for signs that it needs to use the bathroom, such as:


Pacing in circles
”Searching” for something
Whining
Running back and forth between you and the door

, Once you can predict when your dog needs to go, try and bring it outside before it happens. Once outside, wait 10-15 minutes for it to go to the bathroom.


Younger corgis have smaller bladders and less control, so take them out frequently, even if you don’t think they need to go.
 Give it a treat, shower it with praise and petting, and let it play with a toy. You want your dog to associate going outside to pee with positive experiences and reinforcement.
 Dogs, especially puppies, do not often have the ability to associate punishment with their own actions. For the dog, going to the bathroom is natural, but the punishment will make it fearful and nervous. More often than not, the dog will resort to hiding its mess, not taking it outside.
 This usually takes between two weeks and a month. Through positive reinforcement, care, and attention, your intelligent corgi can be house trained quickly.
 Mix the two into a paste and let it sit atop the area for five minutes, then wipe away. This will get rid of any odors and hopefully prevent your puppy from repeating the same mistake in that spot.

