 No parent is going to let their child run off into the dangerous world of acting, modeling, dancing, and the whole entertainment area when they know the child is irresponsible and immature. Try cleaning up your room every night, arrange your school stuff before the next day, get good grades, take care of your body, be kind, and all that stuff.;
, Practice dancing, acting, singing, modeling, and all that stuff in your room, or personal place. For dancing, just blast some music and choreograph on the spot. For acting, write a skit of your own, find one online, or copy down some lines from a show or movie, or musical (or play.) Recite them and be sure to be the character, not say the lines. Add emotion! For singing or musical things, download the free audio program, Audacity, for your computer. It helps record, but otherwise, practice stage presence, and playing your instrument or singing in front of the mirror or sibling or friend to your fave song. For modeling, take some pictures of your self, or if you don't have a camera or web cam, then just practice faces in front of the mirror.
 Try performing small things like songs you wrote, or show pictures, or show a dance routine or skit for them and don't be scared to ask others to help, and most definitely don't forget to be the part.
 Social skills are important. If people don't know you or even like you now, what makes you think they will in the future?

, Maybe your parents won't help you get jobs, but you can still do community theater! Or even the school play. If your parents say no to this, start by convincing them to let you do one play. It will be a lot easier than begging to start a theater career. Audition for everything you can. Once you land a role, put in lots of effort. Then invite your parents to the performance!

, It will make you appear a lot more serious. Convincing your parents to drive you to one audition will be easier than asking them to agree to the general concept of acting. Show your parents what roles and agents you're interested in. By naming names, you look smart and build your credibility.
 Are they scared about you getting hurt? Show them how mature and responsible you are. Do they not think you can make a career out of it? Get a part-time job somewhere else to prove you can still earn money.

