 There are a number of legal drafting form books and style guides that may be extremely helpful to you in determining how you need to format a particular document.The Library of Congress, as well as many law libraries, have lists of formbooks and legal drafting guides available on their websites.
The public law library, typically located in your county courthouse, also has formbooks and samples of various legal documents, including contracts, statutes, and regulations, that you can use as guides.;
, Each government agency typically has its own rules that specify everything from font size and margins to the type of paper that your document must be printed on.For example, the federal government publishes a handbook with the formatting requirements for federal registry documents, including proposed rules and regulations. You can download a PDF copy of this handbook on the U.S. Archive's website.
While some formatting rules may seem arbitrary to you, keep in mind that these rules are designed to make similar documents look the same so readers can quickly and easily access the information they need.
 Before you begin writing your document, check to ensure that the page margins are set at 1 inch on all sides (unless otherwise specified by the agency for which you're drafting the document) and that you are using a legible font in an appropriate size.For example, if you are drafting a federal regulatory document, the margin on the left-hand side should be 1.5 inches, while all other margins are 1 inch each.
Typically, your text should be double-spaced in 12-point font. Your font should be a traditional, easily readable one such as Times New Roman or Courier.
Keep the substance of your document in mind when you choose a font. For example, if your text will include names or titles that you intend to place in italics, Courier is not a good font choice because it doesn't render italics.
 If you're drafting a document such as a legislative proposal or a regulatory document, you typically must include a required heading, the format of which is specified by the agency with which you are filing your document.The heading includes information that allows readers to quickly determine where your document fits into the overall organization of the code or regulatory section for which you're writing. This information will vary depending on the agency for which you're writing.
If you're writing a contract or other legal document, instead of a formal heading you typically will simply title the document. Your title may be as brief as "Contract," or it may be more detailed and include the names of the parties or the purpose of the agreement.
If your document has distinct sections, you also need subheadings to break up the parts or sections of your overall document.
For example, if you were drafting a proposed regulation of veterinarians and veterinary services, you might include headings for "Veterinary Licenses" and "Veterinary Facilities."

, Creating an outline prior to drafting allows you to organize the sections of your document in a logical manner. If you're drafting a regulatory document, the titles of each section likely will become your headings.In contract drafting, your top-level headings typically should be bolded to set them apart from the rest of your text. You also may choose to have them in a larger font size than the rest of the document.
Contracts typically can be numbered in whatever organization method you feel best suits your content. However, if you're drafting government rules or regulations, they typically must be numbered following a pre-existing scheme.
Decide how you plan to divide the subjects in your document by grouping related statements to establish sections. Sometimes this division may be self-evident, but other times you may have to play with several different themes until you find the one that works the best.
Ideally, you want each major part or section to be of similar length, or have similar numbers of items. This makes your document appear balanced. If one section is significantly longer than the others, consider breaking it into two sections.
Once you've determined how to break up your information, you need to figure out how your sections will be arranged in your document. Generally speaking, you want to place the most important sections at the top of the document, along with those you believe will be most frequently used.
However, you also want to ensure that more general, broad provisions appear before more specific, narrow ones. This arrangement will save you a lot of time in writing, because it will be easier to move from broad rules to narrower exceptions or limits.
Any administrative clauses or penalty provisions (in contracts these are typically referred to as "boilerplate" and placed in a section labeled "Miscellaneous") should be at the end of your document.
 Short sentences in present tense, using a basic subject-verb-object construction, are the most effective way to write the actual text of your document.Active voice eliminates ambiguity by identifying the party responsible for fulfilling the verb's action. In passive voice, on the other hand, the object becomes the focus of the sentence.
For example, if you write "when the product is delivered," the question of who is to deliver the product is left up in the air. Writing "When Manufacturer delivers the product" clears up any ambiguity.
A legal document has a timeless quality to it, in that once enacted or executed the document must provide answers to people over years regarding their rights and duties concerning the subject of the document.
For this reason, declarative, present-tense sentences tell future readers what they must do without confusion. If you write "The Manufacturer will deliver the product," an astute reader might wonder when the obligation actually begins, since the document is written in future tense.
Writing a declarative sentence in present tense, such as "The Manufacturer delivers the product on the third Tuesday of every month" preserves the document's clarity.
You also want to avoid negative statements, particularly sentences that require more than one negative. Write what will happen, not what won't happen.
For example, the sentence "The committee approves projects with a simple majority vote" is a lot easier to understand than "A project won't be approved unless a majority of the committee votes for it," which not only uses a negative construction but also is passive.
 Legal drafting is seldom, if ever, a one-shot deal, and may require multiple revisions before you can be certain that the words you've used effectively convey the correct meaning and intent.Focus on writing short sentences that don't include multiple clauses. Where explanation is required, consider breaking your sentence into two sentences – one that provides the explanation and another that describes the action to take place.
Reading your sentences aloud can help you see if they are needlessly complex. If you stumble over them as you read, or if they don't sound clear, you should consider redrafting the sentence so it's more easily understood.
Keep in mind that readers can get lost in multiple clauses, and complex sentences invite misinterpretation. For example, the sentence "If developers don't submit their applications by the deadline, and fail to complete their affidavits, they will be unable to participate in subsequent bidding rounds" may raise questions of whether developers must both submit applications and complete affidavits by the deadline, or if the affidavits have a different deadline.
A more understandable construction of the example sentence would be "Developers must submit a completed application and affidavit by the deadline to participate in subsequent bidding rounds."

, When you're drafting a legal document, every word should have an active, operative meaning in the sentence. Any other words and phrases will confuse readers and can possibly distort your meaning.You probably think of many of these words and phrases as "legalese." They clog up your writing and make it confusing to the average reader. Keep in mind that many legal documents that are drafted will be read by laypeople first and foremost – not by judges and attorneys.
Phrases such as "any and all" or "full and complete" are repetitive and should be avoided.
Many other words or phrases can be simplified. For example, "in order to" is a phrase often used in legal writing, but it says nothing that "to" doesn't already say by itself.
The same principal applies to "and/or." In legal drafting, the word "and" means both things are required, while the word "or" means only one is required. If you write "and/or," that means only one thing is technically required, although both may be present. Since you want your language to be functional, the word "or" by itself is sufficient.
When in doubt, ask yourself if the word or phrase adds anything important to the sentence. If it doesn't, take it out.
 Long series in sentences are hard to follow, and the punctuation can lead to confusion. Bulleted lists will break up the information into pieces that your readers can understand at a glance and easily reference.Use parallel construction in your lists. You can check this by taking the first part of the sentence that introduces the list and completing it with each word or phrase you've listed next to a bullet.
If any of the phrases in the list don't complete the first half of the sentence in a way that makes grammatical sense, recast the phrase so that it does.
Each item in your list should be a complete thought in and of itself.
Keep in mind that these sorts of documents are meant to be used as quick references for specific clauses or statements. Your average reader likely won't read the whole document from beginning to end.
 If you include too many cross-references, your provision will be confusing and cumbersome to read. Unnecessary references won't add anything to your reader's understanding. Only use a cross-reference when it is essential to the meaning of the provision you're drafting. If you're drafting a rule or regulation, cross-references also may be necessary if there's another regulation out there that provides an important limit or exception to your provision.
For example, if the regulation you're drafting is subject to state and federal anti-discrimination laws, it's enough to simply say that. Providing a lengthy list of code citations will only result in readers getting lost in those other laws and trying to figure out how they apply to the clause they were originally reading.
When you're drafting contracts, incorporate other documents for reference only if those documents are necessary to understanding the contract as a whole, or to understanding the rights or responsibilities of a party.
The federal government has special rules that apply with one federal agency cross-referencing the rules or regulations of another federal agency. Generally, these cross-references are not considered regulatory and must meet at least one of a number of conditions, such as to test methods or consensus standards.
 Unless your intent is to reference the other document or regulation in its entirety, point your readers to exactly where they should go to find the information you're cross-referencing.This applies also when referencing other parts of the same document. "See Section 2.4" guides readers more effectively than saying "See the above section," especially when you consider that your document may later be amended and additional sections added.
 Include a description of the document and your reasons for cross-referencing it in parentheses after your citation, so readers know why it's mentioned and have a summary of what it says.Providing a description enables your readers to understand what the other law or regulation is about and why it relates to the provision they're reading without having to stop and look it up.
For example, you might write "See 52 CFR 99.4, consumption of cupcakes at government-sponsored events."

, Drafting your document first enables you to see clearly which words should be defined and which are unnecessary.Before you write your document, you may think a certain word is important and needs to be separately defined. However, after drafting the document you may realize that word was only actually used once.
Generally speaking, words that are only used once or twice don't need to be included in a separate section for definitions. If a definition is necessary, you can define it in the text where it appears.
Keep in mind that your definitions section is alerting your readers that these words are important, and that they carry a different meaning from common understanding.
 Generally, your definitions should be read before the document is read, so your readers will understand what a key word means. However, with lengthy documents you may need multiple sections of definitions.In most shorter regulations or contracts, the definitions sections is one of the first sections of the documents. This goes back to the general principal of legal drafting that you should place more broadly applicable sections before more limited sections.
Since the definitions apply to the document as a whole, they typically will appear at the beginning of the document.
However, you may be drafting a document with multiple sections that covers 20 pages. It would be impractical to require readers to constantly flip back to the first section to find definitions of words that only appear in the last section.
In these situations, it may be better to have short definitions sections at the beginning of each part that include definitions of words your readers will encounter in that part specifically.
You still may want to have an initial section of definitions at the beginning of the document for words that appear throughout the document.
Organize your definitions in alphabetical order without any paragraph numbering or other labeling. You may want to bold the term you're defining so your readers can find it more easily.
 If a word has no different definition than the common understanding or dictionary definition of that word, there's no need to craft a special definition that applies solely to your document.The point of a definition is to eliminate ambiguity, not add to it. For example, if your document uses the word "motor vehicle," and by "motor vehicle" you mean any car, truck, or van that operates on the roads, a separate definition of that word typically isn't necessary.
You also should avoid definitions that contradict the commonly understood meaning of the word. For example, you would only cause confusion if you defined "motor vehicle" as "any car, truck, van, or bicycle," since people don't consider bicycles to be motor vehicles.
In that case, you might consider changing the word "motor vehicle" in your document to something that more readily includes bicycles.
 The purpose of definitions is to aid your reader in better understanding your document, not confuse him or her further.Avoid part or all of the term you're defining in the term's definition. This can make your readers think they're missing something.
Don't fall into the trap of thinking you have to name every possible thing that might be included under a broad term. Provide the definition, then give a few examples.
For example, you might write: "'Private transport' means any non-public vehicle or device that people use to move from place to place on the roads. Examples include cars, trucks, bicycles, and hoverboards."
Leave any substantive rules out of definitions, because readers are likely to miss them.

