 Solid waste can damage the dishwasher pump.


Find the owner's manual for your dishwasher model. If you do not have a copy, find your model number. The manufacturer and model number are usually located on the edge of the door frame either on the sides or the bottom below the dishwasher door. Locate the owner's manual online at the manufacturer's website or call their customer service line for assistance.
Locate the filter by referencing your machine's owner's manual. Dishwasher filters are typically located near the bottom of the machine or the lower spray arm.
Follow the directions in the owner's manual to remove the filter.
Throw away any larger pieces of debris, and rinse out the filter.
Reattach filter.;
, If these holes become clogged, it can adversely affect the dishwasher's performance.
 Mineral deposits from hard water may eventually cause damage to the heating element and pipe-work if you allow them to build up in the machine. Softening the water can help maintain a dishwasher.
 These cleaning products are designed to remove mineral build-up from your machine and will be most effective for those with hard water.


Follow directions on the bottle for adding the cleaning agent to the machine.
Run the empty machine with the cleaning product.
 Replace the bearings as needed to prevent a decline in your dishwasher's performance.



Review the designated setting in your owner's manual. Most dishwashers should be set to 15 to 25 pounds per square inch (psi).
Adjust the flow pressure if it does not correspond to the guidelines outlined in your manual to improve the dishwasher's operation. Usually water pressure problems affect the plumbing of the entire house, but there are steps you can take to improve water pressure. Run the dishwasher at night when you are not using other appliances that require water, showering, or using the toilets. Do not run the dishwasher at the same time as a sprinkler system.
Call a plumber if you experience continue low water pressure. A plumber can address the cause of the water pressure problem.
 It should be set to 140 degrees F (60 degrees C).
 If you frequently notice food debris remains on the dishes, this could be a sign that your dishwasher is not operating correctly. Contact a plumber to have a professional inspect the machine and address any issues before they develop into more serious problems.

