 Discard any eggs with openings in their shells.


You can find high-quality quail eggs in many higher-end grocery stores or farmer's markets.
Some people prefer to let their eggs sit in the fridge for 1-2 weeks so they "loosen up" a bit and are easier to peel.;
,,


Just remember that quail eggs are a bit more delicate than regular eggs, so you should be careful when handling them so they don't crack.
 Allow the eggs to sit and obtain room temperature before boiling.


The water should reach about 1 inch (2.54 cm) above the top of the eggs.
You can also use a saucepan instead of a pot.
, Some people think you should remove the eggs immediately after they boil, while others say they should boil for at least three minutes. Others also recommend removing the eggs from the heat as soon as they boil and letting them sit, and therefore continue to cook, for another three minutes. The important thing is not to overcook them or they will get too rubbery once you place them in the brine.If you let them sit for a few minutes, you can stir them carefully during this process.
, Pour the vinegar to at least 1 inch (2.54 cm) above the top of the eggs.


Leave the eggs in the white vinegar for 12 hours to soften the membrane and make peeling an easier task.
If you do this, then you should stir the eggs in the pot every few minutes.
Rinse the vinegar from the eggs with fresh water when you're done.
Of course, you can skip this step and move right on to pickling the eggs, if you don't have the patience for it.
 This often makes the peeling of the tough shell and membrane easier.
 You can discard those shells in your compost bin.



Be careful about not breaking the yolk of the eggs as you handle this. This can lead that pickling mixture to get a bit murky.
 The size of jar you choose depends on your needs. Make sure that the jars have been properly sterilized and that they have lids that seal tightly. You can pat the eggs dry with a paper towel before transferring them to the canning jars.
 You can make the mixture while preparing the eggs, or after you've made them. Each mixture will be made slightly differently, so it's important to follow directions when you choose your mixture. Here's how you can make each of the mixtures here:


To make the purple pickling mixture, simply combine all of the pickling ingredients in a small pan and bring them to a boil over medium heat. Continue to stir the mixture to dissolve the salt and sugar. Let the mixture cool to room temperature, which should take 30 minutes or so.To make the hot and spicy pickling mixture, just bring the ingredients to a boil in a saucepan and set them aside for 30 minutes to let them cool. When the time comes to pour the mixture into the eggs, use a chopstick to poke the bay leaves and coriander seeds deep into the jar with the eggs.To make the golden pickling mixture, simply place all the pickling ingredients in a medium saucepan, bring them to a boil over medium heat, cover them, reduce the heat to low, and let the pan simmer for 30 minutes. Then, chill the liquid in the fridge for 20 minutes or so and then it's good to go., Carefully pour the mixture over the eggs. You can use a mesh strainer or a cup measurer with a little spout so you don't dump all of the liquid over the eggs at once.


Wipe off the lids of the pickling mixture before closing the lids.
, For an added measure, you can process the jars in hot water for 10 minutes before you set them aside to cool.


Once you've sealed the lids, you can give the jars a gentle shake to make sure that the spices are distributed evenly.
You can even turn the jars upside down and then right side up again if you can do so carefully.
 How long you refrigerate them for depends on your preferences and the mixture you're using.


For the purple mixture, you can refrigerate it for at least a day and up a week.For the hot and spicy mixture, it's best if you store it in the fridge for 2 weeks before eating it.For the golden egg mixture, you should store it for at least a couple of days before eating it. You can eat it for up to a month after pickling it., Enjoy these tasty eggs on their own, sprinkled with a dash of parsley, or with a bit of coarse salt.

