 While many people now book their own vacations, a travel agent can help you plan the logistics and make the reservations. This is especially beneficial if you have never traveled to Mexico before.
 There are excellent resources on travel to Mexico and Mexican beaches online and in bookstores.


Conduct an Internet search to find sites that advertise beaches, hotels, resorts and other recreation opportunities in Mexico.
Look for travel books on Amazon.com or in your local bookstore. Reliable travel books include Fodor's, Lonely Planet, Frommer's and Rick Steves.



Consider beaches on the Pacific side, such as Acapulco, Ixtapa or Los Cabos if you are traveling from the west coast.
Choose resorts such as Cozumel and Cancun if you want to stay near the Gulf of Mexico or on the eastern side of the country.
 You will probably want to go to the beach, but other interests might dictate where in Mexico you choose to travel.


Select a tourist-friendly area such as Playa del Carmen or Cabo if you want a lot of nightlife and enough amenities at the hotel that you rarely have to leave the resort.
Travel to a beach with less tourists and more history if you want. Tulum has celebrated beaches as well as access to Mayan ruins and nature preserves. Puerto Vallarta offers sightseeing, shopping and Los Arcos--a dramatic oceanside row of arches.
 Most cruise lines such as Carnival, Royal Caribbean and Princess offer cruises with several stops at Mexican ports.


Making Reservations for a Beach Vacation to Mexico

, Decide how much you can spend on things such as airfare, lodging, food and entertainment.
 Many destinations offer deals that include airfare, hotel and sometime extras such as meals and transportation to and from the airport.


Check for popular Mexican beach vacation packages with Westin Hotels, Barcelo Hotels and Resorts, Oasis Hotels and Palace Resorts.
 If you decide to book airfare and hotel separately, check online travel sites such as Expedia, Hotwire, Priceline, Kayak and Orbitz for competitive air and hotel prices.
 While Mexico only requires a picture ID to get into the country, the United States requires a passport for travel between the U.S. and Mexico.



Remember to confirm your reservations before you leave for your trip.
 Pack your passports, itinerary, confirmation and flight numbers and any directions you might need to your hotel.;
, The climate at most Mexican beaches is hot and sunny most of the year.


Include bathing suits, shorts, t-shirts, tank tops, sandals, flip flops and hats. Most resorts are casual, and formal clothing is not needed.



Pack enough for the duration of your stay, especially medications.
 This is a beach vacation, and you should take advantage of the time to relax and have some fun.

