 No one is perfect and people will let you down from time to time. To improve your attitude towards life, try practicing some forgiveness. By forgiving others, you will let go of negative emotion; doing so is also good for your physical health. There are several things to keep in mind to cultivate forgiveness. Everyone makes mistakes from time to time, including yourself. Try to remember the last time you did something like what was done to you. This will make it easier to take the perspective of the individual who wronged you and facilitate your forgiving him.
Treat forgiveness as something for you, and not as a gift for the person you are trying to forgive. This is something that will bring you peace, and so is beneficial for you.
Look for hidden benefits in the transgression. Although this is somewhat of a controversial point, trying to find the silver lining, that is, searching for possible ways being hurt may actually benefit you (e.g., by making you more resilient in the future) can be an effective way to forgive someone.
Remember that forgiveness will take time; it isn't something that will happen instantly.
 When you overthink the things you don’t like, the lack of money, the feeling that you're too fat, too weak, or not appreciated, you will likely just bring more misfortune and unhappiness into your life. This can happen because of self-fulfilling prophecies where you think something is some way so it becomes that way, or because you become depressed and think that you cannot possibly change, or simply because rumination can fuel negative feelings. Instead, try to focus on positive things in your life or on changing for the better.
You can also fight against rumination by letting go of things you have identified that are out of your control, or by thinking about what the worst case scenario is and asking yourself whether you could survive it (most likely the answer is yes, which will help you stop ruminating over it).For example, imagine that you dislike something about yourself that you can't change, such as how tall you are. You might let go of this by reminding yourself: "since I can't really change my height, there's not much point in thinking about it, so I may as well turn my attention to things in my life that I can change, such as how confident I act or my sense of humor."

, Avoid spending too much time in the past, because that time has already come and gone. If you are upset about something you did in the past, you could ask yourself how you can use that information to improve for the future, but other than that don't dwell on the past. Instead, look to creating the future that you want. Try to remind yourself that whatever great opportunities you missed in the past are not as important as the potential opportunities that lie ahead.
Also, remember that the past is something that you can't change, whereas you can change your future. Doesn't it make more sense to spend more time thinking about what you can change over what you cannot?

, Gratitude involves being thankful of and acknowledging that there are good things in the world beyond ourselves. Practicing gratitude is good for your physical and mental health, and can improve your relationships, all of which can help you improve your attitude toward life. To cultivate gratitude you can: Keep a journal and write down a few things each day that you are thankful for.
Write and send a letter of gratitude to someone.
Focus on the intentions of others' actions and not necessarily just the outcomes that are brought about.
 To be mindful is to maintain an awareness of your thoughts, feelings, sensations, and surroundings in the moment and to accept them without judgment. Studies show that practicing mindfulness can lead to better physical and mental health, and can lead people to be more compassionate and prosocial — all of which are important for an improved life attitude. To practice mindfulness you can: Pay close attention to your surrounding environment.
Listen closely to your breathing.
Focus intently on your sensations, the sights, smells, sounds, etc., you are experiencing.
Accept your thoughts and feelings but do not judge them; you can do this by acknowledging that they are real, and then moving on to other sensations, thoughts, feelings.
 Studies show that helping others, such as by volunteering, can help foster a positive self-image. This may be because helping others can provide you with a sense of worth and accomplishment.Look online or in your local newspaper for ways to become involved in your community.
 People are bombarded with unrealistic body images by the media. This can make it difficult to accept how you look. Accepting and loving yourself is an important part of improving your attitude towards life. To better accept your body you can:Stop dieting and eat normally. By dieting, you are telling yourself through your behavior that there is something wrong with you that needs fixing. Instead of dieting, work on eating normally, eating only when you are hungry, having balanced meals, and getting exercise and being healthy.
Focus on yourself in your entirety, not just how you look. Remember that you are a unique individual who is so much more than just a body; you have a personality, a mind, a unique history, and a way of looking at the world (your attitude!).
Respect how others look; if you find yourself judging others negatively for how they look, you may be more likely to judge yourself, too. Try to accept people as unique individuals and remember that looks can have an automatic but dubious impact on your impressions of others.