 Start by splitting the vanilla bean lengthwise so the seeds inside the pod are exposed. Use a small sharp knife to do this, making a clean cut down the length of the bean. Then, use the edge of the knife to scrape the seeds out of the pod.Work carefully when you do this, as you do not want to waste any of the seeds in the pod. Scrape out as many of the seeds as you can.;
, Then, place the vanilla bean seeds in the sugar. Use clean fingers to rub the seeds into the sugar for 30 seconds to a minute. This will help to infuse the sugar with the vanilla bean flavor., Cover the vanilla bean sugar with plastic wrap. Let it sit overnight on the kitchen counter at room temperature. Leaving the vanilla bean in the sugar overnight will help to deepen the vanilla flavor of the sugar., If you do not have access to fresh vanilla bean, you can substitute it with powdered French vanilla coffee creamer instead. You will need 1 cup of the powdered coffee creamer for the hot chocolate mix.You can find French vanilla coffee creamer in powdered form at your local grocery store.
 You will need a food processor or a blender to break down the semisweet chocolate and the milk chocolate. Look for a food processor with a sharp chopping blade. A blender will also work in a pinch.You may also need a spatula to move the chocolate around between blending so it is evenly broken up.
 Pour the semisweet chocolate and the milk chocolate in the food processor. Make sure they are coarsely chopped before you put them in the food processor as this will make it easier to blend them. Use the pulse setting to blend them until they are finely ground.You may need to process them in two batches if the food processor is small.
 Once the semisweet chocolate and milk chocolate are blended, add them to the vanilla bean sugar. Then, pour in the cocoa. Add the salt, and instant coffee, if using. Mix well with a spoon.If you do not want to have to add fresh milk to the hot chocolate mix, you can add powdered milk to the mix. If you’d prefer fresh milk when you prepare the vanilla hot chocolate, leave the powdered milk out.
 If you are planning to give the vanilla hot chocolate mix as a gift, you can put the mix in glass mason jars with an air tight lid. You can then add ribbon or other decorations and give the mix to loved ones as gifts.If you are preparing the vanilla hot chocolate mix for yourself, storing it in glass jars with an airtight lid is also a good option.
 Another gift wrapping idea is to put the vanilla hot chocolate mix in coffee mugs. You can then wrap the coffee mugs with ribbon or wrapping paper to give as a cute gift.You may go for coffee mugs that are seasonally appropriate, such as Christmas mugs for a Christmas gift or Easter mugs for an Easter gift.
 You can also pour the vanilla hot chocolate mix in decorative plastic bags and give them out to others that way. Look for plastic bags with a good seal.

Buy decorated plastic bags or get creative and decorate them yourself to then give to loved ones as gifts.
 You can include toppings like marshmallows, sprinkles, or cinnamon with the packaged vanilla hot chocolate mix. Put the toppings in a small bag with the mix as part of a gift. Or include the toppings when you store the mix so you can use them as you prepare the mix at home.