 Create a kit of non-perishable food, bottled water, medications, batteries, and other useful supplies. You'll appreciate it if you get snowed in, and it's good to have around in case of natural disaster.;
, Take an online course for the fun of it, or to add new expertise to your resume. Teach yourself a musical instrument, computer skills, or a new language. Look for classes at the local library or community center.
 If you have a warm room that gets plenty of sunlight, you can fool a tropical plant into thinking it's home. Check your kitchen for seeds and you can start growing oranges, lemons, lychee, date palms, and many more.


In many cases, this is as simple as washing the seeds, letting them soak for a day or two, and planting them in potting soil.
 Time to get rid of the junk so you can work more effectively. Purge old papers, file all your documents, and label your folders and containers.
 Get out the seed catalogues and start jotting down notes on what you want to grow. By the time spring comes along, you’ll be ready.
 Make a pledge to read at least one classic book you’ve always wanted to read, but never seemed to have the time for. Stoke the fire, stir the hot cocoa, and settle in for a good long read. If you have an e-book device such as a Kindle, in the UK, some classic literature is available to download free.
 There's always something that could use a repair or improvement. Bust out the tools and test your handyman know-how, or find some online guides to get started.
 Expand your cooking skills to new techniques and regional cuisines. Challenge yourself to try one new recipe each week, using your favorite cookbooks, wikiHow's collection, or other online sources.


There's nothing like a warm loaf of bread on a cold morning. Learn to bake it yourself, and you'll find enough variations to keep you occupied the whole season.
 They can get very lonely and depressed on these dreary days. Arrange a trip to cheer them up and provide some company. You could even donate toys to sick children, or knit blankets for them.
 Set yourself the goal of learning three new words a week, and using them in conversation. Keep it up, and you'll learn dozens of words by the spring equinox.
 Instead of a movie night, have an educational documentary night to learn about nature, history, or other educational topics. If you have children, have a family discussion on the topic afterward.
 Have your guests bring tropical-style shirts, shorts, and sandals to change into once they get inside. Have a potluck of Hawaiian dishes, decorate your home with leis, and put on the old Don Ho records. You will feel like you’ve arrived in paradise.
 If you don't know of any in your town, search online for one you could visit with a short drive. What better way to shed winter blues than walking through a warm rainforest?

, There is an endless list of activities you can do indoors. Painting, woodworking, needlepoint, calligraphy, and many more can easily occupy you for the whole winter.
 Every ice storm or snow storm leaves beautiful vistas behind. As soon as the roads are clear, take a road trip with your camera and capture nature's sculpture work.


Even when you're stuck at home, you can spend time with your photographs. Frame them with professional or homemade frames, or make your own album.
 Make your own suet cakes and hang them outside near a window. You'll help the birds fatten up for the winter, and get a beautiful show for your household to watch.
 A monthly book club is a great way to keep up with friends and introduce yourself to books you wouldn't otherwise read. If that's not up your alley, host a regular board game night or monthly pot-luck instead. You can even have themes such as vegetarian, all desserts, only new recipes, etc.
 Clear winter days are an opportunity to see wildlife that aren't around the rest of the year.

