 Be kind to your skin and use a pH balanced cleanser of 5.5. This is the natural acidic condition of skin and the optimal pH. At this pH the skin forms an adequate acid mantle to prevent acne vulgaris growth.


Make sure the cleanser you choose is specifically recommended for your face, and optimally for acne-prone or sensitive skin.
Carefully patch-test. Carefully test a new product on a small section of your skin for a period of time to gauge for any adverse effects. Discontinue use if irritation occurs. Add new products carefully. For some, a pH balanced cleanser may result in irritation due to fragrance sensitivity. Try another product or simply use coconut oil to clean your skin instead.
Avoid washing your face with very hot water (as this can dry out the skin) and don't use rough washcloth or sponges for physical exfoliation, as these can irritate and inflame the skin. Use lukewarm water with a pH balanced cleanser.
 It is important to use a chemical exfoliant with an AHA or BHA to treat acne and erythema. Exfoliation sloughs off dead skin cells, unclogging pore and treating acne.It also smooths out the skin, which can help to minimize the appearance of both acne scars and erythema marks.


An AHA and BHA must be at the correct pH between three and four to have any efficacy. Use a BHA as often as twice a day. Use a AHA at night, as AHA use in the day will cause photosensitivity. If using an AHA in the day, be sure to wear sunscreen.
 For gentle physical exfoliation use a Konjac sponge, or a soft washcloth dampened with water. Gently rub the wash cloth against your skin, using small circular motions.


For physical exfoliation, exfoliate once a week, or as often as deemed necessary. However, if you tend to have dry skin, and your skin is feeling tight as a result, exfoliate less often.
Avoid physical exfoliation with plastic micro-beads or walnut shells as the former contributes to environmental pollution while the latter damages the skin and contributes to aging.
If you notice that your skin becomes very red or irritated, reduce the frequency of exfoliation or try a different product.
 Ultraviolet radiation is the number one cause of premature aging. It also leads to skin cancer. Exposing your skin to harmful UVA and UVB rays damages skin and contributes to PIH formation, as the sunlight stimulates pigment-producing cells. It also prolongs PIE damage.


Not only can the sun prolong PIE appearance and create PIH, it can lead to premature aging including sun spots, fine lines and wrinkles. Sunscreen is an anti-aging must for all ages young and old — preventing future skin cancer. Prevention is better than treatment. There is no such thing as safe tanning but there is sun damage.
Wear sunscreen every day, with an SPF of 30.
When out in the sun for long periods of time, stick to the shade as much as possible and wear a wide-brimmed hat and light, long-sleeved clothing. Wear sunglasses, especially if you have blue or green eyes. Consider carrying a parasol. In Asia, they are a popular fashionable accessory.
 Although drinking lots of water and eating a healthy diet won't get rid of your acne scars all by itself, it will help your body to function at optimum levels and encourage skin rejuvenation.


Water flushes toxins from the body and hydrates your skin, making it look fresh, plump and healthy. You should aim to drink six to eight glasses a day.
Eating lots of fruit and vegetables provides your body with the vitamins and nutrients it needs to keep skin healthy. Focus on getting enough of vitamins A, C and E (found in produce like broccoli, spinach, carrots, tomatoes, avocados and sweet potatoes) as these are the most beneficial for the skin.
 It's hard to do, but resist the urge to pop, scratch, pick or otherwise put your hands on your face — it'll only make your skin worse for the long haul.


Instead, resolve that you'll touch your face twice a day, when you wash it morning and night and apply products, and leave it alone for the rest of the day.
Change your pillowcase regularly as the bacterial growth and oil accumulation there may contribute to acne.
If you're still battling active acne, try these helpful wikiHow articles: How to Avoid Acne and How to Prevent Acne Outbreaks


