 Mindfulness can help reduce your stress in general because it requires you to focus all your attention on what you are doing.This can help you reduce stress by allowing you to think about what and when you are eating. When you are focused on your food, you have less time to think about the things stressing you and more time to enjoy your food.


Practice mindfulness in all of your activities. Instead of multi-tasking, focus on what you are doing in the moment.
Being mindful when you are eating will help you recognize when you are full and enjoy your food more.
For example, when you are preparing a meal or eating, slow down and take the time to pay attention to the colors, textures, smells, and flavors of your food.
For instance, you could say to yourself, “This couscous feels really grainy and smells fragrant with all the spices.”

, One of the best things you can do to fight stress, in addition to eating well, is to be physically active. Physical activity not only boosts your mood but it also aids in digestion, which means all the nutrients that you are eating will have an effect on your stress levels quicker. So make sure that you are getting regular physical activity.


Try going for a walk after you eat lunch or dinner to help your food digest.
Go hiking or biking once or twice a week. Take a healthy, energy boosting snack like almonds and dried cranberries with you.
Participate in a team sport like volleyball, rugby, baseball, or cricket. Being around other people can encourage you to stay active.
 Journaling is great for reducing stress because it gives you the opportunity to honestly express how you are feeling about the things going on in your life. You can also your journal to keep track of which foods seem to help you fight stress better.


Write about the things that happen in your life, as well as how you feel about these things.
Try to keep a log of what you eat when you are stressed so that you have an idea of the foods that are most (or least)effective in helping you fight stress.
You can also write about how eating makes you feel or your experience with eating mindfully.
For example, you might write, “It was really enjoyable to taste the blend of flavors and textures in the fruit salad.”

