 No, really. Without doing anything, you are already beautiful and perfect just the way you are. Not your ideal weight? Doesn't matter. Crooked nose? Adorable. Acne? No one cares. Hair? Amazing. Society spends way too much time telling people that we're not good enough, when fact is? You are always good enough. The rest of this article is just tips on how to feel more confident and learning how to rock your completely awesome unique style!;
, The trick is finding clothes that express how you feel, while still managing to be comfortable and confident! It's different for everyone, and some people don't even have one specific 'style' they can claim as theirs. But if there are certain types of clothes, colors, or brands that make you feel amazing when wearing, then own it! There's no pressure to keep up with the fashion trends or what people in Hollywood are wearing! What's most important is your opinion and how you feel!

, Sometimes its hard to feel confident wearing certain clothes because of societal pressures, and sometimes we get stuck in ruts where we don't particularly like our clothes, but feel like that's what we have to keep wearing. You can try breaking out of that by trying on different clothing, just to see what you might end up loving! Going to your favorite clothing shop and just trying on different colors, shapes, and brands might end up with you finding a certain kind of clothing you had never considered before, but end up really liking!

, Our bodies do not dictate what sort of clothes we wear, and no matter if you're tall or short, large or thin, somewhere in between, all types of clothes can look amazing on you. It all depends on finding clothes that actually fit your body! Don't buy clothes with the idea in mind you will grow into them, or lose the weight to fit in a smaller size. Buy for your body as is, and take the time to find clothing that works for you! Some people only wear certain brands of jeans, or prefer a particular cut of shirt. Everyone has their preferences, and its worth it to take the time to find yours!

, Your wardrobe should be fun but functional, and allow for variability! It's good to have clothes on hand for adventures outside, comfy clothes for a rainy day, as well as an outfit for a day out on the town! Buying staple pieces like colored tees or tank-tops can be great as they're usually fairly cheap, and can be worn in many different ways. A tank-top can be layered under a cardigan, or topped with a scarf, or just left over sweatpants for a day inside. Leggings can function as a stylish piece under a nice dress, or just be comfy when worn with a big sweater. With clothes that can be made to suit several different outfits, its much easier on your budget! Things like jewelry, scarves, jackets, pins and hair-styles can make a big difference as well in how a certain article of clothing looks, and give you an extra opportunity to express your individuality!

, Adding a frill of lace to the bottom of a skirt or stitching patches onto a pair of shorts can make clothes look completely new, for far far cheaper! It also helps to know some simple stitching for when a piece of clothing ends up with a rip.
 Whatever it is that you want to add to an outfit, whether its your worn-out Converse, a cool necklace, or fandom pins on your bag, accessories can add color and style to whatever you wear! Its always useful to have few key pieces, like your favorite bracelet or most comfortable shoes, that can be worn with most anything, so if you happen to be running late or just don't feel like putting in much effort, you can add those to what you're wearing and instantly perk up your look. And again, like with clothing, accessories that are fun yet functional are important! Its nice to have a pair of shoes that will go with anything.
 Hair is one of the easiest ways to change up your look for cheap! Even without a drastic new haircut, trying things like new styles, hair accessories, or colors can change how your hair looks completely! And you know your hair best, so you know how to take care of it! Just be careful with the hairdryers, straighteners, and bleach. Damaged hair can take a long time to get healthy again. And if you feel pressured to style your hair a certain way because of societal expectations, it's worth it figuring out what it is YOU like.
 Take regular showers or baths to keep your body clean and smelling nice, and regular face-washings to help keep skin clean and clear. Shaving body hair is always optional, and always up to you! A variety of products are available for help in keeping skin clear or making you smell nice, and can be found for quite cheap. For on the go, it can be useful to carry a small bottle of lotion for dry hands, deodorant for hot days, or a small bottle of your favorite scent to dab or spray on if you're out for a long time and need a pick-me-up.
 Make-up can be for everyone, but it doesn't have to be for you either. Make-up should be about helping you feel more confident in your natural beauty, so if you don't feel like you need it, that's great! If you want to wear a full-face every time you go out, that's fine too. Don't let anyone shame you for the amount of make-up you may or may not wear. If you do wear makeup, don't be afraid to express your style that way as well! Winged eyeliner or bold lip color can be a confidence boost, or maybe you just want to cover that red spot on your chin. Whatever you feel comfortable with is what's right for you.
 You get to decide what you want to wear, and you will look amazing no matter what. Having a perfect look is all about you, and not anyone else. So when you are able to look in a mirror and recognize that you look absolutely fantastic, that's how you know you've found your style.

