 You should always wash your hands thoroughly before handling your contact lenses or touching your eyes. This is to prevent dirt and germs from entering your eye, which may cause irritation or infection.Use clean, running water to wet your hands.
Apply soap and lather between your hands. Make sure you cover the fronts and backs of your hands, between the fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Scrub your hands together for at least 20 seconds to ensure you've covered every part of your hands and allowed enough time for the soap to clean your skin.
Rinse away all the soap under clean, running water.Use a clean, lint-free towel to dry your hands.
Make sure your fingernails are trimmed short and kept smooth so you do not accidentally scratch your eye.
 Gently pinch each lens individually and remove it very carefully from your eye. Once the lenses are out, you'll need to rinse them with contact solution to remove any debris that might be causing your eye's irritation.


Squirt a small pool of contact solution in the palm of your hand, then squeeze a few drops into the open "bowl" of your lens.
Use your other index finger to gently rub the lens around in the contact solution you've put in your palm. Do not let your fingernail poke the lens.
Shake off the excess solution and repeat for the other contact.While the lenses are out of your eyes, take a moment to examine them for any tears. A torn lens can cause a lot of pain and discomfort, and could damage your eyes.
 After rinsing your lenses (and while your hands are still clean), you're ready to re-insert your contact lenses into your eyes. You'll need to take great care to avoid damaging the lens or your eye, particularly with your fingernails.


Make sure your hands are dry, or the lens will stick to your finger.
Place the lens on the tip of your index finger.
Use your other hand to lift and hold your eyelid and upper lashes. Be sure to keep the lashes completely out of your eyes.
Slowly touch the lens to the surface of your eye. Don't force it or you'll end up poking yourself in the eye.
Don't blink until the lens floats into place., The case you keep your contacts in should be rinsed on a daily basis and washed with soap at least once a week. You should buy a new replacement case every three months to ensure your contacts stay clean.


Use contact solution to rinse out your case every time you put your contacts in. Change the solution in your case every day to prevent contamination.
Use liquid soap (either dish soap or antibacterial hand soap) and warm water to thoroughly wash your case at least once every week.
Be sure to add fresh lens cleaner when you're finished washing the case, and make sure your lenses are completely submerged whenever they're in the case.
Replace your storage case every three months or as needed.

