 Be suspicious if you hear your phone ring once. A single-ring missed call could be the work of a "crammer": someone who is trying to get you to call them back so they can charge you. If you only hear one ring, don't call the number back. If it wasn't a crammer, it was probably a wrong number.Telemarketers are required to ring at least four times, or for at least 15 seconds, before they hang up.;
, If the number is displayed, look it up online. Crammers call from countries with the same international code (+1) as the USA, so they look like domestic calls. However, if you search the numbers, you can identify them as foreign by their area code.


A good rule of thumb is that if you don't recognize the area code, don't answer.
Many of these calls come from the Dominican Republic (809), Jamaica (876), British Virgin Islands (284) and Grenada (473).There are also services online that allow you to look up numbers. Search for "reverse lookup" or "find out who called me."

, Someone trying to call you about a serious matter will either leave a phone message or contact you by other means. If you get a missed call from a number you don't know, or a blocked number, it probably isn't important. Don't call back!


If they do leave a message, go ahead and call them back.
Crammers will never leave a message, because they are operating on an extremely limited profit margin and can't afford the international call.
 If you notice mysterious charges, especially for something undefined, like "special services" or "premium service," on your phone bill, call your phone carrier and let them know there are unauthorized charges. They will typically reimburse you.If you have called back an unknown number and have found yourself listening to a recorded message, be extra vigilant with your phone bill. If you called and found yourself listening to an "adult services" recording, expect unauthorized charges.
Don't be embarrassed asking your phone carrier to reimburse you. Scam calls are an everyday problem for them.
 Sometimes scammers will leave a message with a number for you to call. If you get a voicemail or text message from someone who claims to be your bank, your cell phone provider, or a hospital, try calling that entity by the number you have for them, rather than tracing the call.

