 Try to drink at least 13 8-ounce (240 ml) glasses of water a day, especially if you're breastfeeding. Be in the habit of drinking whenever you're thirsty or consider carrying around a water bottle, so you can stay hydrated throughout the day. Drinking water can prevent constipation and help your body recover from delivery.Milk, juice, and tea also count towards your daily fluid intake. Just limit the amount of juice you drink since it is high in sugar.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are healthy fats like DHA and EPA that are often found in seafood or supplements. (Always check with your doctor before taking any supplements.) Studies have shown that getting omega-3s can lower your risk for postpartum depression. You can get omega-3s in your diet by eating salmon, cod, tuna, or sardines. You can also take fish oil to get the health benefits.If you'd rather take a supplement and you're breastfeeding, look for one that contains 625mg of DHA and 410 mg of EPA. If you aren't breastfeeding, choose one with around 300 mg of each. Remember to check with your doctor first before starting any supplements.
 A lot of snacks or convenience foods are high in carbohydrates which can give you a quick burst of energy. But you also need to include protein with your snacks and meals. This will keep you feeling fuller longer and can give you a steadier supply of energy. Good sources of protein include:Peanut butter
Eggs
Yogurt
Cheese

, Most women can get enough iron from eating a balanced diet. Your body needs iron to help it recover from the blood loss from childbirth. Increasing your iron intake is also important if you feel extra tired, dizzy or weak. Try to eat foods high in iron, like leafy greens, lean meats, tofu, and fortified cereals.


If you lost a lot of blood during the delivery or have had more than one pregnancy and delivery within the past two years, your doctor will probably recommend an iron supplement., Your body will go through big adjustments as it returns to the pre-pregnancy state. To prevent constipation, ensure that you're getting plenty of fiber. To include fiber, eat several servings of fresh fruit, vegetables, and whole grains a day. You can also talk with your doctor about taking a fiber supplement.Good sources of fiber include high-fiber cereals, beans and legumes, berries, and dried fruits.

