 Although you may not really like "frenemies," you are probably not afraid of them. They might do things that make you mad, but not that really hurt your feelings. A bully, on the other hand, picks on you and makes you feel bad about yourself, afraid, nervous, or anxious.You should stand up to a bully by letting an adult know what is going on.


You might do the same things to your bully that they do to you. But if someone is bullying you, you may be too afraid to stand up to them at first.
Bullies may purposely do things to humiliate or hurt you, even if it doesn’t benefit them at all.
If you are being bullied, tell a teacher, counselor, or your parents what’s going on. They can help you stand up to the bully and get the bully to stop.
You might say to your teacher, “Mr. Jordan, another student has been bullying me lately. Can we talk about it?”
Or, you could say, “Mom, can I talk to you about someone that has been bullying me at school?”

, Bullies generally like to bother people when their victim is alone, so try to always keep someone with you.Not only will having someone with you help you stand up to your bully, it will also make it less likely the bully will do anything to retaliate.


Ask a friend or someone else you trust to walk with you before school, after school, and in-between classes.
You might say to your friend, “Hey, could you walk to class with me? Dylan’s been bullying me and I’ll feel better standing up to him if I have someone with me.”
If you do find yourself alone with your bullies, try to quickly go somewhere where there are other people around.
 Telling them to stop then walking away from them lets your bullies know that you don’t like what they are doing and that you aren’t going to take it. But, it doesn’t give them anytime to respond or do anything back to you.


When the bullies say something to you, simply look them in the eyes and say, “Stop,” then walk away.
Or you could say, “Just leave me alone,” and then leave the classroom or the area.
 You may want to get physical and fight back as a way to stand up to your bullies at school.But, this isn’t a good idea. Fighting can result in someone getting seriously injured or in serious trouble — you could get suspended or even expelled. If you must, then defend yourself enough to get away from your bullies.


If you think the situation is going to turn violent or you feel threatened, then leave immediately. Go find an adult and tell them.
If possible, call emergency services, like 911, if you think you are about to be physically hurt.
If the situation is getting physical, you may need to use self-defense to protect yourself long enough to get away.

