 The doctor chooses an antibiotic and the dosage based upon your state of health, your weight, and what microorganism(s) are causing your infection. This minimizes the risk of side effects. Do not take medication that has not been specifically prescribed for you and your medical condition.Let your doctor determine the treatment plan. Infections can be caused by a variety of microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi such as yeast. An antibiotic prescribed for a bacterial infection will not treat other types of infection.Do not use an antibiotic prescribed for another person.;
, Any drug, prescription, nonprescription, or alcohol, can interact with the antibiotic. This also includes supplements, natural or herbal remedies, and even multivitamins. The effectiveness of the antibiotic or your other medications may be compromised if you do not tell your doctor what else you’re taking.You should also tell your doctor whether you have ever experienced any allergies to medication or other problems with medication, including antibiotics.
Some antibiotics can cause your other medications to be metabolized slower or faster than usual. The antibiotic may cause a medicine to be absorbed into your system poorly. One of your medications could affect how the antibiotic is absorbed. Your current medications will influence what antibiotic the doctor chooses.Certain antibiotics affect the way alcohol is broken down or metabolized in the body. This can lead to uncomfortable symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and headache. You should not consume alcohol while using antibiotics., It contains important drug information including how the drug works, what the possible side effects are, and how it may interact with other drugs. Your pharmacist will give it to you when she fills your prescription.


Contact your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions about what you have read. They are happy to answer any questions you have. It’s always better to ask if you are unsure!

, Familiarize yourself with the prescribed dose (how much of the antibiotic you take each time) and frequency (how many times a day that dose is to be taken).


Antibiotics come in a variety of forms: capsule, tablet, chewable tablet, or liquid. The latter are more commonly prescribed in pediatrics for infants and children.
Your dose could be one or two tablets/capsules each time, or the dosing could be irregular. For example, Zithromax is an antibiotic which requires you to take a double dose on the first day and a single dose on the remaining days.Think about frequency in terms of a 24-hour period. Every 12 hours is the same as twice a day and 4 times a day is every six hours.
 Set an alarm or write it down in a journal or on the calendar. Schedule your doses so that they are associated with a normal daily activities like brushing your teeth or your regular bedtime., The patient leaflet will tell you if your antibiotic should be taken with food or if you must take it on an empty stomach.Food interferes with the absorption of some antibiotics. On the other hand, food may help prevent the stomach upset caused by other antibiotics. The information leaflet will specify how to take your medication., Do not fail to take the antibiotic because you cannot swallow a large tablet or the liquid’s taste is too unpleasant. The antibiotic is an essential part of your treatment.


The doctor has the option of prescribing the antibiotic in a different form or trying a totally different antibiotic.
 Take the drug as soon as you remember if you forget to take it. If it is close to your next dose, just wait. Continue with your normal dosing schedule as usual.Call your doctor if you end up missing several doses or more than one day’s worth. She can advise you how to proceed.Skipping doses prevents you from maintaining therapeutic levels of the antibiotic in your system. The microorganisms are not being inhibited or destroyed properly., You increase your chances of experiencing side effects when you have too much of the antibiotic in your body at once.Call your doctor if you accidentally take too many doses, as you may need to take medical action.


Do not compensate for a skipped dose by taking more than the prescribed amount of antibiotic.
In most cases, antibiotic overdose does not cause severe symptoms, although it may cause stomach upset and diarrhea., Even if you are starting to feel better, an incomplete drug course can lead to antibiotic resistance and/or a recurrence of your symptoms.You may end up needing a second course of antibiotics.


A complete course of antibiotics allows you enough time to eradicate the bacteria from your system.When you prematurely stop taking the antibiotic, the bacteria may not all be cleared completely from your system. The bacteria that survive are the strongest, and they are thus harder for the antibiotic to kill. These bacteria may also change or mutate, making the antibiotic less effective against this new strain. Antibiotic resistance is a serious problem, but using antibiotics wisely as prescribed can help prevent it., Common side effects of antibiotics are stomach upset, vomiting, diarrhea, and vaginal infections.Read the patient leaflet to know the specific side effects associated with your antibiotic. Talk to the doctor about the severity of your symptoms. She may decide to change the antibiotic.


Stomach upset, diarrhea, vaginal infections, and thrush (white patches of yeast in the mouth) occur because the antibiotic kills the good or normal bacteria along with the bad.These issues may need to be treated with other types of antibiotics or other medications. Your doctor may also suggest that you use a probiotic, such as those found in yogurt or dietary supplements, to help restore the “good” bacteria.
Antibiotics can affect the kidneys, ears, liver, or the peripheral nerves (nerves not in the brain or spine). Tell your doctor if you have abdominal pain, ringing in your ears, or tingling., And, if the antibiotic you are taking may make you more sensitive to the sun, make sure to limit sun exposure or wear sunscreen with SPF at least 30 when you are outside to reduce your chance of sunburn. Some antibiotics, particularly the tetracycline family, may cause phototoxicity, where your skin develops an intolerance to sun exposure. Talk to your doctor if you see any of the following symptoms while using an antibiotic:Exaggerated sunburn
Stinging or itching sensation on the skin
Blistering after sun exposure
Change in skin color
Skin peeling

, Be aware of signs like itching, rash, hives, or shortness of breath.Call 911 if you suspect an anaphylactic reaction, the most severe form of allergy, as it can be life-threatening. Symptoms of an anaphylactic reaction include:


Dizziness
Loss of consciousness
Labored breathing
Swelling of the tongue and airway
Blueness of the skin.
This reaction can progress to anaphylactic shock and death when there is a drop in blood pressure and heart failure., Sometimes, the prescribed antibiotic is not the correct one for combating the type(s) of infective microorganisms found in your system.


If the symptoms that the antibiotic is meant to treat do not improve, talk to your doctor.
Signs of an inadequately treated infection include fever, chills, or malaise (a general sense of weakness). A wound can be tender, swollen, hot and red, or draining pus., If you have a minor cut, scrape, or superficial burn, always clean it before applying any topical medication. Apply antibiotic cream to clean, dry skin.For cuts and scrapes, wash your hands thoroughly. Rinse the wound with clear running water. You can wash the area around the wound with soap and water, but avoid getting soap in the wound as it will irritate your skin. Use fine-tipped tweezers to remove any debris.For superficial burns, run cool water over the burned area for 10-15 minutes. Pat the area dry with a clean towel, but don’t rub or scrub, as you could break the skin or cause irritation., Antibiotic creams have not been shown to help minor wounds heal faster (despite any claims to the contrary). However, they can help keep infection at bay by creating a barrier between your wound and the environment, making it harder for germs to get into the cut or scrape.Apply only a thin layer. The cream or ointment will also help keep the bandage from sticking to your cut or scrape.Common OTC antibiotic creams include polymyxin B sulfate (Polysporin), bacitracin, and triple antibiotic ointment (Neosporin).
If you develop a rash while using an OTC antibiotic cream, stop using it.
Do not apply an OTC antibiotic cream to very deep or large cuts, puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Seek medical assistance., Superficial, first-degree burns can be treated with antibiotic ointment. The ointment can help keep the burn moisturized and create a barrier to help prevent infection.Silver sulfadiazine is a commonly prescribed antibiotic cream for burns.However, your doctor may prescribe you another cream, especially if you are pregnant or breastfeeding., Don’t apply more antibiotic cream than you’re instructed to, either by your physician or by the cream’s packaging. Avoid applying it more than three times a day., Unless you have been otherwise instructed by your physician, do not use topical antibiotics on wounds from surgeries. They can actually hinder the healing process in some cases. They may also cause contact dermatitis, a condition that makes your skin red, sore, and irritated.If your doctor instructs you to apply a topical antibiotic to a surgical wound, always follow her instructions.

