 If you want to talk differently without the aid of electronics or other tricks, you can learn to change the pitch of your voice. This will make you sound very different than you normally sound.


If your voice is naturally low, use your head voice to speak in a higher pitch than you normally do. This can be done by pinching your tongue against the roof of your mouth and talking from the back of your throat. Imagine you have a cold.
If you have a higher voice, speak from lower in your throat and your diaphragm to make your voice much lower. Pretend your voice is coming from deeper in the back of your throat.
 If you start pronouncing the words you use differently, it will sound like someone else is saying them. It can be a funny way to change up certain words and sound different.


Drop the endings of words. Instead of pronouncing it "going" say "goin." Instead of saying "car" say "cah."
Slide over letters in the middle of words. Instead of saying "library" say "liber'ry." Instead of saying "whatever" say "whatevrr."
Add extra syllables where they don't belong. Instead of saying "where" say "whey-uhr."
Change up the vowels in words. Instead of saying "there" say "thur."

Speak with an accent if you know how to pull one off convincingly.
 You can do a few little things to the shape of your jaw, lips, and mouth to change the way your voice sounds. Try out the following:


Purse your lips the way you do when you whistle, and then speak. The sound of your voice will be much different.
Try sticking your tongue out a little while you are speaking. This tends to garble your words somewhat.
Open your mouth wide and speak.
 Even if your impression doesn't sound very accurate, if you're trying to sound different than yourself, shoot for a weird accent of a celebrity, or just a person that you know. Here are some good celebrity impressions to shoot for:


Bill Cosby
Christopher Walken
Sarah Palin
Fran Drescher
Al Pacino
Sylvester Stallone

, While your voice may sound basically the same, if you're using words you wouldn't normally use, it can be an effective disguise as well. Try out the following tips for picking words you don't normally use:


Use very smart-sounding or expensive words. Don't say something is "good" say that it's "spectacular" or "stupendous." Don't say that "Yeah" say "That is affirmative."
Use old words, or words that you've only heard your grandparents use. Don't call something "cool" but call it "keen" or "dandy" or "groovy."
Use lots of shortened words or slang words or use lots of text-speak. Any new youth phrases would be great. Or, totes fetch.
 Pause between words and sigh a lot, or draw out the words as you speak them, putting a bunch of extra syllables into them. You could also speed up the way you speak and chatter really quickly, although this is sometimes more difficult.

