 This will give everyone a vision for the show. Hold a meeting and have everyone brainstorm ideas. Pick a theme that is creative and entertaining. Also be sure that your theme can be easily conveyed through outfits, decorations, and overall feel.;
, Start with the date of the actual show, then choose the dates of designer calls, model calls, and volunteer calls. Make a save the date flyer! That way people can plan ahead and know there's something exciting happening that day. The key is to start as early as possible, it takes time to locate all the necessary people to make this show happen!

, You'll need a designer committee, model committee, volunteer committee, outreach team, decoration committee, and a financial coordinator. Assign 1-2 people as leaders for each committee or team to keep things organized. Define the duties of each section, and give deadlines to report progress.
 Your budget is the biggest factor in this step. Decide what locations are feasible with your budget according to your financial coordinator, then pick which one best suits your audience and theme of the show. At this time you should also book rooms on campus for practices and meetings.
 Now that you've decided the dates and locations, your public relations team can create flyers to advertise your meetings for designer, model, and volunteer calls along with the show flyer. Post the flyers to social media accounts and also have them printed to hang in high traffic areas around campus. (Ex. student union, eating areas, dorms)

, Once you've had your meetings for designer, model, and volunteer calls, you need to select who will actually be in the show. Choose designers that can work with the vision you've created with the theme, models that will be dedicated and show up to practice, and volunteers you can rely on to follow instructions the day of the show and help put everything together. For this step you should also contact a DJ who can convey the theme through music. Music will help make your theme reality.
 Each committee should be having regular meetings, practices, or check-ins with their groups in order to stay on track. Have them report back to you the progress of their work regularly.
 You'll need a stage, chairs, lighting and security, so find who can give quality items/services at a decent price. Check in with your financial coordinator to be sure your budget is still in tact.
 You haven't put all of this together for nothing! The outreach team should call local photographers, journalists, and bloggers to be at the show for publicity. That way your school and community will recognize your organization for a fabulous fashion show.
 The day before the show is the day to bring everyone on the same page. Designers and models need to do final fittings. Models need to know who is walking, when they're walking, and what they're wearing. Volunteers go to their assigned group whether that's helping designers, models, or decorations.
 All of your hard work has come together. Your designers have beautiful pieces, your models walks are flawless, and your volunteers are making sure everything runs smoothly. Sneak a peek from backstage and look at everyone in the audience enjoying the show you put together!

