 Between your new note and the welcome note that came with the program, you should have two notes displayed in the center column of the program. At the top of this column there's a drop-down menu and a text box.


To organize your notes by various parameters, use the drop-down menu. You can organize by tags, title, and more. Experiment with the options a little.
To search for notes, type some text into the text box. Evernote will quickly scan all of your notes and display any that contain the text you typed.

Evernote can even detect text printed on images, although this doesn't work reliably yet.
 Notebooks are collections of notes, organized by whatever criteria you want. Notebooks are listed in the left column.


Create a new notebook. Name your new notebook whatever you want, and decide whether it will be accessible from all your devices, or local to this device only. The new notebook will appear in the list. You can't change these parameters once the notebook is created. There are two ways to do this:

Right-click the top-level “Notebooks” entry and choose “Create notebook...” from the menu.
Push the Insert key on your keyboard.


Drag your note into your new notebook. To display it, click “All notebooks” or your original notebook in the left column. Drag the note from the center column on top of your new notebook in the left column.
 In the left column, below your notebooks, there's a collapsible menu called “Tags.” Click it to see all the tags you've added to all your notes so far.


Click on a tag to display all the notes with that tag in the center column.
 At the bottom of the left column there's a trash bin. Click on it to see any notes you've deleted.


To bring back a note that was deleted by accident, click the note in the center column, and then click “Restore” at the top of the right column.
To permanently delete a note, click the note in the center column, and then click “Erase” at the top of the right column. You will be asked to confirm your decision before Evernote erases the note.

