 If you want your first kiss to be special, then try picking the person you think would make it the most special. If you're worried that your kissing technique isn't all that great yet, then maybe choose someone you'd be less embarrassed about. (And stop worrying! Kissing is fun once you get the hang of it.)


There's nothing like kissing a real, breathing human being. A person will respond to your lips like a hand or a fruit can't.
Kissing comes naturally to humans. That's why we do it! Practicing kissing before you actually kiss is like practicing riding a bike on a seesaw. It doesn't really prepare you for the real deal. You get good at riding a bike by riding a bike, just like you get good at kissing by kissing another person.
 If you're a girl, you might just be able to go up to a guy and ask him if he wants to kiss. (Or you can develop a friendship with him and if it blossoms into something stronger, kiss him when you're close.) If you're a guy, your job is going to be a bit harder. Look for a good opportunity to kiss someone:


Kiss someone you think is attracted to you. It's hard to know sometimes, but if you know that someone does or doesn't like you, use that information accordingly.
Work up to a kiss. Work up to a kiss first by flirting. Touch the person's shoulder gently when you're talking to them; compliment an aspect of their eyes; or stare longingly into their eyes.
Be physically close to the person. It'll be awkward if you're five feet away when you move in for a kiss. Get close to the person. Maybe even put your arm around their waist if all the signals you're getting say "yes!"

, You want your lips to be supple, soft, and smooth before you kiss. Balm your lips regularly before you kiss so that they're free of dry, flaky skin that can distract from the moment. Remember not to:

Apply lip-gloss before you kiss. Lip-gloss can be sticky, glittery, and sweet. You don't want the sticky, your partner doesn't need the glittery, and you don't need the sweet. Your lips are sweet enough!
Apply lipstick before you kiss. Lipstick may look smashing, but it's usually for older women. It can smudge when you kiss, leaving your kissing partner marked.
 If you have the luxury of brushing your teeth right before the kiss, take advantage of it. If not, take a breath mint. Avoid onions, garlic, and other strong-tasting foods right before you kiss.
 Send the signal for your partner to get ready for the kiss by getting really close. Almost uncomfortably close. If your partner moves back, s/he isn't ready for a kiss. If your partner stays where s/he is or moves even closer, you know you're doing something right.
 This one is important. Fix the other person's gaze with your eyes. The eyes are very powerful, and they can communicate a lot of things that we can't with our voice.

When you move in for the kiss, turn your eyes to the person's mouth. You want your mouth to land on the other person's mouth, so you need your eyes if you don't want to botch the landing.
Once your lips are interlocked, close your eyes. We don't know why, but it's kinda creepy to have someone staring at you while you kiss them. It's better just to close your eyes altogether.
 If you try to kiss your partner straight on, your noses are going to get in the way and keep you from actually meeting lips. Instead, tilt your head either to the left or the right slightly so that your noses don't disturb the action your lips want!


If you're sitting next to a person, the side your sitting on should dictate which way you tilt your head:
If you're sitting to the left of someone, it's best to tilt your head to the left.
If you're sitting to the right of someone, it's best to tilt your head to the right.
 The first time you kiss, keep your lips locked for a couple seconds, unless the other person opens their lips and starts kissing quicker. If you let the first kiss last, you'll get rid of some butterflies and set the stage for the next couple of kisses.
 Not at the same time, of course. Start by taking your lips and softly kiss your partner's lower lip a few times. Then, move to their upper lip.


Be gentle. Your partner will appreciate it, even if your heart is beating through your chest. Plus, it will make the kiss more sensual.
Be responsive. Responsive just means respond to what the other person is doing. A kiss is like a dance: you have to move based on how your partner moves.
Go for slow instead of fast. A bad kisser will try to rush the kiss, kissing at about a thousand lips per second. Slow it down, savor every last touch of the lips, and remember to keep your eyes closed!

, Not everyone is ready to start more intimate types of kissing at the same time. If you force a french kiss, you will probably embarrass yourself, and this could ruin your date, and the moment.

