 If your dark spots persist for several months and home solutions are ineffective, consider seeking a medical solution. Call your primary care doctor and ask them to recommend a dermatologist. You can also find a dermatologist by using the search tool on the website of the American Academy of Dermatology: https://www.aad.org/find-a-derm


Call your insurance provider to make sure any dermatological care you’ll need is covered. Ask them if specialist care needs prior approval and if they can provide you with in-network care providers.  

, Tell your dermatologist about your shaving practices, skincare routine, and any products you use. If your underarms are affected, ask the dermatologist about switching your antiperspirant or deodorant.You should also be prepared to discuss your diet, sun exposure and sunscreen use, and any over the counter whitening products you’ve used.
 Even if you’re sure that your dark spots are the result of shaving, you should work with your doctor and dermatologist to rule out other causes. Getting a complete blood count and discussing your patient history will help your dermatologist make an accurate diagnosis.Common causes of dark spots include ingrown hairs, minor and chronic bacterial infections, and hormonal and dietary imbalances. Your dermatologist will help you understand the best steps to take, whether it’s switching up your shaving routine or changing your diet.
Be sure to discuss any existing medical conditions, as they’ll help your dermatologist choose the best course of action.
 Your dermatologist might prescribe a cream containing either hydroquinone, mequinol, or a retinoid. The type of prescription and its concentration will depend on your skin type.These medications are often classified by insurance providers as cosmetic, so they may not be covered. Without insurance, they can cost from $100-$200 (U.S.). Ask your dermatologist about generic options and confirm your coverage options with your insurer to avoid overpaying.
 Some over the counter treatments contain hydroquinone or retinol, but you should only use them after talking to your doctor or dermatologist. In particular, you should avoid over the counter medications that contain a concentration of hydroquinone higher than 2 percent.Non-prescription, high-concentration hydroquinones are associated with a number of adverse side effects.   

