 It's important that you not just try to memorize written lyrics. Listening to the song is probably the most important step you can take. Songs are noted for being one of the easiest things to memorize;this is why setting information to music is a frequently recommended technique for all sorts of rote memorization,and why most people have at some point experienced memorizing a song without even trying, simply by listening to it over and over. Listen to the song you are trying to memorize as frequently as possible: in the car, on the bus, in the shower, while doing chores, while doing homework, while getting ready for bed, and generally whenever the opportunity presents itself. You may start to get sick of it, but you will be much closer to your goal of knowing it by heart.


This will be especially effective if you sing along with the song. If your goal is to perform the song, it might be a good idea to practice singing. Having the lyrics memorized won't be much help if you can't sing in key.
 This can help you think of it as a sequence of ideas or events. Many people learn lyrics more effectively when they imagine them as a narrative, rather than just a collection of rhymes., The more interested in or engaged by something you are, the easier it is to retain information about it.Try to find parts of the song that interest or resonate with you, and look up any lyrics that are confusing. This is especially important if the song you are trying to memorize is in a language in which you are not fluent; it is much easier to learn something when you understand its meaning than when it is just a succession of meaningless syllables.
 Introducing elements of play and/or competition can make the process of memorization more engaging.Time yourself reciting the lyrics to the song you are trying to memorize, and then use that time to set yourself a challenge; try to see how quickly you can recite the whole thing from memory. Draw a visual representation of a line you are struggling with, or a comic using the lyrics as dialogue. Challenge a friend to see which of you can deliver the most dramatic rendition of the song. Anything that helps you enjoy the process of memorization will be a big help.
 Flashcards are particularly helpful because they incorporate every learning style: tactile learners benefit from making the cards, visual learners benefit from seeing them, and auditory learners benefit from reading them aloud, either to themselves or a study partner.Make a series of numbered flashcards (you want to learn them in order, after all), with one card for every line of the song. On the front of the card write the first 2 or 3 words of the line, and on the back complete the rest of it.
 This is a trick used by memory performers, or people who perform feats like memorizing multiple decks of playing cards in memory competitions.It involves associating whatever you are trying to memorize with a specific, striking mental image. While this is not the most practical approach to memorizing an entire song, it may be useful if you can’t seem to get one or two tricky lines to stick in your head. Imagine, for example, that you are struggling to commit the lyrics, “You are so beautiful to me” to memory. The trick is to create a slightly strange mental image in association with these lyrics.Think of other words these lyrics sound like. In this example, you might turn “you” into “ewe,” and “are,” into the letter “R,” and combine them into a mental image of a group of acrobatic sheep forming the letter “R” with their bodies.
Instead of, “so beautiful,” you might think, “sew beautiful,” which might lead you to imagine the sheep each embroidering the word, “beautiful” onto a piece of cloth while performing their acrobatic feat.
Lastly, “to me” could simple become, “two me,” leading you to imagine two identical versions of yourself gazing in wonder as the ewe “R” sews, “beautiful.” This is very silly, but it is also much more likely to stick in your mind than a random sentence with which you have no particular visual association.
 Your brain continues to process and learn about things while you sleep. Not only will being well-rested help your brain function at its best, but studying or practicing a new skill right before a good night’s sleep has been shown to increase the speed with which you learn, and your ability to retain that information., Writing down the lyrics on a piece of paper will help you engrave the words into your brain and you can also bring the paper wherever you go so whenever you have time you can look over it. Sing the song out loud or in your head while you read the lyrics on a piece of paper.