 Many things can cause you to feel bored. Standing in line at the grocery store and getting stuck in traffic are common causes for boredom.Individuals with jobs where they perform repetitive tasks and don’t interact with peers may also find themselves bored.In general, people find situations that are time-based more boring than situations that are effort-based. Situations with uncertain rewards or little feedback may also produce boredom.


For example, no matter how well you drive, if you’re stuck in traffic, no effort of yours can change the fact that you’re stuck. You simply have to wait until the traffic clears up. You are also unclear about when the traffic may clear up; it could be 10 minutes or two hours. This is a prime situation for boredom because you can't change the situation with your own effort, and you don’t know when or if your “reward” will come.
People tend to be most satisfied when they are challenged but still able to complete a task. If they expect to succeed and have some sort of pay-off for completing the task, they are less likely to feel bored.Some people have a higher level of “trait” boredom, where they are more likely to feel bored even in situations most people would not rate as boring.
 When you’re bored, your body posture and head pose change. People who feel bored often slouch or lean back in their chairs. Their heads may fall forward. Other physical signs of boredom include difficulty keeping your eyes open or a feeling of sleepiness.


Some people react to boredom with agitation, rather than lethargy. These people may pace, tap or jiggle their feet, or drum on furniture with their fingers., Boredom is more than not having anything to do. In fact, people feel bored when they want stimulation but can’t connect to what’s around them. Boredom is that feeling of dissatisfaction that comes when you can’t engage with yourself or your environment.You can feel bored even in high-stimulation environments if you’re having trouble connecting with what’s around you. For example, if you don’t know anyone at a cocktail party, you might still feel bored even if there’s a lot going on.
Researchers suggest that there are several components of feeling bored. Boredom occurs when you have a hard time paying attention to internal information (thoughts, feelings) and/or external information (what’s going on around you). You need this information to participate in activities that feel satisfying (the feeling opposite to “bored”).When you become aware of the fact that you’re having a hard time with paying attention, you look for a reason for your difficulty.
You may explain why you’re having trouble connecting by assigning responsibility to your environment. For example, you might say, “I have nothing to do.” You likely do have things you could do, but boredom puts the responsibility elsewhere.
 You might be interpreting stress as “boredom.” Stress may also be causing you to have trouble connecting to your environment, which you may interpret as being in a “boring” situation. If you feel fidgety or irritated or if you have difficulty concentrating or making decisions, you may be experiencing stress.Stress has been shown to cause problems for your attention span. When you’re stressed, you may have trouble focusing or feeling interested in things.This is the perfect breeding ground for boredom.
Everyone experiences stress in different ways. For some people, stress manifests itself as physical symptoms, such as headaches, an upset stomach, heartburn, fatigue, and muscle aches and tension. For others, it manifests itself as feelings of anger, sadness or depression. You may even experience a mixture of these symptoms., When you’re worried that you won’t be successful at something you set out to do, you’re more likely to procrastinate.Work-related stress, such as the fear of failing at an important task or looking bad to your superiors, is a common cause of procrastination.If you’re putting off doing something you need to do, you may choose to eat as a form of distraction. Your food diary may help you recognize when you’re eating because you really don’t want to do something else.


You may be able to fight procrastination by setting yourself firm deadlines for your projects.Reducing the sources of stress whenever possible can also help you avoid procrastination.
Try not to judge yourself too harshly for procrastinating. Research shows that forgiving yourself and preparing to do better the next time is more productive than beating yourself up over it.