 Tutoring companies can set you up with regular clients or with a small group. They will take a portion of the students' fees, but they may also pay wages and may be able to charge more per hour based on reputation. Some tutoring companies have a center with classrooms or cubicles, while others will send you on home visits.


Consider test prep tutoring. If you don't mind covering highly standardized material, you can find regular work as a standardized test prep tutor. Many companies specialize in preparing students for tests like the SATs, ACT, TOEFL, and other tests.
Look on job boards for tutoring company advertisements.
 Many students are looking for tutoring in subjects that are less available where they live. This includes students abroad, students in rural areas, homeschooled students, and students who can't easily leave the house.


Look on job boards or google "online tutoring" to find companies that will let you advertise your services.
 Make a profile on websites that showcase tutors. Make a flier advertising what you are willing to teach—be specific! If you say you can take any age and any subject, you'll sound unfocused. Say what ages you have experience with, what subjects you have tutored, and what metro area you are willing to work in. Include your contact information!


You might say "Tutor: Elementary English-French-History-Creative Writing. I have three years of experience as a TA and tutor for 3-5th graders. I am up to date on student learning standards in this range. I'm also great at making learning fun."
Contact local schools to offer tutoring services.
If you're in school, get in touch with your campus Writing Center or Learning Lab and ask about tutoring opportunities. Most schools hire student tutors to work with their peers.
Contact friends you know who are teachers or who know people who might be potential clients of yours.
 Tutors in different areas charge wildly different rates. Ask other tutors who do more or less what you want to do what they charge. Ask multiple people to get a clear sense. Check places where tutors in your area advertise as well.You may charge more for extra experience or expertise in a subject. For instance, if you graduated college with a degree in computer science, you should charge more than a self-taught high school student.
You don't necessarily have to advertise your rate. You can wait for your clients to make an offer, but you should have a rate in your head that you won't go below.

