 If you have to do certain activities during detention, try to take them seriously. While they may not seem fun, in comparison to sitting around with nothing to do, they may seem like a relief. Do not rush through activities and end up bored for the next 40 minutes.


In detention, you may have to write down why you got in trouble. A teacher may ask you to reflect on your actions in an essay, for example. Try to do the best you can. Spend some time seriously considering the assignment.
You may learn something from the required assignment. If you're in detention because you hurt a student or teacher's feelings, for example, it's important that you reflect on what you said.
 While doing homework may not seem like fun, it's a good way to pass the time. You may feel like you're having fun if you feel like you're being productive. Doing homework can give you a feeling of accomplishment, which can be enjoyable.


Try to do assignment you'd be likely to put off at home. This way, when you finish detention you can relax and unwind.
If the person supervising detention is a teacher, doing homework in that teacher's subject can be a good way to pass time. If your algebra teacher is supervising you, you'll be able to ask for his or her help if you're struggling with a math problem.
 You may not have homework to do during detention. However, there are other ways to be productive and make the time go by faster. Are any of your teachers offering extra credit? You could take your detention period as an opportunity to complete an extra credit assignment. You'll end up passing the time while earning additional points in your course.
 Do you have any goals you want to set for yourself? Detention could be a good to reflect on your goals. If you're in middle school or high school, you may want to start thinking about your future.


Make plans for your education. If you want to get into a decent school, think about what you can do to increase your chances. What extracurricular activities would look good on an application, for example? Should you work on bringing your grades up in any subjects?Set dates for yourself. For example, if you're working on a short story, pull out a calendar. Plan to have a draft done by, say, the 15th of February. Then, plan to have that revised by the 8th of March.