 Instead of rubbing your hair to dry it after you take a shower, wrap it in in towel for several minutes to dry. This can prevent you from getting split ends.It won't take much longer for the cotton to absorb all the moisture than it would take for you to use a blow dryer.
 Take the time to remove all the tangles from your hair before going to sleep at night. The process will prevent natural oils from collecting to much near your scalp. By combing your hair, you will spread the oils more evenly over the hair.


Put long hair in a loose bun. Be sure to tuck the tips to prevent getting split ends. Use a hair tie to keep it in place over night.
Silk pillowcases can also help give your hair a better night of rest. The smooth fabric will be gentler on your hair., Your hair craves fatty acids. They can help moisturize a dry scalp by increasing the natural oils produced by your body.Eat a healthy amount of salmon, avocados and olive oil in your diet to get plenty of healthy fats that will help keep your hair healthy.
Avoid diets that will drastically reduce the amount of healthy fats you consume as it will have negative affects on your hair health.
 Use lower temperatures when styling your hair, and give your hair a break from heat styling from time to time.


Consider using a heat styling cream. If you use a heat source, such as a curling iron, when styling your hair, consider getting a heat styling cream. Just apply the cream while the hair is damp, before you begin to style it.It will help to reduce the damage that heat can cause to your hair.
 Avoid styling products, shampoos and conditioners that have a lot of harsh chemicals. Many products use chemicals to create a fragrance or color, or very strong cleaning agents that can irritate your scalp and strip your hair of healthy natural oils.Look for products that are packed with natural ingredients like shea butter, coconut oil, and aloe vera., Getting a trim every 6-8 weeks can help revitalize your hair by taking off the damaged tips. If you find you need to repair damaged hair more often, you can try dusting your hair at home in between salon appointments.


Dusting your hair is the process of trimming off the split ends of your hair while retaining as much of the length as possible.Take a small segment of hair and split it into two strands. Twist the strands and snip any frayed pieces of hair off the tips. Although it can be tedious, dusting your hair regularly can help eliminate split ends and won't require losing more than a 1/4 inch of hair length.

