 Women’s bodies come in all shapes and sizes. When shopping for clothes, purchase tunics that balance out your unique body shape by highlighting—not hiding—your best features.









If your upper body is narrower than your lower body, look for a tunic that broadens and draws attention to your slender shoulders. Try on tunics with side vents that hit above or just below the widest part of your body. To highlight your shoulders, pick a tunic with a deep V-neck or wide neck. You can balance out your body shape by accessorizing with a chunky necklace or scarf.If your upper body is wider than your lower body, your ideal tunic will draw attention to your slender lower body, making your body look more proportional. Pick out a tunic with a shorter hemline that shows off your slim lower body. Look for tunics with a V-neckline to draw attention upwards to your face., A cinched waist accentuates a woman’s natural curves, producing a flattering feminine look. Instead of wearing boxy tunics that hide your figure, search for tunics that highlight or create the illusion of curves.


If you have a well proportioned upper and lower body with a narrow waist, show off your hourglass figure in a fitted tunic. Find a tunic that tapers in at the waist and out at the hips.If your body is straight, highlight and exaggerate your natural curves with a belted tunic., Women with petite and tall frames often struggle to find tops, bottoms, and dresses that fit their bodies properly. Both petite and tall individuals may have a difficult time finding a tunic that fits properly and balances out their upper and lower bodies.


If you are a petite individual, your ideal tunic will fit your tiny frame without making you appear too juvenile. If you intend to wear the tunic as a top, find one that has a shorter hemline; if you intend to wear a tunic as a dress, find one with a longer hemline. Avoid tunics with empire waists and/or poufy sleeves. These will make you appear younger.If you are a tall woman, your ideal tunic will fall at your mid-thigh.