 Do so by tapping the blue app with a white "A" on one of your Home screens.;
, It's in the bottom right corner of your screen.
 If you don't see Uber listed on the "Updates" page, your Uber app is up to date.


You may need to wait for a minute or so while the Updates page refreshes.
 This should be to the right of the Uber app.


You can also tap Update All in the top left corner of the App Store to update all of your pending apps.
 Once it does, you'll be able to use the updated version by tapping the Uber app.
 This is the multicolored triangle in your App Drawer or on one of your Home screens.
 It should be in the top left corner of your screen near the search bar.
, It should be on this screen.
 This option is to the right of the Uber app.


If you don't see the "Update" switch, your Uber app is up to date.
 Once it's done, you'll be able to use the updated version by tapping the Uber app.
 Payment methods cannot be added or removed from the Uber website; you must use the Uber app on your mobile device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the app, and will open the Uber menu.
 You'll be brought to a list of the credit cards you have on file. Here, you can add, delete, and edit existing payment information.
 enter the details of the card you'd like to add, and tap Save when complete.
 You can change the CVV number, expiration date, and billing zip code for your credit and debit cards, but not the actual card number. If you need to change the card number, you'll need to delete the card and add a new one.


Tap the ⋮ in the upper-right corner, then tap "Edit" to edit the payment method or "Delete" to delete it.
To change your default payment method, delete any payment cards that are listed above the card you'd like to use while riding with Uber.
 You'll see this in the upper-left corner when the app is open.
, This will open your account details.
 This will open your device's camera, allowing you to take a new picture for your profile. On iPhone you'll have to tap "Take Photo" after tapping your profile picture. You'll need to save your profile changes before the picture is applied to your account. You can't change your profile picture from the Uber website.


This feature does not reliably work on the iPhone. If you need to update your photo and only have an iPhone, consider logging into your Uber account on a friend's Android or even installing the BlueStacks Android emulator on your computer.
If you have a driver account, you'll need to set your picture from the Uber Driver app.
 Depending on your account status, you may be able to change the name on your account by tapping it and typing your new one. If you are a driver, you won't be able to change your name from the regular Uber rider app, and name changes are not available in all areas.


You can submit a name change request to Uber at their Support site.
, You'll be prompted to enter your Uber password to make any changes.
 Enter the new phone number you want to associate with your Uber account. You must enter a mobile number that can receive text messages for verification purposes.
 Uber will send you a verification text to the number you entered.
 You'll receive a text at the number you entered containing a four-digit verification code. Type in this code in the Uber app to save your new phone number.
 If you want to change the email address associated with your account, tap the Email field.
 Make sure it's an account you have access to, and plan on keeping access to for a long time (i.e. don't use your student or work email address in case you lose access to them in the future).
, You'll need to enter your password in order to save any changes you make to your profile.
 You'll be sent a verification message to the address you entered.
 This will verify your new email address and add it to your account.


This email may be filed in the Updates folder in Gmail.
 If you frequently travel to or from certain locations, you can save them as Favorite Places so that they are immediately suggested when you request a ride.


Tap on the Home or Work buttons in the "Favorite Places" section of the Settings menu.
Type in the location's address. It will save automatically.
Change or remove this address at any time by tapping on the Home or Work button and either typing in a new address or tapping the Remove Home/Work button at the bottom of the screen.
 If you would like to share your Uber account or currently share an account that you would like to remove, you can adjust these settings in the "Profiles" section of the Settings page.


Tap on Add Family Profile or Add Business Profile to create accounts associated with that profile. Follow the instructions on screen and fill in the account information as prompted. Whenever you request a ride, you will be asked which account you would like to pay with.

