 This is a requirement if the bride-to-be is under 18 years old. Otherwise, you can apply in any county in Kentucky, if the bride-to-be is 18 years old or older.There is no similar requirement based on the age of the male.
 If either of the people getting married is under 18, but over 16, then that person's parent must consent to the marriage, in writing. If both the bride and groom are under 18, then the parents of each must consent.Your parents will need to complete a Consent to Marriage Form, which is available from the clerk’s office.This applies to people who are under 18, but over 16, years old. This includes people who have had their 16th or 17th birthday.
If your parents are divorced or separated and there has been an order issuing them joint custody, then they both must sign the application.
If your parents are divorced or separated but there has not been an order of joint custody, then the parent who has legal custody must be the one to give consent.
If a court has ordered a legal guardian for the person under 18, then that guardian must give consent.
 If the female getting married is pregnant, and is under 16 years of age, then you must apply for an order from a District Judge to get a marriage license. This is the only circumstance that allows someone under 16 years old to get married.There is an additional $5 fee for a District Judge consent order.
 If someone under 18 gets married in Kentucky without the proper consent, the court will issue a “receiver.” This is someone, appointed by the court, who will take legal possession and control of your property until you turn 18. During that time, the receiver will pay your bills and expenses, and is entitled to take a fee for his services out of your property as well., After you have the appropriate consent, you will both need to visit the county clerk and complete the marriage license application. You will need proper identification, in the form of a social security card, passport or driver's license, and a $35 fee. To complete the application, you will need to provide:


name
date of birth
place of birth
race
gender
current marital “situation” (single, divorced, widowed)
number of previous marriages
occupation
current residence (you must provide your residence, but you are not required to be a Kentucky resident)
relationship to each other (in Kentucky, nobody who is related any closer than second cousin may get married)
full names of parents
date of marriage

