 Once your child is feeling better and her heel is not causing her any pain, she can begin to the rehabilitation process. However, before she begins doing these exercises, you should make an appointment with either her doctor or a physiotherapist who can help to lead her through some strengthening exercises.


Some of the basic exercises are listed in the following steps. All of these exercises workout the muscle in the heel. Exercises and muscle movements promote good blood circulation and oxygen distribution to the affected area, thus speeding up the repair of the damaged tissue. Good blood circulation brings more oxygen to the affected area which is vital for repairing injured tissues., Dorsiflexion exercises are maneuvers that pull the foot towards the body. To do this exercise, you will need to get a resistance band for your child. You can also use a towel to replace the resistance band. To do the exercise, instruct your child to:


Secure a resistance band around a stable fixture and tie it in a loop.
Assume a sitting position with legs stretched as far as possible from the fixture.
Check if the band fits snugly around the top of the flexed affected foot.
Stretch the resistance band by pulling the toes towards the body.
Hold this position for 5 to 10 seconds.
Return to the starting position.
Repeat the exercise 10 to 20 times on each ankle.
 This maneuver moves the affected foot away from your child’s body. Again, you will need a resistance band or a towel to do this exercise. To do the exercise:


Grasp each end of a resistance band in both hands.
In a sitting position, maintain proper alignment of the back while the legs are extended forward.
Put the resistance band around the ball of the foot as tightly as possible.
Move the toes away from the body, making the band extend more firmly.
Maintain the position for 5 to 10 seconds before returning to the original position.
Repeat the exercise for 10 to 20 cycles on each ankle.
 This exercise focuses on turning the affected foot inward in the direction of the midline of your child’s body. To do this exercise:


Loop a resistance band around a couch or other stable object.
Sit down with legs extended forward.
Place the resistance band tightly around the top of the foot.
Move the foot inward, rotating the ankle joint towards the other leg.
Hold the position for 5 to 10 seconds before returning to the normal position.
Repeat the cycle 10 to 20 times on each ankle.
 This exercise focuses on moving the affected foot away from the center of your child’s body. To do this exercise, your child will need to:


Place a resistance band around a fixed object (preferably a table leg) and tie it in a loop.
Sit with legs forward while the resistance band is tightly looped around the foot coming from the inside of the leg.
Move the foot away from the table leg causing the band to stretch tighter.
Hold this position for 5 to 10 seconds then return to the original position.
Repeat the exercise 10 to 20 times per ankle.

