 Know where your boundaries are, and decide what you’ll do if someone crosses them. Let the people in your life know what kind of behavior you expect from them.For instance, if you’re hosting a family gathering and some of your relatives are using racial slurs, you could say, “I don’t find that language acceptable. Please don’t talk like that in my house.”;
, Ask something like, “Why do you say that?” Their answer may reveal where their prejudice is coming from. Alternately, they may realize they’re being racist and back down, rather than defend their comment.Asking questions is usually a better tactic than arguing. If you start arguing right away, the person will probably dig in their heels and deny they said anything wrong. Asking questions can also help to keep you calm and prevent things from becoming too heated.
If the person is receptive, you may be able to explain why their comment was racist. Don’t waste your time trying to educate people who are unwilling to listen, though. Also, consider whether the person may be using racism and racist comments to get attention. It’s best to ignore these people as well.
 You’re not obligated to laugh politely at a joke you find offensive, even if everybody else is. Staying quiet and not cracking a smile will let the joke-teller know where you stand.However, if the joke was about someone who is with you at the time, then make sure that you speak up about why you find the joke unacceptable. Don’t try to speak for the person. Just say why you find the joke offensive.
If you know the person who told the joke, consider telling them why you don’t find it funny.
 If certain friends or family members always have something negative to say about people of other races, limit the time you spend around them. Seek out the company of people whose ideas you respect and want to emulate instead.Decide on what you will say and how you will say it if they say something about your increased absence.
 Look for concrete steps you can take to fight racism in your social circle and your community. Stand up for people who experience racism, take their experiences seriously, and get involved in anti-racist community events and programs.If you are not a member of a marginalized race, be thoughtful and respectful of the people who do experience racism. Don’t try to speak for them or draw the spotlight onto yourself.

