 Using affection as a reward can be an effective way to let your child know you approve of their behavior. You may give your child a high five, a pat on the back, arm or shoulder, or a big smile. You can also display other forms of affection, like hugs or kisses.The benefit of using affection as a reward is that it is free and immediate, so you can use it as a reward as soon as your child does something good. Displaying affection toward your child can also help them get used to displaying affection in public and get comfortable with being social and affectionate with others.;
, You can also reward you child’s good behavior by spending extra time with your child. This could be an additional five to ten minutes of reading time before bed or extra time together after school doing an activity your child enjoys, such as playing a certain board game. Using quality time as a form of reward can also allow you to create stronger social bonds with your child.For example, your child may love to spend time with you in the kitchen. You may then reward their good behavior by allowing them to help you prepare a batch of cookies or add decorations to a cake. This will allow you both to spend quality time together and create something you can both enjoy.
 Maybe your child enjoys going to a park near your home or maybe your child can not get enough of a play zone at the mall. If you child is on good behavior, you may reward them with a special outing to their favorite place or the opportunity to do a favorite activity.For example, maybe your child enjoys going to the movies. You may then reward their good behavior by taking them to the latest movie for kids, a movie date for just the two of you.
 Your child may also respond well to getting free time as a reward, where they can hang out with their friends. This is a good reward for older children, as it will allow your child to connect socially with others.You may set a time limit for this reward, such as giving your child one extra hour of play time at a friend’s house or allow your child to sleep over for one night at a friend’s house. This way, you still have control of the reward but your child is still able to benefit from it.

