 Between 31-84% of domestic abuse survivors develop symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. Abuse can also trigger anxiety or depression.Seeking counseling from a mental health professional can help relieve these symptoms. You can learn to cope effectively with your pain and heal the wounds left by your abuser.A therapist or counselor who specializes in trauma is a good option. These specialized counselors can help you process the feelings from the trauma you’ve experienced.
The International Society for the Study of Trauma and Dissociation has a searchable database of therapists who are members of their organization.The American Psychological Association has a searchable database of psychologists by area.Many domestic violence programs, shelters, hospitals, and your doctor can also refer you to trained counselors and therapists.
Look for a therapist who uses “evidence-based” treatments, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), cognitive processing therapy (CPT), prolonged exposure therapy (PE), or eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). EMDR is a common treatment used with PTSD.If children were involved in the domestic abuse, you may find that attending family therapy can help you and your children heal together.
 You may find a support group or group counseling helpful.Domestic violence programs, shelters, mental health clinics, and religious facilities may offer support groups. You can also find support groups online.


If you’re having a hard time finding a group, ask your doctor or therapist. You can also try searching online. Websites such as meetup.com often have listings of support groups in your area.
 Social support networks are a crucial part of helping survivors recover from abuse. These can come in the form of family and friends, as well as formal networks such as domestic violence services and advocacy.Talk with friends and family about your experiences. One of the most scarring things about abuse is that victims are often forced to remain silent about their suffering. Sharing your stories with your loved ones and asking for their support can be a huge factor in healing.
Make new friends. Abusers often isolate their victims from friends and relatives, leaving survivors feeling alone and helpless. Making new friends can help you recover your sense that you are worthy of love and care.Joining clubs, exercise classes, or reading groups are good ways to meet new, like-minded people. These can be especially helpful if your abuse isolated you from people.Get support from domestic violence or child abuse services. Even if the abuse occurred some time ago, you may find it helpful to speak with an advocate who is experienced with domestic abuse cases. These services can often refer you to mental health treatment, financial support, and other resources.
 Studies suggest that a belief in a deity, fate, or other form of spiritual tradition can help people recover from abuse. This can take the form of organized religion or a more general spiritual belief.This may be because people are able to find comfort and meaning in life through their traditions.Many religious and spiritual traditions also have strong community emphases, which can be a source of support for survivors.Finding a supportive religious or spiritual community may help alleviate symptoms of anxiety and depression.Religious communities may also be able to provide financial or other practical assistance.Many religious communities offer counseling. Some also include “women’s ministries,” which provide mentoring and companionship from other women., Many employers see domestic abuse as a serious workplace issue.You may find it helpful to discuss your situation with your HR representative or boss.Many companies have employee assistance programs that can provide resources for survivors of domestic abuse.Employers can also help obtain restraining orders to keep abusers from coming to your workplace.

