 You can use almost any kind of chewing gum or bubble gum to blow bubbles with as long as you have enough of it! Pick a flavor that you like, and if the pieces seem especially small (like for many "tooth-healthy" brands of gum like Trident), take an extra piece or two so you have enough to work with.


Though almost any gum will work, if you're going for the best bubbles, stiff, chewy, low-sugar gums (like Bazooka) work best.;
, It can be pretty tough to blow bubbles with "fresh" gum that you've just started chewing, so be patient. Chew the gum for long enough so that it becomes soft, moist, and very stretchy. There should be just a little flavor left at this point.









For many types of gum, you won't want to chew for too long, or the gum can get hard and won't stretch as well. This time varies from gum to gum, so be willing to experiment to find the perfect chewing time for you.
 Use your tongue to move the ball of chewed-up gum to the center of your mouth. Next, make it flat between the top of your mouth and your tongue. Your goal is to make a small, flat "disc" — this will be what you blow into to make your bubble!

, Move the gum to the space just behind your front teeth — where the tip of your tongue would normally sit. Pull in your jaw to hold the flat gum in place. If you need to, press gently into the back of the gum with your tongue to support it.
 Next, you need to make a small "pocket" in the gum to blow into. With the disc of flattened gum at the front of your mouth, open your mouth very slightly and stick your tongue about half an inch into the gum. Your goal is to make a slight indentation in the gum. However, you want there to be enough gum remaining in the disc that it won't stretch and pop when you start blowing. The "pocket" can need a little adjusting, so feel free to try a couple of times until you find a good position.









For best results, keep your lips together when you open your mouth slightly. This prevents you from accidentally pushing the gum out of your mouth when you're getting the hang of this motion the first couple of times.
 You're all ready to make bubbles! Open your lips and use slow, steady air to blow into the pocket you've made in the gum. Don't go too slow or too fast — if you blow too slowly, the bubble can collapse, but if you blow too quickly, it can pop! Keep your eyes on the bubble as you blow it. The thinner and more transparent it looks, the closer it is to popping. To bring the gum back into your mouth, open your lips wide and use your tongue to pull the gum in.









This can take some time to learn, so be ready to practice! If you can't get it at first, try again and again! Before long, you should be blowing good-sized bubbles consistently.
 Blowing bubbles can be great fun, but getting thick, sticky bubble gum out of your hair or off of your skin can be a huge pain. Sooner or later, almost everyone who blows bubble gets some gum stuck on their face or hair. To get it out, try soaking a cotton swab in baby oil and wiping it on the affected spot. The oil should undo the stickiness of the gum, making it much easier to peel off.Another good trick that works extra-well for gum in your hair is to work peanut butter into the gum, then shampoo it out. This usually removes the majority of the gum, though you may need to repeat several times to get all of it.

