 Most tea drinkers in East Asia prepare tea in a way Westerners may not find familiar. Traditionally, the teapot should be quite small: about 3.4–6.8 oz (100–200 mL) for a single serving. There are many traditional Chinese and Japanese tea vessels such as the gaiwan or shiboridashi designed for this purpose.For more consistent temperature control, warm the pot first by rinsing it with hot water., At a minimum, the tea leaves should cover the bottom of the vessel. It's common to fill it ¼ to ⅓ full with leaves., Pour a small amount of hot water onto the leaves, then use the lid as a strainer to pour out the water without losing the leaves. Smell the aroma released as the leaves open up., Right after rinsing, fill the teapot with hot water. Because you're using so many leaves in a small teapot, you do not need to steep as long as usual. After thirty seconds — or even just a few seconds for strong, dark tea — pour the tea into your cup.


The temperature of the water depends on the type of tea. Read the first section above for more information, or check your tea label.
 If you have the time, you can easily spend hours drinking one pot of tea. A high-quality loose leaf should stand up to many infusions. Steep for about 10–30 seconds longer each time, and pay attention to how the flavor changes with each go.It helps to have a kettle with good insulation or a warming function, to keep your water at the same temperature.
 If you enjoy the more intense, complex flavor of the Eastern brew, but don't have the time to devote to it, try putting the leaves directly in a cup or thermos. Pour on more hot water frequently as you drink, never letting the water level drop below ⅔ of the pot. This gives you an especially strong tea with some of the changing qualities of a traditional brew.If your cup has a lid, cover it after the second or third refill to keep in the heat that improves extraction.
Pour hot water along the edge of the cup to stir the leaves up and mix it with the last infusion.

