 It's very important to find out which features you really want in a cell phone before you purchase a new one. Make sure it is a brand and model that you're happy with, from its features to the quality of its design. If you purchase a phone you don't like (or get a cheap one included with a contract), you may end up being more "careless" with it because you "care less" about it, which is really a waste of money and your time.;
, These will take care of your phone by preventing it from being subject to knocks and scratches. This helps to keep the phone's appearance longer and may also protect it from some internal damage should you accidentally knock or drop the phone.
 It should be somewhere that is out of the way and where the phone is not likely to be knocked onto the floor or trodden on. For example, good places include keeping it on a desk, bookshelf, or in a cabinet. It's a good idea to choose one spot where it always goes (near a recharger) so that you can find it with ease, any time.


Do not keep your phone stored in a purse or other closed container for extended periods of time unless it is powered off. Charging a mobile phone in a closed container is a potential fire hazard and may shorten its lifespan. Li-ion batteries (typical for most phones) give off heat when charged and when discharging.
Always use genuine chargers and accessories. Cheaper ones that are not compatible or made for going with your brand of phone can harm the phone or lessen its lifespan.
 Don't talk on your cell phone while it's raining, do not eat or drink near the phone, and avoid carrying it near open water (such as a pond, the beach, or toilets).


If you do get your phone wet, see How to save a wet cell phone.
 Use dry tissue paper or alcohol wipes to clean the phone's exterior surfaces. Do not use water, baby wipes, or other cleaners that may inadvertently add moisture to your phone.
 Some phones will last more than a week or more on a single charge (when not in use), while others may need to be charged every day or every other day. If you spend too much time talking on your phone, you can quickly use up your battery's charge.


Keep your battery percentage between 40%-80% for longer battery life.
 Even in relatively everyday activities such as watching a movie in a movie theater, or attending church, it is polite to keep your ringer on vibrate or turned off. The last thing you want to do is frantically try to turn off your ringer in these scenarios. Doing so risks accidentally dropping or damaging the phone.


Find flight mode on your phone and make use of it when you don't wish to be disturbed.
 Never let your phone leave your sight. Avoid lending your phone to others, even if done under your supervision, as accidents can and will happen once in a while.
 Depending on your phone brand, you can shut down the phone if it is stolen. Activate this in case you lose your phone or it is stolen.

