 Dehydration can aggravate the symptoms of rhinitis and postnasal drip. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can cause dehydration. Water is the best choice to remain hydrated while suffering from rhinitis and postnasal drip.


Look at your urine to determine if you're getting enough water during the day. If your urine is yellow, you're probably not getting enough water. If your urine is clearer, with at most a hint of yellow, you're probably drinking enough water.
 Blowing the nose can remove irritants, which causes a buildup of mucus. For mucus that cannot be cleared after blowing the nose, some people prefer snorting and spitting the excess mucus from the back of the throat, avoiding bad breath and dry mouth.
 Over the counter saline kits and nasal sprays are available to rinse the nasal cavity. The saline solution flushes the irritants from the nasal cavity, thins the mucus and relieves the membranes in the nose.


Try using a Neti pot to clear out the mucus in the sinus and the back of the throat. Be aware, however, that by using a sinus irrigation device you could be removing natural antimicrobial agents that get rid of enemy bacteria, viruses, and fungi., Oral decongestants narrow the blood vessels to reduce the amount of congestion in the nasal cavity.Decongestants are also available in a nasal spray.
 If symptoms don't get better after three days, discontinue use of decongestants.Use of decongestants after three days may be more harmful than helpful.
 Medications such as guaifenesin (Mucinex) are sold OTC and taken in tablet or syrup form.
 The physician can prescribe corticosteroid, antihistamine and anti-drip sprays to relieve postnasal drip.


Corticosteroid sprays treat the inflammation that occurs with non-allergic rhinitis.
Antihistamine sprays can effectively treat allergic rhinitis causes of postnasal drip but are not effective for non-allergic causes.
Anticholinergic or anti-drip sprays are medications used in asthma inhalers, which can help treat postnasal drip as well.

