 Whole foods are free from additives or other artificial ingredients and have been processed or refined as little as possible. Examples include fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as grains and nuts. A healthy, balanced diet includes all of these, with variety being especially important. If you eat enough food that naturally contains all of the nutrients your body needs, you may not need take any additional vitamins or supplements.It is likely that you already eat many functional foods already and, if you don't, it is very easy to add them to your diet. You don't need to shop at a special store to find functional foods — everyday items like garlic, chocolate, green tea, and grapes all show promising evidence of being functional foods.Granted, if you suffer from allergies or other types of intolerance to certain food groups, you may need to supplement a mostly whole-food diet with enriched or fortified foods or vitamins or supplements to include any nutrients you’re missing.;
, There are specific nutritional compounds produced by plants called phytocompounds, some of which are particularly sought after. They are purportedly anti-inflammatory, detoxifying and immune-modulating. They are also especially plentiful in veggies that have large amounts of monounsaturated fatty acids, such as avocados and olives.Fresh fruit, especially berries, are also especially rich in phytocompounds. They also contain numerous vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients.
It is recommended you eat seven to nine fruits and veggies dailyas part of a nutrient-rich diet, which can help prevent health issues and improve your health overall.
 Omega 3 fatty acids are a particular type of unsaturated fatty acid. They are credited with helping reduce people’s risk of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and more. Mackerel, trout, herring, Alaskan salmon and albacore tuna are the best sources. Shoot for two 3-oz portions of these fish per week.Opt for fresh portions of smaller fish, as mercury and arsenic build up more in larger-bodied fish.
If you are pregnant, limit tuna to no more than once per week and avoid shark, swordfish, king mackerel, and tilefish altogether.
 Probiotics and prebiotics are found in yogurt and can help your intestines maintain a healthy microbial balance and operate optimally. More specifically, probiotics contain beneficial live cultures, and prebiotics stimulate the growth of healthy bacteria in your gut.As with all food decisions, read labels and choose with care. Yogurt also frequently contains large amounts of sugar and artificial ingredients.
Unsweetened Greek yogurt is often the best option. Sweeten it yourself with berries or honey and mix in some whole grains (such as oats) or nuts as well.
 Kombucha, kefir, and kefir water are fermented drinks that contain B vitamins and probiotics.The taste may take some getting used to (kombucha in particular, which can be quite tart and vinegar-y), but they can be a good source of probiotics., Prebiotics are essentially food for probiotics and eating enough of them will keep probiotics efficient and healthy. Prebiotics are found in many foods, particularly those high in fiber. Good sources of prebiotics include bananas, raw and cooked onion, raw dandelion greens, raw asparagus, baked wheat flour, raw garlic, and raw leeks., Carry a bag of cashews, almonds, walnuts and/or sunflower seeds with you to help hold you over in between meal times. Each of these contain many different nutrients considered to be functional, including enzymes, phytocompounds, and unsaturated fatty acids.