 Most of these tools include everything you need to find and replace the bad bulb: a continuity detector, piezoelectric sparker (shunt repairer), and light bulb removal tool. It costs roughly $20 US, so this may not be worth it if you only have a couple strings of lights. If you prefer to avoid buying such a specialized device, try the following alternatives:


Get a non contact voltage detector and skip down to tracing the dead bulb. Alternatively, buy a cheaper light bulb tester without the other features.
Tackle the project hands-on with a homemade tool.
 Christmas lights are connected in series, meaning the whole string will go dark when one bulb fails. A failsafe called a shunt in each bulb is supposed to prevent this by closing the gap across the burnt-out bulb, but these often don't work properly. (In regions on 230V mains rather than 110V, the shunt usually does its job.) The sparker function on your repair tool will zap the shunt, hopefully succeeding in closing the gap:


Plug the string of lights into the socket on the repair tool.
Press the button (or pull the trigger, depending on the model) about 20 times.You should hear a click each time.
Plug the string of lights into a normal outlet. If the string is still dark, continue to the next step. If the string lights up except for one or two bulbs, skip down to replacing individual bulbs.
 If the string of lights still won't light up, move on to the detector. This detects the current running through the wires, so you can identify the point where it fails.Here's how:


Tug apart the braided wires to identify the one directly connected to the light bulbs.
Place the detector on this wire about halfway along the string, between two bulbs. (If your tool has a small hole for a detector, place a light bulb into the hole instead.)
If the tool hums or lights up (depending on model), the problem is in the half of the string farthest from the plug. If there is no hum or light, the problem is in the half closest to the plug.
Move the tool to the middle of the problem area and test again, narrowing it down to ¼ of the string.
Repeat until you find a bulb with current on one side of it and no current on the other. Mark this bulb with tape so you don't lose track, then replace this bulb as described below.

