 Sometimes, a scrape and a laceration can appear similar. Before you treat a scrape, you need to make sure you have one. This is important because lacerations, or cuts, require sutures or glue for treatment. A scrape is a shallow skin abrasion that is over a portion of the skin.


If you have a wound that is over 1 centimeter (0.39 in) deep, you should seek medical help to treat the wound and stitch it up.;
, Before you take care of your wound, you need to make sure you have clean hands. As long as your wound is not bleeding excessively, take the time to wash your hands with antibacterial soap. If the deep scrape is on your hands, try not to get the soap on the wound because it will hurt., After you decide it is a scrape, you need to rinse it with water. Run water over the wound to remove any debris that may have gotten into it when you were injured. The water should be lukewarm. Continuously pour water over it for a few minutes at a time. In between, check to make sure there is not more debris in the wound.


If you are not in a place where there is a clean and available water source, remove the obvious debris by brushing it away with a cloth.If you notice excessive bleeding, rinse for as little time as possible to remove the debris. Then, move on to the next step.
 Once any large debris or matter is removed, you need to stop the bleeding. To do this, take a clean cloth, towel, or gauze and cover the wound. Apply solid pressure to the wound. If you only have a used shirt or dirty cloth, don't worry too much. Your wound is already dirty because it hasn't been disinfected, so don't worry too much about infection at this point. Just focus on stopping the bleeding.


As you are applying pressure, so not check on the wound for at least seven to 10 minutes. If you remove it before then, you will remove the clot and bleeding will begin again.
If you have waited seven to 10 minutes and your wound has stopped bleeding, your wound can now be cleaned., If your compression cloth becomes soaked with blood or if there is any noted squirting blood flow, seek medical attention immediately. This means that your wound is severe and needs more advanced help that can only be received at the doctor. This may happen with large scrapes, such as road rashes or scrapes of a excessive length.There are also some health factors that may require you to go to the hospital if you get a deep enough wound. You should go to the hospital right away if you have blood or bleeding disorders, diabetes, heart disease, kidney and liver disease, and poor immunity. A deep scrape could put you in danger when combined with other health conditions that you have., There are some pieces of debris that may be lodged in the skin that did not come out with rinsing, especially with scrapes. Once the bleeding has stopped, look at the wound for extra debris in the skin. If you see any debris, use tweezers to gently remove any excessive particles from the wound. If the debris will not come out, see your doctor to have it removed.


Do not dig the tweezers into the wound. You don't want to injure yourself further.
If there is no debris, you can move on to the next step., Once the bleeding has stopped, you need to run warm water over your wound again to rinse away the blood. Next, pour an antiseptic wash over the wound such as alcohol, peroxide, or providone-Iodine solution. You can also soak gauze in the solution and rub it over the wound gently to clean it out. This may sting, so brace yourself for the possible pain.Pat dry the wound with sterile gauze or a clean towel.


This process may disrupt the clot on your wound and it may ooze or begin bleeding again. This is normal and does not indicate a more serious wound since you were able to stop it at one point.
 Even if you think you have removed all of the dirt and debris, there is still a chance that your wound could become infected. Because of this, applying some antibiotic cream to the wound is always a good idea. This ointment will also keep your scrape moist so it won’t crack and get worse when you move around. A thin layer of ointment, or antibiotic powder, covering the area of the wound should be enough.Neosporin, Polysporin and Bacitracin are the three of the most common products used.
You can use hydrogen peroxide to initially clean the wound but it should not be used in the long run because it can do damage to the tissue in and around your wound.
 Once you have added ointment, you need to bandage your wound. Take gauze or large bandage and cover your wound. Take medical tape and cover each of the edges. This will help keep out debris, germs, and other particulates. If your scrape isn't too large, you may be able to use a large band-aid instead of gauze.


These supplies can be found in most drug stores and pharmacies.
If the wound is over a flexible joint, rolled gauze may be more easily managed. You can make it more easily secured with this kind of gauze on the wound and it will be less likely to fall off.
 Redress your wound two to three times a day. Taking the bandage off allows the wound to be cleaned and give fresh bandages, and it allows you to take a look at the wound and check to see if any infection is occurring. Do not leave a dressing on for more than 24 hours.You should change the bandages any time they get wet or dirty, as dirty bandages can lead to your scrape becoming infected.
 Despite your efforts to keep the scrape clean, you may still get an infection. This will depend on the size of the scrape as well as other factors such as your age, overall health, and any conditions such as diabetes and obesity. These can also affect your healing time as well. Signs of infection to look for are redness around the wound or on the edges, especially if expands in area from one day to the next. It may also start draining or ooze pus from the wound.


If you notice that you develop a fever as well, you may also have an infection.
 If you think your wound might be infected or if the bleeding will not stop after applying pressure, you need to seek medical attention. If you have had the wound for awhile and have noticed that it has gotten infected, you should also go see a doctor. Letting an infection linger can actually lead to blood poisoning and other life-threatening situations.If you have a fever or your skin is feverish around the wound, go to the hospital.
If your scrape is leaking yellow or greenish discharge, go to a hospital.
If you notice bright yellow or black colorations around your wound, go to the hospital.
 If your wound has become infected, you will most likely be given a tetanus shot to combat the infection. Tetanus shots are normally given every 10 years, but if your wound is deep enough, your doctor may recommend that you get one of these shots.You should get the shot as soon as possible after the injury to ensure that you do not develop tetanus.
 If your scrape is deep or badly infected, you will most likely be given antibiotics to take to combat or prevent further infection. The antibiotic you are most likely to receive is erythromycin. If your doctor suspects a MRSA infection, you will probably take something much stronger. Follow your doctor’s instructions when it comes to taking the medication.


You will most likely be prescribed 250mg, four times per day for five to seven days. The medicine should be taken half an hour to two hours before meals for maximum absorption into the body.
You may also be prescribed painkillers depending on how painful your wound is.

