 Some fabrics will drape more elegantly than others. Try opting for silks, cotton jersey, and other delicate fabrics that let the pants drape in all the right spots. If it seems like the fabric may easily wrinkle, search for a different pair. These pants already have a casual vibe because of their fit, so it is important to find fabric that will stay wrinkle-free., Harem pants that sag in the center halfway down your legs are not flattering on most people. Make sure that the drop crotch is not below your mid-thigh, and that the folds are falling neatly rather than in a sloppy manner. These pants should fit so that they are not too big and baggy and not too small and tight. The key is to feel comfortable without too much excess fabric. Situate the pants to so that they sit comfortably between waist and hips.Depending on the brand, harem pants can come in standard women's sizes such as 4, 6, and 8, or they may be listed as small, medium, or large and provide a size chart for you to see which size would be right for you. Follow the suggestion of the retailer to find the best fit.
Some brands will suggest a size alternation such as ordering a size up if you are between sizes.
 Harem pants come in just about every color, style, and pattern. While picking your favorite look is up to you, there are certain styles and colors that may be more flattering for you. Here are a few helpful tips to consider:


Women who wear plus sizes may look better is dark, solid colors and larger prints.Women who are petite may look better in lighter colors and smaller prints.For casual activities, play around with bright colors and fun patterns. For more formal occasions, stick with darker colors and solid prints.
 If you are unsure about the pants at the store, chances are you will not like them when you go home, no matter what top you try to pair them with. Harem pants come in many styles and fits, so if you don't love the pants you try on, keep looking. With a little effort, you can find the right fitting harem pants for you.