 Polyamorous people are open to having multiple romantic relationships at once, as long as all parties consent to this kind of romance. Many people find they are polyamorous, and try to date people who are okay with open or semi-open relationships.People who are polyamorous do not feel monogamy is necessary to a happy and fulfilling relationship. Polyamory is not a choice. A lot of it depends on your emotional comfort level and your feelings about love and romance. If you're able to be in love with two people at the same time, you may be polyamorous.
There are many ways to figure out if you're polyamorous. Look back on your relationships. Are you able to be fulfilled by a single person, or do you frequently find yourself craving love and sex outside of your relationship? If it's the latter, you may be polyamorous. If you feel capable of being in love with and committed to two people at once, you may be polyamorous.
There is some stigma against polyamory, but work to shut that out. Remember, when it comes to relationships, one size does not fit all. If you are polyamorous, you should feel comfortable exploring your feelings on the subject without feeling guilt.
 Boundaries are always important in a relationship, and especially so if you're in love with two people. Make sure all parties involved know the rules for the given situation, and that everyone is comfortable with the game plan.If you're looking into an open or semi-open relationship, make sure everyone knows what is and is not okay. Are you allowed to be physically intimate with both parties? Can your partners pursue relationships outside of their romance with you? Should one party be prioritized over the other? These are questions you need to ask when proceeding with an open relationship.
If your current partner does not want a completely open relationship, he or she may want you to taper off contact with the other person. If this is the case, make sure you know the kind of contact you're allowed to have and what sorts of contact violate your partner's trust.
 If you want to have an open relationship with someone, you should ease into the new routine. Transitioning from monogamy to polyamory can be difficult. There's no reason to rush the transition.If your partner is comfortable with you pursuing outside relationships, consider whether you should do so right away. There is no reason to rush polyamory. You may want to give both you and your partner time to adjust to the idea of an open relationship before either of you act on it.
Expect some tension. Polyamorous or open relationships can be healthy and loving. This does not mean that, in the beginning, things will not feel somewhat messy. Keep things open in regards to communication. Be willing to compromise and smooth over any differences that arise.
 However you decide to proceed, you and your partner should keep communication open. Talk to your partner regularly about your feelings. If you're seeing two people at once, let both parties know if your feelings regarding them change at any point in the future.


If being in love with two people is causing a lot of tension in a relationship, you can talk to a couples counselor. A qualified counselor can help you and your partner figure out better ways to communicate.

