 It is important to be hygienic if you want to make new friends. Take showers and use deodorant daily. Make sure to brush your teeth twice a day. Brush your hair daily and find a hairstyle that compliments you.
 Don’t change who you are to fit in and don’t do anything you don’t want to do. You will be more confident and happier if you act like who you really are. Accept your personality and physical traits and all the things that make you who you are. It is better to form genuine friendships with people rather than try to become someone that you aren't. Be you and if someone doesn't like it than that is their fault., Put effort into your clothes, but don’t change them to be someone you are not. Find a style that you like. Look online or in magazines for style inspiration. Go through your closet and decide what you want to keep and what you don’t want. Don’t worry about trying to find clothes that are expensive. You can find plenty of stylish clothing at inexpensive or even used clothing stores. What is most important is that you feel comfortable and confident in your clothes., Try your best to be confident and you will be more likeable and more likely to get noticed by popular kids. Tell yourself positive affirmations, walk and speak confidently, and listen to upbeat music. Work on loving yourself and being confident in who you are.Avoid being arrogant; otherwise, people may dislike you.
 Being social to everybody will make you stand out to popular kids. If you are very shy, start off small and work your way up. Start by befriending people in classes who are not popular. Go to a small event or club meeting at school to practice socializing with new people. Try not to be insecure when you talk to new people, just be yourself.


Use positive language when you talk to people.
Join in on new social activities even if it is just for a couple minutes to help you gradually get more comfortable., If you successfully get noticed by the popular kids and start making friendships with them, don’t forget about your other friends. Stay true to who you are and be friends with everyone, even if they are not popular.

