 If the person’s response stemmed from an oversight on your behalf, then it might be a good idea to apologize. For example, you prepared cookies with gluten for someone who has celiac disease, or you hand-painted a wall art canvas saying "Home is wherever I'm with you" to someone who just announced a divorce. Don’t be too hard on yourself, and, certainly, refrain from over-apologizing.


Say, “Gee, I didn’t realize…” or “I’m sorry, I forgot about your condition.” Keep it short and sweet and change the topic.;
, A healthy dose of laughter can often rescue anyone from an uncomfortable situation.Let's say, you presented your gift to a friend only to have it tear up, break, or be completely useless. You gave it your best shot, but your skills just weren't up to par. Graciously laugh it off rather than making the receiver have to nurse your wounds. You may even be able to convince them it was a gag gift after all by following with a just-in-case present.


You might say, "Yikes! Well, when I knitted this, I imagined it actually fitting--not simply going over only one arm...Maybe I just started a trend!" or you could follow with "Just joking! Here's your real gift...you do like scented candles, right?"

, Sometimes, people aren’t receptive to gifts because they would have preferred something else. Maybe your daughter wanted the latest technology gadget for her birthday so she is underwhelmed by the carefully-knitted sweater you gave her. Or, perhaps a coworker would have enjoyed a gift card, but you presented a more practical gift of handmade kitchenware.


Simply because it’s not exactly what they wanted doesn’t mean that your gift is any less helpful. Try not to let their indifferent reaction make you forget that. You might say, “I know this may not be what you wanted, but I heard you say a while back how you needed these…”, In some cases, the slightest tweak could turn an unsatisfactory gift into a personal item that someone cherishes forever. Find out what the person dislikes, and see if you can make the desired alterations.


For instance, if you made a dress for your mother that resembles a tent, take new measurements in order to bring in the seam. If it fits her better, she might be pleased after all., If all else fails, don’t allow your hard work to go to waste. Politely suggest that the person re-gift the item to someone they think might enjoy it. That way your handmade gift finds an owner who will justly treasure it.


”Well, if you’re not a fan of this green scarf, feel free to re-gift it to someone else. Maybe Sarah? This green would really complement her eyes.”