 Some states have laws that permit tenants to terminate their lease early in certain circumstances.


In all states you can terminate your lease early if you are a member of the military called to duty. Some states also allow for early termination in other circumstances such as job relocation or health problems.You also have the right to terminate a lease early without owing any further payments if your lease includes an illegal clause. For example, a clause in your lease allowing the landlord to charge you rent every two weeks instead of every month because you made a late payment or violated some other rule in your lease would be illegal.Typically, however, your landlord must act – or at least attempt to act – on the illegal clause before you can break the lease yourself. If the landlord doesn't act on the illegal provision, then you are the one who breached the contract first (by moving out before the lease ended).Most states also allow you to cancel a lease agreement if you are a domestic violence survivor and need to find new housing after a dispute., Even if there's no clause in your lease that specifically addresses early termination, you and your landlord can mutually agree to cancel your lease agreement at any time, and for any reason.Make a specific appointment to sit down and talk with your landlord, rather than just dropping by unannounced. When you arrive at the appointment, be courteous and respectful.
Stick to the facts as much as possible when you're explaining the reasons you need to move out early. If you have any documents that prove the necessity of you leaving by a certain date, such as a transfer notice from work, make a copies for your landlord and bring them with you to your meeting.
Try to plan your meeting as soon as possible, especially if circumstances prevent you giving very much notice to your landlord of your intent to vacate. Your landlord may be more accommodating if you demonstrate that you did everything in your power to let them know about the situation as soon as you could, rather than knowing you were going to move out for two months and not saying anything until a week before you wanted to leave., Particularly if you paid a sizable deposit when you moved in, your landlord might be more amenable to canceling the lease if you're willing to forfeit any claim to the money.


Although ideally you would want your security deposit returned if you left your apartment in good condition, the additional money may help win your landlord's agreement to cancel the lease.
If you do make this offer, make sure you leave the unit clean and undamaged when you move out. Don't use the fact that you're not getting your security deposit back anyway as an excuse to trash the place – your landlord may sue you for additional damages.
Make sure the security deposit money is treated separately in the written termination agreement, including whether you will be on the hook for any damages to the apartment.
 Since the landlord has to find someone to take your place if you leave early, it might help if you have a friend who's willing and able to move in to the apartment.Most states have laws requiring landlords to take reasonable steps to rent the property again if you vacate early, which means if you had a lot of time left on your lease you typically wouldn't have to pay the entire remainder in full. However, you may be liable for your landlord's costs of advertising the unit.If you know of someone looking for a new place to live, you might be able to put them in touch with your landlord. If they end up working out as a replacement, your landlord will appreciate the time and effort you've saved him.If your lease allows it, you may also be able to sub-lease your apartment to someone else for the remainder of your lease. Check your lease to see if you have permission, and follow any requirements. For example, landlords who allow tenants to sub-lease may require the new resident to sign an agreement with them or to meet the same standards they've set for original tenants.
Keep in mind, however, that finding a replacement tenant may be preferable to sub-leasing, even if your lease allows it. If you sub-lease your apartment, you remain responsible for the unit – including any damages done by the new tenant., If you have a written lease, any agreement to cancel that lease also must be in writing and signed by both you and your landlord, or it won't be legally valid.If you and your landlord agree to terminate your lease early for whatever reason, your landlord may have a standard termination agreement that she uses. If your landlord is using a form, make sure all the clauses apply to your situation. If there's anything in her agreement that you haven't discussed, bring it up. Anything that's crossed out or changed should be initialed by both you and your landlord.
Because your original lease is void on the date your termination agreement takes effect, review the termination agreement to see what rights or obligations, if any, were transferred from the original lease.This probably includes clauses such as your obligations to make any repairs of damages beyond normal wear and tear before you move out.
Make sure everything you discussed and agreed upon in your negotiations is included in the written termination agreement – don't assume something is part of the deal if it wasn't reduced to writing, and don't rely on your landlord's word.Once you and your landlord have signed the agreement, make a copy and keep it in a safe place in case disputes arise later.