 If you are staying within the Walt Disney World resorts, the system will accept your reservations up to 60 days from the date of travel. If you are staying off-property in a "Good Neighbor" hotel, you'll have no more than 30 days before you come, to select your FastPasses on the website.;
,, You may also link other rooms if you need.
 For the correct buttons to be seen, the system won't let you add FastPass nominations until this has been entered.


Open up the My Reservations page and click "Link Tickets" from the page that results. The Will Call ticket codes can be added through this method only.






Add in any other members of your visiting party who have valid theme park tickets for that specific day who will be traveling with you. You can order these tickets for each member of the family all at the same time Click on "Add friends and family members to your account" to add them and follow the directions on the associated page to add them from there.






Edit each linked user's name in the list, so that the top-level user knows who has what passes on their account for that day. You can also choose to add their birthday and several other options, including adding a customizable character icon.
, Depending on your ticket you've linked, this date range can fall anywhere between one day to several days. Click the left and right triangular arrows above the days of the week icons below.
, The most popular choices are for the entire group, however, you can make individual reservations for each guest (ticket holder) individually.
 With FastPass+, you can only choose reservations at one park per day. At the current time, the 4 main theme parks that Disney has, have at least 1 ride that has FastPass+. Click the Select button to select the park on the page.
 Some parks have tiers of levels for which you must only choose one FastPass+ reservation and hope the line at the others are short enough if you are encouraged to take a trip on the other rides on the list. With FastPass+, you can only make 3 FastPass+ selections at once.
 If you are in a park that has a tiered system of reservations for FastPass+, generally, the top 3 in the first tier will be the most popular choices for which you'll pick only one and then you must pick the other two. Make sure the choice has a green "Select" button to checkmark it and click the "Next" button in the bottom left corner of the screen.
 Each one will be different and will be based on the time slots they have available. Best Match will rarely work into most people's schedule when you include naps and breaks, but it is possible in some people's schedule. Click the tab above the choices until you see the choice that potentially fits your schedule the best. Look for the reservation times to ride these rides to the left of the ride's icon(the rides icon tends to be represent the ride and won't ever look like a placemark symbol).
, Click the "Make Changes" button for each ride you'd like to tweak out for that day or select the Done button from the bottom left corner, if you don't need to make any other changes.


You can change the attraction (called the "Change the Experience" or modify the time to better suit your times). Select the "Select" button on the page underneath the "Select Your Party Members" label.
Adjust the time or change the attraction for the FastPass option. Make sure the box is checked during that timeframe.
Click the "Next" button to confirm your changes, from the bottom of that page.
Verify the changes and click the Done button.
, You can order other things to customize the band, but this is purely up to your taste. If you are staying offsite, enter your Magic Your Way ticket number into the MyDisneyExperience website, and enter into your account.
 Disneyworld no longer gives out any paper tickets and only allows guests with MagicBands and FastPass+ reservations to access their rides the same general way as the FastPass once was utilized.

