 You want to determine if your cat's oral hygiene is at fault for the bad breath. Place the cat on a table so that you work at a comfortable height. Make sure the lighting is good so that you can see well. Gently lift the cat's upper lip until you can see the teeth. Look inside the mouth.


Healthy teeth should be white and not coated in tartar. Tarter has the appearance of yellow deposits on the surface of the teeth, often near the gum line. The gums should be pink with no angry red line of inflammation where the teeth meets the gums. Clean teeth and pink gums make dental disease less likely. However, dirty teeth and inflamed or bleeding gums are indicative of dental disease.
If you see you cat has dental issues, get it checked by a vet. This is because inflamed gums and bad breath are a sign of bacterial infection and the cat may require medical treatment, such as antibiotics, to settle things down.
It helps to have a friend who can hold the cat by the shoulders, which leaves both of your hands free to lift the cat's lips.;
, Why not help your cat's health while you make it happy? If your cat likes to chew, give it toys that will massage the gums, floss the teeth, and remove tarter buildup while the cat chews.You can also give your cat treats that are designed to help its dental health.
 There are various products available, but Hexarinse is recommended. This contains chlorhexidine in a formulation that helps disinfect the mouth for around 12 hours. It helps kill bacteria and stop them from sticking to teeth, thereby reducing the incidence of bacterial infection causing bad breath.To use Hexarinse, soak a cotton bud in the solution and wipe it over the outer crown surface of the teeth. Do this morning and evening for optimal preventative dental care., It helps to get the cat used to the tooth brush first, by leaving the brush near their food bowl. For the first few attempts just use water on the brush. Once the cat is accepting the brush in their mouth, use toothpastes designed for use in cats. Do not use human toothpaste as the fluoride level can be damaging when the cat swallows the toothpaste.Brush the teeth morning and evening. Use a soft child's toothbrush, a pet toothbrush, or a finger-brush designed for the purpose.
 The gold standard is to have your veterinarian perform a dental descale and polish under general anesthetic. This cleans the teeth, gets rid of deposits harboring bacteria, and encourages healthy gums.Once the pet has recovered from the procedure you can start brushing its teeth to keep the mouth clean.
 If the tartar is only mild and the gums are not sore, consider switching your cat onto a dental diet. Look for foods approved by the Veterinary Oral Health Council (VOHC) and have their stamp of approval on the bag.Approved food usually works by giving a brushing action while it's chewed. Fiber inside each kibble lightly sweep over the cat's teeth when it bites down.

