 It is best to travel during the summer months, when the weather is warmest, but if you are able to go toward the end, say in August. You can save on lodging by opting for a not-so-ravishing hotel since you would mostly spend your time sleeping when in the hotel. You will have special discounts in both airfares and hotels during summer. Acers.;
, This will cost anywhere from $400 to $1,200 depending on the airport of origin.
, Then you can pick up the rental car in the morning, or have them bring the car to you the next day.
 There are multiple great restaurants: Moose's Tooth, Glacier Brewhouse, Snow Goose and Stevenson's to name a few of the most popular. While in Anchorage, it is highly recommended that you drive up to Flat Top Mountain parking area and enjoy a scenic hike. Flat Top is the most hiked mountain in Alaska. You can challenge yourself on the mountain if you are athletic enough to climb up. Or, you can simply take a nice little stroll on a lower but just as scenic path that is at the base of the mountain. Either way you get to catch a great view of the city and will be able to meet many other folks who are visiting. Anchorage has a great downtown area and you can spend a little or a lot of time there. Attractions of renown in and around town include the Anchorage Museum, Alaska Center for the Performing Arts and the Alaska Native Heritage Center.
 Every potential activity is doable by spending a week or more in a town 130 miles (210 km) to the south of Anchorage. Travel south to Seward, Alaska and make sure that you reserved a room with one of the bed and breakfasts or a hotel in Seward ahead of time. Seward is the jewel city of Alaska. The trip down in the car is one of the most scenic highways in the world. Photo ops abound for the multiple mountains and glaciers, as you travel the coast along the ocean inlet, and you are likely to see moose, geese, bear, and eagles without leaving the highway on your trip down to Seward.
 The mountains and the ocean meet at this wonderful small town where fishing boats in the harbor daily catch several thousands of pounds of fish each day. Each afternoon you have a chance to see the catch as it is brought in to the dock area to be cleaned and photos taken.
 Activities in Seward range from sea-kayak tours, 26 glacier cruise and fishing charters, bike trail riding in town, horse back riding on local trails, hiking Exit Glacier (check with Park Ranger office downtown for directions), and hikes up Mount Marathon or go down Tonsina Creek Trail which takes you to waterfall areas and along the creek where salmon will be running during the Silver Salmon run in August.
, You have seen some of the best that the State has to offer and you will have kept your travel and cost to a minimum.

