 A subcutaneous injection (SQ) is one given into the fatty layer of the skin. SQ injections are necessary for specific medications and for doses that usually require small amounts. The fat layer where the injection is given is between the skin and the muscle.One place that is good to give a subcutaneous injection is the abdomen. Select an area below the waist and above the hip bone, and about two inches away from the belly button. Avoid the belly button area.
SQ injections can be given in the thigh area, halfway between the knee and hip, and slightly to the side as long as you can pinch up one to two inches of skin.
The lower back is a good place for SQ injections. Target the area above the buttocks, below the waist, and halfway between the spine and the side.
The upper arm is a usable site as long as there is enough skin to pinch up one to two inches. Use the area of the upper arm that is halfway between the elbow and shoulder.
Alternating between sites will help prevent bruising and skin damage. You can also alter within the same general site by using different patches of skin within that area.
 Clean the skin on and around the site with rubbing alcohol. Allow the alcohol to dry before administering the injection. This shouldn't take more than a minute or two.Do not touch the wiped area with your hands or any other material before giving the injection.
Verify that you have the right drug, right site of injection, and that you have prepared the correct dose for administration.
Hold the syringe with your dominant hand and pull the needle cover off with your other hand. Pinch the skin with your non-dominant hand.
 Depending on the amount of skin you can pinch, you can insert the needle at either a 45 degree or 90 degree angle.Use a 45 degree angle if you can only pinch about one inch of skin.
If you can pinch two inches of skin, then insert the needle at a 90 degree angle.
Grasp the syringe tightly and use a quick motion of your wrist to puncture the skin with the needle.
Insert the needle quickly and carefully at the determined angle with your dominant hand while pinching the skin with your other hand. Quick needle insertion helps prevent the patient from becoming tense.
Aspiration for a SQ injection is not necessary. There is no harm in doing so unless you are administering blood thinning agents, such as enoxaparin sodium.
To aspirate, pull the plunger back slightly and check for the appearance of blood in the syringe. If there is blood, then remove the needle and find a different spot to administer the injection. If no blood is found, continue., Push the plunger down until all the fluid has been released.


Remove the needle. Push down on the skin above the injection site and use a quick and careful motion to remove the needle in the same angle in which it was administered.
The whole process doesn't need to take more than five or ten seconds.
Discard all used sharps in a sharps container.
 Insulin injections are given SQ but require different syringes to be sure each dose is accurate Plus, insulin administration is ongoing. Keeping a record of injection sites is an important part of insulin administration that helps you to rotate your sites.Recognize the difference in syringes. Using a regular syringe can cause serious dosing errors.
Insulin syringes are graduated in units instead of cc’s or mls. It is critical that you use an insulin syringe when giving insulin.
Check with your doctor or pharmacist to be sure you understand which type of insulin syringe to use with your prescribed insulin type and dosage.

