 By 7 months old, typical babies express happiness and smile. A baby's first smile often occurs even before 3 months.
If a baby doesn't follow objects with its eyes by 3 months, this could be a very early indicator of autism.
Observe their other facial expressions.
By 9 months old, babies communicate with others by displaying certain expressions like grimacing, pouting and grinning to fit their mood.;
, Babies that develop typically will babble by the time they are 7 months old.The noise might not make any sense.
It is common for babies to make repetitive sounds, but autistic babies will make different sounds and rhythms.
By seven months, non-autistic children are able to laugh and make squealing sounds.
 Some autistic children experience a delay in speaking, or never learn to speak at all. Around 15-20% of autistic people never speak,although this does not mean they do not communicate.


By one year, non-autistic children are able to say single words such as "Mama" and "Dada".
By age 2, most children are able to string words together. A typical 2-year-old should have a vocabulary of more than 15 words.
 An autistic child might not respond to their own name or avoid play with others. By 7 months, a typical child responds to simple games like peekaboo.
A non-autistic child responds to its own name at about one year old.
By 18 months, a typical child will start to play "pretend" games, such as pretend feeding a baby doll. Autistic children tend not to play pretend, and may appear unimaginative to onlookers.
By age two, non-autistic children will imitate your words and actions.
Pay attention to speech regression. Some infants meet their milestones and then lose skills at an older age.
 Babies will reach for objects typically by 7 months of age. Place a toy out of your child's reach to see if he will reach for it. Babies as young as 7 months old will try to attract your attention with movements. Autistic children may be less active.
By 6 months old, children should turn their head towards sounds they hear. If your child does not do this they may have a hearing problem, or early symptoms of autism.
Many babies start waving bye-bye and pointing to objects they want by the time they are 12 months old.
If your child has not started to walk or crawl by 12 months, this is a very serious developmental disability.By age 1, most babies will start to use gestures such as shaking their head to say "no".
If your child cannot walk by age 2, you should definitely have him or her evaluated by a doctor for autism and other disabilities.
 Stimming serves a variety of purposes: from self-calming to expressing emotions. If your young child waves their hands, rocks their body, or spins in circles constantly, this is a likely sign of autism., Autistic children may not develop friendships with peers. They may want to form friendships but not know how, or they may not really care. They sometimes struggle with understanding and reacting to others' feelings.
Autistic children may not want to join group activities, either because it's hard or because they aren't interested.
Autistic children may be unusual in terms of personal space: some may resist touch or not understand personal space.
Another symptom of autism is when a child does not respond to being comforted by others when they are distressed.
 Autistic children may feel uncomfortable with eye contact. They may have a flat facial expression, or exhibit exaggerated experiences.
Autistic children may not understand or respond to other's non-verbal cues.
Autistic people may not use gestures or have trouble interpreting when others use gestures.
Autistic children often don't point to objects or respond to others pointing.
 Children who do not develop speech or have delayed speech may be autistic.Autistic children who are verbal may use a flat or monotone voice.
Some autistic kids use echolalia, or the repetition of words and phrases, to communicate and focus.
Reversing pronouns (using "you" instead of "I") is another common trait of children who have ASD.
Many autistic people don't understand jokes, sarcasm, or teasing.
Some autistic people may develop speech later, or not at all. These people can live happy and functional lives, using alternative communication such as typing, sign language, or picture exchange. Early intervention can help an autistic child learn how to use these tools.
 Fascination with one topic, like computer games or license plates, may indicate autism.Autistic people become fascinated with particular subject areas, studying them passionately and sharing information with anyone who will listen (enthusiastically or not).


Autistic people often become fascinated with memorizing categorized facts and figures.
 Autistic people's emotional development differs from the development of their peers, and this may result in them liking different things.Don't be surprised if a 12-year-old reads classical literature for fun and watches cartoons for young children. They may be both "behind" and "ahead" in some respects.
 Autistic children tend to play differently than other children do,focusing more on systematizing than on imaginary play. They may show unusual aptitude with STEM-type toys.


Autistic kids may fixate on a part of a toy, such as the wheels.
One sign of autism is lining up toys in different patterns.
Ordering things does not necessarily indicate a lack of imagination. Autistic children may have intense inner worlds that are not easily detected by adults., Many autistic children have Sensory Processing Disorder, a condition in which their senses may be hypersensitive, or hyposensitive. Children with Sensory Processing Disorder may become overwhelmed easily when they are overstimulated.
Notice if your child hides from loud things (e.g. the vacuum cleaner), wants to leave events early, has trouble concentrating when there are distractions, is constantly active, or gets upset in loud or crowded areas.
Some autistic children react strangely to strong smells, bright colors, unusual textures, and specific noises.
Children with Sensory Processing Disorder will often have meltdowns or act out when they are over stimulated. Others may withdraw.
 Meltdowns appear similar to tantrums, but they are not thrown on purpose, and cannot be suppressed once they have begun.They occur when bottled-up stress explodes to the surface. Sometimes they are triggered by sensory overload.
 Many autistic children need routines in order to feel secure, and will become very distressed if the routine is disrupted. For example, your daughter might insist on sitting in the same chair at dinner each night or she might insist on eating her foods in a particular order.


Many autistic people follow specific routines or rituals when they are playing or doing certain tasks, and autistic children may become very upset by changes in this routine.
 While all children can do rude or inappropriate things, autistic people will do them more frequently, and act surprised and apologetic when told so. This is because autistic people don't learn social norms as easily, and may need to be taught explicitly what is appropriate and inappropriate.
 Autism is a complex disability that affects every person differently. Here are some examples of symptoms that some autistic people have:Hyperactivity (This may come and go.)
Impulsivity
Short attention span
Aggression
Self-injury
Temper tantrums or meltdowns
Unusual eating or sleeping habits
Unusual mood or emotional reactions
Lack or fear or extreme fear of harmless situations
Child might have distinct facial features. In a 2011 issue of Molecular Autism, researchers found out that children with autism have distinct differences in facial characteristics than typically developing children.The study found children with autism had wider eyes, and a "broader upper face," compared with typically developing children.
Child might have abnormal lung airways. In 2013, a study was published in the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, claiming that "Bronchoscopic evaluations revealed that some children have double branching of bronchi (designated "doublets") in the lower lungs airways, rather than normal, single branching. Retrospective analyses revealed only one commonality in them: all subjects with doublets also had autism or autism spectrum disorder (ASD)."