 Allergens are substances that can cause allergic reactions. Airborne allergens are allergens that travel through the air, such as dust, animal fur, pollen from trees, and grass. You should look for any possible sources of airborne allergens in your home. This could be dusty floors or windowsills, fur from the family pet, and pollen from indoor plants or flowers.You should also note irritants like cigarette smoke and air pollution. Check your household cleaning products for any irritating chemicals and fragrances. These airborne irritants can trigger asthma attacks.
There are also other allergens, such as cockroaches and mold, that should be noted and removed. These allergens can trigger asthma attacks in your child if they are not addressed and eliminated.;
, Asthma can be triggered by exercise and physical activities as these put stress on your child’s respiratory system. While it is important that your child get enough physical exercise to stay healthy, you should also monitor her exercise to ensure it is not irritating her asthma.Studies suggest that doing physical activity can actually reduce the frequency of your child’s asthma attacks in the long term. But it is important to find a balance. You want your child to do enough physical activity to stay healthy without triggering her asthma.
 The chemicals used to preserve foods can trigger asthma. Sulfites are one of the most common preservatives, often found in a number of foods and drinks. Read food labels to ensure they do not contain preservatives that will trigger an asthma attack in your child.
 Respiratory infections, such as a bad cold or a viral infection in the lungs, can lead to asthma attacks. If you suspect your child might have other health conditions that are putting her at a greater risk of an asthma attack, you should bring her to the doctor for a check up. The doctor can examine her and determine if she requires medication to treat the infection.Other health conditions like heartburn and sleep apnea can also trigger asthma. Heartburn is also known as acid reflux and can develop due to a poor diet or digestive issues. Sleep apnea is a condition where the person has shallow or interrupted breathing while sleeping, often due to enlarged tonsils or adenoids, which can disrupt your sleep and also trigger breathing conditions like asthma., Asthma attacks can be triggered by some medications such as aspirin, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and beta-blockers.Beta-blockers are often prescribed for heart issues. Your doctor should avoid prescribing NSAIDs or beta-blockers for your child as they have shown to trigger asthma attacks and other health issues for individuals with asthma.However, do not stop administering your child's medications without talking to your child's doctor first.
You should also avoid giving your child aspirin as it can trigger asthma attacks.
 Emotional stress can act as a trigger for asthma. You should check in periodically with your child to ensure she is not experiencing any stress from school or trauma at home. You should also monitor your child’s behavior and note any signs of stress or trauma., Smoke from cigarettes and cigars can be a major asthma trigger for your child. Set a no smoking rule in your home. If you live in a housing complex or an apartment building that is not smoke-free, work with your neighbors and your landlord to advocate for a smoke-free environment in the building.You can also use the policy brief supplied by the American Lung Association to help create a smoke free environment in the entire building or complex., Using natural fibers in your home can greatly reduce asthma triggers as dust and allergens are less likely to get trapped in natural fibers.You should wash all bedding, towels, rugs, and curtains at least once a week in hot water and dry them on high heat to remove any allergens.
You should also avoid using down-filled pillows and comforters as they can carry allergens. Put a mattress cover on your child’s mattress to prevent allergens from burrowing in her mattress. You should also use pillow covers on your child’s pillows to protect her from allergens in her pillows.
 Switching to all-natural cleaning products will help to reduce the number of chemical allergens in your home. Go for unscented products as they are usually less irritating.You should also try to keep your house clean and dust free. Use a damp cloth to get rid of dust on all flat surfaces in your home. Vacuum once a week with a vacuum that has a HEPA filter to really make sure there is no dust lying around in your home. This will greatly reduce your child’s risk of an asthma attack., Mold can be a major asthma trigger for your child. You should take steps to keep your home well-ventilated and dry as this will reduce the development of mold.Set up a dehumidifier in any spots that prone to dampness in your home, such as the bathroom or the basement.
If you cannot keep certain areas well ventilated, you should use an ozonator or a 100 W bulb on the area at all times to keep the area warm and dry. This will prevent mold from developing.
Check shower curtains, the back of doors, and walls for any mold. Remove the mold by using a solution of one part chlorine bleach and nine parts water (1 cup bleach combined with nine cups water).
You should also check your houseplants periodically to ensure there is no mold developing in the soil. If there is mold, replace the soil or repot the plant.
 Carpeting is a big carrier of chemicals, dust, mold, and dander from pets. If possible, replace your carpet with tile flooring and natural fiber rugs. Natural fiber rugs are easier to keep clean than carpeting.If you cannot afford to pull out carpet and replace it, make an effort to keep the carpet clean. Use a steam cleaner on the carpets at least twice a month and vacuum the carpet with a good vacuum on a daily basis so allergens do not build up in the carpet.
 Pests like cockroaches can carry allergens that can trigger asthma attacks. You should make sure your home is cockroach-free. This may mean getting your home professionally treated for roaches through a pest removal service.You should specify that there individuals with asthma in your home and ensure the service is familiar with exterminating pests in asthma-prone homes. The service should not use aerosol sprays or any other chemicals that could trigger asthma attacks.
 These materials can collect dust and other allergens that can trigger asthma attacks. Try not to let paper materials sit in your home for long periods of time. Set up a recycling bin outside for paper materials or in an area where your child does not spend a lot of time., One way to do this is to check local reports about pollen and ozone counts. Pollen counts tend to be the highest between five and ten am, depending on where you are located. You may want to keep your child indoors during these times and check local air quality before you let your child go outside to ensure it is not too polluted.If you are not sure which allergens are causing your child’s asthma, you may ask your child’s doctor to skin-test her for common triggers. These could include pollen, dust mites, pet dander, and air pollution. You could then limit your child’s exposure to their allergens to reduce her risk of an asthma attack.
Since one common trigger for asthma is an upper respiratory infection like the flu, get your child vaccinated for the flu every year. (Adults with asthma should be vaccinated against the flu as well.)

, Asthma can be triggered by food allergies and food sensitivities. You should remove these foods from your child’s diet so she is not triggered.You can also determine which foods are acting as triggers by keeping a food diary. Note the foods your child eats during the day and any reactions she has to the food. If the reaction is negative or asthma inducing, you should eliminate that food from her diet.
Your doctor can order blood tests for food allergies if it is unclear which foods are causing the problem.
 If your child is triggered by animal dander and animal fur, you should let her interact with only pets and animals that are hypoallergenic. This may mean replacing the family pet with a hypoallergenic pet or only allowing your child to play with friends’ pets that are hypoallergenic., Your child should get into the habit of carrying her asthma inhaler with her at all times, especially when she will be exercising. Her inhaler may be necessary when she is doing exercise, such as playing a sport or going for a run.You should not totally limit your child’s exercise as she needs to stay healthy. But you should make sure she has her inhaler in case of any issues and does not push herself too hard when doing exercise, as this could lead to an asthma attack.
 If you haven’t already, you should start a daily diary that records your child’s asthma symptoms. You should also note any possible triggers, from environmental to emotional. Update the dairy if you notice any other triggers as this will allow you to stay on top of your child’s asthma triggers and reduce her risk of an attack., An Asthma Action Plan can be developed with your doctor and is a good way to develop a plan of action in the event of an asthma attack. An Asthma Action Plan can also help you to track your child’s asthma triggers and take steps to avoid them so your child does not have an asthma attack.The Asthma Action Plan will be broken down into three zones: the Green Zone, the Yellow Zone, and the Red Zone. These zones will help keep track of the severity of your child's asthma. The Green Zone is the normal, safe zone, where there are no issues with your child's breathing. The Yellow Zone is the warning zone, where your child is experiencing some asthma symptoms but is not yet experiencing a full on asthma attack. The Red Zone is the severe zone, where your child is having an asthma attack. If you cannot get your child's asthma under control using an inhaler or other techniques, you may need to take her to emergency care.
You should give everyone in your family a copy of the Asthma Action Plan so everyone around your child is aware of the steps they can take to prevent your child from having an asthma attack.

