 Raw fish can be obtained by fishing. Use a fishing rod over a water body and amass the fish in your inventory. You'll need at least five fish and maybe up to 20, to lure the ocelot to you.

A fishing rod can be made with 3 sticks and 2 string which you can get from killing spiders. In the crafting table, place the sticks diagonally from top left to bottom right and place the string to the left vertically.



 


Do not cook the fish. Ocelots are only attracted by raw fish.;
, This is an absolute requirement or taming the ocelot will not occur––if you try to approach the ocelot, it'll assume you're chasing it and take off. Moreover, trapping or cornering an ocelot will not result in taming.


The ocelot will possibly come to you when you are holding a raw fish.
Do not be threatening in any way.
 Your character must be situated somewhere that has a 7x7 minimum horizontal block area. This will allow the ocelot to feel safe rather than trapped.
 Taming will not take place if hostile mobs are attacking at the same time. And never have chickens or other animals around.
, This means keeping the crosshairs off it.
 The ocelot will be easily frightened away.


Walk at normal speed if you need to move nearer to keep apace with the ocelot, but don't get too close while moving. Only use walking to get nearer, then cease moving.
When drawing closer to the ocelot, if it turns to face you, stop moving immediately.
 If an ocelot turns around and faces you, this may be an opportunity for it to approach you.


Stand still if possible. This is the best way to attract the ocelot.
If you want to, try sneaking––this might work without disturbing the ocelot. (Try holding sneak, while the mouse sensitivity is set to yawn.)

, Keep holding the raw fish without moving or looking directly at the ocelot.


Wait for the ocelot to stare at your character and approach timidly. If the conditions are right, the ocelot will slowly walk towards you.
 When this happens, slowly pan the crosshairs over to the ocelot and right click the raw fish on the ocelot. Stay still while the ocelot feeds.
 The taming process is not complete until the ocelot becomes a cat; while there may be a heart or puff effect evident after eating the fish, only the cat transformation is confirmation of a successful taming.
 Use quick repeated right-clicks without jerking the camera or moving. Any movement can scare away the ocelot before it is tamed.
 There are three possible breeds of cat that it may transform into––Siamese, ginger tabby and tuxedo (black and white).


A tamed ocelot (cat) ceases to be afraid of humans. It will meow and purr quite often. It will follow you around and sit on demand (simply right click).
Cats will sit on everything, including chests, which can be a nuisance as the chest won't open until the cat gets off it!
Expect creepers to flee when your cat is by your side.

