 You can move the hands yourself, but for that, you will need a brad or paper fastener. Here's a list of what you will need:


Paper plate
Paper
Brad (paper fastener)
Scissors
Crayons, markers, stickers, etc;
, A plate with pictures on it may look pretty, but you won't be able to see the numbers. Don't worry, you can color the plate later.


If you can't find a plain paper plate, use a regular plate to trace a circle onto a piece of paper. Cut the circle out and use it instead.
 If you have a very narrow rim, then write the numbers on the plate itself. Try to make the spaces between the numbers as even as you can. It might also be a good idea to write the numbers with a pencil first. You can draw over the numbers with crayon or marker later.


Try to write the 12, 3, 6, and 9 first. This may help you keep things even.You can also use foam or sticker numbers instead of writing them out.
 One arrow should be a little shower than the other one. Make sure that the bigger arrow can reach the numbers.


The big arrow will be the minute hand, and the small hand will be the hour hand.
 If you want to add color to your clock, now is the time. You can color the clock with crayons, paint, or markers. You can add stickers or even glitter to it. Try not to put too much on it, or you will not see the numbers. Click here for some more ideas.


If you used paint or glitter glue, you will need to let everything dry before moving on.
 You can use a ballpoint pen, a toothpick, or a wooden skewer to do this. If you are a child, ask an adult to help you with this step.


To find the center, flip the plate over so the back is facing you. Draw a huge X across the back of the clock. Make sure that the points of the X are touching the edges of the clock. The center of the X is the center of the clock.
 Line up the bottom of the arrows up first, then punch the hole through both arrows at the same time. This will make it more even. You can use a hole puncher to make this easier.If you don't have a hole punch, you can poke the hole using a ballpoint pen.
 Make sure that the hole in each arrow lines up with the hole in the clock.
 The pointy end should be coming out of the back of the clock.
 Separate the prongs first, then flatten them against the plate. You can use a butter knife to pull the prongs apart. If you are a child, ask an adult to help you. Brads can be very sharp.
 Turn the clock back over so that you can see the numbers again. You can now move the arrows around. Try not to pull or tug too hard, or the paper will rip.
 Take a few inches of ribbon and fold it in half to make a loop. Tie the two ends into a knot to keep them together. Turn the clock over so that you can see the back. Put a drop of hot glue close to the top. Press the ribbon down onto it and let it dry.


Glue guns can get very hot. Ask an adult to help you with this step.
You can also staple the ribbon to the plate instead.
 Cut a long, skinny rectangle out of some yellow paper. Cut a circle out of the same paper and glue it to the bottom of the rectangle. Wait for the glue to dry, then poke a hole near the top of the rectangle. Turn the clock over so that the back is facing you, and open up the brad. Slip the prongs through the hole in the rectangle, then flatten them again. Turn your clock back over and swing the pendulum.
 Be careful not to get any glue onto the brad, or you may not be able to turn the arrows anymore. Cut a wave-like shape around the edges of the brown paper, and pin it to your wall. Your clock will look like a grandfather clock!


Consider combining this with the swinging pendulum.
 If you want the paint the clock after you have written the numbers, you may need to re-write them. Some paint is translucent, and some paint is opaque.
 If you cannot find any glitter glue, then draw on the clock with some regular glue, and cover it with glitter. Tap the excess glitter off onto a sheet of paper. Use the paper to funnel the glitter back into its container.
 You can write "hour" on the little hand, and "minutes" on the big hand. You can also cut the hands out of two different colors, to make them easier to tell apart.
 This will make your clock look even more realistic. Colors such as black, brown, blue, or red will work great for this. You can also try using gold or silver paint.
 You don't have to write the numbers using marker. Try using stickers or foam letters instead. You can also try using a silver or gold permanent marker.

Consider using the Roman numbers instead: I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII. Start at the 1 o'clock position with the "I" and continue around the rim. The XII should be at the top of the clock, where the 12 would be.

