 Razor bumps are more common in people of African American descent, due to the fact that the hair shaft is curved. In turn, after shaving the tip can grow back into the skin, making irritated "razor bumps" on your skin.The best way to work on this problem is to prevent them from happening in the first place. Use a safety razor, as it can help reduce the problem. Another way to reduce the problem is to make sure you're shaving in the direction the hair is growing.
On the other hand, you can employ a few treatments if you develop razor bumps. One option is topical treatments, such as antibiotics, steroids, and retinoids, which your doctor can prescribe. You can also ask your doctor about laser treatments. It can help some people, but it can also lead to discoloration of skin, as well as blistering or painful skin.;
, Hyper-pigmentation just means your skin is blotchy, and it is common among African Americans. Sometimes, pimples and acne can leave darker areas. One way to deal with this issue is to use an exfoliant, such as a chemical exfoliant that has alpha or beta hydroxy .Gently rub the exfoliate on your skin then rinse it off. Another option is a physical exfoliant like exfoliating gloves or even a basic washcloth. Just gently rub your wet skin in a circular motion up and down your body.Another option for dark spots is bleaching creams and hydroquinone creams, while chemical peels can lighten certain areas of skin., In years past, African Americans didn't get the attention they deserved with makeup lines. Fortunately, more and more makeup lines are providing great options for any skin tone.Check out makeup lines such as Iman, Black Opal, Fashion Fair, Mac, and Black Up to find great options.
When trying to match a product, try using the tester to put a little on the back of your hand. That way, you can see what it looks like against your skin without putting it on the sensitive skin on your face.
Also, if you're using a setting powder, make sure it also matches your skin tone. If you pick a light one, it can leave white residue across your face., Some African Americans have oily skin paired with larger pores, and if you fall in this category, you need to make sure to pick a makeup built for that. Matte finish makeups are a great option because they can soak up oil while you're wearing them.On the other hand, if you have drier skin, then you definitely want to skip the matte foundation and go for something that has more weight to it. Pick something that's creamy instead.
 If you have darker skin and are prone to acne, that means you may have more inflammation, too. In turn, that can lead to darkening of the skin where that mark is, so you want to make sure to treat your acne as soon as you see a breakout to help lessen the effect.Start with topical creams, such as ones that contain retinoids, antibiotics, or benzoyl peroxide, although benzoyl peroxide  can be irritating. Ask your doctor which treatment is best of you.
You can also ask your doctor about an oral treatment, such as antibiotics or accutane, if your acne is particularly severe.
Make sure all your products help fight acne. For instance, some foundations have built-in ingredients, such as salicylic  acid, to fight against acne.