 Demomen have a 4/16 Grenade Launcher, which shoots grenades that last for three seconds if not hit a player (Primary), a 8/24 Stickybomb Launcher, which allows up to eight grenades to be stuck to any surface and be detonated at anytime using the right mouse button (Secondary) and a melee only Bottle (Melee).


Use your bottle for point-blank attacks. Like all melee weapons, the bottle can surprisingly come in handy for short point-blank attacks, but you must be careful, for if you miss the first time, you could end up being killed.
Use your grenade launcher for medium range attacks. Grenades are one of your main explosive projectiles. They will explode about 3 seconds after they are launched unless they directly connect with another enemy player or enemy building, in which case they will detonate upon impact unless the Grenade Launcher you are using is the Loch-n-Load which will explode on contact with anything it touches.
Grenades will only detonate upon impact with another player/building if they do not bounce off the ground or off a wall first. Otherwise, they will harmlessly bounce off the player. In either case, they will still explode after 3 seconds.


Use your sticky bomb launcher to set up traps and chokepoints. A sticky bomb will detonate at your command with a simple right click. You can launch up to 8 sticky bombs at once that stick to walls, ceilings, and other hidden locations to lure unsuspecting enemies into an explosive mess. You can switch to another weapon and still explode your bombs.
Use sticky bombs to set up bottlenecks that prevent/hinder enemy advancement on the field. You'll find that many players find a set of sticky bombs on the ground to be very intimidating.
You can hold down the fire button to "charge" your sticky bomb launcher to shoot long distance bombs. This is especially useful for inflicting some damage before you are in enemy sight.

;
, Demomen are particularly useful to eliminate close enemy congregations, since they can deal a significant amount of damage from a distance in a relatively short amount of time.

Use your sticky bomb launcher to clear out an Engineer sentry quickly. Lob about four or five sticky bombs around a corner or over an incline and detonate them all at once to destroy a sentry gun immediately. You'll probably take out the Engineer in the process, as well.
 The Demoman's sticky bombs are a defensive staple in guarding your intelligence, as well as your capture points. Try to conceal a set of sticky bombs out of enemy sight, such as around a corner or around the outer edges of a doorway. As a group begins to rush in, detonate the concealed sticky bombs and watch the chaos that ensues.
 You can detonate your sticky bombs no matter what weapon that you have selected. Don't be afraid to switch to your grenade launcher while you have your sticky bombs set up, so that you don't become a sitting duck to incoming players.
 This may appear to be a trivial and intuitive notion, but nothing is worse than being caught without any extra sticky bombs or grenades in your launchers when a group of enemies start to come your way. Be sure to keep your weapons fully loaded whenever you have the opportunity to do so.
 Similar to the Soldier's rocket jump, the Demoman can use his sticky bomb launcher to reach great heights. Simply put one or two sticky bombs on the ground, crouch, and simultaneously jump over and detonate it to fling yourself in the air.

Some notable locations to "jump" to are on the top of the Capture Point "B" building in cp_gravelpit and over the dividing wall in cp_well—most useful before the setup timer reaches zero.

