 Psoriasis is an autoimmune disorder that creates an extra layer of skin especially on the scalp, nails, and sometimes joints. There is no cure. Tea tree essential oil has been known to reduce the spread of psoriasis because of its anti-inflammatory properties.No published research exists to support effective of use tea tree oil for psoriasis, though it may still be worth a try.
Mix a few drops of tea tree oil with a few drops of a carrier oil like coconut or almond oil. Rub this mixture on the affected skin, leaving it on for a few moments before washing off with soap. Pat it dry and rub on a tea tree lotion that treats psoriasis.;
, Many people use tea tree oil to treat outbreaks of acne. One study compared tea tree oil to using benzoyl peroxide as acne treatment. The study showed that while the peroxide worked slightly better, the tea tree oil had fewer side effects.Mostly tea tree oil is used because of its ability to reduce the redness and inflammation associated with acne.First wash your face. Then soak a cotton swab, cotton ball, or cotton pad in water before applying one or two drops of tea tree oil on it. Rub the affected skin with this cotton, leave it a few minutes, then wash it off and pat it dry.
This same anti-inflammatory property of tea tree oil is used to treat eczema and soothe the redness of rosacea.
You can find acne washes and lotions containing tea tree oil at the store, or you can make some yourself.
 Outbreaks like scabies, hemorrhoids, and contact-allergies like poison ivy and poison oak or sumac all make you suffer with itchy rashes, and all may benefit from tea tree oil. Tea tree oil’s antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties combine to relieve the itching and swelling that comes with these rashes.Make your own rash treatment by mixing 5-6 drops of tea tree oil with one tablespoon of coconut oil and store it in a colored glass jar at room temperature. Massage a small amount onto any rashes, then wash it away after a few minutes.
If you believe you have come in contact with poison ivy or its brothers and sisters, wash your skin with soap and water to minimize your reaction.