 You'll need a jailbroken iPhone in order to save Snaps on an iOS device. Jailbreaking can be a difficult or even impossible process, depending on the version of iOS you are running. See Jailbreak an iPhone for instructions on jailbreaking your iPhone, if possible.

If you cannot jailbreak your iPhone due to the version of iOS you are running, you will not be able to save Snaps without notifying the other person.
 Cydia is the jailbreak package manager, and will allow you to find and download the Phantom Snapchat tweak. You'll find Cydia on your Home screen after jailbreaking., This will open the Cydia search., You should see a list of results. Phantom is available in the BigBoss repository, which comes preconfigured with Cydia., This is a Snapchat tweak that will allow you to save Snaps without notifying the other person.

Phantom is available for iOS 8 and iOS 9.
 This will add Phantom to your installation queue., The tweak will be downloaded and installed to your iPhone, which may take a few minutes. After installation is complete, your Home screens will reset., Phantom adds controls directly to the Snapchat app. Launch Snapchat to see the new options., You'll be able to save any Snap directly from the Snap itself. Open the Snap you want to save to your device., This button was added by Phantom, and will open a new menu., The Snap will be saved to your iPhone's camera roll. You can do this for every Snap if you'd like., You can adjust Phantom's settings from the Snapchat settings menu. Tap the Ghost button on the Snapchat camera screen, and then tap the Gear button. You'll see a new option allowing you to adjust Phantom's settings.You can set Phantom to automatically save all received Snaps, and you can set it to save Snaps to a password protected folder backed up to iCloud instead of to your camera roll.
 Phantom gets updated on a regular basis, usually whenever Snapchat locks it out. If you intend to use Phantom regularly, you should check for updates every day in Cydia.