 If you are asking for extra credit after the final exam, your professor or teacher is less likely to think about your request. If you see you are doing poorly in the class halfway through the semester, don't wait until the final week to ask. See what you can do right away, and your professor or teacher might be more willing to help you., You are asking the professor to do extra work. Therefore, you need to approach your professor with respect and deference, as it is up to her whether or not to grant your request.For instance, you could begin by saying, "I appreciate you taking the time to see me. I know you have a busy schedule. I have a request to make that I realize may make more work for you, but I do have a legitimate reason for my request."

, Most professors and teachers will be more lenient if you have a legitimate reason for missing a class or an assignment. For instance, if you were sick and had to miss several class periods, your instructor might be willing to give you extra credit or let you make up work. Similarly, if you have a close family member who is seriously ill, some teachers will take that under consideration.Work may be a legitimate excuse for some but not others.Have paperwork to back up your excuse if possible. For instance, you could take in a doctor's note or your work schedule.
You can make your case by saying something to this effect: "I realize I've missed some classes, and I would really like to make that up with some extra credit so that I can learn the material properly. I know that typically you do not give extra credit. However, I did have some extenuating circumstances. My grandmother had a heart attack and was in the hospital. I drove down to see her and to provide support for my mom."

, Many students make pleas for extra credit by email. It's easy for a professor or teacher to delete your email.It's not as easy to dismiss you in person. Make an appointment, or drop by during the professor's or teacher's office hours.
 If you really want to just make up a bad grade or test, ask specifically about that. Maybe you can retake the test or redo the work to make up some of the points. Often, you won't be able to get full credit back, but your teacher may be willing to give you partial credit.This request works well early in the semester, especially if you are a freshman in college or taking a difficult course in high school. You're trying to learn a new style of writing, testing, and grading that is more difficult, so your professor or teacher may be more lenient as you learn.You can approach your teacher by saying something to the effect of "I was surprised that I did so poorly on this essay. I usually do well. I want to learn what it takes to do better in this class. I would love to hear your feedback and have the opportunity to rewrite this paper."

, If you notice that most everyone did bad on a recent exam, try asking your teacher about extra credit for the whole class. She may be more willing to grant it if the opportunity is offered to everyone. Have something in mind before approaching her. Maybe you could go to a campus lecture related to the class and write a short paragraph about attending. Another option is to do a community service project related to the class.


For instance, you could say, "I know we all did pretty bad on the last exam. Is there anyway we could get some extra credit as a class? I found a great opportunity where we could volunteer, and it's related to our class material. I'd be willing to sign in people for the opportunity."

, Asking for extra credit implies you haven't done earlier work or you did poorly. Your teacher may just think you're after the grade and you don't really care about learning. In addition, your teacher likely will not want to offer you an extra credit opportunity that she doesn't offer to the rest of the class.Other teachers may feel that extra credit takes away from your regular work.