 Scrub the 2 pounds (0.9 kilos) of baby potatoes and cut them in halves or quarters. They should be in 1-inch pieces. Be careful when using a sharp knife to cut the potatoes. Place the pieces of potato into a large skillet (at least 12-inches in size).








For a healthier breakfast skillet, consider substituting sweet potatoes for the baby potatoes.;
, Drizzle 2 tablespoons of olive oil over the potatoes in your skillet. Season the potatoes and cover the skillet with a lid. Cook the potatoes over low heat for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally until they're tender when you poke them with a knife. For seasoning, just sprinkle these over your potatoes and adjust the flavorings to your taste:








Smoked paprika
Garlic powder
Salt
Black pepper
Fresh thyme, stemmed and chopped
Fresh rosemary, stemmed and chopped

, Slice 10 to 14 ounces (283.5 to 396 g) of sausage into 1








You can use any type of sausage that you like. To speed cooking time, choose a sausage that's already fully cooked.
 Heat another large saute pan or skillet over medium heat. Drizzle 1 tablespoon of olive oil in the pan. Once the oil starts shimmering, add your sliced sausage and saute it until it browns. Add the chopped vegetables and cook them until they're tender, about 10 minutes.








For extra flavor, you can add a few dashes of Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, and 1 to 2 tablespoons of maple syrup.
 Consider which of your skillets is larger and transfer the food from the smaller skillet into the larger one. For example, if the skillet that has your sausage and veggies is larger, transfer the potatoes into it and stir them in.








If you're worried your skillet won't hold all of the potatoes, sausage, and cooked vegetables, transfer all of the ingredients to a large mixing bowl to stir them together. You can divide them between your smaller skillets to finish cooking them.
 Determine how many eggs you want to cook in your breakfast skillet. Make a small well for each egg you'll be cooking by scooting aside the potato








Depending on how well you like your eggs cooked, try cooking the breakfast skillet for 8 to 10 minutes. If you'd like to scramble the eggs, just crack them into the skillet and stir them constantly as they cook. It should only take 4 or 5 minutes until they're scrambled and set.
Serve the breakfast skillet with hot sauce, maple syrup, or ketchup.

