 Try not to choose one that already exists, for example, don't be Sailor Jupiter. If you haven't seen the whole anime or read the whole manga yet, do some research to make sure this Sailor Scout does not already exist.


Be creative! Sailor Scouts aren't just planets. Try naming yours after a star, moon, or constellation! You could even be Sailor Milky Way!
If trying to make a Sailor Earth or Sailor Sun, be careful. First of all, those are both very important parts of the solar system and naming yourself after them would make you seem a bit self-centered. Plus, there is a theory that Tuxedo Mask is actually Sailor Earth, so...;
, This is one of the most important parts. This determines what kind of powers you will have. For example, Sailor Mars's RoI is fire, and she has fire-based attacks, and the same goes for Sailor Mercury with water. Their RoI are very obvious, but you may have to do some thinking with yours, as the main ones are already taken.


Make your powers and attacks based of your RoI.
Yes, it IS possible to have more than one RoI, as long as they are not big, major things like Mercury and Mars's. And if you do have two, then it is probably possible for you to have the same one as an existing Sailor Scout.
 Be inspired by the powers and attacks the Sailor Scouts have on the show. Make them have something to do with your RoI (Realm of Influence).
 This should be something small that can weaken, confuse, slightly hurt or harm, distract, or intimidate the enemy.


Decide what you will say and do while preforming this basic attack. What you say will have to have something to do with the actual attack, and what you do whilst preforming it should be cool and intimidating and reflect your personality. It can also be based on or inspired by your signature pose (see below). Think of Sailor Venus, who has ideal attack choreography. It's inspired by her signature pose and is simple to do and remember.
What you say in your basic attack will usually be two words long. Ex. "Bubble Spray!" or "Supreme Thunder!"

,


This should be a three-word attack based off of your normal attack.
It should be powerful, but not so powerful it can defeat monsters (unless combined with your fellow Sailor Scout's powerful attacks at the same time, then there is a chance).
Have fun and be creative with this part!

,


This one should be strong, but not as strong as the last one.
Make this one really cool!
Unlike the others, this does not have to have a connection between them. It can be a complete different attack style, as long as it still fits in your RoI.
 Will you transform with a pin, brooch, or some other object? You must choose. You could even be creative and invent something entirely new that lets you transform!


Unless you are the leader of your region's gang of Sailor Scouts, don't have too many items or make them too powerful. Usagi (Sailor Moon) has many magical objects, and she is almost always the one to finish off the episode's antagonist. But remember, she is the leader. She also doesn't really have a "true" attack/power. She just has a bunch of cool magic stuff.
You can copy what other Sailor Scouts have, like Usagi's transformation pin or Ami's supercomputer, or make up your own.
Some of your magical objects may have a special attack that goes with them. Remember that when creating them!
When using a magical object, you must say something for it to work. Make up something cool to say while using it. They are usually three words.
 This may not seem that important, but it is. Sailor Moon's signature pose is iconic. Try to make yours creative and simple like that.


This part can actually be rather fun, because you test these in real life over and over again! Remember, inspiration can come out of nowhere!
Your signature pose is what will define you as a Sailor Scout. When you transform or show up with your Sailor Scout friends for battle, this is the pose you will demonstrate. So make is great! This can inspire or be inspired by your signature attack (see above).

