 Hiring an attorney is not required, but it is recommended. Filing for bankruptcy is a very complicated process and is rarely successful without the help of an attorney. Free legal services are available for those who cannot afford an attorney.For help finding an attorney, contact the American Bar Associationor the Legal Services Corporation..


Filing without an attorney is called filing pro se. If you do decide to file pro se, the court may allow non-attorney preparers to help you. They can only help you with paperwork. They cannot answer legal questions or provide legal advice. Since they don’t represent you, they cannot sign anything on your behalf or receive payment for court fees.The United States has 90 bankruptcy districts, each with one bankruptcy court. Every state has at least one or more districts., To file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, your income must be below a certain level. If you have any income left over after paying your monthly expenses, then you must file for Chapter 13 and make arrangements to repay your creditors. Take the “means test” to find out if you qualify for Chapter 7. Complete a series of three forms to take the means test.


You may not have to fill out all of the forms. Your answers on the first form determine whether or not you have to fill out the others.Download form 22A-1 from the U.S. Court’s website. The form takes you through the steps of calculating your income and comparing it to the median income in your state for the same household size. If your income is below the state median, then you qualify for Chapter 7. If not, you proceed to form 22A-2.
Download form 22A-2 from the U.S. Court’s website. The form takes you through further analysis of your income to determine if you qualify for Chapter 7.Fill out form 22A-1Supp to determine if you are exempt from the means test because most of your debts are from business expenses or you have recent military service., The bankruptcy forms list all of your property, debt, income and expenses for the court. You must complete a large packet of forms. These forms include the bankruptcy petition, a series of schedules and various other forms. Download the forms from the U.S Court’s website.


All debts need to be listed to be discharged; failure to list a debt may mean it continues after the bankruptcy.
 Filing the forms officially begins your case. If you are using an attorney, he or she will file the forms for you. If you are representing yourself, then you can take them to the bankruptcy court yourself., The court will assign you a trustee when you file the forms. The trustee works on behalf of your creditors. This person is responsible for verifying the information in your bankruptcy documents. The trustee also looks at the property you own and determines how much of it you can keep. Each state has rules that govern what property is exempt from liquidation in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The trustee determines this for your case and liquidates any non-exempt property.A bankruptcy judge presides over the bankruptcy court. The bankruptcy judge rules on matters such as eligibility and discharges. A debtor rarely has to appear in court before the bankruptcy judge. Much of the process is administrative and is carried out by the trustee away from the courthouse.
 Any individual filing for bankruptcy is required to receive credit counseling and debtor education. Credit counseling is done before filing for bankruptcy. Debtor education occurs after bankruptcy. Certificates of completion must be presented to the court before debts can be discharged. Organizations providing these services must by approved the U.S. Trustee Program.Consult the Department of Justice to find a list of approved credit counseling agenciesand debtor education courses., You will have to attend a formal meeting of creditors, which usually happens at the offices of your trustee. This meeting with creditors is known as the 341 meeting, referring to section 341 of the Bankruptcy code. This requires debtors to face creditors so they can answer questions about their debts and property. The meeting will occur approximately one month after you file. During the meeting, the trustee asks you questions about your debt and why you are filing for bankruptcy. Arrangements for selling your non-exempt property are made. Also, arrangements are made for property pledged as collateral in secured loans.