 While you don’t need to stare directly into someone's eyes when you first meet, making natural occasional eye contact can show that you are engaged and interested. This is especially important when you are having a conversation with someone. If your eyes are darting all over the place when someone is trying to talk to you, it might send a message that you are not interested in what he or she is saying.Try to make direct eye contact now and then, and hold it for a slow count of three.
Even when you are feeling shy and find it difficult to make eye contact, try to force yourself to do it.
 Smiling can boost your mood and make the people around you feel happier as well. Smiling can even cause your brain to release endorphins, which are chemicals that act like natural pain killers.Try to smile whenever you meet someone new. For example, you could smile at someone you pass on the sidewalk or in a grocery store.
 Try to find something you genuinely like about this person so that your compliment doesn't sound fake or forced. Obviously, there is something you like about this person, or you wouldn't want to become friends.Complimenting a person on their shoes, bag, or necklace is a safe bet. Just be sure you're not saying the same exact thing to them, every time you meet. For example, you might say something like, “Your shoes are so cool!” Or, “I love your dress! It’s so pretty!”
If there is something outstanding about this person, even better! “You have the brightest smile I've seen in ages.” “You are always so cheerful! How do you do it?”
If someone opens a door for you, you can say, “Chivalry's not dead!” to compliment their nice manners.
”You're so funny!” is always appreciated – everyone likes to think they have a good sense of humor. Just make sure you really mean it, and that you laugh! Saying this without laughing is the worst.
 In conversation, always be polite and listen to what your friend is saying. Acting bored can alienate people, and it may cause you to seem self-centered and narcissistic.If you find yourself stuck in a conversation that you can't contribute to, see if you can change the topic of conversation. Try not to interrupt, but when your friend gets to a stopping point, you can bring up something else.
Sometimes a friend will want to talk about something very serious or personal when you are in a hurry, or are too distracted by your own thoughts to really pay attention. Ask if you can talk about it later when you can give them your undivided attention.
 Never pick on someone out of spite, for any reason. Even if you think you are being funny, making jokes at the expense of others makes you appear untrustworthy and others may not want to become your close friend. Even if your acquaintances laugh along at the time, they may think you are mean-spirited. They may also wonder whether you will be making fun of them next, and they may not want to stick around to find out.