 This cognitive behavioral therapy approach includes removing stimuli that might prevent you from sleeping. For example, you can try using the bed only for sex and sleep and removing stimuli such as television or reading books before bed. This approach also includes avoiding naps, and leaving the bedroom after 20 minutes of trying to fall asleep without success and returning to bed only when you are actually sleepy., Lying in bed awake is a bad habit that contributes to poor sleep. Sleep restriction is designed to eliminate extensive awakenings that occur in the middle of the night. Examine your sleep journal and determine how many hours per night you are actually sleeping. Begin by permitting yourself to be in bed only for the amount of hours you actually sleep each night. For example, if you are usually in bed for 8 hours but sleep only six hours, permit yourself to be in bed for only six hours each night.Extend the time spent in bed by 15 to 30 minutes each week.
 Examine the lifestyle issues you identified earlier, such as drinking too much caffeine late in the day, taking naps, drinking alcohol in the evenings, or not exercising regularly. Make an effort to modify or eliminate these behaviors, as they may be contributing to your insomnia., Creating an environment conducive to sleep can help treat, or even eliminate, insomnia. Making sure your room is dark, quiet, and distraction-free is a great place to start. Consider room-darkening window coverings, eliminating noise from radios or televisions, and keeping the temperature comfortable - not too warm, not too cold., Allowing yourself to remain passively awake, also referred to as paradoxical intention, means avoiding efforts to fall asleep. Go to bed and try to stay awake! This will decrease performance anxiety about having to fall asleep., Clock watching can cause stress and further exacerbate your insomnia. Try turning your clock around backwards to that you cannot see the time. This will still allow you to use the clock as an alarm., Meditation can help patients suffering from insomnia address their sleeplessness. Mindfulness meditation in particular has been shown to help alleviate insomnia in some patients.An alternative might be guided imagery. This is a form of meditation where directed thoughts and suggestions guide your imagination to a more focused, relaxed state. The guidance can come from scripts, tapes, or an instructor. This process can be especially helpful for people who have a lot of active thoughts disrupting their ability to sleep.

