 If you know why you need a guard dog, you may be able to find one that is best suited to your purposes. Guard dogs should be used to defend your home and property; they should not attack any stranger at will. Instead, they need cautious instincts to know when their family is in danger and when they are safe. You might need a guard dog to:


Alert you if strangers are nearby.
Protect livestock from predators.
Scare away burglars or home invaders.;
, Good guard dogs tend to be territorial, although they should also act aloof towards strangers. These behaviors mean that they may not be suited for all homes. A guard dog may not work well for:


Homes with young children
Apartments that share common hallways and walls
Properties that strangers, such as utility workers or customers, must frequently access.
 Some breeds were produced for their ability to guard homes. These breeds are highly trainable, loyal, alert, and energetic. Both large and small breeds can function as guard dogs, depending on your needs. Look for a breed that is adapted for your specific purpose.


Rottweilers are good for protecting homes and property.
Mastiffs are good at protecting families.
Great Danes are great with children. Their large size makes them menacing to strangers, but they are not an aggressive breed. They are also effective watchdogs.
Great Pyrenees can guard livestock.Doberman Pinschers, bull terriers, pulis, and Rhodesian Ridgebacks also make good guard dogs.Mixed dogs can also be effective guard dogs too. While you may not be able to identify their temperament from their breed, you can still evaluate them for good guard dog characteristics.
 There are pros and cons to adopting either a puppy or older dog as a guard dog. A puppy will bond to your family from a younger age, giving them a stronger instinct to protect your family. That said, they may not be able to effectively guard the house until they are a couple years old. An older dog may take some time to warm up to your family, but you can start training them sooner to guard your home.


Dogs do not start barking to protect their territory until they are least nine months old, and some may not start until they are three years old., While many dogs have good temperaments to be a guard or watch dog, there are some breeds that generally do not work. This may because they do not bark as much, act calm or friendly around strangers, or have a high prey drive. These breeds include:


Bloodhound
Newfoundland
Saint Bernard
Basset Hound
Bulldog
Old English Sheepdog
Irish Wolfhound
Scottish Deerhound
Pug
Siberian Husky
Alaskan Malamute, A dog with a dark or black colored coat may appear more menacing to intruders, and their ability to blend may make them more difficult to catch at night. While looking for dogs, keep darker dogs in mind.