 Before trying to do any repairs on your Xbox, check to see if you are still covered by a warranty. If you open your Xbox, you will lose your warranty


Xbox 360 consoles have a standard 1-year warranty.
Original Xbox 360 consoles have a 3-year warranty if they experience three flashing red lights or Error E74. This does not apply to the E or S models.;
, There are several common problems that affect various Xbox and Xbox 360 consoles. Identifying the problem will help you determine what you need to do in order to fix it.


Red Ring of Death - This is the most common problem to plague Xbox 360s, especially older ones. You'll know you have it if the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Player lights are flashing red around the Power button.
Disc-read error - If your discs are not working, you may need to replace the disc drive in the Xbox or Xbox 360.
E74 Error - If you see this displayed on your screen, your board has warped and some of the chips have potentially come loose.
 In order to repair any of these problems, you will need to open your console. This is typically a fairly involved process, especially for the Xbox 360. Opening your console may require special tools such as a Torx screwdriver and an opening tool.



See this guide for opening an Xbox 360.
See this guide for opening an original Xbox

, Fixing this problem usually involves replacing the thermal paste and pads for the cooling apparatus. You will need to purchase a fix-it kit that comes with replacement pads and thermal paste. Some come with replacement braces as well, which put less strain on the equipment.



See this guide for step-by-step instructions on fixing a Red Ring of Death or E74 Error.
There is no guarantee that any fix will get your console working again, or that it will work for long after being fixed.
 If the Xbox says it can't read your disc, look to see if it has any scratches or fingerprints on it. If it does, it's not a problem with the XBox. If the disk looks fine, it's a hardware problem. See this guide for detailed instructions for fixing a variety of disc-based errors, or read on to learn how to clean the laser.


Open up your XBox and remove the disk drive. See the guides in Step 3 to find detailed instructions for your particular Xbox console. Make note of where the cables were connected.
Take a cotton swap, dip the tip in rubbing alcohol, and clean the laser head. Allow it to dry for 15 minutes.
Reinsert the drive into your Xbox, close it up, and see if it reads the disc.
If it still doesn't work, you may need to replace the drive. Open your Xbox again, and make a note of the brand and model number. Purchase a new drive, identical to the old one. Make sure to change the face and swap the boards.
 Even if your Xbox is out of warranty, there are many local repair shops that will attempt to repair your console for you. Find a trusted shop and get a quote on what repairs might cost. Weigh this cost against the cost of simply purchasing a new console.

