 Also put your nightwear on the radiator so they're nice and toasty for when you get out.;
, Try to avoid artificial perfumes and fragrances as they do not provide the same relaxing qualities as pure essential oils do and can also cause irritation.
 Lavender oil is well known for its sleep inducing qualities and rose oil has a lovely sweet relaxing fragrance. Geranium is another comforting fragrance and vanilla is always a good idea too and it is cheap and relaxing.


Add in all of your favorite bath products, and make sure they are all natural. Try bath salts, essences, bubble-baths (you can also turn shampoo and conditioner into bubble bath and save time washing your hair), etc. This suggestion is definitely optional.
Add bath salts in the bath while the water is running, to dissolve the salts in the water.
Epsom salts are inexpensive and a terrific aid for soothing sore muscles.
 If its too hot, it may cause dizziness, yet too cold it will be uncomfortable and you might get sick. Remember that using your wrist rather than digits will yield a better idea of how it will feel when your full body is submerged.


When filling the bathtub, get in when it's filled about halfway. That way you can feel the temperature and adjust it so it's comfortable for you!

, This step is optional, for some people find this is not relaxing but a hassle or even a cause for cramps.


Take a cool glass of water, because you might become thirsty.
If you enjoy a glass of wine take one into the bathroom with you, as it can help you relax.
 Candles are relaxing, turning off the lights is less strain for the eyes, and candles (especially scented ones) are wonderful for light and relaxation.


You may prefer to avoid scented candles.
Be sure to place the candles in a place that will not start a fire, so you won't have to worry during your relaxation time, or use battery powered stimulated candles.
 Playing relaxing music while you soak is a great way to help your bath feel even more spa-like. Just make sure that no electrical devices like radios are close enough that they could fall into the tub.
 If you wish, you can bring a book you enjoy or are currently reading. This will add to the relaxation, by keeping your mind in one place, which will relax you.
 You can normally find them in any bath/bed/linen shop. If the pillow does not stick, just use a cotton bath towel, all folded up. That will work too.


Make a bath pillow by taking a small pillow and putting a kitchen trash bag over it to keep it dry.
 This can help to feel that you're not bathing in your accrued grime.
 This will help prevent it from getting wet or soaked in bath products.(This is if you don't want to get it wet)

, As well as soft fluffy towels, having PJs, slippers or a warm robe ready for when you hop out the bath saves you the trouble of trying to find clothes just when you're relaxed.
 Or, add bubble bath to save your modesty.
 Relax in the warm water. Cotton pads soaked in ice cold water can be placed over the eyes while you rest, to remove puffiness, or chilled slices of cucumber.
 Remember to wash the mask off thoroughly and cleanse.
 When you have finished relaxing, use a 100% cotton flannel to wash yourself all over.


If you need to rinse your hair in the bath, lay back in the bath and massage your scalp until you feel like all the soap is out. Or, use a handheld shower tool to do so.
 Finish by applying body lotion or moisturizer. Cocoa butter is affordable, widely available and is nourishing, or use your preferred product of choice.
 If tea isn't for you, have a hot drink that has no caffeine in it, such as warm lemon drink.
 Or, just read a book or watch a film. Do anything that is relaxing to you.

