 First of all, those who are younger usually have shorter healing time, and better outcomes long term regardless of surgery or not. However there are other key players that make a big influence in recovery.;
, Eating a diet high in Vitamin D and calcium is extremely important for bone repair. Fish and dairy are two very good sources. Taking vitamin supplements like vitamin C is important for tissue and bone repair and can also help. You can also get this vitamin from eating lots of fruits and vegetables, too.
 When you are able, doing range of motion exercises are important to reduce pain. When the doctor tells you that it's okay, you should take off the boot to do exercises at least once or twice a day, which is typically after a few weeks of the injury. These don't have to be too intense; you're just working on regaining the use of that part of your body.
 This is very important to your recovery, whether it's at a therapist's office or at home. If your therapist gave you a resistance band, there are many exercises, such as wrapping the band near the ball of your foot, and pointing and flexing your foot as much as possible. That is just one of the many exercises that are important for recovery. Also, it is important to see a physical therapist to ensure you are doing exercises correctly to decrease the chance for injury.
 Many people are unable to return to work, or a normal life for 2-3 months. Most are stuck in the house everyday and experience severe cabin fever. This is an excellent time to focus on yourself! What are some things you always wanted to do, but never had the time to do? You could pick up a new hobby such as knitting, write poems, do jigsaw puzzles with your loved ones, beat a few video games. You might experience yourself going crazy at times, because you are severely limited at what you can do. In order to ease yourself, you might as well try to discover new fulfilling activities.
 For example, at about 8-12 weeks, you are able to walk, but with much pain and stiffness. This is where physical therapy becomes extremely helpful. However physical therapy might be painful and any pain should be discussed with the therapist. Full recovery usually takes about a year. Talk to your physician about what course of recovery to expect with the severity of your injury.


It may be hard to return to work that requires you to be on your feet all day. It would be helpful to get a doctor's note to give to your employer so they are required to give you light work.

