 Brows can make or break the way your face looks. Put your pointer fingers over your brows in front of the mirror. The best way to get a nice, clean shape is to simply get it waxed or threaded (if you're brave). Get them done at least once to achieve a nice shape. Upkeep the area yourself by tweezing only the hairs that stand out and grow anywhere that aren't within the lines. If you happen to over-tweeze or just don't grow hair where needed, fill them in with eyebrow pencil or eyebrow powder and blend with a brow brush to keep them natural looking.;
, This could include whitening, brushing and flossing more often, or even more extreme solutions such as braces.
 Using natural and organic cleansers and moisturizers is one change that can make a huge difference with your skin. Your skin is a sponge which absorbs anything you put on it. This means it would be a great idea to spend a little more for quality. One thing that works very well is Neem soap. Neem is an Indian plant that does wonders for the skin. Try to look for a soap with no extra additives. if you aren't sure what is good or bad for your skin, Google it! Also Google simple and inexpensive skin product recipes.
 This becomes more fun the older you get. If you have clear skin, don't worry too much about wearing foundation, too much can clog pores and cause acne. If you weren't blessed with great skin, focus on steps 2 & 3 to achieve skin that's fairly easy to control. Neutrogena makes a skin clearing foundation with salicylic acid (this means it will not clog pores).
 Do masks and treatments specifically for your type of hair. Keep it neat with regular trims and try different styles even now and then. Limit dyeing and heat products.
 Try hot yoga. It's simply amazing and free if you learn moves from Youtube. The obvious benefit is to lose weight if necessary but it also greatly improves circulation. After about a week of working out, you will notice that your cheeks become naturally rosier without blush!

, Clothing is very important. Fashion, however, is not. Decide if being constantly trendy (and therefore broke, as you try to keep up) is worth more than be constantly sophisticated and stylish.

