 Open a new browser tab and type http://www.badoo.com on the address bar. Hit Enter on your keyboard, and you will be directed to the home page of Badoo.;
, Click the “Sign in” button at the top-right of the page. Enter your email address and password registered with Badoo in the boxes provided then click the “Sign me in” button.


If you’re not yet a member of Badoo, you can create an account on the home page by entering the necessary information on the fields provided there. Once you’re done, click the green “Sign up” button. Or if you want, you can sign up using your Facebook account; just click the blue “Sign in with Facebook” button.
 After signing into your account, you have to click on the “People nearby” button at the top-left side of your home page. You will see a list of new friends on Badoo there, depending upon the setting of your home location.
 You can find the list of new friends outside of your home location by using your location-based key search words. Locate the heading “I’m here to make friends with guys & girls in…” at the top of the page. The title sentence will show different colors, such as blue, green, and red. There are two tabs, “Change” and “Show:All,” next to that colored title sentence.


Click on the “Change” tab to find more specific searching options. You can change your purpose, preferences of gender, age, places, and interests you are looking for. In search menu, you will see different options such as “I’m here to”, “With”, “Where”, and “Interested in”.
In the box below the option “Where,” type the name of the location you want to browse to find new friends.
For the other options (“I’m here to,” “With,” “Interested in”), you can check and uncheck the box or select a preferred option from the drop-down menu.
Click on the green “Update result” button below the search menu when you are done.
 You can also find friends who are new or online now if you want. Click on the tab “Show:All” next to the “Change” tab.


If you do not select any option there, the default option will be “All.” Badoo will show a list of new friends depending upon your searching preferences.
 Click on the username of a profile you would like to add as a friend and access his or her profile.


Find the button “Chat now” at the top-right corner of the user’s profile. Click on the “Chat now” button and a message box will appear in front of you.
 You have to send a welcome message to the user for the user to be added to your contact list automatically.


There is a sidebar on the left of the message screen, including the list of users to whom you have sent a message. You will find your contact list in this message bar. If the user replies to your message, you can chat with him or her.
Remember, you can only add up to 12 contacts in a day. However, there is a paid feature of Badoo to allow you add more 20 contacts in a day. You need 100 credits to activate this feature and it costs only $2.
You cannot send messages to a user more than 2 times if the user does not reply to your message.

