 Each different ecosystem has a food chain. Once you figure out which animals and plants are in your ecosystem, you can begin organizing them into a food web.


Categorize the organisms into groups based on what they eat. For instance, all plants go together, all animals that eat plants go together, and all animals that eat animals go together. You will use these groups to draw your web later.
Your food chain could start with grass that grows through photosynthesis, which is eaten by a rabbit. A fox eats the rabbit and then dies. Once the fox dies, decomposers, like worms, eat the fox, returning the energy to the soil for the grass.;
, All the energy in an ecosystem is recycled through the food chain. This energy is called biomass.Grass contains biomass, which the rabbit gains upon eating it.


Your food web should work up to a pyramid-like structure.
There are always more autotrophs (who gain energy from the sun) than herbivores (who eat plants) in a healthy food web. There are more herbivores than carnivores (who eat animals). An ecosystem cannot support a large number of omnivores (who eat both plants and animals) without supporting an even larger number of herbivores (who eat only plants), and an even larger number of autotrophs.
Smaller animals are always more abundant than larger ones. It takes much more biomass to support a population of lions than it takes a colony of ants.
 In a food web, organisms are grouped together into categories called trophic levels.These levels are then divided into three subcategories: producers, consumers, and decomposers.


All the organisms that gain energy from the sun are your producers. Place these on the bottom of your web. You can write the name of the organism in a box or draw a picture of it.
You may want to use colors to make your tree easier to distinguish.
Plants are the most common type of producers, but you also have algae, phytoplankton, and some types of bacteria in this group.
It may be difficult to determine what trophic level an organism belongs on. Think about the diet of the organism. If it eat another organism, it shouldn't be on the bottom trophic level.
 After your producers, you may have just a few, or several levels of consumers. Consumers can be carnivores (animals that eat other animals) or omnivores (animals that eat both plants and animals).


Consumers are divided into additional categories: Primary consumers, secondary consumers and tertiary consumers.
Rabbits are consumers, so are cows, and birds. Foxes are secondary consumers, and lions are tertiary consumers.
 These are herbivores and eat primary producers exclusively. Herbivores eat plants, algae, and other producers. Primary consumers make up the second level of the food web. Your primary consumers will be different animals depending on the ecosystem that you are working with.


If you are working with a desert ecosystem, your primary consumers would be mice and other rodents.
If you are working with a grassland ecosystem, your primary consumers would be animals like deer, rabbits, and elephants.
If you are working with an aquatic ecosystem, your primary consumers would be turtles and fish that eat algae and seagrass, and urchins that eat giant kelp.
 These creatures eat herbivores (primary consumers). They are the third trophic level.


In a desert ecosystem for example, your secondary consumer would be a snake that eats a mouse.
In a kelp forest, your secondary consumers would be the sea otter that hunts the urchins.
 Tertiary consumers are on the fourth trophic level and eat the secondary consumers. In a desert ecosystem for example, a tertiary consumer would be an owl that hunts a snake.


There may be several tertiary consumers on a food web depending on what type of ecosystem you are working with.
 Also called apex predators, these animals eat other consumers. They may be on the fourth or fifth level depending on the ecosystem you are working with.


Top predators are distinguished by having no natural enemies except humans. Lions are apex predators and so are sharks.
 Also known as detritivores, they make up the final part of the food chain, completing your web. Decomposers are all organisms that eat nothing but nonliving plant and animal remains.


Scavengers like vultures, are decomposers. Dung beetles, fungi, and bacteria are decomposers as well.
All decomposers turn organic waste into nutrient rich soil that feeds primary producers.
 Once you have placed all your organisms on your food web you may like to decorate it. You can use your ecosystem as inspiration and draw a desert, marine, forest, or other background in the empty space around your organisms.


If this is a class assignment, be sure to include your name and all other relevant information.

