 If you wear braces it’s essential that you maintain excellent oral hygiene habits. It can be a bit tricky to brush your teeth with braces, but with some practice you will soon get used to it. You should brush for at least two minutes, two or three times a day. With braces it’s advisable to brush after every meal if possible.


Brush with a fluoride toothpaste or with an anti-sensitivity toothpaste that also protects your enamel.
Braces can increase the chances of getting bits of food stuck in your teeth and around your braces.
A quick brush after eating can deal with this.
Try to carry a travel toothbrush with you, but if you get caught out, you can rinse your mouth out with water to dislodge bits of food.
Swoosh the water well in your mouth and then spit it out.;
, When you brush you should use a soft bristle toothbrush, which has a head small enough to enable you to get to all of your teeth. You should be able to use an electric toothbrush, but you will have to take extra care when you do this. Speak to your orthodontist if you’re struggling to clean your teeth with your brace. The orthodontist will be able to recommend special smaller headed toothbrushes that make it easier.Place the brush at a 45 degree angle, where your gums meets your teeth.
Use a vertical, circular scrub motion and remember to clean all the surfaces of your teeth., Your orthodontist may recommend you supplement your regular toothbrush with a special interdental brush. These are essentially mini-toothbrushes, which are designed specifically to get into hard to reach places in your mouth. They are excellent for people with braces, as they can get under the wire and between the wire and the tooth.


You can also use oral irrigators (sometimes called water picks) to help you clean around your braces. Oral irrigators are great for people with braces because they also massage your gums, which can help to prevent gingivitis.
These devices spray out a pressurized stream of water mixed with mouthwash that can dislodge food from around brace wires and bands.
Remember that these devices should be used in addition to, not instead of, brushing and flossing., It is still important to floss every day if you have braces. Floss before you brush your teeth at least once a day. You might find it easier to do this in the evening before you go to bed as you will probably have more time than in the morning. Flossing can be tricky with a brace, but you can do it if you thread the floss carefully.


If you are struggling to floss around your braces you may find that using a “floss threader” helps.
These devices act like the eye of a needle, which you can thread the floss through before pushing it under the wire., You should use an alcohol-free fluoride mouthwash once a day to help you keep your teeth and your braces clean and in a good condition. You will be able to find a suitable mouthwash in your local drug store or pharmacy.


Use the mouthwash at a different time of day to when you brush your teeth to help maintain the fluoride protection of your teeth for longer.
Try to avoid eating or rinsing your mouth for twenty minutes after using the mouthwash.