 Staying active is a lot easier outdoors, but you can have fun inside by transforming outside games into inside ones. Begin by blowing up a balloon. Use this balloon (instead of a ball) to play indoor versions of many games.Place a 6-12” (15.24-30.48cm) piece of masking tape high up on the wall. This is your “basket.” Play a game of balloon basketball by trying to make the balloon contact the wall right above the tape.
Play balloon volleyball by “bumping” the balloon back and forth. Call out a letter with each bump (starting with “A”), and see if you can get through the entire alphabet.
If you have three or more players, you can play “monkey in the middle.” One person is “it.” They stand in the middle of the other players and try to grab the balloon, while the other players try to keep it away from them.
Balloons are a choking hazard for kids 6 and under. Be sure to supervise children closely when they are playing with balloons., If you have a little bit of open space, hula-hooping can be a fun indoor activity. Hula-hooping works the cardiovascular system and helps strengthen muscles. Try hula-hooping along with your kids!Have a hula-hooping contest.
Hoop to fun music!
Try to see who can hoop the longest.
Experiment with hooping the “other way,” or on different parts of your body.
Once again, YouTube can teach some hula-hooping tricks.
 “Hopscotch” is a playground game that involves tossing a rock onto certain boxes, and then skipping these boxes in a hopping pattern. You can adapt this to be an inside game using a large, broken down cardboard box and markers, or a roll of masking tape. Creating the hopscotch board is part of the fun!The traditional hopscotch board is configured as follows:

Three squares that stack vertically, labeled “1,” “2,” and “3.”
Two squares side-by-side, labeled “4” and “5”
One single square, labeled “6”
Two squares side-by-side, labeled “7” and “8”
One single square, labeled “9”


One large semi-circle, labeled either “10,” or “Sky Blue.”
Single squares are to be hopped on by one foot. Side-by-side squares should be hopped on by both feet simultaneously.
Players must advance vertically across the board, turn around at “10”/”Sky Blue” and hop back.
During each turn, one player tosses a rock (or other object) onto the numbers in the sequence (for the first turn, this would be number “1”).
This numbered square is hopped over.
After player one returns, the second player tosses a rock onto number “1.” And so on.
After each player has a turn, round two begins, and player one tosses the rock onto number “2.”
The winner is the first player to toss the rock onto “10”/”Sky Blue” and hop all the way through (both ways) successfully.
 Hide and seek is a classic outdoor game that works great indoors too. Be sure to outline which household places are included in the game, and any spots (such as inside the dryer) that are off limits. This game can go on for as long as desired! There is no ultimate winner.One person who is “it” covers their eyes and counts out loud to a specific number (often 10 or 20).
Meanwhile, all other players quickly find places to hide.
When “it” finishes counting, they announce, “Ready or not, here I come!”
”It” tries to find all of the players.
The last person to be discovered is the next “it.”

