 You will need a waist measurement and a torso measurement. Both should be obtained using a tape measure.


Measure your child's waist by wrapping the tape measure around his or her stomach so that it crosses over the belly button and stays parallel to the floor. Double the number, then subtract 1 inch (2.5 cm) from that measurement.
For the torso measurement, measure the length between the child's crotch and his her or mid-chest. Add 2 inches (5 cm) to this measurement.
 Use sharp scissors to cut a strip of flexible cardboard the same length as the measurement derived from your child's waist. The strip of cardboard should also be 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide.


The cardboard should be sturdy enough to stand upright when held from the bottom but flexible enough to bend without creasing.
 The width of the rectangle should match the measurement derived from your child's torso. The length of the rectangle should match the measurement derived from your child's waist.


Note that the length must also match the length of your cardboard.
 Gently fold the cardboard strip into a loop without creasing it. Hot glue the ends together, reducing the total circumference by no more than 1 inch (2.5 cm).


In other words, overlap the ends by 1 inch (2.5 cm), at most. An even thinner section of overlapping cardboard would be even better.
 Wrap the felt rectangle around the outside of the cardboard loop. Leave 2 inches (5 cm) sticking up from the top and glue in place.
 Use sharp scissors to cut a jagged pattern of alternating triangles into the 2 inches (5 cm) of felt sticking out from the top of the cardboard.


Note that this jagged pattern should look resemble the cracks that form when a chick pokes its way out of its shell.
 Line the cardboard loop and the felt with a layer of cotton sheet batting help the structure maintain its shape. Glue the batting in place with a hot glue gun.


Cover all of the cardboard and felt with the batting. Use sharp scissors to trim the batting to the jagged shell pattern at the top of the felt before gluing it down.
 Fold over a portion of felt along the bottom edge so that it overlaps by 1 inch (2.5 cm), creating a dart in the fabric. Glue in place. Repeat three more times, making a total of four equally spaced 1 inch (2.5 cm) darts.


This step should round out the bottom edge while making it easy for your child to still move around with the eggshell half on.
 Cut four lengths of sturdy yellow ribbon, each measuring 18 inches (46 cm). Glue two of the ribbons to the front inside of the hoop and the other two to the back inside of the hoop.


Make sure that the front and back ribbons line up evenly. You will used these ribbons as ties to hold the eggshell half on your child.
 Cover a white sun hat with white cotton sheet batting. Cover the batting with additional white felt, and cut the bottom of the felt into a jagged pattern similar to the one made on the bottom half of the shell.


When cutting out felt for the hat, cut out six rounded triangular pieces of felt measuring 9 inches (23 cm) long by 5 inches (13 cm) wide, with 1 inch (2.5 cm) flat corners.
Glue the felt onto the batting by lining all the tips at the center top of the crown. Bring each piece down and over the sides of the hat, allowing 2 inches (5 cm) or so of overhang at the bottom of the hat.
From the overhang at the bottom, make your jagged shell pattern.
 Put your child in a yellow t-shirt and yellow pants. Slip on some orange socks for tiny chick feet, then dress your baby in the two egg halves.


Since the top egg half is made from a hat, simply place the hat on your child's head to put this portion of the costume on.
Slide the bottom egg half onto your child from the bottom. Tie the left hand front and back ribbons together over the child's left shoulder. Tie the right hand front and back ribbons together over the child's right shoulder.

