 When it comes time to cleaning the kitchen with the speedy clean method, aim to do it after breakfast and also after the preparation of your evening meal. Complete the following routine after each usage to maintain a polished kitchen daily:


Wash all dishes, dry them and put them away. By doing the entire process of washing the dishes every-time, you can easily avoid playing the 'tower stack' game where dishes continually pile up until someone has to put them all away as mentioned in the spring clean method.
Wipe down all surfaces and appliances with a surface spray and cloth. Don't forget to do handles and knobs like; Fridge door, cabinet knobs, microwave buttons, kettle handle, toaster button etc.
Wipe down the stove elements, oven door and over fan ( don't forget the switchers).
Clean your microwave ( if you have one), with a cloth and disinfectant spray. This will avoid having to do an extensive clean once a week or even month. This can take as little as 1 minute to complete and it also aids in maintaining food preparation hygiene.
Keep up-to-date with your refrigerator by surveying food entering and food currently residing in it. If any item is protruding an unpleasant smell, remove it. Quickly wipe down each shelf of the refrigerator just in case anything has leaked. By doing this every-day it again helps avoid a lengthy and grueling clean that usually gets done whenever you get around to doing it.
Sweep or hoover the flooring to remove any items that may have been dropped. By doing this regularly, you are removing the risk of contracting mice or rats.
If you have any mirrors or windows in your kitchen, do a quick wipe over with paper towel and Windex or however you like to clean windows.
 This room may be one of the most central areas in your house. Guests and Visitors will most likely reside in this area the most so by keeping it fairly clean, they will assume the rest of the house is like it; even if the rest of the house isn't completely spot-less. Follow these steps daily for the spring cleaning method to maintain order in your living room:


Wipe down cabinets, coffee-tables and television with a damp micro-fiber cloth to remove dust and other residue.
If you have leather seating, again use the damp micro-fiber cloth to wipe them down. If however you have fabric seating, fend to brush surplus lint, fluff and pet hair with a lint roller.
If you have windows to the exterior, speedily clean each-one daily to remove obvious marks. Studies suggest that a room that has clean windows and flooring will automatically be seen as orderly even if there is dust and grime in obvious places.
Re-arrange décor if it has been misplaced. ( positioning cushions, straightening picture frames etc).
Replace items that are out of place like DVD's, Remotes and used dishes to the kitchen to be washed and put-away.
Wipe down dining table after every use. Clean daily with a disinfectant spray.
Hoover the flooring and also mop if you have tile or wooden floor boards.
 A hygienic bathroom is developed by daily cleaning rituals, follow these steps to keep your bathroom in good working order:


Start by putting on your gloves. Fill the toilet with the product of your choice and scrub the bowl. Spray the exterior of the toilet with a disinfectant spray and wipe it all down with paper towel and then flush. It takes only about a minute.
Remove everything from the shower and clean the flooring and walls or window with the product of your choice. By scrubbing the shower daily, you are removing any stains that will accumulate over time and be a grueling process when it's definitely time to clean it.
Spray and wipe down the sink to remove toothpaste residue, wipe down bath-tub (if you have one).
Wipe down the mirror with Windex and paper towel.
You can hoover, sweep or mop the floor daily or maybe every second day.
 If you have a spare bedroom, or a music or study room; it's ideal to keep it tidy daily as well. Follow these steps to maintain a dust free miscellaneous room:


Hoover flooring.
Organize item out of place. Aim to have a spot for everything in rooms like this so you or other people you live with know where it goes. Thing's like paperwork, books in shelves and stationary draws.
Wipe down musical instruments, computer keyboards, printer or fax machine, photo frames or other surfaces and items with a damp micro-fiber cloth.
Put all toy's away (if you have small children) and scourer the house for other toys that may have wondered.
 Keep laundry floor clutter free by doing the laundry every-day. Gather a full load of fabrics like towels etc. than doing small ones to save on power.


Sweep laundry floor daily and mop once or every second day.
Wipe down the machine after every use to prevent a build up of grime. You can spray a disinfectant spray on the interior and exterior of the machine and wipe it down with a designated micro-fiber cloth that you can keep in reach of the machine.

