 Here's a list to start with:


Basic Strength, Squats,Lunges,Dead lifts,Straight Legged Dead lifts






Isometric neck strengthening






Rotator cuff strengthening





;
,


Hip flexor stretching






Glute medius strength






Work with opposite leg forward for muscle balance






Back extensions and basic abdominal/core strength (with rotation)






Calf raises and heel raises






Box jumps






Plyometrics with rotation







,

Dynamic kettlebell work






Snowboard stance work Stable&Unstable with a balance component; balance discs, med balls, half-dome stability ball, etc
With rotation and reaction drills (adding rotation and dynamic component)
Rotational Exercises with bands or cables






Simple cable rotations in snowboard stance
Perform a simple chopping motion on one side, pulling high to low.)
Cable rotations with a side switch stepping on the high side of the chop, slide the distal leg back to the other leg (closest to the machine), turn 180 degrees, step out and perform the chopping motion on the other side. Alternate in this way.
Cable rotations with a side switch —jumping-Every time the hands reach to the high side, jump and rotate 180 degrees, then perform the chop on the opposite side, a degree jump turns landing in stance (performed with or without an agility ladder)



,, Try to find a gymnastics training facility around you that offers a snowboarding program, or just jump with your friends strapped in practice spins flips etc.
 this will help keep your snowboarding muscles working throughout the off-season, and can be extremely helpful. (most summer snowboard camps are fairly expensive but if your serious about snowboarding they may be worth it.
 It sounds silly but it will keep you hyped through the summer, give you ideas of new tricks to try next season, and watching others snowboard will help you learn some awesome style on the hill.
 Wakeboarding is the best board-sport to assist your snowboarding skills. Basically because it still involves carves and being strapped in. water is a lot more forgiving then an icy park landing plus wake boards are way lighter then snowboards helping you learn to form of flips much easier. (Wakeboarding is pretty expensive to but again its highly recommended)

, Skateboarding helps to so try it out. Skating keeps you into the whole boarding mind frame, and helps tons with your ollies and many rail tricks.

