 There are plenty of shampoos that claim to regrow hair, but some work better than others. Know what to look for before you invest any money in this type of specialty hair product.


Look for a gentle shampoo that clears your pores without the use of harsh chemicals. Herbal shampoos can be especially beneficial. Look for ones containing chamomile, aloe vera, ginseng, horsetail, rosemary, biotin, cysteine, proteins, silica, and/or vitamin E.
Check the ingredients and make sure that your shampoo does not contain sodium lauryl sulfate. This is a fairly common ingredient in many commercially produced shampoos, but it can cause already weakened hair to further shrink and break.;
, Hair that remains properly moisturized will be stronger, thicker, and less likely to break.


A good conditioner is a crucial component in keeping your hair moisturized. Herbal conditioners can be a great choice because they are less likely to contain potentially hazardous chemicals. In particular, look for conditioners that contain amino acids, biotin, aloe vera, ginseng, and/or green tea. Apply the conditioner and leave it in for 15 to 30 minutes before rinsing it with lukewarm water.
After conditioning your hair, use a steam treatment to open the cuticle and liquify the conditioner so that it penetrates each strand of hair deeper.Wrap your hair in a washcloth dampened with hot water, then cover both your hair and the cloth with a plastic shower cap.
Lay a second warm washcloth over the cap, then cover the entire thing with a second shower cap.
Sit for at least one hour to allow adequate steam to form. If possible, spend part or all of this time underneath a hooded dryer.
 Good hair regrowth balms, masks, and serums can help thicken and protect the hair around your forehead, temples, and nape. Massage your chosen product directly into the damaged hairline.Look for a product that mixes a light protein treatment with a gentle moisturizer. Products that contain vitamin E are also good since this nutrient can replenish any damaged skin on your scalp.
Giving your scalp a light massage as you apply these products can help, too. Massaging the skin will stimulate blood flow to your scalp. Increased blood flow to any area of the body increases that area's ability to function, so increase blood flow to your scalp can increase your scalp's ability to regrow hair.
 Natural oils moisturize and thicken your hair, and since you'll be blending them together yourself, you'll know that there are no hidden chemicals to worry about.


One formula consists of one part organic castor oil, three parts extra virgin olive oil, and five drops of organic tea tree oil.The olive oil acts as a carrier oil, making it easier to apply the product evenly over your scalp, and it also contains beneficial antioxidants and vitamin E. Castor oil stimulates dormant hair follicles, and tea tree oil can unclog hair follicles that are too blocked to grow effectively.


Another option is a mixture of 2 oz (60 ml) coconut oil, 10 drops of rosemary oil, and 10 drops of lavender oil.

The coconut oil provides intense moisture. Lavender oil can cleanse and relax a stressed scalp, while rosemary oil stimulates blood flow and awakens dormant hair follicles.
 Once you've settled on a particular hairline oil formula, you'll need to massage it into your scalp so that it can do its work.


Consider mixing the oils in a plastic squeeze bottle with a long tip. Evenly apply the product directly to your roots using that tip.
If you only want to use the product on your hairline, consider applying it with a cotton swab or clean mascara wand.
Regardless of how you apply the oil, use your hands to massage it into your scalp. Focus on the hairline area and massage for at least 10 minutes before rinsing. A good massage can stimulate and improve circulation, which should encourage hair regrowth.
 If your best efforts don't produce any results, schedule an appointment with your dermatologist or general practitioner.


A dermatologist would be your best bet since this branch of medicine deals directly with hair and skin conditions, but visiting your general practitioner or family doctor might be enough if the damage to your hairline is only minor.
The doctor should be able to tell you if it is possible to regrow your hairline at all. If it is, he or she might be willing to prescribe regrowth medication or otherwise recommend a special regrowth procedure., Brushing and combing your hair can put stress on your hairline. Cutting your hair short reduces the amount of time you'll need to spend brushing your hair, thereby reducing the amount of brush-related stress.


In fact, if you don't mind shaving your hair completely, doing so might be the best long-term option for restoring your hairline.
 When you do need to brush your hair, do so as gently as possible to avoid breaking off any strands at the root.


Be especially cautious when brushing your edges. Stop using a heavy brush along the hairline and opt for a soft bristle brush instead. For severely damaged hairlines, you should even consider using a toothbrush instead of an actual hairbrush.
 After washing and rinsing your hair, allow it to air dry or dry it gently using a soft towel.


Do not rub your hair dry or wring out excess moisture. Either action can create additional stress on the remaining hairs of your scalp., Braids, cornrows, weaves, tight buns, and even simple ponytails can put stress on your hairline. Keep your hair down to reduce the amount of stress placed on your follicles.


When your hair is tied back, strands of hair can break of at the root, causing hair loss around your temples, bangs, sideburns, and forehead.
If you do need to throw your hair back for some reason, there are ways to minimize the stress. Keep any ponytail, bun, or braid as loose as possible. Similarly, ponytails and buns tied below the height of your ears put less tension on your roots than high styles do.Likewise, if you want to wear a sew-in weave, talk to your hair stylist about sewing the weave into a net instead of sewing it directly into your hair. This solution is still less than ideal, but the net would create less tension and do less damage., Chemical relaxers and dyes only do minimal damage to healthy hair, but when used on weakened hair, these common products can make the problem even worse.


The negative effect that potent chemicals have might seem obvious enough, but you should even restrict your use of milder chemical products. For instance, most commercial hair gels contain alcohol. Alcohol removes moisture from your hair, making it more brittle and likely to break off as a result.
 Your hair needs oxygen to thrive and grow. When you suffocate your hairline with a heavy wig, you cut off that oxygen supply and shrink the cuticle, thereby weakening each individual strand of hair.


The same can be said of weaves attached with a net or stocking cap. Even though this type of weave is less damaging than those sewn directly into your hair, they will still dramatically reduce the amount of oxygen your struggling hairline receives.
 Most hairline treatments focus on topical care, but hair originates within the body, so internal health is just as important as external health.


Your body sends the nutrients you consume to your organs and other essential tissues first, so even if your body is receiving enough nutrition to remain healthy, it may not be receiving enough to keep your hair in good shape.Certain nutrients play a more direct role in hair care than others. Consuming foods that are rich in these nutrients can give your struggling hairline an additional boost from the inside.
Nutritional supplements that contain these helpful nutrients can also make a difference, but in most cases, your hairline will derive greater benefit from direct food sources than it will from artificial supplement sources.
 Good sources of omega-3 include fatty fish like salmon and tuna, flaxseeds, walnuts, kale, and Brussels sprouts.


Omega-3 clings to the hair shaft and cell membranes in the scalp, where it strengthens your hair follicles and encourages growth. It also makes your hair less brittle, so strands around your hairline will be less likely to break off as they grow back.
 A few sources worth considering include chickpeas, wheat germ, beef, veal liver, and oysters.


Zinc encourages tissue growth and repair within the body, so if your hairline troubles are linked to a damaged scalp, a little extra zinc can make a big difference.
Additionally, zinc also encourages glands along your scalp to produce oils that keep your existing hair healthy and vibrant.
 Meat and legumes are some of the greatest sources of protein you can find. Include more chicken, turkey, eggs, peanuts, beans, peas, and lentils in your diet. Greek yogurt also provides a considerable dose of protein.


Hair is almost entirely made of protein, so if you don't consume enough protein, you'll never be able to regrow your lost hairline. Protein deficiency can also cause your remaining hair to thin out and turn gray.
 Iron can be found in a wide range of foods, including dark leafy greens, whole grains, red meat, oysters, beans, and clams.


Iron improves blood flow around the body. Without it, blood won't be able to carry enough oxygen to the cells around your scalp, and you won't be able to reinvigorate dormant follicles.
 This oil keeps your hair hydrated and reduces the risk of breakage.
Note that consuming more than 15,000 IU of vitamin A on a daily basis can actually cause further hair loss, however.
 Nuts and fish can be good sources of both nutrients. Halibut, almonds, and cashews are rich in magnesium. Halibut is also rich in selenium, as is tuna, shrimp, sardines, and Brazil nuts.


Magnesium plays a crucial role in many different biochemical bodily functions, including hair growth.
Selenium allows the body to make selenoproteins, which can help stimulate dormant hair follicles.

