 This article will not cover these methods extensively.;
, If you have straight or wavy hair this will work best with dry hair. If you have curly hair that cannot be brushed when it is dry, try braiding your hair wet. However, be very gentle as the hair has a tendency to "snap" more easily when it is wet.
 You can part it down the middle and do a French braid on both sides.
 Begin two to three inches (5-7.5cm) back on the part, and make sure to have a nice rectangular section of hair. You're going to be braiding the larger section of hair at least (versus the other side of your part).









If you're going to put your hair up into a bun or ponytail, end about two inches (5cm) above your ear and then move forward to create a nice right corner.
If you're going to wear your hair down, end at your ear.
 Just make sure it won't get in the way while you're braiding. Use a loose ponytail if you're going to wear your hair down so that you don't create a lump or crease.
 Starting at the part section off a small rectangular piece and separate it into three pieces. Cross the rightmost over the center. Then add some hair to what used to be the rightmost strand (now center) from the right side. Cross the leftmost over the center. Then add some hair to what used to be the leftmost strand (now center) from the left side.










Once you're done with that braid the rest of the hair with a normal braid and secure it at the end with an elastic.
 At this point you can also choose to braid the hair on the other side of your part. Do the following depending on your hair style that day:










Ponytail: Gather your hair into a ponytail, including the braid(s). If the braid becomes bumpy when you put it up, try twisting or bobby pinning it. Secured your ponytail with an elastic and you're done! You can also turn it into a bun. Twist the tail and wrap it around the base of the ponytail. Then pin or use another elastic to hold the bun place.

Down: For a quick fix, just pin the braid(s) back from your face with a bobby pin or clip. To make it quite literally a headband, bring the ends of the braid behind your head and under your hair. Then tie them together with an elastic.
