 In Wild World, he sells the regular fishing rod for 500 bells. In City Folk, Tom sells both the fishing rod and the silver rod, both for 500 bells each, however, the silver rod is pretty rare. In order to receive the golden fishing rod, a player must catch all of the fish in their designated game. The amount of fish are 40 in Animal Crossing, 56 in Wild World, and 64 in City Folk.;
, Learn that different kinds of water carry different kinds of fish.


Ocean: Very expensive fish, including sharks. The list includes barred knife-jaw, blue marlin, butterfly fish, clown fish, coelacanth, dab, football fish, hammerhead shark, horse mackerel, jellyfish, lobster, moray eel, napoleon fish, ocean sunfish, octopus, olive flounder, puffer fish, ray, red snapper, sea bass, sea butterfly, seahorse, shark, squid, surgeon fish, tuna, and zebra turkey-fish.
River pool fish: The list includes catfish, giant catfish (only in Animal Crossing), gar, giant snake-head, and pond smelt.
Waterfall fish: Char and large char can be found here. Large char is only available in Animal Crossing.
Pond fish: Frogs, crawfish, and Killifish can be found here.
River, waterfall, and pond: Unless they are categorized specifically, these can be found in any of the listed waters: angelfish, arapaima, arowana, barbel steed, bitterling, black bass, bluegill, carp, cherry salmon, crucian carp, dace, dorado, eel, freshwater goby, goldfish, guppy, king salmon, koi, loach, neon tetra, pale chub, pike, piranha, popeyed goldfish, rainbow trout, salmon, string fish, sweetfish, and yellow perch.
 If you're not holding it, you must take it out from your inventory.
 Press the "A" button. Do not move or run, as this scares the fish away.
 There would be times where a fish will nibble on the bait and swim away. If this happens, you'll need to recast your line.
 A fish nibbles four times before a bite. There are some fish that you can be relaxed on to catch them, but there are others that you need precise timing to get them successfully.

