 Any bill that is clearly more than one half of the original bill and does not require any special training to determine its value is considered damaged.


Damaged bills typically include dirty, worn-out, slightly torn, or defaced bills.
These bills can be simply exchanged at your local bank.
 In the United States, this is typically not a problem. However, elsewhere it is important to make sure the currency is still accepted as legal tender or exchangeable.


This can typically be determined either by searching online for the name and value of the currency, or by calling a bank and asking.
 It may be worth more than face value. There are some notes that are worth more to collectors than the face value. For example, silver backed one dollar bills from the U.S. typically sell for more than $1 in decent condition. If this is the case, you should always confirm its value.


If you think your currency is old and may have value, check websites that post values by searching "collectible currency values". This will provide a list of price guides.
Papermoneyguide.com or coinquest.com could be good starting resources.
This is important to consider before simply replacing the currency at the bank. If you have currency from the early 1900s, for example, it may be worth more than the face value and is therefore worthwhile to confirm its value before exchanging.
Generally, the older the currency, the more valuable it could be.
 Some banks will only exchange worn, ripped or currency in poor condition for its own customers. Other banks are willing to do it for anyone. It is probably a good idea to call the branch to check if you are headed to a bank where you do not have an account.
 Currency that is still valid, but is simply worn, ripped, or in otherwise poor condition can be replaced at a bank. Deposit the money into any account, and the bank's relationship with their country's central bank and minting service will ensure that it is swapped for fresh currency. You can also just ask to swap it out without depositing it.