 Many parents are overly invasive because they fear that not knowing what their children are up to will result in poor decisions that may harm the child. But the reality is that prying behavior only makes children exclude parents even more.If your parents are overly invasive, you may need to point out how harmful this behavior can be.


Let a prying parent know that children tend to resent prying parents, and that prying behavior can be highly damaging to a parent/child relationship., If your parent is invading your privacy, it's most likely because he's concerned about your safety and wellbeing.The best thing you can do is address this behavior and let your parent know he doesn't need to worry.


If you have a prying parent, ask him what his fears are.
Ask your parent whether your behavioral history suggests that you would engage in bad behavior. Let your parent know that you would like him to trust you more.
 Try talking to your parent about your concerns with regards to your privacy, and offer a compromise. If your parent is willing to respect your privacy, offer to be more forthcoming about what's going on in your life. Most children who are given a healthy degree of privacy end up naturally feeling more comfortable talking to their parents and disclosing personal information to parents anyway.Ask him whether he would be more or less willing to share things with you if you violated his privacy.
Try to keep your parent filled in on what's going on in your life. There is a good chance that your parent will be less intrusive if you let him in to some degree., The best way to address prying behavior is by asking your parents to respect your privacy, and by letting them into your life. Talk to your parents everyday, and let them feel included in your life.Find little things to talk about everyday. Tell your parents how school is going, and ask them about their day at work.Choose a time to talk when both you and your parents won't be distracted with other things, like watching TV or making dinner. Long drives in the car are a good time to initiate a conversation, or after dinner when you are all relaxing together.Be respectful by making eye contact and avoiding sarcastic or rude remarks during the conversation.