, The IMEI number is the unique serial number for your device required to process the factory unlock.
 The representative will review your account to confirm you qualify to have your phone unlocked. Each wireless carrier has different rules and eligibility criteria surrounding factory unlock requests.


Try submitting a factory unlock request on your wireless provider’s website. This can help save time and prevent you from having to call your wireless carrier. For example, if the iPhone 4 is from AT&T, navigate to AT&T’s device unlock page at https://www.att.com/deviceunlock/ and follow the on-screen instructions to process your request.
If you do not have service through a wireless carrier, or the iPhone is from another carrier, contact the wireless provider to which your iPhone is locked. The iPhone’s original carrier will help you with unlocking your device.
 You may be asked to provide your name, account number, and email address. Your wireless carrier will work with Apple directly to factory unlock your iPhone using its IMEI number.
 Your wireless carrier will notify you via email when the factory unlock is complete. This process may take up to a few days.,,, iTunes will automatically detect your iPhone’s factory unlock status and display a message that says “Congratulations, your iPhone has been unlocked.”

,, This can help refresh your iPhone’s software and allow the device to receive the required update from Apple’s servers.


Connect your iPhone to your computer and launch iTunes.
Click on your iPhone 4 at the top left corner of iTunes and click on “Summary.”
Click on “Restore iPhone,” then click “Restore” to confirm you want your iPhone reset.
Wait for iTunes to inform you the reset is complete, then install any available updates. Your iPhone will now communicate with Apple’s servers to activate the factory unlock.
 Your wireless carrier can review the unlock request, and escalate to Apple if necessary to process another request., This can often help resolve errors associated with Apple’s servers and updates.


Connect your iPhone to your computer and launch iTunes.
Click on the iPhone 4 at the top left corner of iTunes.
Click on “File” and select “Devices.”
Click on “Restore from Backup,” then select the most relevant backup.
Click on “Restore.” Your iPhone will restart, sync with your computer, and activate the factory unlock.,