 If you’re having trouble getting yourself to buckle down and write, devote some time to outlining what you intend to put down once you begin. A good outline can make writing significantly easier and may help get you excited about the writing itself.


Jot down the important things you want to address in your writing. This will ensure you cover each of them once you begin while also giving you a chance to regain your enthusiasm for the subject.The outline will make the writing process faster once you begin and help you make sure the elements of your piece are organized appropriately and in an order that supports the flow and tone of your piece.;
, Putting pen to paper or fingers to keyboard can get your creative juices flowing, even if what you’re putting down isn’t your best writing. Give yourself an opportunity to get your ideas on paper, then revise your work until it’s strong writing. Don’t be critical of yourself as your write your first draft. Remove the anxiety that may be ruining your motivation., If you already know how you’d like to conclude the piece, start there. Maybe there’s a portion of the story you know will be fun to write but you haven’t reached it yet; begin writing there. The enthusiasm you feel for that portion of the piece will help your motivation return and allow you to begin writing the other portions once you’re going again.
 Decide on something that would be a good reward for your hard work if you can get through the piece or portion you need to get done today, and don’t allow yourself to take that reward unless you achieve that goal.


Make sure the reward is personal and something you will really enjoy. It needs to be something that will motivate you to push through your lack of motivation.
The reward must be something you can enjoy immediately after you complete your writing. This will help you build a subconscious connection between your efforts and the reward. It’s like tricking your mind into wanting to work.
The reward must be something you wouldn’t normally give yourself otherwise. If you choose a reward you indulge in regularly it won’t serve as a strong motivator. Once you choose a reward, don’t allow yourself to do whatever it is unless as a reward for your writing., Give yourself a few minutes to write about anything you want. Allow it to be totally random and don’t focus on being productive. The point isn’t to create something you can use in your piece, but rather to get your creative juices flowing so you’ll get your motivation to write back.Try using one of these writing prompts to get you started:


Write a letter to your past or future self.
Jot down what you see right outside your window, and go wherever that takes you.
Write a short story about your favorite characters from books, TV or movies.
Take a trip down memory lane and write about the earliest thing you can remember.
Write a short story about where you wish you were right now.