 The base of your mockingjay pin will be cardstock cut out in the image of the mockingjay. Cardstock that is thin and rigid will help your pin appear the most authentic. Other materials you'll need to transform your cardstock pin include:


Compass/drinking glass
Glue (1)
Glitter (gold and silver)
Hairspray
Paint brush (1)
Safety pin (1)
Scissors
Scotch tape (1)
Stiff cardstock (1)
Tracing paper (unlined preferred);
, You should trace your image onto your thin, unlined tracing paper by laying your paper atop the mockingjay design on the cover the The Hunger Games. Then use a pencil to copy the image. Once your image is complete, you should cut it free.
 The classic mockingjay pin is represented by a bird carrying an arrow suspended in the center of a circle. To make this outer circle, you should trace a glass that is about three inches across at the base along its bottom, or use a protractor to make a similar circle.Cut the resulting circle free from your cardstock. Then, remove the inside of the circle so that only an outer ring remains.
Your outer ring can be as thin or thick as you desire, but the novels represent the outer ring as being relatively thin.
Don't cut your outer ring so thin that it is too flimsy; this will make your pin look less sturdy.
 Using a thin layer of glue, attach the edges of your mockingjay image onto your cardstock circle. Be careful not to use too much glue, as this can create an uneven or bumpy appearance in your image. Using a paint brush can help you apply a thin, even coat of glue.


You should wait until the glue is fully dry to guarantee a good seal between your image and cardstock.
 This will give it a metallic appearance, just like the real thing! After the glue has finished drying, determine which colors you want to use to give your pin some flair. You may want to use gold glitter on the outer circle and silver for the mockingjay body, mix the silver and gold together, or maybe pure gold is more your style. In any case, you should:


Place a spare sheet of paper beneath your pin to catch any stray glitter.
Paint a thin layer of glue onto the surface you will be applying your glitter.
Sprinkle your glitter onto the glue you have painted onto your pin., The easiest way to do this is to flip your pin to the back and tape a safety pin in place with scotch tape.For sturdier designs, you may want to consider using hot glue to attach your safety pin to the back of your design.
 To keep this from happening, you can lightly spray hair spray onto the glitter. Check the label of your hair spray before you use it, as scented hairspray might not be ideal for your purposes.

