  While this may seem obvious, it is not always the case.  Model how to turn your hand sideways with fingers spread wide (with your palm towards you) and name each finger-line from the bottom going up. I.e. little finger is E, ring finger - G, middle finger - B, pointing finger D, thumb is F. To help you remember, use a mnemonic that appeals to the child: Every Good Boy Does Fine - old and trusted, but try others.You might mention that this is why music is written on 5 lines, called the musical staff or stave.;
,  Frequency of practice will help. Possibly set a task to come up with an original mnemonic, such as:Elvis Goes Bopping Down the Freeway, Every Good Boogie Deserves Flicking (teenage boys seem to have no trouble remembering when I use this one!)

, Depending on the age (concentration span) of the child, I may introduce these at the same time.  Ask: "How many spaces are there between the five finger lines?" If the answer is NOT four, emphasize IN BETWEEN, and have them check again. F A C E in the space is used to help them remember the letters of the spaces.  I.e. F lies between the little finger and ring finger,A is the space between ring and middle fingers, C lies between middle and pointing fingers, E is between the pointing finger and the thumb

,  Ensure that the hand is correctly positioned sideways, palm towards the face.E G B D F, then F A C E, E, F, G, A, B, C, D, E, F. When this is secure, show G above the space (touching the top of the hand) and ask "What do you think this note name will be? Explain that the alphabetical pattern, A- G, continues above and also below the staff or stave.
  Make it a game, especially if you have several children together.  Get them to explain and review to each other.  Can they do it backwards? Quickly?Most music books for children teach reading very slowly, but there is no need for this.  Eventually, children will be able to recognise the notes used in their practical lessons, or be happy to explain what they understand whenever music notes are introduced.
  Regular exposure helps, again with continual praise and rewards for those who remember easily. Use flashcards, each with a note of the Treble Clef, that children can handle and maneuver easily on a table, or floor space. They should be able to separate lines from spaces, then to put these in order (beginning with the lowest).
 using the high and low letter position.  A challenge would be, who can get the longest word (BADGE, CABBAGE, BAGGAGE).  There is also the Treble Clef Crossword, to be found online, and other similar quizzes.
  The first step is to keep a steady beat.  Explain that you can think of the beat in groups of 3, or 4.  Demonstrate by marching, or by dancing a waltz (marching on the spot or swaying side to side).  Again, play games with this.  Let them listen to a variety of music, and try to move in time with the beat.
 Clap a simple pattern 4-beat one or two bar pattern, such as ta, ta, ti-ti ta; or ti-ti, ti-ti, ta, ta,  (where ta is a crochet/ quarter note, and ti-ti a pair of quavers or eighth notes). Use other body percussion (finger clicks, thigh-slaps, foot stamps, shoulder taps etc.)

,  Don't be afraid to call them by their proper names, but let children associate them with their values.  In this way they'll be able to use 1 beat, walk, 2 count (minim/ half note) stand, 4 count = wait, faster notes (quaver/ eighth note) run-ning - where the quavers are always in pairs holding hands. Ask children to identify the correct answer via multiple choice.
  Limit this at first to just 2 note values.  Children will only be successful if they are encouraged to have a go, and not afraid of making mistakes.  To get them to this stage, play lots of music notation games.  Rhythm flashcards, Rhythm Bingo, word-rhythm association, tapping on the shoulder, improvisation over a steady beat and others. Whichever system you choose to use, make it a regular activity so that it becomes a familiar and enjoyable activity.  Keep it short and lively.  Give encouragement, and prizes.
  They can be taught separately, but will eventually meld into one as concepts are understood.  Taught using a cyclical method, where information is given in full, some of it used in practice, then information given again for another activity, is one of the best ways to cement this knowledge.  It should be non-threatening environment for children, so that they can have fun while learning, hands on.

