 You will also learn to deal with the causes of your heart attack. Your program may give you advice on how to lose weight, quit smoking, adjust your diet, and improve your overall health so as to limit the likelihood of another heart attack. Your doctor will let you know when and where to attend your heart attack rehab program. Use your rehab program and doctors as a resource.Ask questions such as:


What caused my heart attack?
How can I limit my risk of future heart attacks?
How should I change my diet to prevent another heart attack?
Will I need surgery or medication?

, What exactly are you afraid of? Do you fear that you’ll have another heart attack? That you’ll die? That you won’t be able to return to a normal level of activity? The first step to dealing with your fear is to admit what you’re afraid of.


Once you’ve given voice to your fear, write your fear down. Use a journal to track your thinking on the specific fear you have. Write how the intensity of fear you feel changes over time, as well as hopes you have for conquering your fear.
Write your best-case scenario for overcoming your fear. How would you live differently if you were free of heart attack-related anxieties?
Take steps to overcome your fear. If you’re afraid you won’t be able to engage in regular activity, try reintroducing yourself to something you love after a heart attack. Start slowly and work you way back up to regular activity levels. For instance, if you are afraid you won’t be able to run again, try doing brisk walks for a few weeks, then short, easy runs. Slowly increase the duration and intensity of your workouts.
Always resume physical activity with the consent of your doctor.
 You’ll probably be quite stressed due to your heart health. Taking care of yourself is the best way to deal with stress.Get plenty of sleep (at least seven to nine hours each night). Eat healthy meals based primarily on whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Exercise at least three to five times each week for 30 to 60 minutes each time. And if you feel stressed, give yourself a break.


Set an alarm clock to mark the times you should sleep and wake up.
Incorporate healthy snacking choices into your daily routine. Instead of eating candy and potato chips, try snacking on berries or carrots with hummus.
Look for easy ways to get more physical activity into your daily routine. For instance, ride your bike to work, take the stairs, and walk your dog around the block a few times.
Seek counselling if you find you have a hard time dealing with stress.
 Many people experience depression after they have a heart attack.Fear or anxiety that you might suffer another heart attack (or even die) are common feelings for people who survive heart attacks. You might also feel angry at yourself or frustrated by the fact that you had a heart attack at all. In order to learn to deal with these mixed emotions, you should consult a trained therapist. Together, you can work through the complicated feelings that come with recovering from a heart attack.
 These include beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, and blood thinners.


Blood thinners are medications designed to make it hard for your blood to clot, thus reducing your risk of heart attack. Follow the directions for your blood thinners carefully, and always tell your doctor about any other medications you are taking.
ACE (angiotensin-converting enzyme) inhibitors help your blood vessels open wider to allow more blood to pass through them.This can decrease blood pressure and reduce likelihood for a heart attack.
Beta blockers slow your heartbeat, thereby reducing stress on your heart.

