 Even if the game requires relative quickness, like speed chess or sports, the player that keeps their cool is usually the one that walks away victorious. Make a habit of controlled, regular breathing while you play, taking your time to make the absolute best choice every time you're up. If you're relaxed and calm you'll have a much easier time sorting through the options and choosing the best one., Instead of trying to think, "what is my opponent thinking?", break the question down into simpler and more effective questions. First, what does my opponent need to win? And secondly, if I was my opponent, what would I be worried about -- what is my weakness? The answer to these two questions almost always points to a worthwhile strategy:


In a game of tennis, imagine you're playing someone with an amazing serve, but poor net play. They will want to hit it hard, keeping you back on the baseline to avoid the net, but you should flip this on it's head and force them to the front-court with short shots and slices.
In a board, card, or strategy game, ask yourself each turn what your opponent still needs to do to win. How can you prevent them from getting this?

, If you're a chess player, there are hundreds of books detailing moves, how to read opponents, and successful long-term strategies. If you're playing cards, mathematicians and game theorists have broken down the proven ways to win for almost any game created, often detailed for free online. Don't try to learn everything through experience -- read up on the success of past players and use it to your advantage.


More than just giving you strategies, reading up on a game's news and tips helps you recognize your opponent's strategy as they try it, helping you cut it off quickly.
Even athletes should constantly read up on new advancements. Look no further, for example, than US triple jumper Christian Taylor. After reading up on research and science, he broke conventional wisdom by taking shorter, faster jumps instead of long, slow ones. He then won the gold medal at the 2016 Olympics., These can be patterns in the game or your opponent's patterns. People struggle to be random, and will generally repeat the same methods over and over again, especially if they feel like they are working. Keeping your mind sharp on the overall trends and patterns in the game can help you control them to victory.


If an opposing team is having the most success attacking down the left side, don't just keep playing. Find a way to plug the hole on your team's left.
In Rock, Paper, Scissors, most men throw rock first, while most women throw paper. That means you should always start with paper -- you're most likely to win or tie. As you keep playing, look out for similar series of moves from your opponent to read them like book., While you're analyzing your opponent for patterns, you can assume they are doing the same thing. Whenever you can throw a little randomness in the mix, or simply mix up your own patterns, you can catch them off-guard and gain an advantage. Not all games allow randomness, but switching up tactics to confuse your opponent will usually help you get ahead.


In sports, like soccer, for example, take shots from all around the box, not just once you get close to goal. Make them defend both outside the box and inside of it to keep them moving.
Use the natural world to help stay random. For example, imagine you're serving in tennis. Instead of serving the same place, or alternating each time, look at your watch. If the second hand says 0-30, serve to the right. If it says 31-60, serve left

, You can't win if you get tangled up in fouls or broken rules. Whats more, knowing the rules inside and out is the best way to catch others cheating and know exactly what tools and strategies you have at your disposal. Whether you're playing a game or entering a contest, knowing the rules back to front gives you an instant advantage over the competition., Take, for example, the game of poker. While you can practice by simply playing lots of poker, good players know they need to focus on each part of the game to truly succeed. They might study what hands to fold or play one day, when to bluff another, and how to calculate card odds on the fly the next day. By mastering individual skills, you greatly improve your total game.


Many games, like chess, have "practice problems" online, which are particular game-like scenarios that you must quickly figure out.
For sports, this is why drills are so essential. Don't just think about repeating the motion over and over again, think about how you'll use this particular skill to succeed in a game.For complex tasks like video games playing against a computer, or even against yourself, is a great way to build skills on your own time.
 The teams that talk the most are the teams that work the most effectively. You should be in constant communication about your opponent's moves, where you are, if you need help or support, or any changes in strategy. Don't ever assume that you're better off on your own, or keeping quiet in hopes of being "secretive." The best teams keep in touch.


If you learn or find something useful for your teammates, let them know.
Provide on-the-fly updates as you play -- "I got this one," "I need some help," "watch your back," etc., There is a famous shot from the Tour de France where Lance Armstrong, in the lead after climbing a brutally large mountain, sees a challenger gaining ground on him. Even though he is exhausted, Armstrong quickly changes his face into a happy, relaxed smile and looks back at the opponent, who's face is completely tired. The rider, fearing Lance is not tired at all, is demoralized, and Armstrong easily wins. You can play the same tricks in any game to gain a psychic advantage. Keep cool and collected while your opponents crumble.


No matter what game you're playing, keep your poker face up. The only emotions you show are the ones you want your opponent to see.
If you bluff in a game, for whatever reason, don't tell your opponents even if you pull it off successfully. This is why, unless forced, you never show your hand in a game of cards. They can't figure out when you're bluffing and when you're serious.

