 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to roast the mushrooms, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 375°F (190°C), and allow it to fully heat., Add 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of olive oil, 1 tablespoon (18 g) of tamari, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of balsamic vinegar, and 1 minced garlic clove to shallow baking dish. Mix the ingredients together until they’re well blended.You can substitute canola or vegetable oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
Tamari is available in Asian markets, health food stores, and most general grocery stores.
You can substitute soy sauce for the tamari if you prefer.
 Once the ingredients are mixed, add ½ pound (225 g) of fresh mushrooms that have been quartered to the dish. Stir them with the marinade so they are well coated.You can use whatever type of mushrooms that you prefer, but portabellas and creminis work very well.
 When the mushrooms are coated in the marinade, place them in the preheated oven. Allow the mushrooms to roast for 18 to 20 minutes, or until they have released their juices and become well-browned. Remove them from the oven, and set them aside for the moment., Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large pot. Place the pot on the stove, and heat it over medium-high until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute vegetable or canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the oil is hot, add 2 chopped celery stalks,1 chopped yellow onion, and 4 minced garlic cloves to the pot. Allow the mixture to saute until the onion becomes translucent and starts to brown, which should take approximately 5 minutes.If you prefer a strong garlic flavor, you can increase the number of cloves to suit your taste.
 After the onion has become translucent, add ½ cup (63 g) of all-purpose flour to the mixture. Mix it in well so it coats the vegetables, and let the mixture cook for 1 minute to get rid of the raw flour taste.If you want your vegan stew to be gluten-free, substitute your favorite gluten-free flour for the all-purpose flour.
 After you’ve cooked the flour into the vegetable mixture, add 2 cups (473 ml) of vegetable stock to the pot. Mix it in, using your spoon to scrape the bottom of the pot and loosen any browned bits.If you prefer, you can substitute vegetable bouillon dissolved in water for the stock.
 Once you’ve mixed the stock into the pot, add 16 ounces (473 ml) of vegan stout beer, 3 carrots that have been peeled and cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces, 2 parsnips that have been peeled and cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces, 2 ½ cups (565 g) of halved baby potatoes, the roasted mushrooms, ½ cup (115 g) of tomato paste, 2 bay leaves, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried thyme, 2 teaspoons (8 g) of brown sugar, ¾ teaspoon (4 g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground pepper. Mix well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully blended.You can substitute 2 large potatoes cut into chunks for the baby potatoes if you prefer.
You can add other vegetables that you might like, such as turnips, to the stew.
It’s normal for the mixture to foam slightly when you add the beer.
 When all of the ingredients are mixed, lower the heat to medium and bring the mixture to a simmer. Allow it to cook for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the vegetables are all fork-tender.The stew will be extremely thick. If you want to thin it out a bit, you can mix in up to 2 more cups (473 ml) of vegetable stock.
 When the stew is finished cooking, fish the bay leaves out of the pot and discard them. Ladle the stew into bowls, and serve while it’s still hot.You can serve the stew on its own, or spoon it over rice or mashed potatoes.
Your favorite vegan rolls or biscuits pair well with the stew.

