 The four players are split into “attack” and “defense” roles, based on their number, which is indicated on their jerseys.Player 1's primary focus is on scoring goals for the team, which is an offensive position. This player often has the lowest handicap, which refers to the player's skill level.Player 1 also has the responsibility of covering the opposing team's Player 4.Player 2 is also focused on scoring, as an offensive position, but he/she takes on more responsibilities of playing defense than Player 1. Player 2 has to cover the opposing team's Player 3, as well.Player 3 has a multitude of responsibilities, because he/she is typically both the best player on the team and the team captain. Roles include scoring, playing defense, determining strategy, and covering the opposing Player 2.
Player 4's main responsibility is playing defense for the team, and he/she can move anywhere on the field.He/She has to cover the opposing team's Player 1.;
, Polo competition committees exist in each country where the sport is played, and these committees determine both players' and teams' handicaps.


Handicaps range from -2, which refers to beginners, to 10, which refers to highly advanced.Handicaps are referred to in goals, e.g. a team has a handicap of 20 goals.
Polo competition committees use handicaps to assign teams to different levels of play, with low goal polo at a total handicap of -8 to 4, medium goal polo at 4 to 16, and high goal polo at 17 to 40. These levels are further divided to match teams of similar experience levels., Horses used for polo are referred to as “ponies,” although they are usually full-sized horses.


Ponies are allowed to be in the size range of 14.2 hands to 16.0 hands, which is measured at the horse's withers. A hand is measured in four inches, so ponies can be 58 to 64 inches in height.
Ponies should weigh between 900 and 1100 pounds.
Polo ponies are chosen for stamina, agility, maneuverability, and bursts of speed.They are often Thoroughbreds or Thoroughbred crosses.
Polo rules dictate that ponies must be given breaks in the game, so each polo player must have at least 2-3 ponies for low goal polo up to one pony per chukka, or time period, for high goal polo.Ponies can play for a maximum of two non-consecutive chukkas per polo match., Polo has several time periods, as well as mounted umpires and referees.A polo match has 7-minute time periods, which are called chukkas. The overall play time is about an hour-and-a-half to two hours, or 90-120 minutes.
High goal matches have six chukkas.
There are 3-minute breaks given between chukkas, and there is a 15-minute half-time, as well.
Each game has two umpires and a referee, who intervenes when the umpires cannot come to an agreement. There is also a flagman at each goal post who signals when a goal has been scored.
Outdoor polo is played on a field that is 300 yards long by 160 yards wide. Each end of the polo field as an 8-yard wide goal with 10-foot high posts.
 Game play is fairly straightforward, as long as the techniques and rules are understood.Players use a long-handled mallet and play with a small, solid plastic ball.
A polo match begins with a throw-in, which is when an official rolls the ball in between the teams, who are lined up in numerical order opposite of each other (i.e. Player 1 across from Player 4, Player 2 across from Player 3, and so on). Throw-ins also occur when play resumes after a time out.
Right of way in polo refers to the line of the ball while it is in play (i.e. the direction in which the ball is rolling as part of play). The player who last struck the ball has the right of way. Opposing players are allowed to ride alongside the player with right of way, as long as they do not hinder his/her path.
A goal is scored by driving the ball into the opposing team's goal with the mallet. Teams switch end goals after each goal is scored in order to account for wind advantage.
Umpires can call fouls for dangerous riding or improper use of the mallet. Penalties can range from a free hit to a free goal for the opposing team.
Overtime is called “sudden death” and occurs at the end of the last chukka if the two teams are tied. The first team to score wins.,


Players can block an opponent's swing by hooking their mallets. Players can only do this when they are on the same side that the opponent is swinging or if they are directly in front of or behind the opponent.
Ride-offs are allowed at 30-degree angles and at the horse's shoulder. A ride-off is used to break an opponent's concentration by riding alongside him/her, connecting with the opposing horse's shoulder, and and leading the opponent away from the ball.

