 Tongue-tie, or ankyloglossia, is a disorder which restricts the movement of the tongue and makes it difficult for the sufferer to stick his or her tongue out of their mouth. With ankyloglossia, the band of tissue connecting the tip of the tongue to the floor of the mouth (lingual frenulum) is abnormally short resulting in oral complications.You should consider surgery if you or your child have restricted tongue movement due to ankyloglossia.


Ankyloglossia affects more than speech. A person with the condition may also experience problems with oral hygiene, dental health, eating, digestion and sexual function.
Ankyloglossia can be caused by environmental or genetic factors.
Tongue-tie surgery can be performed on children, infants or adults.
Ankyloglossia can negatively affect the ability of an infant to breastfeed.
If you’re the parent of a child with ankyloglossia, surgery is often the best option. In most cases, the lingual frenulum will not stretch or break on its own.
 A lingual frenectomy is the most common procedure performed when the lingual frenulum results in restricted tongue movement. This is a relatively simple procedure in which an oral surgeon uses a pair of sterilized scissors to completely remove the lingual frenulum.


A lingual frenectomy is a short, 10-15 minute operation usually performed with local anesthesia.There aren’t many blood vessels in the lingual frenulum, so discomfort should be minimal during the procedure.
 A lingual frenuloplasty is performed when the lingual frenulum is too thick or additional repair is needed after a lingual frenectomy. A lingual frenuloplasty is a more exact surgery which aims to alter the lingual frenulum without completely removing it.


The goal of lingual frenuloplasty is the same as a lingual frenectomy procedure; both surgeries aim to increase the tongue’s length and range of motion.
A lingual frenuloplasty is done under general anesthesia. Surgical tools are used, and the oral surgeon uses stitches on the resulting wound.
 Postoperative complications associated with a lingual frenectomy and frenuloplasty aren’t usually serious but can include infection, bleeding and nerve damage. Because lingual frenuloplasty surgery is more involved, there are additional risks of scarring and negative reactions to anesthesia.


Both surgeries can be performed using a scalpel or laser. If you have laser surgery to correct your ankyloglossia you won’t need stitches and there is usually less pain and bleeding after surgery.
 Tongue exercises should be performed after surgery to further develop tongue’s muscles, length and range of motion.These exercises include:


Stretching your tongue up to your nose and down to your chin. Repeat this exercise three or four times.
Moving your tongue back and forth across the outside of your top lip.
Closing your mouth and moving your tongue between your right and left cheeks.
Moving your tongue in and out of your mouth several times.

