 Radiation therapy requires multiple visits, but the advantage is that it is not invasive like surgery (i.e. it does not require cutting into you to remove the cancer). There are two types of radiation that are commonly used to treat cervical cancer. The first is called external beam radiation therapy (EBRT), in which the radioactive beams are emitted from a source outside your body and directed toward your cervix and the surrounding area. The second type of radiation therapy is called brachytherapy — rods containing radiation are inserted through the vagina up against the cervix. They are then left there for one to two days and emit local radiation which works to treat the cervical cancer. This is done in the hospital.


Again, the extent of radiation as well as the effectiveness of this mode of treatment depends upon the stage and severity of your cervical cancer.
Radiation treatment can have significant side effects. EBRT may cause fatigue, upset stomach, diarrhea, skin damage, bladder discomfort, vaginal pain, anemia, and menstrual changes (including early menopause). Brachytherapy may cause irritation of the vagina and vulva. Fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, irritation of the bladder, and low blood counts may also occur.Long-term effects of radiation treatment may include vaginal scarring, which may make vaginal sex painful. You may also experience vaginal dryness, swelling of the legs, and it may weaken your bones.
Radiation is most commonly combined with chemotherapy. This is because, for cervical cancer, the combination of radiation and chemotherapy is synergistic and provides significant additional benefit (rather than simply opting for one or the other).
 This can be a very effective mode of treatment, because the chemotherapy has what is called a "sensitizing effect" on the tissues on and around the cervix. What this means is that the tissues then become more susceptible to the radiation, and it is as such that the combined modality of treatment gains its synergistic effect.
 Unfortunately, many of the most effective methods for treating cervical cancer can have deleterious effects on one's future ability to have children. As a result, your doctor may recommend that you freeze some of your eggs prior to undergoing treatment such as radiation, so that the eggs do not become damaged due to the treatment.


Most women will need to have a surrogate carry the pregnancy if they freeze their eggs.

