 Not always but often and when able to fix barriers. It may seem like wasting time in higher levels, but if you repair the barriers then that means less zombies that are swarming you at a time, plus they give you ten extra points for every one you repair.;
, The starting weapons on the wall aren't all that great. You typically have 2 choices, the M14, a semi-automatic rifle with low damage, and the Olympia, a double-barreled shotgun with moderately low damage. One other starting weapon is the Ballista, featured in Origins. This is a bolt-action sniper rifle with moderate damage and iron sights. None of these guns will last you more than the first 5 rounds, 6 or 7 if you're good.
 Let's face it, you aren't going to get by by buying the guns on the walls and using your pistol, you are going to have to use the mystery box at least once. However, don't use it too much or you are going to be wondering how you got stuck in the hole. To spot the mystery box, look for a blue light straight into the air.
 Locate parts and build things such as the Zombie Shield, which protects you from behind, or the head chopper, which helps with killing zombies. Build things on benches closest to where you will be for most of the game. Remember that you are vulnerable while building, so make sure the coast is clear or that your teammates have your back before building.
 Headshots are the most efficient way to kill zombies. If you go for gut shots, you are going to waste a lot more ammo than you would if you tried to shoot them in the head.
 Unless you are just starting out, knifing is too unreliable and most of the time that is how you are going to die. However, if you are on the first round or you are low on ammo or points, you can shoot them for around 5 times then knife them, giving you even more points. You can use the Galvaknuckles (TranZit, Buried, Nuketown, and Die Rise) or Thunderfists (which are only on Origins), because both are one hit kill until round 13. Before round 13, you're going to want to make the most of them to conserve ammo!

, Fighting off swarms is a lot easier when you are doing it with four people and they can revive you if you go down.
 These are especially useful in the higher levels or if you have a light machine gun or sub machine gun. You can easily kill off dozens of them in a tight space if you are getting low on health.
 Perks give you boosts in stats in exchange for stats, ranging anywhere from 500 to 4000 points. In normal play, you can have a maximum of 4 perks at a time. On some maps however, such as Buried, you may have as many perks as you can get via the Wonderfizz machine. Arguably the top 4 picks for perks are:

Juggernog
Speed Cola
Double-tap Root Beer
Stamin-Up (if playing solo. If playing with a team, get Quick Revive instead). Also, avoid Mule Kick because if you get down, you lose a weapon and 4000 points.
 Pack-a-Punching any weapon costs 5000 points. Doing so refills the ammo and adds buffs to the weapon, along with giving it different colored bullets. Due to the high price, it is recommended you only Pack-a-Punch high-tier weapons such as the Ray Gun or Galil., Learning make a train is a simple and very effective way to avoid getting overwhelmed. By constantly moving in a roughly circular manner you will cause to zombies to follow you and bunch up as they all try to take roughly the same path. When making a train, only kill zombies that you cannot avoid and are directly in your way as stopping to deal with stragglers can allow the swarm to catch up to you and surround you. To eliminate the train, wait until there are no zombies coming at you from the front, then turn and fire. Be careful not to stand still for too long or zombies may start converging on you from all sides as the new ones spawn in to replace the ones killed., For example, get the Paralyzer gun in Buried in Bo2, and use it wisely. It stuns enemies and freezes them, while killing them, if held on for a while. It has unlimited ammo, and it can allow you to fly. Aim it down and shoot and jump at the same time to fly (temporarily, so make sure your near your destination.) On that map, the Paralyzer can be used to avoid opening doors, skipping the maze, and flying over obstacles.