 Debating on a team of two or more can improve your teamwork abilities. Working with partners provides you with a wealth of knowledge and research you can continue to use in your future debates.Try your hand at a policy debate. This is a two-on-two format in which your team debates a topic that is fixed by the NSDA throughout the year. This will test your research skills and your overall grit, and is popular with high school students trying to get into competitive colleges.
Try World Schools debate. This is an National Speech and Debate Association (NSDA) approved debate style where teams argue three to three. Topics are both fixed and impromptu, and the style is highly interactive, with teams asking questions even during speeches.
 One on one debate is a great choice for aspiring lawyers and people who prefer to work alone.



Check out Lincoln-Douglas Debates. For this 45 minute debate, you will debate a topic chosen by the NSDA. This debate involves extensive research prior to the debate, but research is not allowed during.
Explore Extemporaneous Debate. For a fast-paced and exciting experience, try extemporaneous debate. You will be told your topic and your stance (pro or con) half an hour before the debate begins, and will have to research and form your argument within that time. The entire debate lasts only 20 minutes., One fun way to prepare for a political future (or just interact with many other debaters) is to do a debate that simulates a real political decision making process.



Do Congressional Debate. Congressional debate is a popular NSDA format that follows the conventions of the United States legislature. Ten to twenty-five debaters participate, and an elected presiding officer runs the show. At the end, everyone votes to pass or block a resolution.
Check out British Parliamentary Debate. This format is popular in academic settings and is used worldwide. It consists of four teams of two, two of which represent proposition and two opposition. One speaker represents each team, meaning the actual debate is still two-on-two.