 While the SAT was originally conceived as a test that you couldn’t study for, those days are long gone. Both the SAT and ACT are predicated on significant preparation by test-takers, and are not conducive to “cramming” or “binge” studying. Don’t start preparing the night before, or the week before; give yourself several weeks if not months to properly and methodically prepare.By starting your preparation early, you can pace yourself, working on a single section for perhaps an hour per day. This can help prevent you from feeling overwhelmed by the totality of the preparation required.
Thorough preparation need not break the bank, even though there are tutoring and other options that can set you back hundreds or even thousands of dollars. Look for free preparation resources on the official exam websites and elsewhere, then consider paid options as needed.;
, It doesn’t need to be an either/or situation — many people take both the SAT and ACT exams. However, if you need or want to focus on taking just one, consider the differences in the exams and decide which is better suited to your strengths.


Some people consider the ACT to be more user-friendly and straightforward, and thus somewhat less stressful. Another new version of the SAT is being unveiled in 2016 to supposedly address some of these concerns (and deal with falling behind the ACT in terms of market share).The ACT is an achievement test, meant to measure what you learned in school, is longer (with 5 sections), and is completely multiple choice except for the optional writing test. You are not penalized for wrong answers. The SAT is still more of an aptitude test, meant to determine your reasoning and verbal abilities. It has three sections, including a (now optional) writing component, and penalizes wrong answers., To become a better foul shooter in basketball, you take lots of practice free throws. To get ready for your high school musical, you run through your part over and again. To get ready for the SAT or ACT, you should take numerous and frequent practice tests. This is the best way to familiarize yourself with the content, format, and “feel” of taking these exams.Practice test books and websites abound for both the SAT and ACT. Look for free practice tests on the official websites.Over time, try to increasingly replicate the test-day experience while taking practice tests. Time yourself closely, and take the practice test at a time of day and location that approximates the conditions in which you will take the actual exam.
 Some people seem to have a knack for taking standardized tests, while others seem to naturally struggle with them (even if they have the same command of the material). No matter where you fit on this scale, plotting out a test-taking strategy tailored to either the SAT or ACT will help you to answer as many questions as possible as effectively as possible.No matter whether you are taking the SAT or ACT, never leave "easy" questions (ones to which you know the answer) blank. Answer them right away, then circle back to tougher questions as time allows. Use a process of elimination for tougher questions; if you can rule out even two possible answers, you will significantly improve your odds of making an "educated guess."
Because the SAT penalizes wrong answers, you should skip over questions you aren't sure about and return to them at the end of the section, after you've answered all the other questions. If you can eliminate answers and make it a "50/50" guess, go ahead and answer. If not, leave it blank and move on.
The ACT doesn't penalize wrong answers, so you should never leave any question blank. Follow the same process as the SAT, but leave yourself enough time to at least fill in your "best guess" (or just a random guess) for every question. You're bound to get at least a few of them right and improve your score.
 Exams like the SAT and ACT are stressful in part because so much feels out of your control. Should I study this, or that? Will it ask these questions, or those ones? This relates to what some experts call the N.U.T.S. model of stress — which stands for Novelty, Unpredictability, Threat to self or ego, and Sense of control that is lacking. The more of these conditions that are present, the more stress you are likely to feel.You can’t control what topics will be covered or which specific questions will be asked on the exam. You can, however, exert full control over your preparation, giving you a sense of agency and confidence that can reduce your stress. Make a plan. Create a schedule. Stick to it. Remove as much of the “N.U.T.S.” as you can.
 No matter how well you prepare beforehand, you’re going to wake up the morning of the test feeling nervous and anxious. Don’t add unnecessary stress about choosing what to wear or finding your identification or calculator to the mix. Avoid whatever stress you can so you can focus on managing the stress you can’t avoid.Lay out your clothes, making comfort your priority. Pack your bag, making sure you have everything on your checklist (confirm what you need for test day on the official SAT or ACT website(s)). Know exactly how you’re going to get to exactly where you need to be at exactly the right time to take the test.
 Studying instead of sleeping the night before the test will do more harm than good. Adequate sleep reduces stress levels and will increase energy and focus for test day. Prepare your body to function at peak capacity instead of trying to squeeze in one more practice exam or review session.Try to eat a hearty, healthy breakfast that will give you steady energy through the testing period. If you are too nervous to eat much, try to have several smaller (healthy) snacks. Drink lots of water as well, so that you remain hydrated.
 It is very important that you fully comprehend the specific instructions for each section of either the SAT or ACT exam. However, every moment you spend on test day carefully reading over instructions could be used for answering questions during what is in both cases a strictly timed test. Thankfully, while you can’t find the specific questions beforehand, you can find and thoroughly read over the section instructions before you walk into the testing center.Go to the official SAT and/or ACT websites to access the instructions ahead of time.
This is another way to decrease uncertainty and increase your sense of control over the test, which will help to alleviate some of your stress.
 These tests take several hours, and every minute counts. There are multiple scheduled breaks between sections, so be ready to maximize your use of these windows to rest and recharge. Also have a plan ready for when you need a mini “brain break” (for just a few seconds) while taking the test.


For instance, practice a quick breathing exercise you can use anytime on exam day. Close your eyes, inhale slowly and deeply, hold for a beat, then release slowly and fully. Repeat three times, and see how much more relaxed and focused you feel.You will probably need a few little “eye breaks” from time to time while staring intently at your exam. Look away for a second, stare off into space (but not in the direction of someone else’s exam!), and take one or two deep breaths. Then refocus your eyes and mind on the exam., No matter how well you prepare, you will feel some stress during the exam. Some of it is unavoidable, but much of it can be avoided if you keep things in the proper perspective.


For example, you may feel as though you are competing against the other people taking the exam, and worry if they seem to be finishing faster than you. Remember that their scores have absolutely no bearing upon yours. Imagine that each person in the room is taking a completely different test if that helps. Focus only on yourself and your exam.Don't rush through the questions, unless the section period is about to end and you have blank questions remaining (especially with the ACT, which doesn't penalize wrong answers). Train yourself to keep a quick but steady pace. Use your training and especially your practice exams to establish this pace.Keep reminding yourself that the test is important, but it's not "life or death." SAT or ACT scores are not the "be all, end all" when it comes to college choices and your life going forward. They are but one facet of the portfolio you are building., During exam preparation or another stressful scenario, you can ensnare yourself in a vicious cycle. Stress makes it harder for you to sleep and less interested in eating healthy meals, which in turn makes your body more susceptible to stress, which in turn further impairs your sleeping and eating patterns, and so on. A healthy body can manage stress much more effectively, so you must prioritize eating right, sleeping enough, and exercising often.As a teen, set aside 8-10 hours for sleep each night. Adequate sleep gives you energy, focus, and a positive outlook, while inadequate sleep increases your stress hormone levels.
Get 30-60 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise each day. Schedule small exercise breaks into your study sessions. Regular exercise improves your mood and reduces stress levels.
Eat healthy, balanced meals, with lots of fresh fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains. This will provide steady energy and focus. Resist the temptation for supposed “comfort foods” like sugary drinks or fatty fast food. These will provide only a temporary boost, followed by a crash.
See this wikiHow article for more on making healthy choices and other ways to reduce stress as a teen.
 When you’re stressed out about a big event like an SAT or ACT exam, you may feel like any waking moment not directed toward preparation is wasted time. You have to remember, however, that you’re not a machine. For your emotional, mental, and physical health, you have to set aside time each day for relaxing, enjoyable, stress-relieving activities.Listen to music. Read a book. Take a walk. Talk to a friend. Bake cookies. Find time for a favorite hobby, or try out a new one. Find what makes you calm, relaxed, and happy, and make some time for it.
 Some people get the greatest stress reduction impact out of activities specifically intended to have a calming effect. It can be as simple as deep breathing exercises, or as complex as advanced yoga poses. Even breaks of 5-10 minutes, or perhaps a half-hour, can have a significant stress reduction effect.



How to Relieve Stress provides a nice introductory discussion of calming techniques like meditation, yoga, deep breathing, mindfulness, spirituality, and others.

Keeping a journal is also an easy and effective way to deal with stress. The simple act of writing down how you feel and what you are thinking can help you better manage a stressful situation such as SAT or ACT preparation.
 You have to take the SAT or ACT tests alone, but you don’t have to prepare for them — or deal with the stress they cause — on your own. Seek out good listeners and people you can trust, and talk about your you general test anxieties, the specific areas of the test in which you feel less confident, and so on. Like writing, talking about your stress can help you to better recognize and manage the situation.Don’t be afraid to seek out the help of a trusted teacher, a guidance counselor, or a professional therapist if you are feeling overwhelmed by your stress. Seek out people with experience dealing with your type of situation, so that they can provide you with specific advice regarding how to manage SAT / ACT stress.

