 Many parents are incredibly patient. Others are not patient at all. If you want to ask for something, know exactly what that something is. If you fumble over your words, your parent might grow impatient, which will reduce your chances of success.


Be able to justify your side. Do you want to borrow the car this weekend? Why do you need to borrow the car? Why should your interests be taken into consideration? Consider these questions before you broach the subject with your parents, because they will most certainly ask.;
, If research will help you make your point, do it. Ask others for their advice. Research specific materials online concerning your point. For example, if you want a new iPhone, iPad, or any other Mac product, be able to tell your parents why you want that specific product. Does it run faster than any other device? Does it offer specific features that will help you in school, work, or life in general?

, If you know that your parents care about one thing more than another, be sure to anticipate those preferences. If your parents have been hounding you about your grades for weeks and you want to get a new laptop, stress how the purchase will help you earn better grades. If your parents want you to get a better job, stress how a new car will help you get to your future job.Remember that your parents want to see you happy, but they also want to see their ideals in your life choices. Find a middle ground between your desires and your parents' ideals.
 Sometimes you’ll think that no one in their right mind will disagree with your point, but there are always counter points to consider. If you know your audience (or your parents), you'll probably be able to guess what concerns they'll have. Think about how to reduce opposition. Most likely, you’ll have to gradually chip away at their defenses.


One way to reduce your parent’s opposition to your request is to meet them halfway. If you want a new car, offer to match their funds. If your parents pay $X towards your new vehicle, you’ll match it. If your parents are willing to pay for the car, you’ll gladly pay for insurance and gas costs., This sounds strange, but everyone is susceptible to different types of argumentation. Some parents will succumb to shows of emotion. If you cry when you ask for something, they’ll be overcome with empathy. They just want to make you feel better and will give in immediately. Others want to feel like a hero. Make these parents feel like they are saving you in some way and they’ll give in. Other parents are simply self-interested. For these parents, you’ll have to find ways of bargaining with them.

