 Either before you graduate from college or immediately thereafter, you will want to take and pass the FE exam offered by the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES). This is a computer-administered test that assesses your general engineering knowledge. Doing well on this exam is the first step toward professional licensing.The exam is composed of 110 multiple-choice questions. It takes six hours to complete. Your results are usually available for online viewing about a week or so after you take the exam. You can learn more about the testing details by visiting the NCEES website.
It is a good idea to study for this exam for a few months in advance, at least. You can find study guides, practice exams and reference handbooks via the NCEES website and via third party providers., After you pass the FE exam, you must spend at least four years working under the supervision of a practicing engineer before you can apply for your own professional license. This period is often called an “apprenticeship” or internship, even if you work at a ‘traditional’ engineering job.As you consider your employment options you may want to look into the power utilities industry, health monitoring or medical technology, the defense industry, or manufacturing.Before you apply for a job you will need to craft a detailed resume showcasing your education and work experience. Include all of your relevant professional activities from college onward.
 Carry a small notebook with you and jot down the details of each task performed. Or, spend 10 minutes every night at your computer updating a log containing your day’s activities. This log will help you to recount 4+ years’ worth of professional development, which you are required to do as part of most applications for licensing.For each project, your work log should contain: contact information for any other engineers or professionals involved; a detailed description of the project; the official job title; a list of the tasks that you completed.
 As you complete various projects, try to make connections with other engineers. Talk to them about their experiences and work. Discuss research or advances in electrical technologies. You can even get involved with the NCEES as a volunteer, perhaps as a FE exam proctor.Check the NCEES website under the “New” tab for information on volunteer opportunities. You can also contact them directly via email to check on any upcoming events.
 Being informed regarding your field is another important step on the road to becoming a true professional electrical engineer. Go to the website of your state’s licensing board and look for discussions of licensing changes or other news. Read the board’s newsletter, if they publish one, and consider writing an article for submission.The NCEES also publishes an annual report that can provide you with some insight regarding how that organization operates. And, the newsletter Squared serves as the official statistical record of engineering licensing., Spend some time thinking about your strengths and weaknesses as an engineer. Take on engineering jobs that will help you to continue your professional development. Stay fresh in your math skills by taking practice tests every now and then. Work on your technical writing skills by exchanging drafts with other professionals.