 All authentic Gucci belts come in a gift bag. The bag should be a dark brown color with the double G logo (one backwards capital G facing another capital G) printed all over the surface of the bag, excluding the bottom of the bag’s interior.There should also be a dark brown string on top that can be tied to keep the product from falling out.;
, All authentic Gucci belts should come in a dust bag. The bag should be dark in color and have the brand name “GUCCI” in yellow gold letters in the center of the bag. There should be a drawstring, with only one string, in the top right corner of the dust bag.There should also be a tag on the inside of the dust bag that says “Gucci Made in Italy.” If this is missing, your belt is probably fake.
 If you ordered your Gucci belt from anywhere other than a Gucci store or retailer, you should ask for the original receipt as proof of purchase. This will help alleviate any worries you have about the authenticity of the belt.A receipt for an authentic belt should have the Gucci name at the top, the address of a verifiable Gucci store or outlet (including contact information), and the description/price of the belt in question.
 The stitching on a Gucci belt should be literally perfect. Not nearly perfect – actually perfect. You are paying for the high quality that this designer brand is known for. Each stitch should be straight across (not slanted) and exactly the same size as every other stitch.If there are noticeable mistakes in the stitching, you should consider that it is probably a fake Gucci belt.
 Authentic Gucci belts are made with perfect craftsmanship. If you notice any fraying of the materials on the belt, it is almost certainly a fake. This is especially true if you buy a “new” Gucci belt and it arrives with some fraying.If you notice any imperfections in the materials, this is a sign that you probably have a fake belt on your hands.
 Fake Gucci belts often have clip on belt buckles, whereas authentic Gucci belt buckles are typically soldered onto the larger portion of the belt. None of the models of authentic Gucci belts include a button holding the belt buckle in place.Some models have screws on the back of the belt buckle, while others don’t. You’ll need to check the specifics of each model.
 Authentic Gucci belts have a stamp on the inside portion of the belt, whereas this feature will be missing on their fake counterparts. In some newer belts, the stamp is near the buckle, while some of the older belts stamp the belt toward the center, length-wise.

The stamp should say the brand name, “Made in Italy,” and include an identifying number., An authentic Gucci serial number should be 21 digits long. Typically, the number should begin with “114” or “223.”

If your number begins with “1212,” it is definitely a fake. This is a common serial number given to fake Gucci belts.
 For this belt, the beginning of the pattern should start with two Gs; it should not be cut off in the middle or begin at any other point in the pattern. There should be no screws in the hardware of the belt buckle. The background of the belt should be beige, but the GG design should be blue. The inside of the belt should be black leather.For every two GG patterns, there should a hold for the belt buckle inside the second G.
 On this belt, the buckle is comprised of a regular G and an upside down G. The normal G has a matte finish, while the upside down G should have a metallic black finish. The inside of the belt should be a suede material. The “double G” logo should be perfectly printed over the entirety of the belt.This model should have screws on the back side of the belt buckle. Inspect the back of the belt buckle and see if there are noticeable screws.
 The size of the belt should be included in the serial number, and not imprinted anywhere else on the belt – fakes often have the size printed on the leather of the non-buckle end. The stitching should include the “double G” logo printed all over the entire belt. The inside of the belt is suede.

This belt, as with all of the other authentic Gucci belts, should not have a button holding the belt buckle in place. This is a clear sign of a fake.

