 Choose a good place for keeping the Pokémon on display where it is easily seen and enjoyed. There are some things to watch out for, and these include:


Try to keep the figure at eye level, so that it's easy to spot.
Do not place it in direct sunlight. Over time, this will fade the colors and may cause the materials to become brittle.
Do not place the figure near direct heat. It may melt or become misshapen.
Choose a place where it won't be taken by younger siblings or pets. Younger children may play with it roughly, while pets may leave teeth or claw marks on it.;
, If the Pokémon figure gets dusty, simply wipe off the dust with a damp cleaning cloth or use a feather duster. If the Pokémon gets dirty, use a simple solution of warm soapy water and a soft dish sponge to wipe marks off it.


If the figure gets a stain on it, work out what sort of stain it is, then look up a remedy for that type of stain, on plastic/vinyl figures.
 If you're not going to be displaying or playing with your Pokémon figure, keep it in a safe place out of harm's way. Put it inside a container or storage box, wrapped in tissue paper. Keep it away from sharp objects that might mark it. Also be careful not to store it next to anything that might leak onto the figure and stain it, such as markers or nail polish. As with displaying the figure, keep it stored away from heat. A cool, dry environment is the best bet.


If storing a set of Pokémon figures, reserve a shoebox or similar small box to put them all in. Line it with soft foam and tissue paper, then wrap the figures individually in tissue paper. Carefully arrange them in the box. Add the lid, to keep the dust off. Store as above.
 In terms of keeping its value, you might like to keep any cards, instructions, packaging and related items for future purposes. The figure isn't worth much now but in 50 years time, when there are less of them around, someone might be keen for a Pokémon figure with all of its related items.
 Build a little house from a box, a recycled plastic bottle, a yogurt bottle or similar small items. Be sure to include windows and a door, and some furniture inside, such as a bed for the Pokémon to sleep on.


If you have more than one figure, make a village for them.
 If you, your friends, or family have any Pokémon figures, challenge them to battle! Pick your Pokémon's moves to use in battle, acknowledging that there is a limit of four moves a Pokémon can know at any one time, so choose wisely!


Also match the moves with the types. A Kangaskhan can't know razor shell, for example.
 If you have a lot of the same Pokémon figures, or you simply can't pronounce or remember its original name, you can give it a nickname.
 That's the best part! You could:


Give it a birthday
Watch its favorite shows together
Give it gifts for Christmas or Hanukkah (whatever you celebrate)
Include it in special occasions
Take it on vacations
Let it have "playdates" with your friend's Pokémon.

