 Make sure that when you are contacting a record label you are sending them the absolute best quality you can produce. Record executives listen to hundreds of new artists each week. In order to get noticed, your demo must be flawless and able to stand out in a crowd.Record your demo with quality equipment. While music executives don't expect flawless sound quality and mixing from an unsigned band, you want your talent to show through. If you don't know someone with a home recording studio, try to rent out an affordable professional space. If you're a college student, your school's radio station can also be a great resource.
Focus on original work, not cover songs. Too many bands play cover songs because that's what bar patrons want to hear. You need your demo to show your creativity and songwriting ability. Boring covers will do neither.
If you do decide to include a cover song, make sure it's innovative and memorable. Adapt it to a radically different genre and/or play with the lyrics.
Get outside feedback before contacting a label. It's often difficult to evaluate your work realistically. Friends and family are also poor judges. Try playing your demo for acquaintances and lower level industry professionals and ask their honest opinions.
 Reach out to recently-signed recording artists for insight into who to contact at the label. Having a contact with someone already involved at the label will increase your chances of being noticed.Unless your contact is particularly close to both you and the artist, this tactic will probably only work if your music is in a similar genre.
Invite the artist to your shows. If the artist is local, don't be afraid to send him or her an invitation. Remember that the artist probably got into the industry over a love of music and will appreciate the work of other entertainers.
Send artists your press kit and ask for feedback on your music. If they respond, they are more likely to give you helpful, honest feedback than most other sources.
Ask for tips on how they were able to get signed. Even with the Internet, there is plenty of insider information not freely available to the average person. Additionally, a lot of common advice is out of date. A recently-signed artist can provide the most accurate and reliable information out there.
 Many big labels are bombarded with hundreds of demo tapes daily. If you want yours to stand out, send it with a gift or in an unusual way.


Tweet a link to your demo to the record company and ask fans to share the tweet.
Include a small piece of art or sculpture related to your band in some way.
 It may be easier to let the record label come to you by performing at shows like a battle of the bands. Talent scouts will often attend events where they can see lots of bands in one show.Play at large festivals and conferences. Some events require a solid application, while others are invitation only. Regardless, it's a good idea to put together a professional press kit that includes videos of live shows. Pay special attention to industry-focused events, as these are where there will be a high concentration of record executives.

