 For the purposes of this tutorial, we’ll be working with a standard, rectangular greeting card. A square card works, but different dimensions apply.


If the card has writing on it that you want to cover up on the inside, simply glue down a piece of paper over it. It will be the bottom of your box that won’t be seen once filled.
 This will be your box bottom. It needs to be just ever so slightly smaller than your box top as the box top needs to fits over it.
 This makes a sort of tic-tac-toe shape, where the center row is wider than the top and bottom. Do this on both halves of your greeting card.


If you don’t have a paper cutter, you can use a ruler and a bone cutter or even an empty ballpoint pen. Essentially this just ensures a perfectly even fold line.
 Rotating around and around, fold on each score line like it’s going to be a side of your box (which it will). Do this on both halves of the card.


Do your best to fold perfectly straight along the lines. If the folds are off, your box won’t be even and it likely won’t fit together as well as you’d like.
 Since we’re dealing with a rectangle shape, place it in front of you the long way – you’ll then make cuts on the right and left. Make these cuts where the score lines intersect. Again, the cuts should be on the short end of the card halves.


There should be two on each side – an inch from the bottom and an inch from the top. This calls for 8 cuts (4 for each half), which creates four “tabs.” These are how your box halves will fit together.
 Just a small dab will do it; too much and it’ll flow over the tab and into your box. Make sure it’s on the outside (the pretty side), as the outside will connect to the inside of the bigger flap. Do this on each card 4 times.


Alternatively, you can use double-sided tape. Try to stay away from regular tape as this adds bulk to the sides of your card and can keep it from fitting together and looking clean and put-together.
 Along the creased score lines, fold up the sides of each half of the card. Make sure the tabs are on the inside of the box, with the glue between the tab and the other flap.


Press the tabs into the side and hold them for a few seconds, holding them together. Make sure the tabs directly line up with the edge of newly-formed box.
 With glue on the tabs, fold up the sides, forming the box half. Press the tabs into the side of the box, securing them together with the glue.


Place the box top over the box bottom; it should fit snugly. The only task left is to fill it!

