 There are many agencies in Pennsylvania that are licensed by the state to provide adoption services.


The Pennsylvania Department of Human Services oversees the Statewide Adoption and Permanency Network (SWAN), which includes county children and youth agencies, private adoption agencies, and others working to find permanent homes for children in Pennsylvania.You can use SWAN to find an agency to use to adopt a child. SWAN also offers support groups and other resources after you've finalized the adoption.;
, Most agencies will require you to attend an orientation before you apply to adopt a child.


The orientation session will provide basic information about the application and adoption process.
The agency will charge you a fee for adoption, which varies among agencies. The fee is paid by the state if you are adopting a child with at least moderate challenges, a child over the age of 10, or a sibling group of children. If you do have to pay fees up front, a portion of those fees may be refunded after the child is placed in your home., Typically the application asks for information about your family composition, background, and criminal record.


As part of the application, you must disclose information about your education, employment, and finances as well as personal references and a doctor's statement certifying your basic health.When you complete the application, the agency will conduct an initial screening and background check. If any member of your household has been named as a child abuse perpetrator, convicted of a drug- or alcohol-related felony within the past five years, or been convicted of certain sexual or violent crimes, the agency will reject your application.Not only must prospective parents complete background checks, but also anyone living in the household who is over 18 years of age. These background checks include state and federal criminal background checks, certification from the statewide child abuse registry, and a full set of fingerprints., The adoption professional will ask you questions and compile your family profile based on your responses to those questions.


Your family profile will be used to match you with the child that would best fit into your family. The agency worker will ask questions about why you want to adopt, your previous experiences with children, and your background and life experiences.The home study also provides an opportunity for you to ask questions and prepare yourself for the adoption process. For example, you might want to learn what challenges are involved in caring for a child with special needs, or find out what kind of resources are available to assist you.At least one of the meetings must occur in your home. The agency worker will assess your home and conduct a safety check of your home and the resources and room you have available for a child.The social worker identifies your strengths as a parent and matches those strengths to the needs of a particular child who is waiting to be adopted.The pre-adoptive home study and pre-placement report must be completed within three years of the date the child is placed in your home, and must have been updated within a year of the date the child is placed in your home., Pennsylvania requires adoptive parents to complete parental preparation training before they can adopt a child.The state recommends completing at least 24 hours, although the specific number of hours may differ depending on the agency you choose to assist you in finding a child., The PAE routinely reviews family profiles and alerts agencies when a possible match is found.


If a possible agency is found, your social worker will contact you and provide information about the child, his family background, intellectual ability, age, and any special needs or concerns the child may have., When a county agency makes a tentative match, it will schedule a meeting so you can spend time with the child.


An adoption worker will observe your interactions with the child and see how you work together.
The worker may talk to you and to the child separately before making a decision whether the suggested match is best both for the child and for your family.
 If the tentative match is approved by the agency, the child can move into your home with you.
 In the first six months or so the child lives with you, an adoption worker will make regular visits to evaluate the relationship and offer any necessary assistance.


The supervised period lasts from three to six months. If you are a foster parent and have already had the child placed in your home as a foster child prior to adoption, you may have a shorter supervised period. However, the child must live in your home for at least six months total before the adoption can be finalized., If the agency offers any free parenting or adoption programs, you should take advantage of these resources.


You also may be able to find support groups and other resources either through your agency or on SWAN., If your placement continues to be positive after the first six months or so, you may petition the court to make the adoption final.You must file a "Report of Intent to Adopt" with the court at the point the child is placed with you for adoption. You might consider hiring an attorney to help you fill out and file this form so you don't make any mistakes.Your report must be filed with the Orphans' Court in your county within 30 days of the day the child is placed with you. The report includes information about you, your family, the child, and the agency arranging for the placement., Before the court can finalize the adoption, it must make sure the child is legally free to be adopted and that the agency with custody consents to the adoption.Within six months of the date that you filed your Report of Intent to Adopt, the social worker or other staff member of your adoption agency must file a Report of the Intermediary, which includes information about the child, you, and the social worker's interactions and observations with the child placed in your home.You also must negotiate with your adoption agency and file the resulting Adoption Subsidy Agreement. This agreement specifies ongoing financial and educational support for the child, including any reimbursement of adoption fees or other expenses related to the adoption process., After you've completed all legal obligations, you may file a petition and request a hearing to finalize the adoption decision., At the final hearing, the judge will review information about the child's placement and approve the adoption.The court holds hearings regarding the termination of birth parents' rights, then schedules a final hearing to review the Petition for Adoption.When you attend your hearing, you must present to the court a positive home study as well as copies of your fingerprints and criminal record histories.