 It has been well documented that a cluttered home can lead to stress. The simplest and perhaps most effective way to lower stress through housecleaning is by focusing on organizing your clutter. Adjust your cleaning routine so that you always tackle cluttered belongings before tasks like sweeping and vacuuming. This will allow you to maximize the stress-reducing benefit of your cleaning efforts.;
, There are several ways in which regimented housecleaning can save you money, and lowered financial obligations can reduce your stress. For example, a messy kitchen might be leading you to eat out more often than you can afford. You may also find yourself replacing items that are not actually missing because you simply can't find them. Finally, a disorganized home can cause you to be late paying bills - either because you can't find the bills or forgot about them entirely.
 A simple way to turn housecleaning into a more enjoyable and relaxing experience is to listen to music. The music does not have to be calm, quiet, and "Zen like," either. Even if you are listening to loud rock music while cleaning, if you are in a better mood your stress level will decrease.
 Housecleaning, if approached correctly, can provide the stress-reducing benefits of physical activity. While scrubbing floors and trekking up and down stairs can normally seem like drudgery, it can produce a different effect if embraced as exercise. Physical activity releases stress-relieving endorphins in your body, and housecleaning can fill this role as easily as exercise at the gym.
 If you are using cleaning products with strong chemical odors, you may want to stop. Using natural products that are scented botanically can help you to relieve stress as a kind of aromatherapy. Look specifically for a line of cleaning products available in a single, unifying scent.
 If you are having trouble experiencing housecleaning as stress relief in itself, you can try using other stress-reducing tactics while you clean. For example, deliberate and slow breathing is a helpful technique for relieving stress. Drinking mood-boosting beverages like tea during cleaning may also help.

