 Teachers expect you to be on time to class. Everyone is late occasionally, but making a habit of being late will definitely upset your teacher. It makes them feel like you don’t care about the class and don’t respect their time. On the occasions when you are late, apologize to your teacher sincerely and come into class as quietly as possible.


Don’t interrupt the teacher in the middle of a lesson by bursting in late and making a lot of noise.
This distracts the other students and will no doubt irritate the teacher, as well. It is an open display of disrespect.
 Greet your teacher with a smile whenever you see them. Say “please” and “thank you” whenever you interact with them. Refer to them as “ma’am” or “sir” when appropriate. When you use their last name, always say the proper “Ms.” “Mrs.” or “Mr.” in front of it. Never raise your voice at your teacher when you’re upset. Speak in a calm voice and use proper grammar.


For example, “Yes sir, Mr. Smith, I did my homework.” Another example, “May I please go to the restroom, Ms. Roberts? Thank you.”
Don’t use slang or speak roughly. Never laugh at or make fun of your teachers.
Be sincere. Avoid trying to be the teacher’s pet or acting artificially towards them. Teachers usually see through that act quickly., Raise your hand, ask questions and try to learn the material as best as you can. When appropriate, take notes during class. Taking notes will help you stay focused. When homework is assigned, write it down. Avoid putting your head down on your desk, writing notes to your friends or drifting off. Give the teacher your full attention.


If you have a cell phone or tablet with you, don’t take it out and use it during a lesson.It’s best to keep electronic devices put away during class. When you have them out, it can be very tempting to use them.
 This can be as simple as holding the door open for your teacher when they have their hands full or helping them pick up objects that have been knocked over. Offer to pass out worksheets to the class or pick up everyone's tests.


If your teacher needs a quick errand done, such as making more copies of an assignment, offer to do it.
Being helpful in little ways is a great way to be nice to your teachers.
 If you have a question or something to say, always raise your hand and wait until your teacher addresses you. Raising your hand and then blurting something out without waiting for your teacher’s acknowledgement is just as bad as not raising your hand at all.


Avoid asking your teacher silly or pointless questions when you raise your hand. If you have something to say, be succinct – try not to waste any class time.If you have a question that’s not related to the lesson, try to wait until the end of class to ask.
 If you need a refresher, look for the handout you were given at the beginning of the year. Make sure you follow these rules exactly.If you see one of your friends breaking a rule in class, try to get them to stop.
Do whatever you can to help your fellow classmates follow the rules, too.

