 When you are with your boyfriend, try to touch him more than you normally do. This will help make him more comfortable with touching you and he will feel more confident about holding your hand if he is nervous.Try touching his arm when you laugh at his jokes. Or you could give him a shoulder massage if you think he looks tense. You can even try giving him a high five just to start breaking the touch barrier.
This kind of touching is appropriate when you are hanging out with your boyfriend socially. You might not want to try this much at school, at church, or in front of your parents.
Be careful not to touch him too much or he may become uncomfortable.;
, This is a great way to initiate touch and let your boyfriend know that you want him to return the touch. Just reach over and link your arm through his when you are walking or sitting next to each other.This kind of action is appropriate when the two of you are alone. But try to remember to let go of his arm if another person approaches you – especially one of his friends – because it might make it seem like you want to be alone.
 Much of what we communicate isn’t spoken with words alone. Body language is very important in letting someone know what we think or feel. Show your boyfriend that you want him to hold your hand by using your body language to your advantage.Make sure to maintain open body language. This means not crossing your arms in front of your body or putting your purse directly on your lap.
Try to make eye contact with him whenever possible. This will let him know you are interested and help him feel connected to you.
Imitate his body language when possible. If he leans in, you should lean in as well. This will help your boyfriend feel like you understand him.
 When you two are sitting down next to each other put your hand next to his. Try to put your hand so close that you are almost touching, but not quite. This should be a good hint that you want to hold hands with him.If you can, try to put your hand palm up next to him so it makes it that much easier for him to hold it.
 Put your hand next to your boyfriend’s hand and leave it there for a moment. Then, ever so slightly, move your finger so that it brushes his finger just for a moment.If he touches your finger back, that probably means he wants to hold hands with you too.
If he moves his hand away, that might mean that he doesn’t want to hold hands with you right then.

