 Show the kids in your group that you believe in them. Interact with them in a warm, friendly way, and get to know each of them as an individual. Look for the best in them, instead of waiting for a reason to discipline them.If you are a teacher, make every child feel like a valued member of the group by greeting them by name when they enter the classroom.
Put a positive spin on things. If one child is frequently boisterous, say something like, “Hannah, I’m glad you have so much energy today! Now let’s focus on doing our worksheets before we go outside.”;
, Make sure that you and the parents of the kids in your group are on the same page about discipline. Talk about the standards of behavior you expect in your group, and discuss the ways you typically discipline children in your care.You should ask the parents how they discipline their children at home. They may be able to provide suggestions that work well for their individual children.
 When kids know what to expect every day, they’re less likely to misbehave. Establish a predictable schedule in your classroom or daycare. Give the kids a heads-up several minutes before you transition from one activity to the next.For instance, announce, “Okay, five more minutes on the playground, and then we’ll go back inside for story time.”
Make sure to balance hands-on activities with quiet activities in your schedule.
 Encourage cooperation and good behavior by creating goals and rewards for the whole group. Measure progress in a way that’s easy for the kids to follow, like putting stickers on a chart or filling a jar with marbles.For instance, you could let each child put a marble in the jar when they finish reading a book by themselves. When the jar is full, take the whole group on an outing to the library.
 Notice when a child in your group does something thoughtful or kind. Give them a high-five or a few words of praise, and tell them why you’re proud of them. Positive reinforcement will make kids want to continue behaving well.For example, say, “Jesse, it was nice of you to share your candy with the other kids. I’m proud of you for being so generous.”

