 Pick something simple and catchy. It's hard to remember long, complex names with all sorts of numbers in it. People prefer simple usernames.;
, If you can, design a background yourself as it makes it far more personal and of interest to viewers who can then identify with your personal style. Once you have a suitable background, always keep specific, identifiable elements of it that represent you when you change your background, and don't change it too often.


Include links to your blog, website, etc. as part of your background and profile material. This helps viewers to gain a broader picture of who you are and what you provide online.
 When people are looking for a certain type of video, they will see many different ones when they search something. If your cover picture of the video looks bright with good editing, it will catch the person's eye and they will more likely click on your video.
 Make the titles interesting and intriguing without being over the top.
 No matter what else, avoid the poor quality video or your prospective viewers will take one look and move along. The picture and sound quality must be good to excellent, to keep the viewer interested in continuing with your work. Things to bear in mind include:


Ensure that the lighting is good. Bad lighting is irritating because there are shadows, blurry bits and an inability to focus properly. All of this suggests poor quality and soon becomes so annoying it's hard to persevere with. Film with daylight where possible or use excellent indoor lighting in the filming areas.
Don't have annoying or distracting noises in the background of videos. Such noises can make it difficult to hear your voice may over them. In general, it reduces the professional nature of your work.
Make use of sound effects. For example: If someone is meant to be slapping someone, use sound effects, so that it seems real. These help to make the video more professional.
If you're recording videos in real life, don't use your phone; use an actual camera. If you're making videos on your computer, don't use a camera; use screencasting or video capture software like Hypercam or Bandicam. If you're playing on a game console, use a capture card.
 Don't copy other videos. While it's okay to be inspired by the different ideas you come across in other videos, place your own mark on such ideas by expanding on them and mixing them up in your own way, so that your content is wholly unique and yours. Where you do rely on information from others, cite the sources and give them a kudos for an idea well executed, then borrowed by you. You'll win fans by being honest and by being supportive of other video makers.


If your videos are the exact same as other people's videos, that won't be too interesting. It's okay, to have the same general theme but make it unique. Remember that people are meant to want to copy your videos, not the other way around!
Adhere to the rules about copyright. Avoid using music, stills and video clips that are copyright unless you have the permission for them. It's demoralizing to have your video taken down because the copyright police found your content in breach of the rules.
 You don't have to plan everything you say word for word. But have a good idea of what you're going to be explaining or talking about. Planning ahead avoids things such as you stumbling or stuttering over words and so on.
 Good editing makes the difference between an amateur and a serious Youtuber. If you want to add special effects, this is the time to do so, provided they're good and make sense for the video.
 If you're all serious in your videos, it will bore people. Keep it professional but still be a little light-hearted and positive, as it helps you to connect with people and show them that you're truly likable.
 When shooting a video, don't be afraid or camera-shy. If your video is professional looking and interesting, then the only other thing needed is a confident YouTuber! The YouTube channel is yours, so don't be scared of what other people will think of you.
 See what sets them apart. Then set about promoting your personality with the same confidence and self-belief that what you have to share is worthwhile.
 If you strike a person emotionally, the person is definitely going to like you, follow you and subscribe to you. This means being a friendly, affable person, responding to your viewers in a timely and thoughtful way and being professional. Accept that there will always be detractors–-they're usually bored, lonely or puerile, so they can mostly be ignored but it someone has genuinely constructive feedback, acknowledge it politely and let the person know you've taken their feedback on board and will try it differently next time. Never be personally rude when you talk about others; you've no idea what has motivated them but it's okay to call out bad behaviors that are not appropriate without personally attacking.
 For example, Shane Dawson and Jenna Marbles are all bold. They make their videos sensational and people want to keep coming back for more.
 There's absolutely no point in having a YouTube channel unless you're going to be uploading new videos at least once a week. That way, people will be kept satisfied with new videos to watch and enjoy and they'll probably subscribe to your channel.
 Make your commentary engaging, interesting, or controversial. The more charisma and energy you put in your commentary, the more fun it is to watch!

, Do not leave negative comments for other YouTube users. This will make people go on your channel and post mean comments in return, which will drive people away from your channel. If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
 When you are promoting your channel, also write 'Subscribe. This will help you to get in touch with your viewers. Never write "Please Subscribe to this video". This is a direct command. Not all people love others being straightforward.
 Remember, not to add trash info/extra sweet Information. This will make you and your channel unpopular among friends.



Be careful when considering whether or not to advertise. Advertisements are distracting and annoying, and people don't like to see them when they're reading through comments. Focus on quality content and interactions, rather than force-feeding your channel to the viewers.

