 The first rule of relaxing is always to set up the atmosphere around you. Light some candles, put on some music, hide away the clutter, and do whatever you need to do in order to create the best atmosphere for you. Don't forget to set up your writing utensils as well.;
, Breathing exercises are an excellent way to relax the body, open up the mind, and set the tone for a relaxing activity. It will calm your senses and allow you to let the creative juices flow unhindered.
 Is there a particular song that makes you feel like you're on top of the world? Put it on! Is there a picture that makes you want to create things of your own? Look it up!

, The aim isn't to make anything that looks pretty, just get the pen or pencil to the paper and start making lines.


Try closing your eyes and moving your pencil to the beat of the music.
Try putting raw emotions down by moving it in whatever way suits you. Getting your stress out? Hash out some sharp, quick lines. Then try to ease out of it with soft strokes. Let your pencil float and dance around the page in gentle swoops and loop-de-loops.
Anywhere you want to elaborate on your lines, feel free to dive in and get engrossed in a new picture.
 They don't have to be very good. They could be stick figures, even. Think of it as a visual form of venting in your diary: make your problems look positively silly. Get colorful, pull out some Crayolas! Scared someone will find them? Crinkle them up and throw them away! Just like that, problem's gone.
 Close your eyes. If you could be anywhere in the world, where would that be? That's what you're going to put down on paper. Don't be scared to get a little bit silly or fantastical: if you would unwind best next to an owl wearing a top hat, scribble in an owl with a top hat. Make yourself smile!

, You can do this by eye, or you can use the grid method. The most important thing to remember is not to get frustrated if your drawing turns out differently. Give yourself permission to make mistakes, or even give yourself some creative license.
 When you're done, look back over the work you've done. Remember how it made you feel to create it. Remember: even if you feel like it isn't great work, drawing for relaxation is more about the process of creating rather than the end result. Stash your drawings in a "relaxation folder", to reminisce on another day.
 Different tools have different feelings. They handle differently and produce different work. What a pencil might do for you one day, charcoal might do for you the next. That is, one day a pencil sketch of the apple on your table might be what relaxes you, whereas a watercolor painting of the sunset might hit the spot another day.

