 Whenever changing any piercing start by washing your hands. You don't want bacteria or infections getting into a piercing. Wash the area around your nose stud, whether you have a stud in or not. Also wash the nose stud itself.


It is really important to clean the piece of metal that you are sticking into your body. Germs on the stud could transfer straight to your nose, so make sure the stud is clean.
It's a good idea to use a saline solution or a mild antiseptic solution to make sure the area is really clean but you can use hydrogen peroxide or plain soap too. Either way, make sure that the cleaner is washed off and the stud is dry before inserting it.;
, An L-shaped stud is a simple piece of metal with a decorative end and a 90 degree angle at the other end. To insert it you will first need to find the hole in your nose. Push the end of the stud, the opposite end of the decorative end, in the hole making sure to be gentle and that the stud is going straight through to the other side of the hole. When you're sure that the end of the stud is through to the other side (you can feel the inside of your nose to make sure that it is) gently push the rest of the stud in, angling the stud to get the bent part of the stud through the hole.


Feel free to do this slowly, pushing only a little bit at a time.
The L-shaped nose stud is fully in when the decorative end of the stud is up against the outside of your nose.
 To make sure that you've put in your nose stud correctly, lift up your nostril a bit and look in the mirror. You should be able to see the end of the L-shaped stud inside your nose. The end that is inside your nose should be pointing straight up or down, depending on your preference, and you shouldn't be able to feel it. If you can feel it or its just uncomfortable, readjust it's position.


L-shaped nose studs are easy to insert but that also means that they can come out of your nose pretty easily. Be aware of this and take care that it doesn't fall out or your piercing might close up. , Taking out your L-shaped nose stud is simple if you remember that inside your nose the stud is bent at a 90 degree angle. This means that as you pull it out of your nose, while holding onto the decorative end, you will need to angle it down to get the bent portion through your piercing hole. Once the bent portion is through, you can just remove your nose stud.


Remember to take your time, as a nose piercing can be sensitive to pressure and force.
Once again, make sure your hands and the area around the piercing are clean before handling your nose stud!

