


Whether you want to be a rock, punk, metal, or any other kind of band, you need to know what music you want to play.;
,


Rock bands generally have a guitarist, a bassist, a vocalist, and a drummer. Some may also have a keyboardist for extra effect, but this, and everything else, is totally optional. You would need to have at least two people for a band, though, so you should probably have at least two or three instruments as well (the vocalist might or might not play an instrument, your choice). Find what kind of sound you want and get people who play instruments for your sound.



Most people don't pay attention to things like this, but you need to make sure that your musicians are fair and kind to each other. If this quality is not present, it may cause fights and a feeling of superiority within some band members. You also need people who are interested in the type of music that you want your band to play, and who will stick with it if at all possible. You most likely won't become famous, so just try to get people who want to have fun. If you do make it big, though, you might want to be a bit more serious about your music though.
Some things you can do to get people to join your band are post flyers around your neighborhood. Be sure to include an age limit, the type of music you play, and what instrumentalists you need, as well as information on whether or not they need their own instruments, or if your band needs a place to practice, etc.



Try to think of something original that all of your band mates like. Brainstorm some ideas before voting on it. Some good things to think of while thinking of a band name is poems or songs you like, you can take a part of its name and use it in your own. You can also use something like an inside joke or a combo word of two things you like, e.g. the color purple and cats might be The Kurple. You can also mess with spellings and such, as I have just demonstrated.



Start off with covers of your favorite songs, instrument tabs and lyrics can be found on the internet for almost every song ever recorded. Once you think you can do better, try to come up with your own songs. Work with your bandmates and either figure out something that sounds good together, then write lyrics to it, or write lyrics and figure out a tune. Write about things that interest you in your songs, some topics that are commonly chose are politics, relationships, and having fun. Try to make it have meaning, and the song will most likely end up a lot better.



You can start out with having shows right out of a garage, basement, or even a front yard. Any place is fine, just keep the noise level at a reasonable level if you're outside playing. You don't want to get a fine for public disturbance. You should probably start out with doing free shows, and if people start loving your music, then you can charge a modest fee of a couple dollars or so for your show. Keep in mind that a garage isn't a very good venue, so you shouldn't charge too much, if any at all. With that said, you cannot charge for shows where you play a cover of a song. This is illegal unless you get the artist/label's permission, and this usually includes paying a royalty.



This is probably one of the hardest steps to do if you don't have many friends. If you do, then good job. First, tell all of your friends who are into the music that your band plays. Get the word out that you have a band, and that you're awesome. Get them to tell everyone they know about your show, like where it will be and what time. You may want to put up flyers advertising your band in such places as a community bulletin board. These can be found in schools, churches, and certain grocery stores. Telephone poles and trees also offer good spots. Make your flyers colorful and have something big on it to catch peoples' eyes.



This is where you really build up a fan base (if you're good). Call local bars and places that have live music (make sure that the bar hosts underage bands if you're underage first) and ask about auditions. If your band really rocks it, and you get the gig, then you will most likely get paid. And the best part is that you get paid for doing what you love. If the place that you play at really likes you, then they might ask you to come back, and other places might have been to your show so they can ask you to go to their venue. You'll be touring across the country before you know it.



This is the most important part of having a band. After all, the whole reason you started the band was so that you can have fun playing music. If you started it for money or other reasons, then you might as well quit. If you don't have fun, you might as well quit also, because there would be no point of doing it if you don't like it.

