 Before allowing a kennel to care for your senior dog, you should conduct a substantial internet search to get an idea of the kennel’s overall character and reputation. An internet search may reveal reviews by current or former clients at the kennel. Ultimately, you’ll probably be able to gather considerable information about people’s experiences with the kennel.


Do a search for the name of the kennel in question. See what websites and reviews come up. Spend time going through these reviews. Watch for keywords like “mean” or “annoyed” when reviewers describe a kennel.
Visit popular sites like Yelp to see if anyone has submitted reviews about the kennel in question.
Try to scan through as many reviews as you can so you get a complete vision of the kennel’s online reputation. Don’t just stop after a couple good or bad reviews.
Focus on recent reviews, as they're best representative of the kennel's current practices.;
, Make sure to ask your veterinarian if they know of any good kennels in your area. As your dog’s primary medical provider, your vet should have some very good ideas about what local kennels can provide quality housing for your senior dog.


Many veterinarians also offer a kennel service, but this is often more expensive than kennels that focus just on boarding. Ultimately, if your dog has a serious medical condition, you may just want to board with the veterinarian. However, if you want to save money, your vet may be able to recommend another kennel.
Find out if your vet has a list of kennels. This is important, as some kennels may book up at certain times of the year.
Ask your vet if there is anything you should look for at a kennel when evaluating it., You should also think about asking people in your community about their experience with local kennels. By relying on this huge wealth of experience, you may be able to find a good kennel for your senior dog.


Ask pet care professionals, like managers of local pet stores.
Take recommendations from your friends, colleagues, and neighbors.
If you call one kennel and they’re booked, they may be able to recommend another kennel in the area if you ask them.
 On your first visit to the kennel, you should pay attention to the general cleanliness of the facilities. This is important, since senior dogs that have outstanding medical conditions may be more susceptible to bacterial or viral infections.


If possible, ask the kennel employees to allow you to visit many parts of their facilities. This way, you’ll have a better idea of their overall cleanliness or if they just keep a section clean for visitors.
Inquire about what sort of cleaning solution the kennel uses. For instance, say something like “I’m wondering what cleaners you use to disinfect kennels and other areas.” This is important because you want to make sure they use something effective, but also that your senior dog won’t be poisoned by whatever the kennel uses.
Look at water bowls and food bowls to see if they are clean and if the dogs have clean water.
Ask them how often they clean the runs and other areas of the kennel -- they should be cleaned daily., Worker attentiveness is especially important for senior dogs that have outstanding medical problems.


Listen to how the workers to talk to the other dogs at the kennel. Do they shower the dogs with compliments and affection, or do they seem annoyed and hateful toward the dogs in their care? Positive words like “good dog” or “pretty dog” are a good sign. Also consider their tone. If should sound like they enjoy their job and value the dogs in their care.
Find out if they provide pillows or blankets., This is especially important for senior dogs that may not be able to hold their bladders for long periods of time.


If your dog has special needs, inquire as to whether your dog can be allowed to go outside more frequently.
Inquire as to whether your dog will be walked on a leash or allowed to run freely in a fenced area.
If your dog needs to be walked on a leash, find out if that is a service they offer., You also need to look for potential hazards at the kennel. These hazards could potentially be everywhere and may even be innocuous at first glance. Look for:


Sharp corners on fences or gates. This especially important to avoid for senior dogs that may not see that good.
Angular protrusions of any sort that may hurt your senior dog.
Gates that don’t close properly. Senior dogs may not fare well in a dog fight. Make sure the kennel has gates and fences that are properly secure., One of the first things you need to ask the kennel is whether they have a veterinarian on call. This is especially important for senior dogs that may have medical conditions that could rapidly deteriorate.


The kennel will ask you to sign paperwork giving them authorization to allow a veterinarian to treat your dog.
Find out the name or names of vets that the kennel has on call.
If the kennel does not have an on call vet, ask if they will contact your regular vet.
Ask if the kennel will defer to your regular vet, if you prefer., Since senior dogs may be on regular medicine to regulate health problems, you should inquire how kennel employees administer it.


Make sure they label your pet’s medicine. In addition, make sure your pet’s run or room is clearly labeled so that employees do not confuse your dog with another and accidentally administer the wrong medicine.
Ask them about how they store their medicine. This is especially important if your dog takes insulin or other medications that need to be refrigerated.
Inquire as to whether they have experience administering injectable medicines, if this impacts you., Make sure to inquire about their feeding policies, as your senior dog may have a particular diet that needs to be regulated. If the kennel has unclear feeding policies, it is possible that your dog’s dietary needs may not be taken care of.


Question them about the food they serve the dogs in their care. This food may or may not be acceptable for your dog’s diet.
Inquire as to whether you can provide specific food for your dog and if the kennel will make sure that your dog is served that food.
Find out whether your dog can be fed at several times during the day. For purposes of medication, diet, or other needs, your dog may need to be fed three or four times during the day. It is important that the kennel provides this service., A great way to evaluate a kennel is to try it out on a very limited basis. By doing this, you'll be able to experience the kennel as a regular customer, but your dog won't be there for too long if the kennel turns out to offer substandard services.


Inquire as to whether the kennel offers daycare services.
Inspect your dog before you drop them off to the kennel. Make sure you're aware of any bruises, scraps, and their smell.
Inspect your dog again after you've picked them up. See if they're injured at all or if they smell a lot worse than when you dropped them off.
Observe practices, attentiveness, and the demeanor of employees when you drop your dog off and pick them up.

