 If you have special challenges, such as a bad knee or asthma, he or she should advise you on your limitations, modifications, and goals. Your therapist can be helpful in developing a plan, too, and help you execute it.;
, Exercise should be something you look forward to, not a chore. Even if you've never been athletic, and think you hate exercising, there's likely something you enjoy if you really stop to think. Here's some ideas to guide you:


What did you enjoy as a younger person, such as swimming, dancing, soccer, or riding bikes?
What have you always wanted to learn to do, such as karate, rock climbing, or horseback riding?
What do your friends or family enjoy doing? You are more likely to find support in your hiking program if you do it as a family, or if your friends get together weekly to do gardening. Of course, you may not enjoy the same things as your friends and family. But it is something to consider!
Exercise someone else. Sometimes committing to exercising someone else is easier than yourself. For instance, maybe you can take your family dog for a walk after dinner each night. If it was just you, you might not feel up for it, but you just can't say no to a wagging tail.
Do useful manual labor. Many people prefer exercise that is useful to oneself or others: mowing the lawn, walking baby sister outside in the stroller, mucking a horse stall, or picking up trash at the beach. It can feel good to be useful, and that can alleviate depression.
 This can be a real challenge for folks with depression! It can feel some days that you cannot commit to leaving the house, much less an exercise routine. But making a routine that includes exercise will often keep depression subdued.

Choose the level of commitment you are comfortable making. If you aren't sure you will regularly go to the gym, it may not be a good idea to invest in a health club membership. However, you may feel comfortable walking your dog around the block every day. One person be the sort of person that is more likely to attend a scheduled yoga class that she's paid your hard-earned money for, while another may feel guilty if he can't attend consistently and end up giving up altogether.






Some people thrive on flexibility rather than an appointment. For instance, maybe you can commit to walking to work and back three times a week. Or, maybe you can invest in a a 10-session exercise class "punch card" at the YMCA, and go when you can.
Remember you are in charge of a commitment - it's not something to beat yourself up for if you can't keep up or your choice doesn't quite work out. Just modify your plans based on your needs.
You also have the right to change your mind. You might sign up for a softball league but find you do not like it. You do not have to stick with something that is not enjoyable, especially if you're dealing with depression - just find something else.
 Establishing good exercise habits is often a lot easier with someone else, or a group having other people can be very supportive and provide structure and social interaction. Check your local newspaper, community center, and websites like Craigslist for opportunities. Some examples:


Tai Chi practice in a local park
A hiking club
Basketball league at the local YMCA
A martial arts studio / "dojo"

, One of the harder things for those suffering from depression is to develop and maintain a routine. Doing exercise at set times (e.g., daily, weekly, etc.) can help overcome this mindset.

Be careful that you avoid the black-and-white or "all or nothing" approach. If you miss a session of Pilates, just go next time. If you were lax in keeping up your Zumba classes, just get back into it. Do not judge yourself harshly, focus on getting back on track.
 Mark on the calendar when you go on a bike ride. Keep a log of the miles you've run. Keep a journal of your yoga experiences. Have some way to see your progress. If recommended, you may want to rate your mood or depression symptoms, to see how exercise has helped you.
 It can be as simple as feeling good about trying something new. Having a tangible reward can be helpful, too, such as treating yourself to a weekend hiking a favorite mountain or just soaking at the poolside hot tub and skipping a swim session.
 Periodically, decide if what you are doing is working. YOU are in charge of your exercise...so do you like it? Are you getting results? Are you having any pain or injuries? Are you developing any bad issues, like addiction, self-criticism, or worse depression from your workout routine? These issues are worth going over with your doctor or therapist to be sure you are getting the most out of your effort for health and mental well-being.
 Depression is a complicated medical issue, and exercise is an effective tool in alleviating symptoms. In some individuals, exercise is highly effective in lightening depression symptoms, and even eliminating it altogether. In most people with depression, it helps - just not as much. Some individuals simply find more relief from medication, therapy, religion, acupuncture, dietary changes, or medical procedures such as shock therapy. Therefore:

Keep your expectations moderate. Your friend from work may have had great success at managing depression through taking up long-distance running. But that may not be your experience, even with the same training regimen. But if you feel a bit better, you are still ahead.
Do not stop any parts of your treatment plan without a medical OK. If you feel your workouts are working terrific, keep taking your medication unless your medical team agrees.

