 Lenders will look at a whole host of things in order to decide whether they're willing to give you the loan at your terms. Lenders will factor in your income and other assets, your credit score, the current value of the home, as well as the amount you wish to borrow. Primarily, lenders will look at the loan to value ratio (LTV) — that is, how much you're asking compared to the value of the home. If it doesn't fall within their acceptable range, they might not offer you the mortgage you're looking for.



Credit score has a huge impact on the terms of your refi. If your credit score went up after you agreed on your current mortgage, lenders will be likelier to offer better terms. If your credit score went down after you agreed on your current mortgage, lenders may offer only higher interest rates.
 Disclosing details to the loan officer should help you get the best possible rate. State how long you'd like your mortgage to last, as well as how much you really need for the house. Disclose also whether you're willing to pay points in order to lower the interest rate.


Note: if you're serious about staying debt-free, don't exaggerate how much money you need and then pocket the difference between the loan and the value of the house. While some mortgage loans can be advantageous, others are not. You might get a loan with better terms by shopping around a credit union or going to your local bank. Using a second mortgage as a source of cash is a sure way to lose money in the long run.
 No-cost refinancing is basically where the lender assumes the cost of up-front fees (origination fees, application fees, appraisal fees, survey fees, etc.) in exchange for a higher interest rate. While these may be viable options for people who want to refinance but cannot afford the up-front fees, they should be avoided, if possible, by those who can afford the out-of-pocket fees. Why? Because the interest tacked on to the life of the loan is often more than the out-of-pocket fees the homeowner would have originally paid., This is one of the best ways to go with any kind of transaction. Know the credibility of your choice lenders. Don't be afraid to try to get better terms from different lenders. You're most likely going to be entering into a 30-year contract; you should trust the lenders and feel like you're getting the best bang for your buck.
 Doing your homework will save you not just some money but also future headaches.

