 Following your C section the doctor will likely give you a list of instructions on how to properly care for the incision scar. It is very important that you listen to your doctor and follow all of the instructions carefully. You don't want to end up back in the hospital dealing with an infection that could have been avoided.;
, For the first twenty fours after your C section, your scar will be covered with a sterile bandage to reduce the chance of an infection. Your doctor will put on the bandage immediately following the procedure. These bandages will then be removed by your doctor or a nurse about 24 hours after the surgery., Immediately following the procedure you will be given anti-inflammatory and pain medications to help reduce the swelling and pain caused by the surgery. These medications do not impact your ability to breastfeed and should be taken to help with your recovery. Make sure that your follow the directions carefully.Some hospital staff may encourage women to hold an ice pack to the incision area for the first day to help reduce swelling.
 You will need to stay in bed for anywhere from 12 to 18 hours following the surgery. During this time, you will be hooked up to a catheter so you will not need to get up to go to the washroom. This rest time is necessary to allow your body to recover. Once the catheter has been removed, you should stand up and try walking around. This can begin to promote healing in your scar because it will help increase your blood circulation., Prior to being discharged from the hospital, which will usually be about four days after delivery, your doctor will remove the staples from the incision. If your doctor used stitches instead of staples they will fall out on their own and do not need to be removed., Once the bandages have been removed, it is important that you expose your incision to the air. This will help promote healing. This does not mean that you have to walk around all day in a state of undress. Instead, avoid wearing tight clothes so that air can reach the scar., For the first few weeks after the surgery you should avoid lifting heavy objects. It is recommended that you not lift anything that is heavier than your newborn baby. This is so that you do not irritate your incision or cause tearing from over exertion. Hold off on any rigorous physical activity for at least 4-6 weeks to allow the scar to heal., Some doctors recommend applying anti-bacterial ointments to the scar tissue to help with healing. Other doctors believe that the best way to heal the incision is to avoid putting anything on the wound. Ask your doctor what is best for your particular incision.About 6 weeks after the surgery you can begin to moisturize the area with creams.

