 Every adult should get at least 150 minutes of moderate activity or 75 minutes of vigorous activity every week. You can also do a mixture of moderate and vigorous cardio. Depending on what type of yoga you do, you can add how long you practice to your weekly cardio totals.Aim to get at least 30 minutes of cardio every day. You can do this all at once or break it up into manageable chunks, such as three 10-minute sessions.
Choose exercises you enjoy such as running, walking, swimming, or biking.
Recognize that yoga styles characterized by continuous movement can count towards your daily totals. These styles include Ashtanga, Jivamukti, Vinyasa, and power flow.;
, The wonder of yoga is that even if you do it for one hour a week, you’ll see benefits. Start out with 2-3 yoga sessions of 20-90 minutes every week, depending on your level of fitness and previous exposure to yoga. Gradually increase your practice as you are able or like. There are no guidelines to how often you should or shouldn’t do yoga.Remember that you can count more vigorous yoga to your weekly cardio totals if you like.Avoid setting unrealistic goals for yourself with your yoga practice. Do yoga as you can and have time and you can see benefits to your health and well-being., Although any yoga pose can complement your cardio, try asanas that enhance your workouts. This can further strengthen your stamina and muscles while helping you build better balance and flexibility. Poses that nicely complement cardio include:Standing split to stretch and strengthen quads and hamstrings
Happy baby to release and stretch hip joints
Low lunges to stretch the thigh muscles and hip flexors, and open chest muscles
High lunges to lengthen hip flexors
Extended puppy pose to stretch and lengthen the spine
Locust pose to strengthen the torso, legs, and arms
Reclining bound angle pose to stretch hip and groin muscles
Cross-legged twist to stretch the hips, chest, and back, Take at least one rest day per week from your yoga and cardio workouts. This is important because it lets your body recover, rebuild, and refresh for your next workout. You can either schedule a day on the sofa or have an “active” rest day where you do something such as go for a casual stroll or take a restorative yoga class.Keep in mind that active recovery should get you moving but not require a ton of effort. Stick to 30-60 minutes of easy movement as your active recovery. It’s also acceptable to just take the day off altogether.

