 Instead, squeeze out the excess water from your hair, and blot it using a soft towel. Do not rub your hair with the towel. This will cause the fibers to snag on your hair and cause it to rip and tear.Also, try to avoid blow drying your hair. Hairdryers are often too hot for curly hair.


If you must use a hairdryer, be sure to spray your hair down with a heat protecting spray first. Wait until your hair is about 75% dry before you start to blow dry it. Be sure to use a low or medium heat setting on your hairdryer.
Consider letting your hair air dry. This is the most natural and gentlest method. It also won't disrupt the natural curl pattern of your hair. Your hair becomes puffy and frizzy when you disrupt the curl pattern.
 Flat irons and curling irons can be very damaging to any hair type. Try to save these tools for special occasions. When you do use a flat iron or a curling iron, first spray your hair down with a heat protecting spray. Be sure to use a lower heat setting on your tool; it may take longer to get the style you want, but it will be gentler on your hair.
 Parabens have been linked to cancer, which is not something you'd want to put into your hair. Silicones, while great at making hair smooth and shiny, can only be removed by sulfates. Sulfates are harsh, cleaning agents found in many household detergents; they can strip your hair of its natural oils, leaving it brittle and dry.


You don't want to leave those silicones in your hair either. This can lead to buildup, which can make your hair appear limp and dull.
You may also want to avoid products that contain alcohol, especially towards the top of the ingredient list. Alcohol is very drying on hair. Dry hair tends to become puffy.
 If you get any tangles, try using your fingers or a wide-toothed comb to smooth them out. The more you mess with your hair, the more frizzy it will become.
 It can be tempting, especially if your hair is curly. Unfortunately, the more you touch your hair, the more you muss the strands and cuticles. This causes your hair to puff up and frizz.

