 Before applying for a joint credit card, check the credit of both applicants to see what credit scores each applicant has. You can request your credit report once per year for free from each of three major credit reporting agencies—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion—by visiting annualcreditreport.com, which is authorized by federal law. The credit report will not include the score, but the information it contains affects your score, which you can purchase separately from one of many companies who can get the score for you. A credit report will show your credit history and a credit score is a calculation of your credit risk. Your score may vary from company to company since it is calculated based on information in your credit report. A lender, moreover, may see a different credit score than you do when they conduct their inquiry.You can call for a free report at 1-877-322-8228.

Credit scores can be obtained for free from such sites as Creditkarma.com.;
, Check to see which applicant has a higher credit score by looking at the credit score you have purchased. The rates you get on a joint credit card might be affected if one applicant has a high credit score while the other has low credit score.Getting a joint credit card if one applicant has a low credit score can help raise that applicant's credit score over time if the bills are paid on time.
Make sure the information is the same on all reports, and, if it is not, notify the reporting agency and request a new report.
 There are several different aspects of a credit report. The applicant's information is compared with the information the credit reporting agency has to indicate fraud, the totals of open accounts are collected in a profile summary, lenders are collected in a list, accounts in collections in the past and present are indicated, other credit report inquiries are listed, and any public record information is listed, such as bankruptcy, etc.Review this information for accuracy and contact the credit reporting agency or creditor if you have questions or concerns to try and rectify the problem.
 A co-signer does not have access to the credit card itself to use, but may offer his or her own credit to help someone else get credit approval for a credit card. The co-signer agrees to the responsibility of the debt should the account holder be unable to pay, and the account holder's inability to pay bills on time may be reflected on the co-signer's credit report., Authorized user accounts allow a primary account holder to give a person he or she desires access to the use of the card without being responsible for the debt incurred.This type of account may be desirable if the primary account holder wants to be able to remove someone else's account access.


An authorized user may be subject to collections of their specific use of the card, but the legal responsibility is mush less than on a truly joint account.
 A joint account is obtained after both applicants' credit scores are considered, and both parties are responsible for the debt and have equal use of the credit card. Both account holders are responsible for the whole of the debt—there is no distinction between account holders by the creditor. On the other hand, both account holders' credit scores benefit from responsible credit practices.
 Many banks offer credit cards to their customers, which can qualify those customers for better checking or savings account products in addition to rewards. Non-bank credit cards also offer many rewards, such as frequent flier miles, car discounts, and more.You will find different options with each major credit card, such as Visa and MasterCard.
Different cards provide higher or lower interest rates.
Department stores may also offer joint credit accounts.
 The application will ask for basic and specific information for both applicants. Some of this information includes your name and address, phone number, and social security number. You will also have to give information about your employment and salary, and assets and liabilities.Fill out all fields accurately.


Additional user's information may be solicited in areas referring to the joint applicant.
 Online applications may require you to check a box indication you have read the terms of service of the offer for which you are applying. Check this box after you have read the terms of service.Return paper applications to the address provided on the application.


The joint applicant will sign as well. This means that over-limit charges and other negative issues with the card will legally impact both of you.

