 Make a conscious, sustained effort to maintain a bubble around yourself that your ex can't pass into. If you're still in contact, make it clear to her that you're breaking off contact so you can take the time you need to heal. Tell her not to call or text you, since you won't respond.


There's no need to be rude or insulting when you tell her this. Being polite but distant is a better approach, as it demonstrates that you aren't doing it just to get a rise out of her.
If she asks how long this change will be in effect, tell her it will take as long as it takes. There's no way to put a strict date on when you'll be able to be around her without feeling upset again. Sometimes it's only for a month or two; in rare cases, it could be for the rest of your life.
Be true to your word. Don't call, text, e-mail, or write her back if she contacts you, unless you have a life-and-death reason for doing so. It will hurt when she realizes she can't lean on you anymore, but she'll be better off for it in the long run.
 If you possibly can, try to make adjustments to your schedule so that you avoid having to see each other any more than necessary.


If you work together, ask your scheduling manager if you can change your weekly schedule. You don't need to tell him or her about the breakup; just ask for different shifts.
If you have classes together, be civil in class, but ask the teacher if there's any way you can move your seat to be farther from where she sits.
 Take care of yourself by pursuing the experiences you've always wanted to have. Aside from obvious (and expensive) activities like road trips and skydiving, don't forget to indulge the more mundane things, as well: visiting every park in the city, seeing what happens to a penny left on the railroad tracks, singing karaoke, finding the oldest headstone in the local cemetery.


A penny on the railroad tracks won't derail a train, in case you're worried.
 Fill your free time with steady progress and small victories instead of stewing in your sadness and anger. Use the lists you made of your dreams, interests, and talents as a guide.


If you ever used to daydream about fixing up a car, writing a book, or making your own wine from scratch, now is the best time to try those longer-term projects.
If you don't have any short-term hobbies to fill in the space between projects, why not pick up some from your childhood? Nobody's around to think less of you for working on a model kit, filling in a coin collection, or trying to beat a difficult video game.
 To make the most of your time, it helps to have a schedule you can stick to. Start with a regular bedtime and a regular waking time every morning, and then roughly plan out your weekday routine.


Be sure to make time for hygiene, exercise, chores, and meals. Load up your days off with plenty of personal time.
Don't be too strict when scheduling your life, or you might get upset when things disrupt your plans. Instead, have a basic idea of how long each part of your day should take, and a regular order to those parts. Anything more is counterproductive.
 They'll have heard her side of the story by now, but that's not terribly important. What matters is briefly explaining how you feel to the friends that you both share. Ask them to be careful about not inviting you over when your ex is there, and vice versa.


Don't ask your friends to choose one of you or otherwise “pick a side.” It's petty, cruel, and unfair to them. If they like both you and your ex-girlfriend, that's their business.
 One of the toughest parts of being single is feeling lonely again after having someone around to spend time with whenever you wanted. Soften the blow by spending more time out with your other friends. Even though you and your ex might share many of the same friends (depending on how long you were together, and how close you were), there's no reason you can't see them without her around. Invite them out with you and spend time forging closer bonds with them.


By taking the initiative instead of waiting to be invited out, you'll show your friends you still care about them. Additionally, you'll have a greater amount of control over where you go and what you do together, which should help minimize the chances of running into your ex or anything that reminds you of her.
Remember, there's no harm in asking them to avoid getting both you and your ex together at parties and such. Just be civil, and don't ask them to take sides.
Try calling up people you haven't seen as much lately. They'll appreciate hearing from you, and you're not likely to run into your ex-girlfriend around friends you didn't hang out with together.
 No matter your age or social disposition, if you have the time to go do things with your friends, chances are good that you'll meet more people sooner or later. Be engaging and friendly with them, and you may very well end up making all kinds of new connections.


Aside from giving you more chances to get away from your solitude and be around others, it's also a big ego boost to remind yourself that people like you even in the absence of your ex-girlfriend, and that you can still meet people and make friends without her there.

