 This visa is for intra company transfers. This is when a Canadian manager or executive who works at an affiliated Canadian office is transferred to one of the company’s U.S. offices. The employer must be conducting business in the U.S. and have an existing relationship with the Canadian company (affiliate, subsidiary, parent company, etc.). You must work at the affiliated company for at least one continuous year and be going to the U.S. to be a manager or executive to qualify for an L1 visa.


You can also qualify for an L1 visa if you are going to the U.S. to set up an affiliate company. A Canadian company can send a manager or executive to establish a U.S. office. But the Canadian employer must demonstrate that there is a physical space for the new office, the employee has been a manager or executive for one continuous year, and the new U.S. office will support an executive or managerial position within one year of the L1 visa being issued.
 An L1 visa is ideal for executive employees looking to establish a U.S. office of a Canadian company without having to go through a lengthy application process. As well, the spouses and unmarried children under 21 years old of L1 visa holders can come to the U.S. for the duration of the employee’s stay. Once you have an L1 visa, your spouse can also work legally in the U.S.Keep in mind you can re apply for the L1 visa after one year for a maximum of seven years. After seven years in the U.S., you are not eligible to apply for another L1 visa., Your organization may establish an intracompany relationship between a U.S. office and a Canadian office by filing a blanket petition with the USCIS. You are eligible for a blanket petition if:The petitioner and the qualifying organization are involved in commercial trade or services.
The petitioner has an office in the U.S. that has been conducting business for at least one year.
The petitioner has three or more domestic and foreign subsidiaries, affiliates, or branches.
The petitioner and the organization has obtained at least 10 L-1 approvals in the previous 12 months, has U.S. subsidiaries or affiliates with sales of at least $25 million, or has a workforce in the U.S. of at least 1,000 employees.
 This form can be found here. Your employer should then send you the completed form, along with a copy of the approved blanket petition. You will then present these documents to the consular office to complete the L1 visa application.You can also present your L1 visa application at the U.S. border to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer for approval.

