 For those of you who don't know, when you mine about 50 pieces of any ore level 40 or below with this type of urn, it charges the mining urn. When it is full, you can teleport the urn away for 325xp each.;
, You can either make them or just buy them.



If you want to make them, get your 2 pieces of wet clay, go to a pottery wheel (Burthorpe works) and make the mining urns. Then, put it in a furnace, and now you have a mining urn (nr). Add an earth rune to it and now you have a working mining urn. You need a crafting level of 32 to make them.
If you want to buy them, go to the Grand Exchange and buy as many mining urns (nr) as you want, then add an earth rune to each one of them, and you have a working mining urn.
 Find an empty world to do this in. Get about 1-3 mining urns with you.


Go to the southeast Varrock mining site. You should start mining the copper and/or the tin there and keep banking until you have you have level 7 mining.
Remember to keep getting new urn. It's better to have a lot in your bank so you can get them quickly.
Go and get a steel pick, from wherever you would like. You can now mine ore faster.
Go back to the same mine. Keep mining copper/tin until you have 15 mining, when now you can mine iron.
 Get some more urns, depending on how many you think you need.


Start mining the iron until you have 21 mining.
Go get a Mithril mining pick and keep mining and banking until you have 31 mining.
 Keep mining iron here at the Varrock site until you have 41 mining and then get a runite pick because then you mine ores much faster.


Stock up on urns depending on which level you are going to get to:

100 + urns if your going for 55 mining
350 + urns if your going for 70 mining
750 + urns if your going for 85 mining


Go check around the Falador Dwarven mining site and make sure you have a level 15 dungeoneering so that you can enter the mysterious entrance to bank ore fast.
Also make sure you know that there is a bank close to the exit so you can get urns fairly quickly.
 Keep mining iron at the 3 iron spot strip and using urns at the Dwarven mine, and keep using the deposit box to drop off your iron until you have 55 mining. At level 55 mining, you can get mithril ores.


To use or stay at the Dwarven iron strip for a decent amount of time, it's advisable to world hop on very low populated worlds. Depending on the time of day, at a last resort, you also may see yourself use international worlds. Because of the convenience of how the strip is shaped, people tend to camp at this specific location and power-iron, and thus making it one of the most popular F2P mining locations. If you are feeling brave, and don't mind a competition, in world 3 or other highly populated worlds, the ore regenerates faster, but more people try to get it.
 Keep mining iron and occasionally mine mithril (mithril doesn't fill your urn, and iron still gives better xp per hour) until you have 70 mining.
 This is the homestretch, and also the longest part of the race. Doing challenges. Using urns, and constantly mining iron and this still take a long time.

