 You might not want him to be your boyfriend, but you probably still care about his happiness. It can be very difficult know how to react when you see your ex around. Maybe you are in classes together or are members of the same sports club. If you do see your ex around quite often and you want to maintain some cordial relations with him and show him that you do care, don't blank or ignore him.


If you never speak, it is likely that any festering resentment between you will continue to grow.
Just making an effort to acknowledge each other and smile when you see each other can demonstrate that you want to be friends.
It can be very difficult to build a friendship with an ex so remain patient and don't expect to develop a good friendship quickly.;
, It can be very awkward when you find yourself in a social situation with your ex and neither or you know quite how to approach it, or react to each other. Avoid any long silences by making neutral small talk about everyday things that are nothing to do with your relationship. If you can get used to just talking about normal things you can try to develop a platonic friendship.


Keeping conversation friendly but brief can help ease you both into the new relationship dynamic.
You could say, "Hey, did you see the game last night?"
You could ask about mutual friends or work.
 Being generally helpful and attentive will help you to indicate to your ex that you do still care about him. Small gestures can be a good way to show your ex that you still think of him. For example, if your ex used to love eating a particular candy bar and you find you have one left over from lunch, pass it on to him and just say "I had this left over, and thought you might want it".


If you just want to show your ex that you still care, not that you want to get back together make sure these gestures do not give the wrong impression.
When you speak to him keep your tone friendly and polite but fairly neutral and unemotional.
If he is still pining after you, a misjudged gesture could make things worse so use your judgement.
 One way to show that you are not avoiding your ex, you are still keen to be friends, and still care about him is to do social activities as part of a larger group of friends. Having more people there will take the pressure off and dilute the situation. You will also have people there for moral support if things become awkward.Your ex is probably less likely to make a scene or misinterpret your actions if you are in a group of friends.
If you don't want to get back together be sure you avoid anything that could be perceived as a group date.
For example, don't go to the cinema with a couple or you risk giving your ex the wrong idea.
 Although you might want to show your ex that you still care about him and would like to be friends, you need to understand that he might not feel the same way. A breakup can be very upsetting and how people deal with it varies enormously. If he doesn't want to talk to you, or see you at all, you should respect that and allow him time to get over you.If your ex is hurting from your breakup, time apart can be the best way to heal.If you are polite and respectful, but he does not want to talk to you, you can't force him.
Tell him in a sincere way that you are there for him if he ever needs to talk, and be sure to listen more than you talk.

