 Take some deep breaths, concentrating on having the air go in your nose and out of your mouth. Do a few yoga stretches before going out or spending time with someone. Repeat, “Relax,” to yourself until you can feel the stress slipping away. If you are stressed, you will likely hold your tension in your body and make sex less pleasurable.Sometimes it also helps to give voice to your fears. You might tell your partner, “I’m nervous about this, so I may need to relax more.”;
, Try to have sex in an environment where you can concentrate all of your focus and energy on your partner. Minimize outside noises and distractions. Turn off your cell phone. Make sure that you will not be interrupted. Fostering a calm environment will help you to fully relax and be yourself.You’ll want to think about what type of environment is relaxing to you. Some people prefer candles and soft lighting, whereas others like music on in the background.
 You may think that having a sex conversation with your partner is unromantic, but not talking can be much more detrimental. If you talk before you have sex about what you like, you’ll be far more likely to express your likes/dislikes in bed as well. It also important to know each other’s sexual boundaries.For example, you might say, “I’d really like to start off slow.” Or, “I will relax more if we turn off the lights.”
If you have some sort of health problem, such as endometriosis or erectile dysfunction, it is a good idea to make your partner aware of this as well. Be open and don’t be afraid of rejection. Your partner may be able to brainstorm ways to make sex better for you., You will have better, less painful sex if you eat right, exercise, and get enough sleep. Sex can be similar to a workout in that it might push your body to its limits. If you are not healthy, then your body may respond to sex painfully. Try to eat a balanced diet. Work out at least three times a week. Get at least eight hours of undisturbed sleep a night.Getting healthy and losing weight has also be associated with a decrease in the symptoms of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) for women. For men, losing weight can balance out testosterone levels, leading to better sexual performance.

