 If you’ve ever done yoga before, you may have noticed that many yogis suggest starting your practice with a short meditation. This is one of the most beneficial ways to strengthen your mind and body connection and to get you ready to practice yoga.Prior to starting your yoga practice, sit quietly for about 10 minutes. Use this time to meditate prior to starting your practice. This quiet session can help prepare you to begin practicing on strengthening the mind body connection.
Work on calming your mind prior to your exercise routine. Try to let the day, your "to-do" list or other issues drift away from your mind.
You may need to focus on your breath or a mantra you’ve developed for yourself. This is especially true if you have difficultly clearing your mind completely.;
, This is a crucial step of your yoga practice and is essential to allowing yoga to improve your mind body connection. You can create and focus on your intention as you begin your practice with meditation.


An intention is a conscious focus on a specific virtue you’d like to work on. For example, patience, mindfulness, awareness of breath or being present in the moment.While you move through each pose during your yoga practice, focus on your intention and try to embody it. You may even want to repeat it softly or silently as you move through different poses.
When you step off your mat after your practice has completed, continue to focus on your intention for the day. Try to make this a priority with how you act towards others and your mental state of mind.
 Proper breathing techniques are very important to an effective yoga practice—especially if you’re attempting to strengthen your mind and body connection. Focus on your breath and bring your attention to it during your practice.


If you are taking a yoga class or even following a video online, your instructor will most likely guide you on appropriate breathing techniques. Most poses that are contracting of a muscle group are accompanied by an exhaling of your breath. Those that are releasing of a muscle group are accompanied by inhaling.When you’re practicing yoga, you will be forced to focus on your breath. It’s important that you focus on the rate of your breathing and whether or not your breathing is deep or shallow. This forced focus can help strengthen the mind body connection.
Even when you’re not practicing yoga, take time in your day to practice your breathing. Even if you spend two or three minutes focusing on deep, slow breathing, this can help extend the practice of strengthening your mind body connection past your yoga mat.
 Once you’ve focused your mind and set your intention, you’ll begin your practice. In addition to focusing on your breath during your practice also focus on your muscles. This solidifies the mind body connection.As you go through each pose, your yoga instructor will guide you on what muscles you should be contracting and which ones you should be relaxing. Use this as a guide on what to focus on.
When you’re in a pose, imagine what your muscles are doing. Focus on the individual muscle or muscle group that is being worked and try to focus and control that particular area.
Many times when you’re contracting a muscle group, its advised to think of that muscle hugging your bone. Or if you’re doing a lengthening pose, try to imagine the muscle being pulled into a long, toned form., Like any type of physical activity, you’ll need to continue to practice with your yoga. In addition, it’ll take continued practice to strengthen your mind body connection through yoga.


Most professionals will recommend doing yoga at least 2-3 times per week. This is appropriate for those who are beginners and even those who are advanced.
Start with a simple routine and continue to advance yourself over time as you become more proficient and your muscles become stronger.
Also continue to practice your meditations and intention. This can be even more difficult than the actual poses at first, but is just as important to improve over time.
 Most, if not all, yoga practices will end with corpse pose, or Savasana. This pose, although easy to perform, can actually be quite challenging as this exercise totally focuses on the mind body connection.Corpse pose is when you lie flat on the floor at the end of your yoga practice. You should work on quieting and focusing your mind. Many instructors say to focus on your intention for the day and concentrate on how you’re going to continue that intention outside of your yoga practice.
If you’re having trouble keeping your mind quiet or focused, repeat your intention like a mantra or focus on your breathing.
This should be done for 5-10 minutes at the end of each practice. If you find it difficult to maintain your concentration, aim for only 5 minutes.
 Lotus pose is one of the most common yoga poses. It helps you start your yoga practice and strengthen the mind body connection.Start by sitting on the floor with your legs straight out in front of you. Your back should be straight and your head and neck should be relaxed but facing forward.
Slowly draw your right foot up towards your pelvis. Rest the outside of your right foot up on the inner thigh of your left leg.
Then slowly bend your left leg up and over your bent leg. Again, aim to lay the outside of your left foot on your inner right thigh.
Shift your body as needed so you feel comfortable. Rest your hands, palms facing up towards the ceiling, on your knees. Breathe in and out deeply. Keep this position as long as you can and until you're focused for your practice.
 Chair pose is a fairly easy yoga pose, but forces you to concentrate on multiple muscles in your body and also your form while holding the pose.


Start chair pose by standing tall with feet hip width apart. Keep your arms down by your side, relaxed, with your palms facing inwards.
Slowly lower down as if you were about to sit down into a chair. Keep bending until your thighs are almost parallel to the floor.
Lean your torso forward slightly, however keep your back straight and your core muscles tight.
Sweep your arms upward so your elbows are tracking near your ears. Your arms should remain straight with palms facing inwards toward each other.
Hold this pose for at least 30 seconds. Continue to breathe deeply as you hold this pose.
 Eagle pose is great for strengthening your body and the connection between your mind and body. It relies on balance and forces you to concentrate on maintaining your balance and therefore relaxes your mind.Start eagle pose by standing straight with your feet hip width apart. Keep your arms by your sides with your palms facing inwards.
Slowly bend your knees (almost as if you were getting into chair pose) and then while focusing straight in front of you, lift your right leg up and over your bent left leg. Your right leg should rest just above the knee on your left leg.
Try to bring the top of your right foot behind your left calf. It should be somewhat "hooked" behind your lower left leg.
Bring your arms in front of you. Bend your arms so that your upper arm is parallel to the floor and your forearm is perpendicular to the floor. Hook your left arm underneath your right arm. Your elbows should almost be right on top of each other.
Turn your hands so your palms are facing towards each other. Place your palms together flat against each other.
Hold this position for at least 30 seconds or as long as you can hold it or maintain your balance. Continue to breathe deeply while holding this position.
 Like eagle pose, warrior pose also relies on the strength of many muscles in your body. In addition, it requires your to maintain your balance and focus on continually contracting muscles to maintain the proper posture.Start by standing straight up with your feet hip width apart. You arms should hang gently at your side.
Step your left leg forward about 4-5 feet (almost like you're starting a lunge). Turn your toes of your right foot out away from your body at about a 45 degree angle.
Lower down, like a lunge, so your left thigh is almost parallel to the floor.
As you lower down, sweep your arms upwards over your head with palms facing each other. Your arms should be straight, however elbows shouldn't be locked.
Arch your back slightly and look up towards your hands that are over your head. Squeeze your buttocks and leg muscles to help you balance and hold this position.
Stay here for at least 30 seconds. Breathe in out and deeply as you hold this position.
 Most yoga sessions end with corpse pose. Although one of the easiest poses to do physically, its requires a lot of mental concentration and meditation to be able to perform correctly.Lay flat on the floor on your back. Keep your head straight with eyes forward. Try to relax all the joints and muscles in your body.
Position your legs so your toes fall out away from your body. Your legs should be slightly wider than hip width apart.
Your arms should also follow suit like your legs. Your palms should be facing upwards and your fingers pointing away from your body. Your arms should be at a 45 degree angle from your torso.
While inhaling and exhaling deeply, focus on relaxing one part of the body or one muscle at a time. Try to keep your mind clear as you allow your body to fully relax.
Hold this position for at least 5 minutes but you can stay here up to 10 minutes if you'd like.
 In addition to practicing yoga, there are other methods you can do or use to strengthen your mind body connection. Going outside has been shown to be vastly beneficial to your health—especially in regards to your mind body connection.


Studies have shown that a walk outside, especially in a quiet, wooded area, is associated with a rejuvenated mind and an increased ability to pay attention and focus.If you can, make it a point to spend some time in the outdoors. You can just go for a walk and enjoy the peacefulness of the nature around you.
You may also want to consider doing your yoga practice outside or even choosing to sit and meditate outside as well.
 Sometimes during the week you may feel like you’re losing your mind body connection. The stress of our daily lives, commutes and jobs will test your mind body connection daily. Taking an active break at work can help prevent this.


If you find yourself getting lost in the business or stress of your day, consider taking an active break. Get up from your desk and do some light exercise or movement. You can go for a walk, sit and meditate in your office, spend some time journaling or even perform a few relaxing yoga poses.
Taking an active break might be something you choose to incorporate into you daily schedule on a regular basis. This can help you refocus and pay attention to your work without losing your mind body connection.
 Journaling is an excellent tool for many, many reasons. However, it can really provide you with great insight into your own mind and help strengthen your mind body connection.


Studies have shown that putting your thoughts on paper, especially stressful or worried thoughts, can help reduce your overall stress.To start journaling, consider purchasing a nice journal for yourself. You can always use your computer or online program, however there is something therapeutic about writing. Pick a journal that entices you to open it and write.
You do not necessarily need to journal every little thing, each day, however making it a point to spend some time writing most days of the week will be helpful.
 Regardless of how much yoga you do, or how often you practice strengthening your mind body connection, if you’re not getting adequate rest you will see very slow progress.


Experts recommend getting at least 7-9 hours of sleep nightly for adults. Many adults get significantly less than this.
Studies have shown with proper sleep each night you have improved memory, better attention span and more energy.Getting adequate sleep each night will rest your brain and mind and allow it to become stronger over time. Try to get to bed earlier or sleep in later to help you get enough rest every night.

