 The Magician's Academy is located at the northeast corner (323, 282). Inside, talk to the Staff of the Academy NPC, Matheus Sylphe, to register for the Sage test.









In order for you to take this job quest, you need to be a Mage with Job Level 40 or higher, otherwise the quest won't start.;
, You will be asked to pay 70,000 zeny to register.









If you don't have enough zeny, you can give them an Old Magic Book and a Necklace of Wisdom to bypass the fee.
An Old Magic Book is a spell book containing powerful ancient magic. This item can be obtained from Rideword (in Glast Heim), Bathory (in Clock Tower B4), and Zenorc (in the lower ground of Sphinx). Bathory has the higher chance of dropping the book.
The Necklace of Wisdom is a mysterious necklace that is rumored to possess the power of clairvoyance. Obtained from Marse, Medusa, and Deepsea Marse. These monsters can be found in Undersea Tunnel F2 and F3.
If you are a Mage with job level 50, you are exempted from paying the entrance fee.
 After paying the fee, enter the next room near the first NPC. You should be in a hallway; take the first left and you will find the Written Test Professor, Claytos Verdo. Talk to him to start the test.









He will ask you a total of 20 questions. Each correct answer will give you five points.
In order to pass this portion of the Sage test, you must have a total of at least 80 points to continue.
Questions in this quest are grouped by similarity, found below.
 Choose the item that the Magical Tool Merchant in Geffen does not sell. (Mantle) Choose the jewel that the Morroc Jewel Merchant does not sell. (Garnet). Choose the item that the Gift Merchant in Prontera does not sell. (Bouquet).
 Choose the city where users cannot purchase a Stiletto from an NPC. (Prontera). Choose the city where users cannot purchase Blade from an NPC. (Al De Baran). Choose the city where users cannot purchase Monster's Feed from an NPC. (Al De Bran).
 Choose the closest city to Turtle Island. (Alberta). Choose the closest city to Glast Heim. (Geffen). Choose the closest city to the Maze. (Prontera).
 Choose the monster that is a different type than the others. (Marin). Choose the monster that is a different type than the others. (Penomena). Choose the monster that is a different type than the others. (Aster).
 Choose the monster that has a different attribute. (Smokie). Choose the monster with a different attribute than the others. (Giearth). Choose the monster that has a different attribute than the others. (Metaller).
 Choose the monster that is different sized. (Drake). Choose the monster that is different sized than the others. (Argos). Choose the monster that is different sized than the others. (Raydric).
 Choose the monster which does not drop Yggdrasil Leaf. (Marduk). Choose the monster which does not drop Phracon. (Savage Bebe). Choose the monster which doesn't drop Alcohol. (Poison Spore).
 Choose the NPC that is irrelevant to the Priest job change quest. (Sir Windsor). Choose the NPC that is irrelevant to the Knight job change quest. (Thomas Servantes). Choose the NPC that is irrelevant to the Blacksmith job change quest. (Barcadi).
 Choose the skill that is irrelevant to learning Fire Wall, the Mage skill. (Level 4 Napalm Beat). Choose the skill that is irrelevant to learning claymore Trap, the Hunter skill. (Remove Trap). Choose property that is irrelevant to Bolt-type skills for the Mage class. (Earth). Choose the skill that is irrelevant to learning Magnus Exorcismus, the Priest Class. (Divine Protection). Choose skill that is irrelevant to learning Maximize Power, the Blacksmith skill. (Skin Tempering.)








, Choose the NPC that is not a citizen of Morroc. (Antonio). Choose the NPC that is not a citizen of Prontera. (Pina). Choose the NPC that is not a citizen of Al De Baran. (GOD-POING).
 Choose the Kafra lady who has a gorgeous blue hair. (Pavianne). Choose the Kafra lady who is the youngest one among the staff. (Curly Sue). Choose the right name for the Kafra lady who wears glasses. (Leilah).
 How many INT points can a Mage receive as a bonus at Job Level 33? (4). How much SP is spent to use level 7 Thunderstorm? (59). How much SP can be restored when learning SP recovery at level 6 (without being affected by INT)? (18).
 Choose the correct SP consumption and skill duration for Improve Concentration lvl 5 (45/70Sec). Choose the correct SP consumption and the number of evasions when using Safety Wall level 6 (SP 35, 7 Times). Choose the correct amount of magic attack for Napalm Beat lvl 6 (MATK*1.3). Choose the correct attack strength and SP consumption for Bash level 6 (280%/15). Choose the right amount of damage reduction and SP consumption of the Energy Coat skill when the caster's remaining SP is 50% (Damage - 18% SP 2%). Choose the right chance and attack strength for level 7 Double Attack. (35%/140%).
 Choose the correct defense and ability of Wedding Veil. (0/MDEF+5). Choose the correct defense and ability of Bunny Band. (2/LUK+2). What is the correct defense rate and ability of Cute Ribbon? (1/SP+20)








, Choose the class that cannot equip Saint Robe (Thief). Choose the class that cannot equip Coat. (Mage). Choose the class that cannot equip Padded Armor. (Archer).
 Choose the item that is not an ingredient for Blue Dyestuffs. (Karvodailnirol). Choose the metal that was rumored to bring fortune and fame to a person with the destiny. (Emperium). Choose that item that cures all abnormal status and restores full HP and SP at the same time. (Yggdrasil Berry). Choose the abnormal status that cannot be cured by Green Potion. (Curse). Choose the catalyst stone for Mage Solution no. 4 which is used for the Mage job change quest. (Diamond)








, When the world was created by the God Odin, what did he use for the material? (The Heart of Ymir). Who rules the Run-Midgarts Kingdom right now? (Tristram the 3rd). Choose the correct name for the ancient kingdom that disappeared somewhere in Geffen. (Geffenia). Choose the correct name for the tree that became the source of life of this world. (Yggdrasil). Choose the God of Crusaders. (Odin).
 Enter the hallway again and then enter the room across the hallway. This is where Hermes Tris, the Practical Examination Professor, is.
 He will put you in a waiting room. You must wait for your turn to take the test.









If you're ready, enter the chat room to join in the queuing; you will be automatically teleported to the battle ground if it's your turn to fight.
 This will allow you to win this round.









The first wave is a group of aggressive Chonchons and Fabres.
The second wave is a group of Lunatics; be warned, these monsters multiply if you don't kill them quickly.
The last test is fighting an aggressive Whisper.
 At this point, the quest splits three ways. He will either assign you to study the history of Yggdrasil and will send you to the History Professor, tell you to study the elements and will assign you to the Physics Professor, Aebecee George, or you'll be sent to study with the Biology Professor.
 If you're assigned to the History Professor, exit the room and head to the room at the end of the hall. Talk to the professor, and he will ask you to bring a set of items related to the Yggdrasil.









You can bring any of the item that has the word Yggdrasil in it, such as Yggdrasil Leaf, Yggdrasil Berry, or Yggdrasil Seed.
Best to give him the Yggdrasil Leaf since it's the cheapest and easiest to obtain. Yggdrasil Leaf is also sold by NPCs.
After you have given the item, he will begin his lecture. Pay attention or you can refer to this guide for the next step. Once he finishes the lecture, the professor will ask you for 5 items in order to write an essay (1 Feather of Birds, 1 Trunk, 1 Squid Ink, 1 Animal Skin, and 1 Empty Bottle).
You must choose the correct option to finish the essay correctly. It should look like this:
“There is an ocean around the continent, the ocean is coiled up by a giant snake Jormungand. The continent consists of three places such as, Utgard, where the titans live, Midgard, where humans live, Asgard, where gods live. The continent consists of the three places states above.”
“As we studied from the last class, Yggdrasil is.. A giant ash tree. The root of Yggdrasil is divided into 3 parts. Those parts reach to 3 places.. Asgard, Hotunnheim, Niflheim. One who has a Fruit of Yggdrasil, Can restore fully HP and SP.”
Once you've finished your essay, you will be given a book. (Proceed to part 3.)

, If you were assigned to the Physics Professor, head outside then north to the smallest island in Juno (282, 363). You will find the Biology-Engineering Institute. Talk to professor Aebecee George and he will ask for items before you can start the lecture.









He will ask for 30 Stone and 1 Holy Water; he will then give you a Wind of Verdure, Green Live, and Crystal Blue and ask for you to craft them to 50 Arrows of Wind, Stone, and Crystal. He will then start the lecture.
You can bring the 50 Arrows of Wind, Stone, and Crystal in advance.
After the lecture, the professor will ask you for 5 items in order to write an essay. (1 Feather Birds, 1 Trunk, 1 Squid Ink, 1 Animal Skin and 1 Empty Bottle.)
After you have gathered the items, the professor will help you write your essay, and you must choose the correct option to finish the essay correctly. It will look like this when you're done
“Magic spells are varied into 4 elements such as Water, Earth, Fire and Wind. Each property has an opposing property. Magic with wind property is strong against water Magic with earth property is strong against wind However, that does not work on the opposite case. You must apply different types of property by the situation or place.”
“You never know the limits of magic. It is not suggested to be too addicted to magic spells. Only pertinent uses of magic, as well as rest will guarantee you a safe battle. Forming a party with people of different classes is considered the best way to ready for battle.”
Once you've finished your essay, you will be given a book. (Proceed to part 3.)

, If you're assigned to the Biology Professor, go to the Monster Museum as shown on the Juno map. It is located on the same island right next to the Magician Academy. Once inside, enter the back room and you will find the Professor.









Talk to the professor and he will ask you to get a set of items. The first set being from water property, or fish monsters, and the second set being from insect monsters.
He will randomly ask for each set of items.
Fish Race - 5 Heart of Mermaid, 5 Nippers, 5 Clam Flesh; or 5 Tentacles, 5 Single Cells, 5 Fish tails; or 5 Tendon, 5 Nippers, 5 Sharp Scale.
Insect Race - 5 Cobwebs, 5 Shells, 5 Insect Feelers; or 5 Mantis Scythes, 5 Worm Peelings, 5 Rainbow Shells; or 5 Horns, 5 Snail Shells, 5 Moth Dusts.
After you have gathered the items, talk to the professor again to start the lecture.
After the lecture, he will ask you some items to be used for writing an essay (1 Feather of Birds, 1 Trunk, 1 Squid Ink, 1 Animal Skin, 1 Empty Bottle).
At this part, you don't need to choose the options in order to write the essay. Keep on pressing enter until the professor finishes your essay.
 Once you've finished your essay, you'll be given a book and will be instructed to show your thesis to the Dean of the Magician Academy.









Head over to the Sage Castle, situated in the northwest corner of Juno's northern island (89, 319).
Walk down the floor to the last room where you will find Dean of the Academy, Kayron Grik.
Hand him your thesis, and he will change your job to Sage.
 Now that you're a Sage, you can proceed to leveling your job level for you to unlock more skills, but to do that, you need a proper weapon to kill monsters and hunt with other players.









Sages can use books, and these are strictly for magic attacks. It's advisable to wear the Encyclopedia coupled with DMG cards since it offers a decent amount of damage.
Knife can be used as well, but this build is for VIT/DEX type of sages, good for PvP.
For Rods, Eden Staff II is a good choice. It's easy to get and is the best weapon a Sage has access to. It offers the highest mATk of all non-trans staffs and is only 1-handed, so the Sage can also wear a shield with it for damage reduction.
 A Soul Linker can cast a support skill to a Sage, which imbues the character with special powerful buffs that last until the buff runs out.









If the Sage uses Hindsight skill, it will always drop the highest level bolt that the Sage has learn in the respective bolt skill. It’s a good buff for leveling players since it inflicts more damage compared to Sages without a Soul Link support.

