 If no one volunteers, try playing rock, paper, scissors or drawing straws. Then you can take turns with who sits out if you play multiple games. This person will either control the light switch of the room or hold a flashlight. They can pause the game at any time, and ask someone if they know who the murderer is. They will also turn the lights off at the beginning of the game.;
, You can do this a few different ways. Either the person who is not playing can choose a murderer or you can randomly choose one using a deck of cards or pieces of paper. For example, have everyone stand in a circle and close their eyes. The person sitting out can then tap someone on the shoulder and that person will be the murderer.


To use a deck of cards, use all non-face cards except one. The person who draws the face card will then be the murderer.The same can be done with slips of paper. Gather as many slips as you have players and keep them all blank except one. On one piece of paper draw an X, then whoever gets this piece of paper is the murderer.
 Everyone must walk as if they are walking in a grid. This means straight lines and ninety-degree turns. There is no set pattern to follow, you just want to make sure everyone isn’t bumping into each other. However, you should be passing other players frequently. You must also shake the hand of everyone you pass.
 If you are the murderer, you want to kill as many players as you can before you get caught. The way to do this is by scratching the inside of another player’s wrist with your index finger while shaking their hand. Remember, it’s not necessary to kill every person whose hand you shake. Especially since this will make it obvious that you’re the killer.,

Feel free to be as dramatic with your death as you want. You can fling yourself to the floor, scream, fake cry - it’s up to you!

, While the game is taking place, players are free to guess who they think the murderer is. For example, someone might say “Jason, are you the murderer?” If they’re correct, then the game ends and you can start a new one. However, if they’re wrong, they “die” and have to leave the game.


Once the murderer is discovered, the game is officially over.

