 If you feel like you need an outside perspective or you find it hard to get out of your own head, ask others if they’ve noticed anything different about you since the experience that left you with the painful memory. This will require some courage on your part, as they might tell you something you don’t want to hear. However, other people, especially those closest to you, are often able to pick on things about you that you fail notice.


Ask someone you trust, such as your best friend, your sibling, your parent, or trusted colleague, while approaching them without any preconceived notions.
 If you cannot find supportive people on your own or you want to talk to someone that isn't a loved one or in your group of friends, try joining a support group that focuses on the type of problems you are suffering from. There are countless out there that focus on a wide range of issues, such as substance use problems, domestic violence, grieving the death of a loved one, or anxiety and depression.


There are online databases that help you look for the right group for you. You can also ask your doctor or a mental health professional for suggestions if you can’t find any on your own. , If you cannot deal with your painful memories on your own, find a mental health professional that specialized in trauma to help you with you issues. You should also seek professional help when the painful memories become unbearable on your own. Mental health professionals, such as counselors or therapists, are trained in suggesting various coping skills or implementing therapeutic techniques that are intended to help people become more productive or constructive with in their daily lives, despite painful experiences they might have had in the past. There is nothing wrong with asking for help. Don't feel like a failure or be embarrassed to ask for help.


If painful memories are keeping you from functioning on a day to day basis in the way that you want, and if the pain associated with them doesn’t seem to subside with time, visiting a mental health professional could be helpful. He or she can lend an ear to your story and suggest some tricks for dealing with such issues. In order to help you engage with painful memories that might have resulted in some sort of traumatic affection to your day-to-day life, a mental health professional might implement the following a myriad of techniques., CBT is a popular method for the treatment of past trauma. CBT is a typically short term, problem focused approach to anxiety and depression, where the therapist helps you with your beliefs and thought processes. They help you align them more functionally with your desires. It is more active than other forms of therapy, in that it takes effort from you to help you change your behaviors and thoughts. Your therapist will help you work through issues, give you exercises and treatments to do at home, and help you change your overall behavior.Look for a mental health professional that specializes in this method if you think it might be effective for your particular situation.
 Your mental health professional may also try eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). EMDR takes advantage of your body’s natural reactions to past experiences by using eye movements to unlock memories and allow you to engage with them more easily. This method uses repetitive eye movements along with CBT to help trigger traumatic memories so you can deal with them instead of repressing them. This method treats mental health in the same way as physical health. If you have a traumatic memory festering in your mind, it will never have time to heal, despite your brain's natural healing ability.


By uncovering your past trauma and dealing with it using EMDR, you can move past your painful memories and go toward mental health.