 If you can't show that you know what good communities should act like, people will break down into chaos. Basic rules, such as no scamming and no hacking n chat are a good start, but making specific rules to the type of server you run will show people you know what you are talking about. For example, if you own a factions server, you can decide if you want a rule against TNT cannoning or not, along with many topics to decide on.;
, These are the people that choose to play on your server, and they are more likely to stay if they are friends with their owner. This doesn't mean just regulars, this means welcoming new members and making sure they have the best time possible.
 This means dedicating more RAM to your server's running capacity, increasing your bandwith, or upgrading your hosting plan. These things increase the quality of your server's connection, which in turn means that people can play easier and have more fun.
 There are dozens of plugins and minigames being released into the game on a daily basis, so stay on top of these things. That new plugin you see can take your server to the next level, and that minigame you could be the new fan-favorite, so you never know. Don't be afraid to experiment with new things in your server.
 If people like your server so much they decide to give money to it, show them some gratitude by offering them perks for the money the donate. This doesn't mean that you make them unbeatable in the game for donating a few dollars, but something is better than anything. A good ideal to go on is that donating shouldn't be necessary to have fun in your server.
 This should be a place where people can discuss what is going on in your server and their opinions, as well as receive news for what is up and coming within your server. The domain name should be similar, if not identical, to the name of your server so people can easily find it if they search it.
 If no one knows about your server, no one is going to join it. Put your server on server lists like PlanetMinecraft or Minecraft Server List. You can also buy advertising space on most of these sites, at a fairly decent rate as well.

