 If there is a certain hairstyle you want, and it's a hairstyle that someone (most likely a j-rocker) already has, print out or draw a picture of the hairstyle.;
, You need to know what it's going to look like from ALL ANGLES, and you need to know what goes where.
 If you're going to dye your hair, make sure you get the right kind for your hair type. If you have extensions, make sure that however you're going to put them in, that you've got what you need. If you're going to cut your hair, make sure that you have good scissors, hair buzzers, whatever. Just make sure everything is there.
 Drape something around your neck, like a towel, or a plastic bag, and tie it off with something in the front. Have a few different brushes around (2-3), and a comb. If you're layering your hair, make sure that you separate parts of your hair, and make them different lengths. Use the comb, so that when you go to cut, you brush whatever part of hair you're cutting (using the comb) right down to the spot you want it cut, and steadying it with your hand, you should cut it there. Do this with ANY part of your hair that you wish to cut, if you want the strands to evenly go together.
 Okay, so now you have your hairstyle, but possibly, you'd like to color it. If you want the exact same color of hair of the person who's hair you used to base your style from, then try to get that or those colors. Make sure that you've also separated your hair where you want to add in different colors. Follow the dyeing instructions. This would also be the time to put in your extensions. Make sure you have them the right length that you want them, and if you want to dye your extensions, dye them the same time (or beforehand) that you dye the rest of your hair. Make sure that you know how you want to put in your extensions.
, Your hair shouldn't look boring or dull when you're done. It should be bright, stylish, and unique. But to get there, you may need a little help. Don't be afraid to make your hair look messy by using hair glue and hairspray. Be sure to make it stand straight up by making the strands into spikes, and hair spraying them to make them stay in place. Spiky hair is essential to the v.k. look. If you have trouble getting your hair to stand up, using the comb, you can use a technique called ratting. Pull the strand outwards that you'd like to spike, and using the comb at the bottom, brush up and down in quick strokes, making the hair messy and more voluminous. Repeat this a few times until you get your hair as messy as desired (this adds a better base to make the hair stand up). When you've finished ratting the strand, spike the end with either some hair glue or hair wax, and hold the hair up straight and high, and spray it with hairspray to keep it in place.

