 You cannot get Mewtwo until you defeat the Elite Four and become the Pokémon champion, you can catch Mewtwo after fulfilling the quest in One Island.., You will need to have captured sixty Pokémon before he will give it to you.



If you are playing Red, Blue, Yellow, Gold, Silver, or HeartGold, SoulSilver, then you can go directly to the cave in Cerulean City.
 You will need a Pokémon who knows Surf to do this. Speak to Celio and he will explain that you need to find an item for his machine.;
, Ember. On the lower right side of the area, you will see some Team Rocket members. You will hear the first password to the Rocket Warehouse. Battle them, and enter the cave.
 You do not need to read any of the braille charts. You will need a Pokémon with Strength to get through the cave.
 You can either use an escape rope, use "Dig" or exit the way you came in.
 At the entrance, read the braille sign. It will say "Cut," so you make sure you bring a Pokémon who knows Cut.


If you have not yet saved Lorelei from Island 4, a scientist will be blocking the way.
 They will tell you which hole to fall down. If it has 2 symbols, it means go up. If it has 5, then it's right. If it has 4, then it is either left or down. If you mess up, you will have to start over again.
 Don't get too excited; a super nerd will take it first. He will then give you the second password for the Rocket Warehouse.
 You will need to defeat all the Team Rocket members to get to the boss.
 Battle him. When you beat him, you will get the Sapphire.
 Give the gems to Celio, the man who operates the machine on the island. He will connect the regions of Kanto and Hoenn by signal and open up the way to Mewtwo.
 At the top left corner of the town, you will see a cave that is now open. Travel north to Route 24 and use a Pokémon to Surf to the entrance., Make sure your Pokémon team is at a high level; there are a lot of strong Pokémon here (levels 46-70)., Save your game before battling him, as this is your only chance to catch him and he is very powerful. See the Tips section for some methods of catching Mewtwo. You should bring at least 50 Ultra Balls.