 It just a matter of little effort at start. As they say,"A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step." and "You will never find out how far you can fly unless you spread your wings." Now remember before getting started with any of the available programming languages, you first need to decide 'what' and 'how' you have to get started with. It's fairly simple these days because of Internet.


For help on any sort of initiation go visit Google, online discussion forum, blogs, Amazon book ratings, YouTube video tutorials etc. Every sort of resource are at your doorstep, you just need to open a door to let them in.;
, Get it organized because it will help you keep track of thing and it's also helpful for easy reference.
 #*Remember when you get started don't mug things up instead understand what does that code does


Practice and practice and apply those in your own ways. The moment you start understanding, you will find coding FUN.
Be prepared to make the errors. You might find yourself in mess. It no big deal, it's obvious that you will face thousands of errors that might be really difficulty for you to debug. But remember those errors will prepare you for future. Some error are very much difficult to debug while other are comparatively easy.
Take help from internet and other valuable resources as discussed above. Problem might just seem difficult at first but if you put a little effort then you will definitely nail it down.
 As you learn, practice and apply new thing you will find yourself gradually enjoying programming. And, sooner or later coding will be FUN.
 Deception is the key. The trick is the be naughty. Human mind tends to remember naughty, funny, vulgar stuff sooner, so learn coding that way. For example, print a message as such 'Dude you made a wrong choice, you suck' (in C Programming: printf("Dude you made a wrong choice, you suck"; ), loop 100 times saying 'You are a genius' ( in PHP Programming: for(i=0;i<100;i++){ echo "You are a genius"; } ), display error like 'You are so dumb' (in JavaScript: alert("You are so dumb"); ), etc. These techniques might seem funny but this works very effectively.
 If you learn something try to execute it, then practice it another time, and when you have the hold apply it differently in your own way.

