 During the first week of transition, take away one bottle-fed meal. If possible, take away the morning bottle feed and replace the bottle with milk from a cup or a different kind of food.During the next week, take away an afternoon bottle.
The last bottle to go should be the dinner or bedtime bottle. Wait to do this until your child has accepted not receiving bottles in the morning or afternoon.
 If your toddler insists on the bottle, do not give up. Find out what your toddler really wants; often, your toddler will ask for the bottle because she wants comfort, not because she actually wants to drink her formula. If this is the case, soothe and comfort her yourself.If your child is hungry or thirsty, offer her something to eat or drink without the bottle.
If your child refuses both comfort or other food or drink, give her the bottle. Do not force her; weaning your child off the bottle will be a gradual process. Instead, talk to her some more about why you want her to drink from a cup.
 When you decide to start transitioning your child off of using bottles, make sure to hide them completely (or throw them away) so that your child does not get reminded of the bottle and begin demanding it again.
 This is important to enforce as soon as you begin feeding your child with a bottle; the bottle should be used only for feeding during meals. If your child is allowed to carry the bottle around, it may begin to represent something other than feeding.If your child already carries a bottle around, offer her some other comforting object, like a toy or blanket.
 You can make a big deal about this process. Let your child throw the bottle into the trash and say goodbye to it. Doing this will help your child to know that there are no more bottles.


If it is around a holiday, such as Christmas, you can help your child to put all of the bottles into a box to leave for Santa Claus. Tell your child that Santa will replace the bottles with a gift.
Alternatively, you could have your child leave the bottles for the ‘Bottle Fairy’. Have the fairy leave a comforting gift for your child.
 If the bottle was part of your child’s bedtime routine, replace the bottle with something interesting, like reading a picture book, or singing a song. You can also offer your child milk in a cup when she would normally get her bottle.

