 The Portuguese language uses five letters for vowels, and additionally three diacritics (four with the tilde, see later step about nasal vowels).


A - Like in Father, or like in comma

Á - Like Father, always stressed
À - Like Father, only in contractions
Â - Like Surf, always stressed


E - Either roughly like Any, Enough (the exact sound exists only in some English dialect, like Australian Bed, the IPA symbol is e), or sometimes like Equal

É - Like Any
Ê - Like E, but longer, and never like in Equal or Any


I - Like in Equal

Ì - Like in Equal


O - Like in Under or Only (but try not to pronounce it ow or ou, but short and single sounded like the U in Under. Imagine that Only is spelled Ownly, an try only to pronounce the O)

Ó - Like Oyster, or, when the last letter of a word, like Under
Ô - Like O, but longer, and never like in Under


U - Like in Foot

Ú - Like in Foot
Û - Like in Foot

;
, Portuguese uses the same consonant as English does, except K, W and Y, which are only used in foreign loan words.


B - Like in Believe
C - When in front of E, and I like in Bicycle. Otherwise like in Cow.

ç - Always like in Bicycle


D - Like in Devil, except when placed in front of an I or an E, that is pronounced like Equal, in that case the D is pronounced like Jam
F - Like in Fine
G - When in front of E and I like in Protégé. Otherwise like in Girl

Gu - Normally like Good or Paraguay, but when in front of I or E simply like in Girl


H - Never pronounced. Like in Hour
J - Like in Protégé
L - Like in Lonely, or when at the end of a syllable like in Cow

M - Like in Mouse, or when at the end of a word roughly like in Song.
N - Like in Never, or when at the end of a syllable roughly like in Song

P - Like in Pull
Q - Only used in the combination qu-, which is pronounced like in Queen when in front of A, O or U, otherwise like Cow
R - Normally like the Spanish R (rolled or not). When it is the first or the last letter of a word, after N or written rr however, it is pronounced like Home.
S - Like in Son, or when between two vowels like Zone. In some dialects pronounced like Shower, especially in front of T.
T - A little like in Ten, but more dry. Can sound almost like a D. When in front of I or an E, that is pronounced like in Equal, the T is pronounced like Cheese
V - Like in Vase
X - Like in Shower, or when at the end of a syllable like in Son or Xerox

Z - Like in Zone, or when between to vowels like Son

, Normally the second to last syllable is always stressed, except:


When one of the letters has a diacritic (ex.: á, â, or ã), in this case the letter with the diacritic is always stressed (this does not count for the rarely used diacritics à and ü)
When the last letter of the word is a consonant, but not m or s. In this case the last syllable is stressed.
When the last letter is U or I. In this case the last syllable is stressed.
 Nasal vowels occur when the diacritic ~ is used (ã, õ) or when the vowel is followed by an N or M, and the M is the last letter of the word. The tilde (~) is normally used in combinations like ação (action) or mãe (mom) with other vowels. In this case both vowels are nasal. You make a nasal vowel by simply letting part of the air blowing out of you nose while pronouncing the vowel.

