 Who wants to be happy if you are lonely or even angry? If you plan to have some fun with your friend and you want him/her to laugh or you want to make a joke for him/her to laugh, make sure you are in good mood. It is your friend wants to be cheered, not you.;
, Enough rest will help you think properly. Funny jokes are sometimes difficult to produce in mind if you are having stressful and have rested less than your preferred time of sleep. Don’t think of some other things that will destruct your mind so that you can think well of the jokes you want to say with your friend.
 Before you start to speak or make a funny joke, think first. You will make him/her laugh not make him/her angry.
 If you tend to make joke through gestures, don’t make yourself a clown. He/she will call you crazy and may even get rid from you the next time you will ask her/him to go with you and worst is he/she will never talk to you again. Some people don’t want to have a crazy friend.
 It is a joke so it is understood that it is not true. You can say anything unbelievable but make sure your friend will like your joke. Example, you may start your joke by saying “I saw a monster this morning, I was really terrified!” she will then ask you “Really? Where?”. Then, you will say “In the mirror and I almost break it until I realized that it was me”.
 When you are in a public place and there are many people around, you may use them as part of your jokes but make sure that you pick also a funny one to compare. Example, you say “Do you see that guy over there?” then she ask “Yeah, why?”, you will reply “If he faces left, he looks like my father and if he faces right he looks like my uncle but if he faces front, well, I don't know!” Your friend will then surely ask who will be the next person you will be mentioning. This is the best answer for your friend “My girlfriend”. It is best if your friend has not yet seen your girlfriend or does not know that you already have one for him/her to picture it out. Try to imagine that you have a girlfriend whose face is the same as your father.
 This maybe crazy but you can still use this as one of your jokes. For example, if your friend talks so much and you are starting to get tired of listening, this is the best way to do it without saying anything that you don’t want to listen to his/her stories anymore. Just say immediately “Shh, keep quiet, do you hear that sound?”. She will then ask “What sound?” and then release that air within you but make sure it will make a sound or else nothing happens.
 There are lots of things in the surroundings you can use as your subjects. You may compare it to something or someone that your friend also knew but make sure you know where to put your limits because sometimes it will just be offensive.
 However, make sure your friend also doesn’t like your enemy or your friend is not your enemy’s friend or else you will be your friend’s enemy. Example, If your enemy is a big hairy guy then you can start making your joke like this “Have you gone to the zoo?” and your friend answers “yes” then you will add “have you seen that big gorilla there?” and she replies “of course”, you then add “you know its name?”, if she says “no” put an end by saying “his name is (your enemy’s name) and now I know where he is having his part time job!”.

