 When you sign up for an Uber account, you’ll need to provide a working mobile phone number so that your account can be confirmed. You can sign up for an Uber account by installing the Uber app from the App Store (iPhone) or Play Store (Android).
 In the provided blanks, type your name, mobile phone number, e-mail address and a new password. Tap “Next” when you’re ready to continue.


If you receive an error message that says “Mobile number is already in use,” it’s because the phone number you entered is already attached to another Uber account.If you have another account, try signing in with that instead. If you can’t sign in with your other account, tap “I can’t change my email or mobile number” and follow the prompts to recover the password.
If you don’t have another account, fill out the form at http://help.uber.com/locked-out to get help from Uber.
 An automated text message containing a 4-digit verification code was sent to the mobile number you provided. This code will need to be entered into the Uber app to confirm your account.
 In most cases, the app will automatically prompt you to enter the verification code shortly after you receive it. If this is the case for you, type it into the field to verify your account.


If you do not have a text message from Uber, tap “Resend” to receive a new code.
 Some Uber users report not being asked to enter a confirmation code until they book their first ride.Once you’ve set your pickup and destination locations, tap “Request Ride Now.” You will be prompted to enter the 4-digit code that was sent to you via text message.


If you do not have a text message from Uber, tap “Resend” to receive a new code. When you receive that code, enter it into the app. This will verify your account and have you ready to ride.
If you still have not received a code, you’ll need to report the issue to Uber using a form on their help site.
 If you do not receive the text message containing the verification code, your mobile carrier may be blocking a form of text message called “short code SMS.”Contact your cellular provider and confirm that “short code SMS” is enabled for your account.Log in to the Uber website with your username and password.
Point your web browser to this form on the Uber help site. In the field labeled “Phone Number,” enter your phone number and click “Submit.” Uber will now verify your account and contact you when the process is complete.