 Make sure they're interested in the punk style and enthusiastic about making punk music. It will help to find others who already own their own instruments and can play punk or similar music.;
, You'll need at least one of each; singer, drummer, bassist, and guitarist.
 Let all of the members brainstorm, narrow down the selections, and pick a name. Agree upon a single name. Most punk bands start with, "the." Keep that in mind. It doesn't matter what the band's name is as long as everyone accepts it.
 Find a place to practice, such as someone's garage, or rent out an old warehouse. If your drummer has a garage with their own drum set, practice here (it's a hassle to move around a drum set).
 Punk covers a variety of different styles, so while you're jamming with the band, pick one that best reflects everyone's skills and interests.

Pay attention to different styles of other previous bands around you such as: Descendents, Sex Pistols, The Clash, The Unseen, Misfits, Bad Religion, Rancid, The Adicts, etc.
 Don't just play covers, write a dozen or so songs of your own music and lyrics to start. Figure out the instrumental parts of the songs as well, but focus on the lyrics. Make sure everyone is capable of playing the music and ensure it flows well when played by your band.
 Doesn't really matter if you can play and if your terrible find a way to distract this by maybe wearing odd clothes or starting fights and such until you get alright. Try to right something that will make people want to jump and mosh around while keeping it hooky if you can.Also politically/social based lyrics always help keep it anger write about what's wrong not what's right

, Play each song you wrote as much as possible. When you're happy with it, release it to the public. There are many independent labels that have their own MP3 sites for amateur bands., Encourage everyone to contribute and invest in the band, as it gives them a sense of ownership.
 Could be old school punk, ska punk, hardcore and even pop-punk. You could also play a mix of different sub-genres. As long as It's what you enjoy doing and you are playing in front of the right crowd. And It's OK to switch style, just don't be a sellout and still play a couple of your older style but don't focus so much on if fans are getting disappointing

