 When it comes to the look of a drag queen, there's no right or wrong way to do it. Some men shave their entire bodies, some men just shave their faces and their chests, and others don't shave at all. The latter is referred to as "bear" or "skag" drag.What is your persona like?


If you've got a lot of hair and you do want to shave it, trim it with safety scissors first. Then shave – just after a shower is best.
You could also go for a full body wax. You'll walk out with a hairless body and a newfound appreciation for what women go through.;
, Hip pads add curves, but thin is in. Ultimately, it's up to you. Waist cinchers also come in handy – especially if you're a little heavy in the middle. Again, this is a matter of personality. Is she larger and larger than life? Or is she petite and demure?


Take a look at your body type. How broad is your chest? How narrow are your hips? Are they vastly different or about the same? If you don't have an automatic response, you may find it useful to just try on a few dresses with and without padding in place. Then you can see which side of the spectrum you prefer.
 When it comes to looking female, men are lacking upstairs and overstocking below. Here are the basics to looking more feminine:


Tuck in down below. Just tuck everything between your legs. Women's panties are snug and smooth enough to hold it all in place, though you could also get a gaff (very similar to women's panties). Support garments like Spanx or pantyhose work great too. If you do get a gaff, lie down with the gaff pulled up to your thighs. Tuck each testicle and up into your abdominal cavity. Tuck your penis between your legs and pull up the gaff.
Get a good bra. For sizing, measure around your chest a few inches below your nipples. For the cup size, bigger is not better – B or C looks more natural. Anything will fill those cups, but chicken cutlets or silicone breast enhancers will look and feel real. As for cleavage, it's an illusion, created with pecs and tape. Start by holding in your pecs with one hand. Take a strip of medical tape, and apply it like a sash, running from your underarm to your chest cavity.
 No drag queen is complete without her face on, and most "faces" are made up of wild shades of make-up (and false eyelashes) that can be seen from 50 rows back. It's not easy, either. Some queens report not being happy with their ability to do their own make-up for a whole year.So start doing your own now; you'll appreciate the practice.


It can be tempting to have someone else do it for you, but you don't want to have to depend on anyone else being at the reigns of your performance. And if you can do it yourself, you can mold your mask as your persona evolves.
Not sure where to start? There are tons of tutorials for doing drag make-up online. It's also a good idea to talk to friends and confidants that have expertise in this area. They could do it for you once to create a template and you could work off that from there.
 Is your other half a dynamic diva? Is she the girl next door or is she fiery and fierce? Would she wear long, elegant dresses or mini-skirts and tube tops? Along with the makeup, this is where drag starts getting expensive. Start by just assembling one or two outfits. As you develop your act, you can assemble more.


Use skirts and dresses to hide what you need to hide. They're comfortable and feminine, too.
Choose tops with wider shoulders, longer sleeves, and lowered waistlines for longer torsos.
Wear high heels. Nothing makes your legs sexier than a pair of high heels, but they're hard to find in big sizes at generic stores. Cross dressing websites come in really handy here (and can for clothes as well).
 Odds are you won't be able to grow a healthy head of long, wavy, luxurious hair in the next few weeks, so a wig is your best bet. And when it comes to wigs, unlike some other things, quality is reflected in the price. Is she a blonde, a brunette, or a redhead? Curly or straight?


And take good care of it, too. Wigs get surprisingly unkempt very easily. When you purchase yours (ideally you'll purchase it in person so you can try it on then and there), ask about care. How can you lengthen the life of your wig? The expert you're dealing with will give you tips on brushing and storage.
 Once you've got everything you need to look like a drag queen, you have to have the personality and the act to back it up. Choose your name carefully and make sure it fits who you are – something more refined like Latrice Royale, or something edgy, like Detox? Is she a diva, a dancer, the rule breaker? How does she interact with others, fans or not? Is she sweet and sultry or spicy and bossy?


Once you have her personality determined, choose a song she'll "sing" and "dance" to (you'll just have to mime the words and you can get away with moving on stage). Memorize the lyrics like your birthday – the last thing you want is to be stuck in front of a mic like a deer in headlights.
In the beginning, just worry about having two or three songs under your belt. You can do these over and over at different venues. As you get known, you'll want to increase your repertoire.
 Where in your area has drag showcases? When you find out, go to them. Check out how they work. Make small talk with the girls and the owner or the hostess. How can you audition? The more you become a part of this community, in drag or not, the easier it'll be to get a spot on stage.


This is no theatre audition. When you do show them your stuff, be decked out to the 9's – full hair and makeup and in your best costume. Hopefully you'll nab a weekly spot in their show.
 When your career is just budding, the money won't be rolling in. Some venues simply offer experience as pay, others drink, and the higher end might roll in $50-$100. So don't quit your day job just yet until you're the one naming prices.


Charity events are a huge part of most drag queens' career experiences. It's a great way to get your name out there and to show your support. However, charity events generally don't pay. You're not doing this for money, you're doing this to be a a part of a community.
 Drag is not cheap. In addition to a lifestyle, it is a very expensive hobby. You'll be spending hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars on make-up, wigs, clothes, and shoes. You've got to look good! In this industry, you'll need to spend money to look good and you've got to look good to make money.


Very few drag queens make it professionally. The vast majority do it in their spare time as their after 9-5 passion.
 Just like a comedian can only get so many shows out of his material before he has to come up with a new sketch, a drag queen can only perform "Hit Me Baby One More Time" before she has to work on a new act. When you feel ready for a new challenge, go for it. What other songs would your persona take on? Would she do them straight or would she play up the comedy? Does she work the crowd and use audience participation? What makes her song unique?


And with this comes new costumes and new make-up. If you're on a tight budget, see what pieces from your previous outfit you can work into a new one, maybe with new accessories and shoes.
 A lot of people have this conception of a drag queen as some ultimate diva, big-breasted and snarky, with an attitude pointier than her six-inch heels. This isn't always the case. In fact, not being this can make your act more interesting. Here is some inspiration:The beauty queen type, like Shangela, is someone you'd never know was a man.
Dena Cass is the dancer. When you see her on stage, you know her type.
Detox is a fashionista. One look at her outfits and it becomes clear.
Nina West is a good example of the unique type. There are some queens that go to the beat of their own drum, and it works.
 As you develop your character, you'll notice that her and her "mask" evolve over time. The things you used to do won't seem applicable anymore, and that also goes for her hair, make-up, and clothes. When something doesn't feel right anymore, it's because she's a part of you and she's outgrown it. That's a completely normal, good feeling. It means you're refining her into who she should be.
 For many, doing drag isn't just about doing drag. It's about being home. Not only are you at home in your persona, but you're at home with your fellow queens and fans. After you walk off the stage, your job isn't done. They cheered you on, now you cheer them on. The camaraderie is what keeps many going, and instead of feeling competitive, most drag environments are about giving off an aura of love and acceptance.


The people willing to do drag and be in this environment are looking for you to be family, not looking for your faults. Many people, though by no means all, are going through some transition or some inner conflict, and it's this type of environment that makes them feel good. Be a part of it, and you'll fall in love with drag even more.
 Let's face it: being a drag queen is no easy task. If you're gay life can be even more difficult and if you're not, you can expect questions about your personal life till the cows come home. There will be people who "don't get it," who think you want to be a woman, and who judge you. They serve no place in your life. Brush it off, because you are fabulous.


Let good thoughts be your sword and your shield. The community you're in will help you develop your positivity. When you're surrounded by others who help you feel good and make you your best, it's hard not to think positively. When the adversity comes, you can band together, making each of you individually stronger.
 No matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter your home life or your career skills, you can be accepted into the drag community. The only requirement is that you let yourself shine as bright as you can shine. You ready to take the leap?


You don't even have to be a man to be a drag queen.With a larger than life personality and a nice set of false eyelashes, you can take on the world, no matter who you are (or what you have down there). But it certainly helps to be larger than life.

