 This narrative mode is known as the third person omniscient. It will allow the reader to see when the protagonist is making a mistake and about to run into trouble. The reader will impose his own fears onto the story, helpless to prevent the disaster that's coming.


When the reader knows more than a character in a story, this is called dramatic irony.;
, The reader will worry about what might happen to him or her. Maintaining suspense is easier when the reader cares about the protagonist.
 The antagonist, meanwhile, should seem to have all the time in the world to act.
 Whatever it is that the protagonist is trying to accomplish in the story, failure means utter devastation to everything the protagonist cares about.
 Success has to be nearly impossible, and the pressure enormous. The protagonist should be almost at the breaking point by the time the final confrontation with the antagonist occurs.
 Victory will be easier, for example, if the protagonist allows an innocent person to suffer, but defeat almost certain if he does the right thing.



A good way to add to the protagonist's problems is with a contagonist. The contagonist gets in the protagonist's way, delaying, deflecting or confusing the protagonist. The contagonist can be a well-meaning but bumbling ally of the protagonist or allied with the antagonist.
 The antagonist must be as intelligent and determined as the protagonist so the reader believes that the protagonist can be defeated.
 Make sure that in the final confrontation with the antagonist, the protagonist has to face that fear and overcome it.
 Darkness, spiders, snakes, heights, tornadoes, basements and rising water are just a few of the things that frighten most people.
 This will make it hard for the reader to put the story down and eager for the next opportunity to pick it up again. Creating cliffhangers is sometimes as easy as choosing where to put the chapter breaks.


The term cliffhanger comes from old serial dramas. Before a feature film, short episodic films were shown, and at the end of each the hero was in some peril, sometimes hanging onto the edge of a cliff with one hand. The audience would return to the theater the next week, as much to see the hero escape death as for the feature film.
 You can also injure the protagonist.

