 You can follow along with the instructions online at http://www.irs.gov/app/picklist/list/formsInstructions.html without printing out the whole thing. It's just as easy and it has all the same information. While you're at it, pull up the IRS Pub 17.If you own a house, have paid medical expenses, and make charitable contributions, you might want to file the 1040 and the Schedule A.
If you are married, but renting, and have average expenses, you might want to use the 1040-A form. You can claim several of the same deductions and credits as with the 1040, but there's much less detail required. Just compare the back page of the 1040 and the 1040-A to make sure you didn't miss anything. Average expenses means that if you fill out and add all of the itemization's on Schedule A, and they are less than the standard deduction, the 1040-A is probably your form of choice.
If you are single or MFJ without dependent exemptions, you might want to file the 1040-EZ. This has neither schedules nor additional forms. You can only file your gross income and EIC on the EZ form.;
, This is not the same as Self Employment Income.
For Non-Resident Tax, use Form 1040-NR.
For Interest and Ordinary Dividends, use Schedule B.
For Profit or Loss from Business (Sole Proprietorship), use Schedule C.
For Capital Gains and Losses, use Schedule D.
For Supplemental Income and Loss use, Schedule E.
For Farming, use Schedule F.
For Household Employment Taxes, use Schedule H.
For Self-Employment Tax, use Schedule SE.
For Estimated Tax, use Form ES.
 The IRS wants you to do your own taxes; that's why they spend so much time and money to provide the instructions, Pub 17, worksheets, telephone help lines, etc. Don't let all this sound complicated. We've all been programmed to fear the IRS, but they actually go out of their way to make things easier.
 Turn the form over and put your name(s) and Social Security Number in the head space at the top so you don't forget later. If your spouse passed away during the year, or you are filing as Qualifying Widow(er), write DECEASED after the name of your spouse. Most people forget this simple little step, but the IRS wants it, and it is helpful.

