 Using herbs for stress is not likely to be effective if you don't treat the underlying cause of the symptoms. Integrative medicine supports the use of non-traditional treatments, like herbs and acupuncture, along with conventional medicine and behavioral therapy.


You may also look for a doctor who is also trained in Traditional Chinese Medicine. Chinese medicine often focuses on treating the internal organs to improve outward symptoms and limiting the intake of foods that could increase your symptoms.;
, Although herbs are natural, they can also have potentially harmful interactions with your current medications. It is especially important that you get knowledgeable opinions on potential toxic effects if you are on diabetes, heart or blood thinning medication.
 Although herbal supplements are available in pharmacies and natural food stores, their quality and content is not highly regulated. An herbalist can recommend certain supplements that are known to be high quality.


Most herbal supplements are not just the named herb in a capsule form. Most are combinations of different herbs in a formula that is designed to treat a problem. There are a large number of anti-stress herbal supplements on the market, so seek professional help in choosing a supplement that caters to your stress response.
 Herbs will only provide minimal short-term relief if you do not attempt to treat the causes of your stress. The following are good options, which you can try to fit into your day in small or large quantities:


Try simple meditation. Find a quiet space at home or work. Sit cross legged, breathe deeply and try to think of nothing. Train your mind to quiet down by picturing a relaxing landscape, such as a beach or the countryside. You can also repeat a positive mantra for 5 to 10 minutes.
Start taking yoga. Relaxation yoga can be done in a classroom setting or with a DVD or Internet clip at home. The combination of difficult postures with deep breathing distracts the mind from stressors, while the body releases helpful endorphins. Try different kinds of yoga to see what works best for you.
Discuss cognitive behavioral therapy with a doctor or psychologist. This psychotherapeutic approach to depression, anxiety and addiction uses computer programs, visualization, biofeedback and other methods to help change maladaptive behaviors over time. The goal of this therapy is to restructure the way your mind responds to stress.

