 Soccer balls, basketballs, and baseballs are excellent toys to get your kids moving. You can also purchase soft and squishy balls for younger kids and indoor use. Balls can be used to play traditional sports, or kids can use their imaginations and come up with a variety of games that will keep them active.Balls can also help to develop kicking, throwing, running, and catching skills.
You can find suitable balls for kids of all ages and abilities.
Play catch or soccer with your child in order to help them develop fundamental movement skills. This is a fun way to play with them!;
, Balls are a great way to get your kids active, but as they get older you may want to buy them some additional sports equipment such as nets, gloves, bats, and hockey sticks. This will allow them to play an actual game or sport and can provide a group of children with hours of physical activity and fun.


You can find both indoor and outdoor nets and sports equipment. For example, small basketball nets can be hung on the back of a bedroom door to allow your child to play inside.
Miniature hockey sticks are another great way to get your kids playing sports inside the house.
 Board games are another excellent way to limit your child’s screen time and even get them moving. For example, you could buy a board game, such as Twister, that requires kids to stretch and bend in order to complete the desired action and win the game.Set aside a family board game night once a month. This will give you an opportunity to play with your children.
 Jump rope is another way to get kids moving. Typically this is an activity for children 6 and up and can be completed individually using a single rope or with friends using double dutch ropes. There are a number of different games and tricks that can be completed using a jump rope. Your child will develop endurance, strength, and jumping skills.Purchase a jump rope that is plastic or beaded, not cloth. Cloth ropes are too light and are more difficult for young children just learning the basics.
Size your child’s rope by having them stand on the middle of the rope. The handles should reach just below the armpits. If the rope is too long tie knots into the rope to shorten it.
Turn the ropes for the kids so that they can get a chance to jump in the double dutch ropes.

