 If you have experienced a joint injury, you may experience swelling and redness in the area. Treat a local injury with rest, ice, elevation, and compression. If you observe redness at a recently injured joint, you can likely easily manage the issue at home. Treat redness, swelling, and pain associated with minor injuries using the RICE method: rest the joint, ice the area, apply compression by wrapping it, and keep the affected area elevated above heart level.See a doctor if you experience severe pain, can’t move the joint at all, or can’t bear any weight on an ankle or knee joint.
A fracture may also cause swelling and redness around local joints.;
, Joint redness after a more serious local injury, such as a fracture or torn ligament, can indicate hemarthrosis, or bleeding in the joint spaces. Other symptoms include swelling, warmth, stiffness, and bruising. You should see a doctor if you experience redness accompanied by severe swelling, especially if you take a blood thinner.Blood thinners, like warfarin, make it more difficult for your body to stop bleeding after an injury.
 Redness affecting one or more joints can be associated with a number of underlying conditions, such as osteoarthritis, diabetes, or a systemic inflammatory disease.If you can rule out an acute injury, consult a medical professional and discuss your preexisting conditions.

Osteoarthritis incidence increases with age and can present in those individuals who are active but have experienced injury in the past. It also can develop from normal wear and tear as person ages. In osteoarthritis, pain is worse with activity and improves with rest. Osteoarthritis can be managed long-term but occasional joint flare-ups are common.
They can also offer a variety of tests to accurately diagnose the cause of joint redness and refer you to a specialist., Autoimmune diseases can also cause joint redness. For example, one in five psoriasis patients experience psoriatic arthritis, which results when the immune system attacks joint tissue. Pain usually accompanies redness and swelling, and one or multiple joints can be affected.Other autoimmune disorders include lupus and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which can cause symptoms in one or multiple joints.Gout is also common among those with RA, and can cause further swelling in the joints., Viral and bacterial infections can cause septic arthritis, which requires prompt medical treatment. Sudden, severe pain and fever typically accompany redness and swelling. Usually, only one joint is affected.