 Locate the leech’s oral sucker on the anterior (thinner end). Place your finger or fingernail on the skin next to this, and gently slide it underneath. Push to the side to detach the leech.Repeat this step at the posterior end sucker, then flick the leech off of your body.


Push the leech away as you detach it, because it will try to reattach itself to your body.
Make sure to start with the thinner, anterior end, which is actually the leech’s “head.”Dispose of the leech away from the water after you have detached it. You can pour salt on the leech to ensure it is killed, but do this only after you have safely removed it.;
, Once the leech has had enough blood, it should fall off on its own, typically after about twenty minutes.If you cannot remove the leech safely, you may have to leave it and wait until it stops feeding. While this can be unsettling, the leech should not cause you any pain or serious injury.


Dispose of the leech after it falls off. You can pour salt on the leech to ensure it is killed, but do this only after it detaches itself from your body.
 Leeches have anticoagulant enzymes that cause blood to flow freely.If the bite area continues to bleed after you remove the leech (or after it falls off), apply gentle pressure with a clean cloth or gauze until the bleeding stops.
 Leeches can leave a small wound where they were attached to your body.Clean this wound using warm water and a mild soap. Afterwards, apply an over-the-counter antibacterial cream and bandage. In the event that the wound becomes infected, see a doctor.
 Leeches are very flexible and difficult to grasp, and even if you are successful at grabbing one and pulling it off your body, this may make things worse. In ripping it away, parts of the leech’s jaws may remain in your body, which can cause an infection., Many traditional remedies for removing leeches involve putting a match or flame to the leech’s body, or pouring salt, alcohol, vinegar, or other things on the leech. While this will likely cause the leech to detach itself from your body, it may regurgitate the contents of its stomach back into the bite wound as it detaches. This can cause an infection., If leeches are attached to sensitive areas, such as on your eye, or in an orifice such as your nasal cavity, vagina, or penis, you should see a doctor for professional help. Doctors are trained in the use of special techniques and equipment to remove leeches, and will be able to treat any infections or complications that arise.You should also see a doctor if, after removing a leech on your own, you notice signs of infection, irritation, or other unusual symptoms.
Signs of infection can include redness, swelling, or pus at the site of the wound, as well as general pain and fever.

