 View the school's websites, and read parents' unbiased reviews wherever available. Ensure that the websites are current; if the sites are not up-to-date, it may be an indicator that the schools might not pay attention to your child either.;
, Remember that you may have to provide transportation or have your child ride a bus to the school every weekday, twice per day. If the school is far, or inconvenient, you need to determine if the benefit outweighs the trouble.
 Most schools offer this just before enrollment time, and it's a chance to view the school. If a school you're interested in doesn't have an open house, ask the office to provide someone to take you on a guided tour. A school that won't allow you to see it operate should be avoided.
 Generally speaking, a good kindergarten will have happy, engaged staff and children who are energetic and participatory. If the mood of the school is upbeat, it's a good sign that the school is a viable choice. If it seems like no one wants to be there, your child shouldn't be either.
 The best options will allow the students to play while learning, with materials and each other. Make sure that the teachers have a varied curriculum to follow that includes pretend play, reading, painting, puzzles, and so on. Any school that expects children to sit stationary for a long time should be left out.
 This allows teachers to give attention to individual children several times each day. The hands-on time will likely be your child's favorite part of the day and will help nurture his or her love for learning by making them feel special.
 The artwork and writings of the children should be prominently displayed. This helps to give the children pride in their work, and kindergartens that don't should be avoided.
 Learning numbers, alphabet, beginning science such as nature exploration, frequent reading, and computers should all be included in daily activities of the school you select. There should also be a minimum of 1 hour for a recess-like break, outside whenever possible, which gives your child an opportunity to recharge.
 The children in the classroom will learn at a very different rate, and you will need to make sure that no matter where your child lands on the learning curve that he or she will be taken care of appropriately by the teachers.
 Ask them how satisfied they are, what they like best and worst about the school, and for positive and negative aspects to pay particular attention to.
 Many schools offer this option, and you will need to review what types of activities are available and what the cost is. Look for schools that continue to engage the children with academics as opposed to simple babysitting.
 Ask what the kids are doing in more advanced grades as this will be a glimpse into your child's future. Make sure the older children are adequately challenged, that future classrooms are teaching appropriate math and reading skills, and that both children and teachers are still happy.
 Find out how the school addresses issues such as bullying or discrimination. While most schools will give you a canned response, don't be shy about asking questions or providing hypothetical, what-would-you-do-if scenarios. These issues can start at a very young age, and you will want to make sure your child is protected appropriately from the start.
 Make sure it has clear rules and regulations for students to follow, and that they are rules you can and will follow at home for consistency. Ask the teachers and the principal how the rules are enforced and what the penalties are for violating them.

