 The Goddess Siren fulfills a man’s desire for fantasy. If you have the following characteristics, you are primarily a Goddess Siren. The Goddess is regal and in charge. This siren prefers silence to chatter, despises group activities, and is unapologetically moody.The Goddess is aloof and demands to be waited on.Assert your magnificence with a strong posture—stand with your chin up and your back straight.Dress to the nines—wear luxury items from head to toe and never forget to put on a pair of heels!;
, The Competitor Siren fulfills a man’s desire to conquer—but this siren doesn’t play easy to get! If you have the following characteristics, you are primarily a Competitor Siren. This siren prefers the company of men to women, is highly competitive, and extremely energetic.The Competitor Siren has a high libido—sex is nothing more than a casual, no-guilt interaction., The Companion Siren fulfills a man’s desire to connect.If you have the following characteristics, you are primarily a Companion Siren. This siren strives to share interests with her partner. As a result, the Companion Siren is an active participant in her partner’s success.This siren prefers to share the spotlight rather than steal it. The Companion Siren enjoys spending time with people and loves to serve as the host. This siren is positive and an excellent judge of character., The Mother Siren fulfills a man’s desire to be nurtured.If you have the following characteristics, you are primarily a Mother Siren. This siren is active behind the scene and strives to meet her partner’s every need. When faced with a problem, the Mother siren is calm, level headed, and ready to solve the problem. This siren takes pride in her home and domestic skills. Prepare meals and desserts for your partner—the stomach is the way to your lover’s heart!

, The Sex Kitten Siren fulfills a man’s desire to procreate.If you have the following characteristics, you are primarily a Sex Kitten Siren. This siren accentuates her feminine figure and relies on her womanly wiles. This hyper-feminine siren is openly sexual.She often adopts a naïve persona. This siren balances her girlish innocence with her womanly prowess., Smart men marry smart women. A siren that can carry a conversation, scoff witty retorts, and insert relevant comments into a conversation is an enticing, mysterious, and captivating being. Don’t hide your intelligence—use your intellectual gifts to attract and entice men.


Watch the news to stay up to date on current events. Remain aware of the world around you.
Read the classics—you never know when an opportunity to quote Shakespeare will arise. Immerse yourself in the world of art and culture—visit a museum, attend an opera, watch a documentary., As a siren, your appearance requires careful consideration. Dress with confidence and accessorize with care. Wear clothes that flatter your body and highlight your feminine features. Select colors that complement your skin tone.
Classics never go out of style. Well-tailored pants, smartly cut dresses, and impeccable tops will never go out of style!
Show off your best features. Wear a dangerously low low-cut top or skin-tight skinny jeans.
 Perfume is a powerful tool that every siren should have in her arsenal. Your scent is uniquely you. When you are in the presence of a suitor, it provides you with a natural aura. When you leave a room, it lingers behind, leaving your suitor craving your presence.Find a subtle scent with sweet undertones.
 Bragging is not an attractive quality—it’s not a quality fit for a lady. You can, however, subtly let it be known that you are a hot commodity. When your date expresses concern or jealousy, tell your suitor that they can’t help themselves!


Intentionally leave a text from another suitor pulled up on your phone screen.
Prominently display flowers and card from an admirer.If he compliments your outfit, casually mention it was a gift from another suitor.
 People love the sound of their own name. When you talk to your suitor, drop his name into the conversation. This method will distinguish you from other women. It will also let him know you are interested in him.”I had an amazing time, Brian!”
I love your jacket, Dave!”
Nate, thank you for dinner. It was lovely.”

, Sirens are not pushovers! It is essential that you assert yourself—let your needs, wants, and desires be known. Speak your mind openly and unapologetically. You deserve respect. Don’t bend over backwards to catch a suitor’s attention; don’t put up with or defend a man that doesn’t meet your high standards.Never change your plans at your suitor’s request.
 A siren that is passionate about more than just her suitor is extremely irresistible. Don’t spend all your time to pursuing suitors; devote your energy to supporting a worthy cause. Join a movement for change. Passionately advocate on behalf of women’s rights. Support refugees., A woman that embraces her wild side is irresistible! Act on your dark fantasies and desires. Your boldness and disregard for limits will capture any suitor’s attention!Embrace dangerous challenges. Go skydiving or bungee jumping.
Encourage your suitor to try new things. Eat foods from different cultures. Get creative in the bedroom.
Break the rules every once in awhile.
 Sirens blaze their own paths. Allow your endless supply of confidence, passion, and determination to fuel your effort to lead a brazen life. Pursue your dreams without regard for the rules and standards of society.Don’t apologize for being a sexual being. Embrace your inner-siren and lead the lifestyle you wish to lead.
Break free from societal stereotypes—don’t label yourself as a man-eater.

