 There are editors-in-chief for all kinds of publications, from magazines to newspapers to blogs to book publishers. Determine which of these is most appealing. The sets of skills needed by editors-in-chief are typically transferable among various writing industries, from print and online newspapers to magazines and academic publishers. Once you get to the executive level, however, you are an expert in one particular industry and you will probably need to stay in that industry to become editor-in-chief.;
, Do research about the industry and identify some key organizations that are most appealing to you as potential employers. Focus on trends in the industry, as well as successful and unsuccessful models.
 Most publications will require a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in journalism, mass communication, business or similar for executive level positions. For some publications, however, journalism degrees are not the most appropriate. For example, if you want to be editor-in-chief of a fashion magazine, attend fashion school instead.You should also consider location when determining the best program. Access to internships is easier in urban locations, and certain types of publications may be centered in some cities over others. For example, fashion magazines are probably more prevalent in New York City, whereas entertainment magazines may be more prevalent in Los Angeles.


A prestigious program may expose you to more opportunities or connections with higher-profile individuals or organizations. But smaller schools do not eliminate you from higher positions. In fact, smaller programs may give you more opportunities to take leadership roles because there might be less competition.
If you have a bachelor’s degree in another field, you are not immediately discounted from becoming an editor-in-chief. You might build on your bachelor’s degree with a master’s degree, or you might have years of professional industry experience that will substitute for a certain educational background.
 No matter the type of writing, writing will help you hone your skills, find your voice, and become comfortable with writing quickly in many styles. Strike a balance in your writing between creativity, function, and effective communication. Try to refrain from being verbose or inaccessible in your writing. Think about your audience and write dramatic, appealing articles that are compelling, no matter the subject.


Seek out feedback on your writing. What might be clear or dynamic for you may be confusing or muddled to others.
 Being a good writer, and ultimately a good editor-in-chief, means being well-read. Read other people’s writing with a critical eye, recognizing what works and what doesn’t work. Read all types of material, from dense novels to magazine articles to blog entries. It is especially important to be well-read in your field; if you aspire to be the editor-in-chief of a scientific magazine, for example, make sure you read constantly about developments in your field.
 This involves reviewing writing for consistency, quality, tone and style.In addition, you need to be able to judge whether or not the writer used valid, reliable sources. Maintain a balance between editing a piece to reflect the voice of the publication and the voice of the author. You will need to be able to give constructive criticism. Be brutally honest with your writer. Acknowledge positive aspects of your writers’ work first and give concrete suggestions on how to change problematic or unclear writing. Develop good relationships with your writers, who depend on you for guidance and mentorship.


Keep in mind that a writer’s project is still the writer’s project. Do not let your ego overwhelm your editing.
 Start with learning AP style, which is an industry standard for writers and editors.You will likely need to also be very familiar with other citations styles, such as APA, Chicago, MLA and others. As you work your way up the professional editor ladder, you will likely be responsible for knowing some of these styles inside and out.
 There are very few publications that don’t have a digital presence to accompany their print versions. There are many online-only publications, but having an understanding about print will help you position yourself as a versatile worker.
 Your skill set shouldn’t just include technical skills. You also need to be someone who can work well as part of a team and as an individual. Having a positive and optimistic attitude will benefit you at every step of the way.Also have a dose of pragmatism: be realistic about what you can accomplish in a particular time frame, and what you can expect from other people.
 Identifying trends that suit your publication’s editorial style will provide you with story ideas that can then be assigned to writers.This will help your publication be an industry leader and authoritative voice that attracts more audiences.
 Getting an internship at a magazine, newspaper, website or book publisher is a great way to start making contacts, gain experience and learn about the business. Smaller companies may offer more opportunities to do more, while larger companies may be more prestigious on your resume. Target specific companies in which you are interested and contact their human resources departments to inquire about internships. Alternately, visit a career counselor at a university to get suggestions that will best suit your interests and skill set. Searching online or print job listings may also turn up internships.


Internships are often offered as unpaid jobs. They may offer college credit in return, but they can also be quite burdensome financially for someone who is looking to get started in the industry. Be aware of regulations around unpaid internships.There has been a lot of debate about whether it is a legal practice, as many internships are merely methods to reducing labor costs. Generally, internships should be beneficial to the intern, resulting in a quality educational experience (i.e., not just getting coffee for your boss), and interns should not displace regular staff.
 Smaller publications might have smaller audiences, lower budgets and narrower reach, and they are often very niche-oriented (hobbyist publications, for example). These typically have a smaller staff, which may mean that all positions need to take on more responsibility. This will enable you to get valuable experience in a leadership role and to work your way up the ladder. You may become the editor-in-chief sooner than if you were at a larger publication. Alternately, you may then be able to transfer to a larger-sized publication.


Smaller-sized publications are by no means the “easier route.” They can be tougher, because often they do not come with a legacy audience; rather they may need to build up their audiences from scratch. They may also struggle with finances more, which means an editor-in-chief must be inventive and savvy in strategizing how to help the publication survive.
 You might start as a writer, copy editor or editorial assistant. As you get more experience and build your skills, you might be promoted to assistant editor, associate editor, senior editor, or managing editor. Keep in mind that these titles all vary by industry and do not necessarily have the exact same job duties across the board.
 It is easier than ever to start an online publication and you have the discretion to designate yourself as editor-in-chief. If you have a compelling vision and good writing skills, you can start a publication on your own. Declare yourself editor-in-chief. Without the formal structure of an established organization, you might feel that you’re not qualified for the top position or that you’re just pretending to be an editor. Project self-confidence, own your publication’s vision, promote your content, and BE the editor-in-chief.Be prepared to do it all yourself. You may be able to get other writers or editors to contribute to your own publication, but if you are starting up without any capital (or very little), you may not have any additional finances to pay staff. Similarly, you may have to work for free yourself. You may have to write all of the content, be the web designer, solicit advertisers (if you decide to go this route), and promote your publication to its intended audience.
 An informational interview is an informal conversation with someone who can give you insight into a company or industry. This is not an interview for a job, nor should you expect to learn of job openings. Rather, these are opportunities to make contacts and gather advice about the state of the field and a particular company’s place in the field. You may also learn about career paths that you hadn’t previously considered.Schedule the appointment for a time and place that is most convenient to the professional you want to meet. Be considerate of their time; they may be missing their lunch hour to meet with you.
Do your research in advance. Find out all you can about the company, its executives, its work culture, and the individual you are interviewing. Prepare questions in advance. While you are not looking for a job with this company, you should still come across as professional and serious. Wear business attire and maintain a professional attitude throughout.
Follow up the informational interview with a thank-you note. A carefully crafted and proofread email is probably fine for this purpose. Make sure you use formal salutations and thank them for their time and advice.
 Find people who want you to succeed. Try to steer clear of those who want to see you fail. You will run into obstacles along the way to your career goals, and people who want to help you will keep you going. Allies are people whose judgment you trust, who will be honest with you, and who thinks you are a great asset to your industry., This community will be both your professional community (other editors and writers) and your community-at-large (charities, social events, etc.). Expanding your circle of acquaintances and increasing your visibility will contribute to your overall profile as a leader, expert and mentor.
 There are a number of trade and industry associations whose members consist of professionals in similar lines of work. For editors at various levels, there are organizations like the American Society of Magazine, EditorsAmerican Copy Editors Society,Council of Science Editors,and so on. These associations offer great networking opportunities, conferences, professional development workshops, career resources, and research materials., The new position might be more demanding, requiring more public or community events, more executive or board meetings, more travel, and so on. Consider how this job will fit into your lifestyle and how it might impact your family.
 Carefully read the job posting and understand all parts that are required. Craft an eloquent yet concise letter of application that details your qualifications for the job. Include your resume that expands on the duties and skills that you have. You may also be required to submit supplemental materials, such as a strategic vision for the publication or company. Submit your application according to the instructions in the job posting.


If you are already working at the company that has the editor-in-chief vacancy, you may want to talk with your superior about your interest in the position. Do not assume that you will be automatically selected for the position. At this level of executive position, companies want to get the best person for the job; this is the person with the most applicable skills but also the person who may bring innovation and leadership to keep moving the publication forward.
You may be working within a competitive environment in which you have a close working relationship with others who are applying for the same job. Or, you might be moving from one organization to another, and you might not want to tell your manager, audience, clients or writers that you are thinking of moving. Be sensitive and confidential when talking about the job posting.
 Schedule your interview for a time that is mutually convenient for you and the interviewers. You may need to be somewhat flexible and be prepared to dedicate an entire day (or more) to the initial round of interviews. Executive level positions will likely include several interviews and/or interviewers; these may include meeting with the publisher, board of directors, and staff. These might also take place at a company’s headquarters, which might require travel (and time off from your current job).


Expect several rounds of interviews if you are being seriously considered for the position.
 If you have successfully presented yourself as an exceptional choice for editor-in-chief, you will hopefully be offered the job. Congratulations! In your negotiations in the job offer, you will have the chance to negotiate your salary. The starting salary for an editor-in-chief in 2014 is, on average, $70,220. This is the average across many industries and markets, so you should be familiar with your own industry and market in order to determine the most appropriate salary.
 You are taking the reins of the publication. Your leadership, creativity, and innovation will determine how well you perform in your job and how well your publication performs and succeeds.

