 Stuttering often occurs because of a term called “blocking.” Those who tend to stutter on specific words often get nervous when that word is about to come up in conversation. While attempting to think of an alternate word to use, your anxiety causes you to stutter on the surrounding words anyway.


Embrace the word and practice it as often as you can. Whether your stutter is a mental or physical problem, working on getting that word or sound out frequently may put an end to the stutter, or make you feel more comfortable using it.It may be helpful to keep a log of words that you consistently find difficult so you know which words to practice. In addition, you may want to record any other factors that may cause an increase in stress and anxiety. A lot of variables can contribute to stuttering, so noting what you were doing, where you were, who you were talking to, and the topic of discussion may give you insight into what is causing your stutter.;
, Speaking in public is a fear of many and often one of a person who stutters. Whether it is speaking in front of a crowd or just talking to a stranger, the anxiety one can feel over this situation is often debilitating. Throwing yourself into the situation intentionally may help you get over this fear and boost your confidence over time.


Sign up for a class on public speaking to learn tips on how to boost your confidence and to become more comfortable when making speeches. Additionally, insert yourself into conversations at work, school, or social events. Although it may seem tricky at first, eventually, you’ll likely become a pro at this task., While you’re working on becoming more comfortable with your stutter, you can boost your self-esteem by focusing on other things you’re really good at. Building confidence in these other aspects of your life may allow you to get the courage you need to feel comfortable with yourself, stuttering and all.


Showcase your skills to help you feel more comfortable with yourself. This could mean displaying artwork, joining a dance troupe, making food for a bake sale, or whatever allows you to put your talents and passions out there., There’s no point in hiding your stutter when talking to people. Chances are, they are going to hear it eventually. Instead of attempting to mask the issue, put it out there in the open in a humorous way. Doing so may make you, and those around you, feel more comfortable about the situation.


You don’t have to use self-deprecating humor to make a joke, but you can start the conversation out with something silly, like saying, “I want to get my point across, but it may take a while, I hope you have some time.”
Sometimes, humor is the best medicine and getting the issue out of the way from the start may bring you some ease., How and what you think about yourself is huge, especially if you struggle with an issue that can make you feel self-conscious and negatively impact your self-esteem. Saying or thinking mantras daily that build your self-esteem can make you realize your self-worth. Knowing just how incredible you are, despite the challenges you face, can make you feel more confident about everything in your life.


Mantras don’t have to be long and complicated. In fact, only a sentence or two will suffice. You can repeat to yourself (aloud or silently), “I am good enough,” or “The only approval I need is my own, and I have it.”
Although it may take time, saying this to yourself should eventually help you have the self-esteem that you deserve., Stress and anxiety can often make your stutter worse, which may make you even more insecure and afraid to speak up. Try to identify how you experience stress and anxiety — Do you suddenly feel hot? Does your stomach churn? Do you get a headache? — and use techniques to cope with these feelings when they arise.

Try meditation, yoga, and exercise to manage stress and anxiety long-term.Figure out what helps reduce stress in the moment. Deep breathing, for instance, activates the parasympathetic nervous system, which can have a rapid calming effect. You might also try progressive muscle relaxation or mindfulness (being present).

