 If you're happy with your curls the way they are, be careful whenever you put your hair up. Don't stretch out your hair by putting it into a too-tight bun. If you have curly hair, you won't be able to get it into a "sleek" bun without damaging it.The easiest way to prevent damaging your beautifully curly locks is to simply not pull back your hair too hard when putting it up.Low buns not only look especially great with curly hair,but they are also worn much looser than a high topknot or ballerina bun.;
, Place the base of the ponytail where you want your bun to sit. This can be at the center of the nape of your neck for a low bun or a little higher for an average bun. Hold it in place with one hand and secure it using a hair tie with your other., Gently twist the ponytail into a loose coil. Next, gently wrap the entire coil around the ponytail base. Secure it in place with a bobby pin. Remember to keep it loose to avoid damaging your curls. Don't twist it tightly., Slide in a few bobby pins through the braid, the bun, and the bun's base to keep it firmly in place. How many you'll need will depend on how much hair you have to secure and how well your hair holds a style. If your hair is prone to frizzing, consider using an anti-frizz hairspray., If you want to include a braid in your curly bun, you will need to section your hair before putting it up into a ponytail. Using both hands, gather your hair into two separate sections with one strand to your left and one to your right. Put the right section up into a bun as normal. Make sure your left section is thick enough to braid., Take the free remaining hair and make it into a simple braid. Don't braid too tightly, as this may damage your curls and create a braid that is too stiff to use as a wrap. To create a simple braid:


Separate the left section further into three equal strands.
Cross the left section over the middle section.
Cross the right over what was originally the left section.
What was originally the middle section will now be on the left. Cross that over the current middle section (originally the one at the right). Do the same with what is now the right strand.
Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the hair section. Secure the tip with a hair elastic., Take your braid to the right and drape it over the main bun. Loop the bottom of the braid around the bun in a clockwise manner until the entire braid is wrapped around the bun. If your braid is long enough to completely encircle the bun, finish off by tucking the tail end of the braid underneath.