 Assuming it is a minor burn that does not require immediate medical attention, have your child place her affected area under cool water. Cool, flowing water is preferable to an ice pack for the treatment of burns, as ice can sometimes cause further damage to the injured tissue.If the burns are multiple, you can consider placing your child in a cool bath to cover more areas of her body at one time.


Keep the affected area in cool water for at least five minutes.After that, depending upon the pain level, your child can keep it under cool water, or simply place a cool towel on the affected area to diminish pain and to reduce the amount of swelling that follows.
 Their fear around it, in many cases (assuming it is a minor burn), exceeds the injury itself. This is why reassurance and helping your child to stay calm and to cope with any pain is one of your top priorities.


To help with the pain, you can offer your child Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and/or Ibuprofen (Advil). Both of these medications are available over-the-counter, and help with pain control as well as with minimizing inflammation.
Read the dosages on the bottle and be sure to offer your child only the "children's dosing."

, Also, be gentle while cleaning so as not to cause any further damage to the affected area.
 If they have broken open on their own, clean them gently with soap and water and apply an antibiotic ointment prior to covering them with a bandage to prevent infection.


Don't use hand sanitizers or harsh soaps and don't use rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide to clean the area.
 Aloe vera lotion or gel has naturally soothing properties for burns. Use this if you have any of it available at home, or if you can easily get to the store to buy some.
 Be sure to change the dressing at least once a day to keep it clean.


If it is a small first degree burn without any broken skin, you may not need to cover it.
 If your child has previously had a tetanus shot, the immunity will last for 10 years after the shot and he will not need any additional shots during this time period. However, if you are uncertain if your child has had the shot, or when he last had it, consult with a physician to see if a tetanus shot is needed.


Many doctors recommend getting a tetanus shot if it has been more than five years since the last one and the child has second or third degree burns.
 Explain to your child the importance of not scratching, and keep the wound covered with a sterile dressing as a reminder to your child that it is not to be touched.

