 Place the rice in a colander and rinse well under cool, running water. Wait until the water runs clear before continuing.


Set the rice aside after you finish rinsing it. You won't use it immediately.
 Pour the olive oil into the uncovered pressure cooker and set it on your stove over medium heat for 30 to 60 seconds.


Gently turn the pressure cooker to evenly coat the bottom in oil.
Note that you'll initially use the pressure cooker as a standard saucepan. Leave the lid off until you need to use the pressure feature.
 Add the onion and and green pepper to the hot oil. Cook, stirring frequently, for 2 to 4 minutes.


Allow the onion to become aromatic and slightly translucent. The green pepper should also soften but will only be tender-crisp at this point.
 Add the raw liver, sausage, and celery to the pressure cooker. Cooking, stirring infrequently, until the the meats are nearly done.


Crumble the sausage before adding it.
When ready, most of the liver should be pink ad most of the sausage should be lightly browned. This can take anywhere from 3 to 6 minutes.
 Sprinkle the contents of the pressure cooker with the paprika, salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, oregano, thyme, and parsley. Add the rice, then mix everything together.


Note that 2 tsp (10 ml) of Creole seasoning can be used instead of the individual seasonings.
 Pour the vegetable stock or broth into the pressure cooker. Stir well and make sure that everything remains beneath the surface of the liquid.


As you stir, carefully scrape the bottom of the pressure cooker to remove any burnt, stuck debris sitting at the bottom.
 Cover the pressure cooker and lock the lid in place. Turn the heat up to high and watch the pressure gauge. Once it reaches full pressure, reduce the heat and cook for 4 minutes at high pressure.Each pressure cooker model varies, so you'll need to check the manufacturer's instructions to determine how low you can reduce the heat while still maintaining full pressure. Reduce the heat to this minimum setting.
 After 4 minutes pass, move the pressure cooker off the burner and wait until the pressure drops on its own before unlocking and removing the lid.


Note that you'll usually need to wait roughly 10 minutes for the pressure to release.
If you're using an electric pressure cooker, unplug the device and wait approximately 10 minutes before releasing the rest of the pressure using the valve.
 Fluff the rice and enjoy the dish while it's still hot.

