 Store shelves are full of kids’ toothbrushes, toothpaste, rinse cups, etc., with princesses, race cars, and the like plastered on them. Take kids shopping and allow them to pick their favorites. If it helps them enjoy brushing a little more, a branded toothbrush is worth the extra cost versus a generic one.


It is recommended that kids’ toothbrushes be replaced every 3-4 months (or sooner, if the bristles are frayed),so you will have many opportunities to shop for supplies.
 Sing or play a song that takes about two minutes so they know how long to brush. Songs made specifically for kids’ tooth-brushing can be found online,and there are gadgets available that play music, blow bubbles, and do various other things to pass the two minutes. An old-fashioned egg timer works in a pinch as well.
 Most kids like a good competition, and especially winning, and most especially besting Mom or Dad. Take their minds off the drudgery of brushing.


Have a brushing competition between you and your child. Count the brush strokes and see who can do the most in two minutes.
See who can make the foamiest mouth out of that pea-sized amount of toothpaste. This is liable to end up making a messy sink, so also have a clean-up contest afterward.
Say a sentence while brushing your teeth. Your opponent must guess what you are saying.
 There are numerous websites dedicated to helping kids brush better, and they often offer games, video clips, printable charts to keep track of tooth-brushing, and other resources. Some of them make use of favorite kids’ characters as well.


For instance, if your toddler likes Sesame Street, there is a “Healthy Teeth Toolkit” site that would appeal to him/her., Let’s face it, kids like being rewarded. And the promise of the reward of a lifetime of healthy teeth probably won’t cut it. Some call it bribery, but most parents end up calling it a necessity.


Print out or draw up a weekly chart, with two spots for each day to be filled in when the child brushes. Write an agreed-upon reward on the chart, to be earned if each space is filled in successfully. Give the kid a visual representation of the goal and his/her progress toward it.
Let the Tooth Fairy help you out. Tell your child that the Tooth Fairy only brings rewards for healthy, clean teeth that have fallen out -- or at least that the rewards are better for pearly whites.

