 The most basic way to help your deaf student is to convert your lectures into text that they can read. When you are giving a lecture, giving instructions, or talking in general to your classroom, your deaf student can use a computer program to translate your spoken words into text he can read. This will ensure that your deaf student gets that same information as all your students.


These programs are far from perfect. Your deaf student may need some training on common mistakes the programs make. He should also be able to follow up with you if you has questions about uncommon mistakes or issues he has.
Common software used for this purpose include Dragon Naturally Speaking and Caption Mic.;
, If your school is not able to provide caption software that can convert the lectures into text, ask a student in your class who types quickly to take notes for your deaf student. Computers can be set up where what is being entered on one computer can be filtered directly to another computer. With the notes transferred between these computers, your deaf student will be able to read what you are discussing in class in real time.


There may be a program through your school for a professional note taker or stenographer to provide these services. Ask your administration for help if you are unsure of the policies in your school.
There are also professional programs, such as C-Print and Computer Aided Realtime Translation (CART) that allow for a on or off site stenographer to provide a verbatim account of your lectures to your deaf students. These transcripts are transmitted via computers or large monitor screens.Make sure this service is available when your student is working in small groups as well.
 There are some software options that will convert spoken word into computer created sign language. With this kind of software, your words are recorded by a computer, it is converted into text and then output on the computer screen as sign language.


These programs will also work in the other direction, where your student can reply using sign language as well. This option requires a video camera.
Software such as iCommunicator and MotionSavvy UNI are used for these kinds of services.