 You'll want your rope secured at one end to something sturdy, like a cleat in the bed of your truck, a well anchored post, and so on. You'll be using the free end of your rope to create your trucker's hitch, which is based on the slip knot.;
, Create a loop in the line of your rope and hold that loop where the rope crosses itself. You can do this easily by pinching the crossed segment together with your forefinger and thumb. This motion of taking your line around itself to create a loop is called a crossing turn. Then, with your free hand, feed some rope from after the crossing turn through the loop.


You can create a trucker's hitch better suited for extreme loads by creating several crossing in your first loop, instead of only one. This can be done easily by twirling your loop several times.You should only pull enough line through your first loop to create a second loop that emerges from your first. This will only require a few inches of line.
 You can do this by tugging on the side of the second loop feeding toward your anchor and the line that is feeding into your first loop. This should cinch your line and first loop around the second loop so that you no longer need to hold it together with your fingers.


At this point, you should only have a single loop in your line. This loop should stick out of the now cinched tight first loop. This is the slip knot portion of your trucker's hitch., You can do this by passing the tail end of your line around a sturdy object, like a cleat, peg, or secure post. Make sure that whatever you use as your anchor point is strong enough to secure what you are holding with your line.


Pull the line firmly to tighten the knot and make the string between your first and second anchors taut. Too much slack in your line could cause your load to slip or shift., Feed the tail end through the loop until there is no longer any slack in the free end of your line. This will also serve to tighten and strengthen your trucker's hitch knot., These locks are sometimes called hitches. Take your free end around both post-knot strands of your line. Since you have run your line around/through an anchor point and returned it back to the knot to finish the tying, your post-knot rope will have two strands. After taking your free end around both strands...


Keep the free end loose so a loop is formed when you bring it around the post-knot strands. Pull your free end through the loop and pull it tight, then slide this to the base of your main knot. This is your first lock. Then...
Perform the same maneuver after the point you have tied the first lock. This time, when you pull the tail end through the loop, pull it through so the free end protrudes from beneath the two locks.
Pull the knot tight. This kind of knot will be suitable for light to moderate tension in your line. Enjoy using your trucker's hitch!