 If you're nervous about being home alone, the best way to stay busy is to find something to do. Instead of seeing being home alone as a burden, see it has a chance to have the full run of the house. Do something that you enjoy without worrying about annoying others.Think about all the entertainment devices you can now use. You can watch whatever you want on TV or play any games you want on the computer.
If you usually can't play music too loud, now is your chance to blast the music as loud as you can.
Think about any solitary activities you enjoy. Maybe your house is usually a little too noisy for you to, say, read a book. You could take advantage of the peace and quiet of an empty home and get some reading done.;
, If you're feeling nervous, calls someone. You will feel less alone if you're able to talk to a family member or friend. Have someone in mind to call in the event you get scared home alone.You may want let someone know ahead of time you may need to call if you get scared. That way, that person will be expecting your call.
Try calling someone you haven't talked to in awhile. If it's been a few weeks since you've talked to your grandmother, now may be a good time to catch up.
If you don't like talking to someone on the phone, you can also talk to someone online. A video chat through a service like Skype can really make you feel less alone.
 If there are any chores you need to get done, focusing your energy there can distract you from being home alone. Think about anything you've been putting off. Instead of focusing on the anxiety of being home alone, channel your energy towards a specific task.If you're behind on any homework assignments, try to get them done. A quiet house may help you concentrate better.
You could also do some chores. If there are dirty dishes in the sink, washing them may actually be calming.
 Exercise can keep your mind occupied. It can also reduce stress. Try to get your heart pumping a little if being home alone makes you nervous.If you have any at home gym equipment, like a treadmill, you could use this. You could also do something like pushups, sit-ups, or running up and down the stairs.
If you feel short of breath, take a break. You don't want to over exert yourself, especially when you're home alone.

