 Most people take eat too fast and take in too much food and too many calories before they actually realize they're full. Your brain takes around 20 minutes to register feelings of fullness, suggesting that you need to slow down so that your brain can properly communicate that you're full. And remember, feeling full usually means eating less or stopping eating.Mindful eating is a tactic that many use to stay at a healthy weight. You simply eat when truly hungry and stop when full. The brain will let you know when you're full as long as you give it time to do so. Also, differentiate between true hunger and boredom/habit/emotional hunger.
If you don't feel full immediately after a meal, wait. The chemicals your brain releases when you eat or drink take time to rise and to communicate that sense of fullness. As the chemicals increase, your hunger dissipates; this is why you should pause for a little bit after eating and before having a second helping.
 Use utensils and sit at a table when eating. Eating with your hands will mean that you take in more food in one scoop. Don't turn on a TV or anything that may distract you. Typically, people who eat in front of a television tend to eat more because they're not focused on what they're doing and how much they're eating.


Studies also show that people who eat with larger utensils eat less than those who eat with smaller utensils. Another good idea is to put your food on a smaller plate so it looks more full and tricks your mind., When you feel comfortably satiated after eating, stop and put your utensils and napkin on the plate to signal that you're finished. This is also a signal to yourself that you're done with your meal as well as to those around you.


Remember, you don't have to eat all of your meal once you feel satisfied. Satisfied and satiated is different than feeling stuffed. Eat until you are 80% full. No one should feel stuffed and sick after eating., In many cases, we mistake thirst for hunger which means we eat when it's not necessary. By keeping yourself well hydrated you'll feel hungry less as well as getting a clearer complexion and shinier hair. Sip water as you eat as well to ensure proper digestion and also to help with fullness.


If you're not sure what you're feeling is actually hunger, try drinking a big glass of water and then wait a few minutes. If you don't feel hungry anymore, it's because your body was actually in need of water, not food., Eating in restaurants or at other people's homes during the summer season can be a real challenge. You want to eat, but you also don't want to eat the wrong things and risk backtracking on your progress.To avoid overeating when out, eat a small and healthy snack at home beforehand. Try some carrots and hummus or an apple. A small snack before hand will curb your hunger and keep your head clear while you make healthy and informed choices at a party, BBQ, or restaurant.
At the beginning of the meal, ask for a doggie bag, and put what you aren't going to eat in the bag. If you're at a friends, only eat until you're full and avoid filling up your plate to the brim; your eyes are most definitely bigger than your stomach!
Be wary of fatty foods masked as healthy. Many salads with dressings can be very fatty and full of calories. Your seemingly "healthy choice" of a salad can pack as many calories as a burger if it’s swimming in a fatty dressing. Be also wary of other high-calorie additions like bacon bits and cheese.