 Weave one end of the yarn through the eye of a large yarn needle. Do not knot the yarn onto the needle.


Instead of knotting the yarn in place, you should pull a tail approximately 4 inches (10 cm) through the eye. Press this tail against the eye of the needle as you work to hold the yarn steady and in place.
If the yarn starts working its way out of the needle as you embroider, simply pull it back through and continue working.
 Cut a length of yarn long enough for your project. Tie a large knot at the newly cut, unattached end of the yarn.


The yarn should be a little longer than the total length of the finished embroidery design.
You do not need to use a slipknot. A standard overhand knot will work just fine.
Make sure that the knot you tie is larger than the gaps in between your crochet stitches. A large knot will help prevent the embroidery from unraveling.
 Poke the needle through the first space at the start of your pattern, drawing it from the back to the front of the project.


Pull the needle all the way through until the knot lies flat against the back of the project.
 Pass the needle over one full stitch in your crochet piece, then insert it into the gap lying at the opposite side of that stitch.


Draw the needle all the way through to the back of the fabric. Keep pulling it down until the yarn of your embroidery stitch lies flat against the material.
If desired, you could make the stitch length longer by passing the needle over more than one stitch before inserting it back into the fabric.
This completes one running stitch.
 Pass the yarn over another full stitch from the back, then poke into the gap on the other side of that stitch. Pull the needle up through to the front, bringing the yarn with it.


Doing this starts another stitch.
Make sure that the yarn at the back of the fabric is flat against the material when you stop pulling your needle.
If desired, you can alter the space between stitches by skipping over more than one stitch.
 Continue this same pattern until you reach the end of your design.


Pass over one full stitch from the front, then insert the needle down into the fabric.
Pass over one full stitch from the back, then insert the needle up into the fabric.
 Left alone, the running stitch will create a dashed line, giving the embroidery a "sewn" look. If you want to create a more continuous line, however, pass over your first line with a second one.


Essentially, you're working your way backwards and reversing your embroidery stitches. When you reach a stitch that shows through the top of the fabric, make a stitch that shows at the bottom. For each stitch that shows at the bottom of the material, make a stitch that shows at the top.
 When you reach the end of your embroidery design, insert the needle into the fabric from the front and draw it all the way through to the back. Tie a large knot to complete the embroidery.


Again, a standard overhand knot will suffice here. Just make sure that the knot is too large to fit though the gaps in the material.
You can trim any excess yarn or weave it into the back of the material. Just make sure that it is no longer visible from the front.

