 The type of summer job you apply for should be based on what you are hoping to get out of it. Ask yourself questions that will help you to determine what kind of job you should be applying to. Ask questions like:

Do you want to get some experience in your field of study? Look for internships and assistant positions where you can learn the basics of your industry.



 


Are you hoping a summer job could turn into a full time job at the company once you graduate? Look for entry-level positions that you can continue to work part-time while you finish school.






Are you simply hoping to make some extra money during your summer break? Then broaden your search to cover many fields that pay well or that offer plenty of hours.





;
, When trying to figure out what sort of jobs you should apply for, take a moment to think about the jobs and experiences you have had in the past. In particular, think about the skills you have and what sort of job they could be useful for.Ask yourself:


What skills have you learned from those experiences? How can they be applied to other jobs?
Is there a particular job that you loved, and you would like to find another one like it?
Is there a job you hated and want to avoid in the future?

, Take a moment to create a list of goals for yourself that you want to achieve through a summer job. Also consider the skills that you are hoping to develop while working during your break. Make a list of these goals and skills. Refer back to the list when you begin applying for jobs. If the job you are applying for won’t fulfill these goals or skills, you might want to consider applying to a different job.What type of projects would you be really excited about working on?
What type of working environment are you hoping to be a part of?
What companies you would specifically be targeting
What sort of people or teammates do you want to learn from?

, Your goal and desired skill list should be an ever-changing document. While you might have an experience or hold a job that allows you to cross off one of the goals on your list, you should also be adding new goals as they arise.
 It can be hard to start up a job search, particularly if it is your first one. Don’t be afraid to as for help from people who have applied to jobs before. They might be able to give you personal tips that could completely change your job search. Talk to people like:


Your parents and relatives.
Friends who have applied for jobs in the past.
Your guidance counselor or someone at your school’s career center.

