 Of course, it's not always possible to tell the truth, but when it is possible, you should do it.;
, For example, if you're playing with three people, count from A to K in your mind, accenting every third number: "A 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 J Q K A 2 3..." and so on. the bolded numbers are the ones that you're supposed to play, and the other two are the ones that your opponents play. It's easy to see that the cards will come to you in this order: A 4 7 10 K 3 6 9 Q 2 5 8 J, then back to A.
 For example, four players gives you the sequence: A 5 9 K 4 8 Q 3 7 J 2 6 10, and five players gives you the sequence: A 6 J 3 8 K 5 10 2 7 Q 4 9. You should either memorize these sequences, or be able to figure them out quickly in your mind, by counting as in step 2.
 For example, there are four players, it's 9's to you, and you have only A's, 6's, and K's. what do you play? Well, look at the four-player sequence. K's are coming up on your next turn, so hold on to your kings. That way you can play them without having to lie. (See step 1). Neither 6's nor A's are coming up very soon, but 6's are coming a bit sooner, so you would be wisest to get rid of your A's. Who knows, by the time you get to 6's, you may be almost out of cards.
 How many? Well, it depends. You're claiming to be playing 9's, so try to remember where the 9's are. Especially if it's late in the game, chances are someone has all four of them. If so, it doesn't matter what you do, they'll call BS anyway, if they're still awake. So you're kind of screwed. If you're pretty sure that one person has two 9's and another has the other two, then you can play up to two non-9's. If someone has three 9's, you can play only one. This is only a guideline. Exactly how many you play will depend on several things, like whether your opponents call BS all the time, or very rarely, how big the pile in the middle is, how close you are to winning, etc.
 Otherwise, you might be letting them win, when you could instead be forcing them to keep playing. NOTE:If your playing elimination style you may want to wait for another person to call it so it doesn't hurt you.
 When everyone at the table simultaneously shouts "BS!" at you, be sure to have an arrogant smug look on your face as you turn the card over to show them that you've won.
 Plan this before your turn comes up. If you mess with your cards too much, people will suspect. Put your cards down in a clean stack, so no one can tell how many cards you've put down. Also, be sure to put the extra cards down underneath your four-of-a-kind; that way, if someone calls BS, you may be able to get away with just turning over the four legit cards. If you're still caught, exclaim that you made a mistake and you actually meant to put only four cards down. This trick can work with three-of-a-kind, or even with a pair, but the fewer cards you're claiming the more noticeable the extras will be.
 Won't work if the other person has the specific card and knows for sure you are lying.
 This works with seriously gullible people and they actually take the pile. But if you're caught no one will trust you again throughout the game.
 If they know you have less cards, they'll call cheat on you.
 This way, if they are cheating, the pile is less for you, and if they are not, then you are still going to end up with the same amount of cards you would if you didn't call cheat/BS.
, This will make the other people think you are cheating. WARNING: this only works if you have a serious expression throughout. Also, as with all tricks with this game, don't overdo it.
 it's real easy to get called when you look at you're hand and let out a few words that even shock people playing bullshit.
 People will assume you are bluffing and that you accidentally forgot that jack comes after 10 and someone will most likely call BS on you. People will not fall for this twice so save it for the right time.

