 Badassery is a state of mind. That guy who's a badass would still be a badass even if he's wearing a polka-dotted tutu. Maybe not quite as intimidating, but still a badass. That's because being a badass is a state of mind, like achieving nirvana, except a lot more daring.


Watch a Clint Eastwood movie to get a sense of how to carry yourself in order to be tough and intimidating. Adopt the mannerisms that you think work for you and imagine other mannerisms that you might dream up on your own.
Read about other famous badasses. They include, but are not necessarily limited to: Sun Tzu and Genghis Khan, for being Apollonian badasses in times of war; Winston Churchill and Orson Welles, for smoking more cigars than Fidel and Raul combined; Daniel Day Lewis and Jeff Bridges, for wearing tweed and sweatpants with the best of them; and Daryl Dixon the leather jacket zombie fighter.
For animation fans, there's many to chose. Get some influence on characters such as Samurai Jack or Rattlesnake Jake. Captain America is also a good example. However, the ultimate badass inspiration comes from Piccolo of the Dragon Ball franchise.;
, This is 95% of the battle. Badasses do what they do with complete self-assurance and zero timidity. If you can pull this off, you’ll be viewed as badass faster than a black hole can turn in on itself.


Walk with a confident step by keeping your head up, your shoulders straight (pretend that you have a long, flowing cape behind you if you need to) and by walking slower and shorter with each step. Put most of your weight into each step.
Be outcome-independent. What does outcome-independence mean? It means that whatever the outcome, you're okay with it. Your confidence allows you to treat one woman's rejection and another woman's approval with the same attitude: acceptance. That's badass.
 Badasses are brave people. Most people associate a certain fearlessness with being a badass, whether its standing up for yourself or others, or staring down a potentially dangerous situation with a calm quietude. Work on overcoming your fears and don't be shy about defending what you believe in. Push yourself out of your comfort zone and become adaptable to stressful situations.
 An original badass will let his actions carry the full meaning of his intent. Badasses don't care much about words because talk is cheap. Anyone can say they're skilled in extra-planetary travel, but not everyone can jump back to Earth from 128,000 feet (39,014.4 m) in space. One isn't badass, the other is.
 Don't let anything stand in your way of being a badass. One of the most exhilarating and frightening things about becoming badass is removing the things from your life that stand in the way. It may not happen overnight, but it will happen if you have a badass state of mind.


For example, if you are shy, work on it by developing some conversational material (across different subjects and with plenty of anecdotes) that will ensure that you master your end of the conversation. A true badass will never run out of things to say but will rarely want to speak.
Find ingenious fixes to hard problems. So you're stuck between a rock and a hard place. A badass will blast away the rock from within, not with explosives, but with the kinetic energy of grass stalks. (That's figurative, of course.) A badass gets himself out of problems in the cleverest of ways and with the greatest of ease.
Plan ahead. A badass will find a good balance between being spontaneous and planning ahead. The fairer sex is an opportunity to wing it; convincing Congress to adopt legislation that would make it easier for you to drive monster trucks in your back yard is not.
 A true badass will wear what he or she wants regardless of current trends. The key is to master a style that enhances your confidence. Looking your best will do wonders for your image and feelings about your place in your world.


Some people associate a certain style of clothing with badasses–boots, leather, denim–but that doesn't have to be you. You can be a badass in a Hawaiian shirt and sandals provided you can convey the badass attitude.
Try to have some style quirk that you can bad-assly call your own. Maybe you like wearing vests with pockets; maybe you exclusively wear denim, even to funerals. Whatever it is, commit to it confidently. A style quirk becomes legendary when rocked by a badass.
 Sunglasses are the epitome of badass. It doesn't matter much what you wear, but as long as you wear your sunglasses, you'll be significantly more badass. That's because sunglasses shield you from close scrutiny and project an air of confidence, even if it's not fully developed.
 Don't lose yourself in your struggle to become a badass. Being a badass is not about getting into trouble and impressing people. It is being who you are, and being willing to fight for that. If you start hanging out with people who want to push you too far, agreeing is just submitting to peer pressure like anybody else would.

