 Before you dive into working, cleaning, writing or whatever else you need to do, turn off or silence your cell phone and anything else that might prove to be a distraction. This includes the TV, video games, etc. Technology is arguably the biggest distraction in modern society, and being surrounded by beeping, buzzing, flashing devices can really hold you back.Unless you use your computer for work, shut it down or set it to hibernate.
Disable sound alerts for texts, emails and tweets to keep yourself from looking at your phone every time there’s activity.If you have an especially hard time keeping yourself on task, put away potential distractions somewhere that it would be a hassle to get them back out.;
, When you really need to buckle down, work in silence and give your thoughts room to stretch. Your mind naturally fixates on melodies, rhythms and lyrics. Music can uplift your spirits and make the time pass faster, but by subconsciously following along with a song playing in the background, you’ll be limiting your ability to concentrate whether you realize it or not.Save the tunes for after you’ve finished a particular project, or for times when you’re performing light, mindless tasks.
 If you work from home or are involved in creative endeavors, pick a place where you can work comfortably for long periods of time. This could be a small corner desk, a well-lit sunroom or your favorite coffee shop. The point is to surround yourself with an atmosphere that makes completing tasks easier.Be careful of surroundings that can dull your focus in other ways. People tend to associate spaces with their common uses, so trying to work in a quiet bedroom may just make you sleepy.
 As best you can, try to insulate yourself from being distracted by others when you have big projects that demand your attention. Situate yourself someplace where people are unlikely to pass by and pull you out of your zone. If you work in an office, for instance, shutting the door can relay the message that you’d prefer not to be bothered. This may not always be possible if you share a space with coworkers, customers or children, but you should at least be able to single out which interactions are necessary and which aren’t.Organizing your duties in their most efficient logical order can also keep you from having to interrupt your own work later on.
Putting on a pair of headphones, even if they’re not playing anything, will make you appear busy and discourage people from trying to start casual conversations.

