 Commit to at least 150 minutes of bicycle exercise each week in order to obtain fitness benefits, particularly for weight loss. Split your exercise over at least 3 days each week and stay in motion the entire time you are on the bike.
 Consider setting a distance, miles per hour, or physical route goal to work toward; this will help give direction to your routines and will help you know when you have realized your initial fitness goals.
 If your fitness goals include controlling blood pressure or blood glucose levels, strengthening your heart, or losing weight, invest in a heart monitor or use a stationary bike with the ability to track your heart rate. This will enable you to work out safely while also ensuring that you are getting enough of a challenge with your fitness plan.


If you have heart health problems, discuss your target heart rate for exercise with a physician. It is not safe for anyone to remain at the maximum target heart rate for extended periods of time, so alternate between elevated and maximum heart rates during exercise according to the advice of a health or fitness professional.
Your target heart rate will be based on your age, health status, current weight, and fitness goals, and will change gradually as you become more physically fit.
 Bicycling can help with multiple fitness goals.

If you are trying to achieve weight loss by bicycling, your regimen will primarily include cardio workouts. Your plan will include significant periods of breathless exercise, as well as interval training to burn more calories.






If you are trying to build muscle strength and balance by bicycling, your regimen will primarily include resistance workouts. Your plan will include routes and settings that are difficult to pedal, requiring you to build leg strength and balance, since you will be moving more slowly. The extra force required of your muscles to push the bicycle against greater levels of resistance will gradually increase your strength.
 Achieving your weekly total for bicycling time can be easy if you use a bike to commute to work, run errands, or spend leisure time with family and friends. Consider working bicycling into vacation sightseeing, weekend activities with the kids, volunteer activities through races for charity, and “green” initiative challenges at work or school.

