 Put your pencil down on the circle's edge. Draw a line through the center of circle and hitting the edge on the other side. This line is the "diameter" of the circle, often written d in math problems.


The line goes through the exact center of the circle, not just anywhere within the circle.

Note: If the word problem doesn't tell you how long the diameter is, use a different method instead.
 The "radius" of the circle, also written as r, is the distance halfway across the circle. Since the diameter extends all the way across the circle, the diameter is equal to two radii. A simple way to write this is d = 2r. This means you can always replace a d with a 2r in a math problem, or the other way around.


We'll be using d, not 2r, since your math problem tells you what d equals. However, it's important to understand this step, so you aren't confused if your teacher or math book uses 2r where you would expect a d.
 The π symbol, also written as pi, isn't a magical number that just happens to work in this kind of math problem. Actually, the number π was originally "discovered" by measuring circles: if you measure the circumference of any circle (for instance with a tape measure), and then divide by the diameter, you'll always end up with the same number. This number is unusual because it can't be written out as a simple fraction or decimal. Instead, we can round to a "close enough" number like 3.14.


Even the π button on a calculator doesn't use the exact value of π, although it is extremely close.
 As explained above, π just means "the number you get when you divide the circumference by the diameter." In the form of a math equation: π = circumference / diameter or π = C / d.
 We want to find out what the circumference is, so we need to get C alone on one side. Do this by multiplying each side of the equation by d:


π x d = (C / d) x d
πd = C

, Replace π with an estimate such as 3.14, or use the π button on your calculator for a more accurate result. Multiple the values for π and d together, and you get C, the circumference.


For example, if the diameter was 6 units long, you'll get (3.14) x (6 units) = 18.84 units.
In the same example, but using a calculator's π button for more accuracy, you'll get π x 6 units = 18.84956... but unless instructed otherwise, you can round the number to 18.85 units.

