 The surefire way to get rich is through hard work from play games, though it's certainly not a quick method. Here are some suggestions for games with high payouts;



Turmac Roll Send your score when it's anything over 250. Also, if you slow your turmac down to almost a stand still, (press the left arrow) you will have a higher chance of getting a rare berry that will get you more points.

Fashion Fever You don't have to actually dress up the pets to get the points. Simply start the game and click the end button right away. Easy 300 points each time, for a total of 900 Neopoints. If you send the neo pet picture to your e-mail, you get 100 Neopoints. You can do this three times to a total of 1200 Neopoints.

Bouncy Supreme Send your score when it's above 1200 and you will get 1000 Neopoints. 1000 is the highest you can get on this game, in one day, you can quickly rake in 3000 Neopoints.

Sutek's Tomb Type in pyramibread as many times as you would like to see the next possible move.

Meerca Chase If you play on hard, you will get more points, and with time and practice, you will get used to the speed. If you really want a challenge (and attempt to get extra points) type in superextrahypergravity mode for a funnel type game, and ferociousneggsareontheloose for a game with ferocious neggs that chase you instead of the traditional red neggs.

Ice Cream Machine if you type in strawberry, vanilla, or chocolate, you will get an extra life.

Typing Terror If you're at least decent at typing, you could easily earn 1000 Neopoints from getting 2700-3000 points in the game.

AdverVideo Watch up to 5 advertisements for free Neopoints. Earn up to 800 points per video.
Sponsored games are usually easy.
Playing the featured game earns you double the payout for that game.;
, Some dailies are better than others, but if you play them enough, you may get lucky.
 A good amount is around 10,000.
 Learn how to restock. You can sell any item in your inventory that you don't need. Use the Shop Wizard to price your items fairly.
 Look for items priced 500-1000 Neopoints below the market price, then wait until they have almost expired and bid 100-200 points up on them. Then you can put the item in your shop or re-auction it.
 If you find items with an increment of at least 500, bid enough on it that you are making a profit if you resell it, but if anyone else bids they will have to pay over market value. This is a good way to ensure you win rare items and typically works better once you already have a few hundred thousand Neopoints and can bid on high-value items with increments of 10000 or more.
 This is crucial to making loads of Neopoints. Go to a main shop and continue to refresh until a rare item comes up.With practice, you could be buying ten items a day that will wield at least 5,000 in profit. If you snag a rare item from Kauvara's Magic Shop, you may even get millions in profit. Make sure that you always keep 30-50k Neopoints on hand if you plan on buying a lot.
 Find a valuable item (codestones work at lower price ranges, paintbrushes at higher price ranges) and repeatedly search for it. Often a newbie player will only put a valuable item up for its suggested worth or what they think it is worth from its purpose, which is often far below its actual value. You can get codestones for 2500-10000 below their actual value or a paintbrush for several tens of thousands below. However; this is a very rare occurrence. You would probably be better off investing that time in one of the options above.

