 Letting your wife know how much you care is a simple gesture that can go a long way. Every now and then, take a moment away from your busy lives and tell her how happy she makes you or how much you love being married to her.Be sure to switch it up. Telling her the exact same thing multiple times can feel rote and insincere.
 Your wife may need to vent sometimes, and it's important for you to be available to listen when she needs you. This will show her that you care about whatever is going on in her life and want to help however you can.Sometimes your wife may want your advice, but other times she may just want you to listen to her. If you're not sure what she needs, ask her.
 It's easy to get out of the habit of acting chivalrous after you have been married for a while, but your wife may really miss it! Try opening a door for your wife or pulling a chair out for her, just to show her that you care.Not all women appreciate chivalry, so be responsive to her feedback. If she seems annoyed when you open doors for her, stop doing it.
 It's not only important to keep going out on dates with your wife to keep the romance alive, but also to make sure that you consider what your wife is interested in when planning those dates. This will show her that you pay attention to her interests and want to get involved in them, which she will find very impressive.If you want to go out to dinner, be sure to think about your wife's favorite cuisines.
Dinner dates are great, but they can get a little predictable. If your wife has hobbies, find a way to incorporate those into your next date night (or day). For example, you could go on a kayaking date or take an art class together.
 Always remember important dates, including your wife's birthday, your anniversary, and Valentine's Day. When these dates come around, always have a little something special up your sleeve to keep your wife on her toes.The way you celebrate these occasions will depend on a variety of factors, including your wife's personal preferences and your budget. You may want to get her a personal gift, take her on vacation, or write her a sweet poem. All of these gestures will show her that you put thought into doing something kind for her.
 Nothing will show your wife that you value everything she does for you more than taking a little bit of the load off of her shoulders. If she normally does most of the housework, try pitching in. Even little things like making the bed can make a big difference.If you're not sure what to do, ask your wife what would be most helpful.

