 If you've been invited on a picnic at the park at 3:00, don't show up at 3:30. Perhaps even show up a bit early.;
, Don't try to impress them with a barrage of information about how you're a straight-A student, the MVP for your soccer team, and the lead in the school play. If the subject of grades, sports, or hobbies comes up, you can smile and say "Yes, I like school." or "I love to play soccer." or "Really? I love acting, too." You can also use your interests to segue into an invitation to another meeting. Offer to refresh their memory on physics or tutor their son; suggest shooting hoops together after dinner; or invite them to come and see the play. In summary, don't focus the conversation on you; ask about their interests.
 Most parents love to see that their son has discovered a girl with a bit more to her than her looks. They like to know you aren't just a meek and mild thing draining their sons time. Whether having a meal with them or bumping into them when you turn up at his house, start a small simple conversation to show you're genuinely interesting.
 It sounds a bit 'teacher's pet' but even the simplest things as laughing (not too over the top) at their jokes, gives the impression that your friendly and even against their will sometimes, they will start to like you.
 No parent wants to see their precious son come home from school with his arm draped over a girl in a miniskirt, wedges, and a tube top exposing a "tramp stamp" (AKA: lower back tattoo.) This is not to say you should show up in a prairie dress, bonnet, and granny boots. Nice jeans, pressed khakis, or a mid-length skirt will do, as will a cute t-shirt, tank top, or even a nice dress. Also be sure you're not flashing a thong or that your bra straps are flapping about.
 Swearing will not impress your boyfriend's parents. Nor will your talk of that "gnarly rave" you went to last night, or your "hilarious" story about that time you drew all over your friend's face whilst she was passed out drunk. However, your story about your cute dog or polite answers to their questions will.
 It may sound simple, but parents will love it if you offer to help set or clean up dinner, make polite conversation, or at the very least just say please and thank you. Don't chew with your mouth open, help yourself to seconds, or dig into dinner before everyone has sat down. You may even consider bringing a small gift such as jam or cookies with you.
 Use common sense. A slight peck on the cheek is OK, but nothing more.
 Yes, it sounds totally cliché, but nobody wants their son going out with a totally plastic, "perfect" girl. They want him to be going out with a girl who is nice, who can help cook dinner some nights, or to shoot hoops with alongside their son. Really, just be you. Your boyfriend and your boyfriend's parents will love you for it.

