 It's a white app with a multicolored pinwheel icon, typically found on the Home Screen.;
, You should have several albums listed here, such as "Camera Roll," "Favorites," "People," and "Places."


If Photos doesn't open to the Albums page, tap Albums in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
If Photos opens to an individual photo, tap the "back arrow" in the top-left corner of the screen.
 Doing so will enlarge the photo to nearly full-screen.
 It's located on the bottom of the screen to the left of the garbage can icon.
 It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen to the right of the Cancel option.
 You have two ways of cropping your photo here:



Manual - Tap and drag a corner or side of the photo. Dragging the bottom side upward, for example, will remove anything below it from the photo.

Preset - Tap the





button on the bottom-right side of the screen to view a list of preset aspect ratios such as Square or 9:16. Tapping a preset will apply it to your photo.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Doing so will save your cropping changes and exit the photo editor.


You can also tap Cancel in the bottom-left corner of the screen, followed by Discard Changes, to revert to the photo's original state.
 It's located to the left of the garbage can icon.
 This will automatically adjust your photo's light levels, contrast, and other settings to make the photo more visually balanced.
 Tapping a filter will apply it to your photo.


Color - Adjust color contrast, saturation, and cast.

B&W - Adjust tone, intensity, and grain in your photo.
 Doing so will open its respective menu; from here, you'll be able to tap an additional aspect (e.g., Exposure), tap and drag a slider left or right to increase or decrease the aspect's presence in your photo, and then tap ☰ in the right side of the screen (above Done) to return to the light options.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Doing so will return you to the editing page.
 This is the More button and it is located to the right of the Adjustments button at the bottom of the screen.
 It will appear as a pop-up option near the bottom of the screen. Markup will let you draw on your photo as well as add captions.
 After you're done changing the aspects of your photo that you wish to change, tap Done in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Doing so will save your changes and close the photo editor interface.


If you're using Markup, first tap Done in the top-right corner of the screen.

