 Receiving a job offer requires you to respond, whether or not you accept or reject the position in the end. Keep the response positive and inform them that you will return your final decision by a certain date.Respond promptly, but ask for a few days to consider and review the position.
Respond using the same method you were contacted by.;
, Take careful note of exactly what is being offered to you. Pay careful attention to the details to make sure they are acceptable., Ask yourself if the positions requirements, duties, and compensations are right for you. Consider key aspects of the position such as:


Will the proposed salary meet your financial needs?
Is the new job in a good location? Will you need to relocate?
How far is the commute? Are you able to commute?
What benefits, such as insurance or bonuses, are being offered to you?

, Research more about the entity offering you the job. Judge if you would be a good fit with the culture.


Do you share the same goals as the organization?
Do you think you would work well with your potential new coworkers?
Are the work conditions safe and professional at the new position?

, Decide if the position is right for you or not. Choose whichever you feel is best and act on that decision.
 Clearly and reasonably think about what you would like to negotiate for and why. You will need great reasons and to be able to explain just why you should get what you are asking for. Consider aspects that you want to discuss such as:Adjusting salary.
Flexible hours.
Advancement opportunities.
 Don't come across as greedy or pushy. Express your needs clearly, honestly, and politely. Stay positive and don't highlight negatives.


Don't lie in response to any questions you are asked.Answer in a way that still leaves you desirable by your potential employer.
 Don't make it seem like you could go elsewhere. Make it clear that you can and will accept the proposal if your terms are considered.


Only discuss issues of importance to you.
Don't negotiate for the sake of negotiating., Know your contacts personality and work with them. Keep in mind that if you do take the job, you might be working directly with this person.


Know that the person you are negotiating with might have their own limits.
Work with them as you negotiate, not against.
 Reach the person extending the job offer to you by their specified means. Express your excitement and interest in the company and the position., Review the specifics of your new position. Politely confirm the job title, pay rate, work hours, and benefits you are being offered.


Ask for any documentation that details this information.
 Learn what material you will need to bring with you on your first day. Take notes of these items so you can be best prepared.


Always bring a pen and paper at the very least.
Ask about the dress code.
Find out if you need to bring any forms of identification.
 Review your contact information and the address of your new position.


Make sure you have this information stored somewhere.
 Make sure that you have all the information you need in order to reach your contact. Know who you will be reporting to the first day at your new position.


Ask for their name and phone number at the very least.
Learn the names of your immediate supervisor, person training you, and the HR contact person.
 Learn the best routes to your new place of work. Check for any possible obstacles such as construction, detours, or poor weather. Think of any other details that will make your first day a success.


Leave early so you have plenty of time to arrive.
Write down any questions you might have for your first day.
Get a good nights rest before your first day.
 Contact the person who extended the job offer to you. Ignoring a job offer will reflect poorly on you. Know that companies might share information about you and that maintaining a good image is key.


Respond as soon as you make your decision.
 Keep a positive tone. Do not cause a bad impression as you may wish to work with this employer at a later time.Do not highlight any negative aspects you perceive with the offer.
Declining a job offer is not the same as ending the relationship.
 Thank them sincerely for the offer, time, consideration, and close on something positive. Share, if you wish, your reasons for declining the position.


Don't give lengthy reasons for declining the job.
Be genuine in your expression.
Leave the impression that you would have been a great fit.

