 Benches near the door to your mudroom will be convenient for quickly putting on or taking off your shoes.But if your mudroom is narrow, this can create a bottleneck, making it difficult for others to bypass anyone already sitting on the bench. Position your bench against the wall opposite the door to avoid entryway congestion.

Mudroom benches are generally positioned against walls to save space and prevent the bench from becoming a cumbersome obstacle.
Many mudrooms have wall hangers for jackets. Tall benches may make it impossible to hang long jackets from these hangers if it is positioned beneath them.Measure and record the dimensions of your mudroom and its door with a tape measure. Keep these with you when purchasing with your bench so you know your mudroom’s size limitations.;
, Mudroom benches can be found at many home centers and furniture stores. When choosing a bench, keep its height in mind. Taller benches will allow for better storage. Shoes and boots can be tucked away beneath benches to optimize your use of mudroom space.

For a truly unique bench, hire a carpenter to make one or look for one made by a woodworking artisan. Amish craftsmen frequently make unique pieces of functional furniture, like mudroom benches.
Some benches may need to be assembled. These are ideal for mudrooms with narrow doorways, as bench pieces are often more maneuverable than pre-assembled, whole benches.
 Many mudroom benches try to optimize space by including a storage area on the inside of the bench. This area is often accessed by opening the hinged top of the bench. If your bench is too close to the wall, when opened, it may gouge or scratch the wall.Purchase adhesive wall protectors from your local hardware store and attach these to the wall to protect it from damage.
 Umbrella stands, carpets, standing coat-racks, and similar items can clutter your mudroom, making it more difficult to set up your bench. Move these items off to the side or remove them from the mudroom so it is free of obstacles.

Some benches may be cumbersome and heavy. Carpets, especially, can be dangerous tripping hazards when moving these kinds of benches.
 Benches purchased from big box stores or furniture stores like Ikea may require assembly. Generally, furniture like this comes with simple tools (like Allen/hex wrenches), fasteners, and instructions. Follow the instructions to assemble the bench.

Mudrooms that are particularly small may not be large enough for you to comfortably put together your bench inside.
If your mudroom is too small to put your bench together inside, construct major parts, like the bench top and bottom, maneuver these into the mudroom, and fasten them together when inside.
 Add padding to the top and back of your bench. Padding for patio furniture usually works well and can be bought at most home centers and general retailers. Prevent padding from sliding by placing a no-slip mat under the padding.No-slip mats (or similar material) can be purchased at most home centers and general retailers. You may want to prioritize mats with weak adhesive backing for greater stability.
 Mudroom benches are used mainly for putting on and taking off shoes. Because of this, dirt and mud often collect around the front and underneath benches. Prevent dirt from spreading around your home by placing mats and carpet in these locations.

If you plan on storing shoes beneath your bench, you can place shoe trays here to similarly catch dirt and mud., Keep the items stored inside your bench organized with dividers, bins, and totes. Purchase totes and dividers from general retailers or craft stores. Keep in mind the space available inside the bench when buying organizers.

Totes and plastic organizers can sometimes look tacky. Substitute woven baskets or finished wooden crates for a classier option., Finish will protect the surface of benches and make cleaning them easier.Many purchased benches will already be finished. If you’ve purchased a used bench from a yard sale, you may need to sand the surface to remove loose paint before painting or staining.Paint and stain in a well-ventilated area to prevent the buildup of dangerous fumes. Wear rubber gloves when staining to prevent your hands from being discolored.
Prevent the accidental spread of paint or wood stain by laying a cover, like newspaper or a drop cloth, beneath the bench while working on it.
 Wipe down your bench once a week with lint-free cloth dampened with a mild soap, like dish soap, and water. Rinse soap from the cloth afterward and wipe remaining soap from the bench with the cloth. Prevent spotting by removing any leftover water on the surface with a clean, dry cloth.Depending on the finish, you may be able to use a wood polish or conditioner to improve its appearance. In most cases, wood polish and conditioner will not work well on painted surfaces.
 As time passes, your finish may lose its luster or begin to peel. In these situations, you’ll need to refinish the wood to protect it and restore its appearance. Lightly sand its surface to remove loose paint if necessary, then reapply paint or wood stain as you would normally.