 That's it. While the snowboarding world is typically male-dominated, there is nothing special you have to do or wear that makes you a snowboard girl. Just go snowboard. Get to know the trails on your mountain, find a board you love, and spend time out on the snow whenever possible. If you get out there and ride, you're a snowboard girl.


Snowboarding is slowly becoming a more accessible culture to join into. That said, most snowboarders still have little time or respect for "posers," or people who wear snowboard styles but never actually board., Get an "all-mountain board" if you are a beginner. All-mountains can be used for slopes and terrain parks, and they blend speed and maneuverability well. This makes them perfect for new riders.



Size: Stand the board up on its end, so that the top reaches between your nose and chin.

Directional Twin-Tip Both ends are almost identical, rounded tips.

Camber Type: Beginner riders should try a rocker-style board (the profile of the board curves upward) because of the added maneuverability and turning forgiveness., There are many amazing women of snowboarding that can carve a mountain with the best men any day. Watching snowboarding and finding women you can look up to is a great way to see snowboard girls in action.


Watch the Winter Olympics and X-Games, where snowboarders of both genders are often some of the main attractions.
Check snowboard blogs, specifically those revolving around women boarders like Burton Girls., Though it is almost completely cosmetic, snowboarders and skiers have traditionally worn different styles on the mountain. Snowboard style is directly influenced by skateboarding and street styles, often featuring brighter colors and bold, graffiti/urban-inspired designs. You should, of course, wear what you like, but snowboarders typically aim for alternative or youthful clothing.


Snowboarding initially adopted a lot of influences from punks and rock culture but has since involved to include a lot of hip-hop influences.Check out the latest styles from brands like Burton, O'Neill, Thirty Two, and more., Snowboard girls aren't there to pose, they are there to ride and enjoy themselves. Makeup is not only unnecessary, as it will be mostly covered up by goggles and hats, it will more than likely be smeared off within 1-2 runs. Sweat, snow, and the occasional fall are going to get you a little dirty, but that's half the fun. Save the makeup for the after party and focus more on your boarding than your looks., There is a rich snowboarding culture out there, and most of it is shared through videos and compilations. At one time, this involved sharing and copying old VHS tapes, but today's snowboarding girls can run to YouTube to watch amazing boarders at work. This is the best way to inundate yourself in snowboard culture. Watch and share your favorite videos with friends, try and replicate some of the tricks as you get more advanced and take style tips when you see something you like.

