 People who have pain disorder may frequent the doctor’s office and request tests to find the cause of their pain. Your loved one may make an appointment any time she has a new or recurring symptom. Do not try to stop your loved one from going to see the doctor because this might upset him or her. Instead, offer to take your loved one and be as supportive as possible.


If your loved one’s doctor has made a diagnosis of pain disorder, then try to help your loved one understand what that means. For example, you could say something like, “The pain that you are having is real, but it is not from a physical cause. That is why the doctors have not been able to treat it. You will have to go to a different type of doctor to find a treatment that works.”
Your loved one may still need to have regular appointments with a primary care physician to keep track of his or her progress and to get medication to treat symptoms.;
, The pain associated with pain disorder is not linked with any identifiable cause. People with pain disorder often go through extensive testing to find the cause of their pain, but there is not a medical cause. That is why doctors may refer patients with pain disorder to a mental health professional, such as a psychiatrist.A psychiatrist is a medical doctor who specializes in psychiatric disorders, so he or she may perform more tests to look for a cause to the pain. A psychiatrist may also prescribe medications to help with anxiety and depression.To encourage your loved one to see a psychiatrist, try saying something like, “Since your pain is not linked to a physical cause, it might be necessary to see a different kind of doctor to get the help you need. Would you be willing to let me make an appointment with a psychiatrist for you?”

, In addition to seeking the help of a psychiatrist, people who have pain disorder can also benefit from working with a therapist. A therapist can help your loved one overcome fears and anxiety about pain that has no medical cause. Talking with a therapist may also help to relieve some of your loved one’s pain.To encourage your loved one to see a therapist, try saying something like, “I’ve read that cognitive behavioral therapy can be really helpful for pain disorder. Would you like me to set up an appointment with a therapist for you?”

