 You will need to order a replacement screen and digitizer for your iPod. Replacement screens can be ordered online for about $25 USD. Make sure to order the display for the iPod Touch Gen 3, or the display will not work.
 You will need an iPod opening tool or a thin flat-head screwdriver in order to separate the case of your iPod touch. A screwdriver is more likely to leave scratches than an iPod opening tool.


Insert your tool into the seam between the glass and plastic near the volume buttons. Rotate the tool to pry the glass away from the casing. Continue doing this around the edge of the iPod.
Do not run the tool down the seam. Instead insert, pry, and remove it to insert it in another location.
Detach the clips around the inside of the casing that hold the glass panel in place.
Lift the panel away from the rest of the iPod, lifting from the bottom. The panel will still be attached by a cable at the top.
 This is located at the top of the iPod, and is very fragile. You will need to gently pry the connector off of the logic board with your opening tool.
 Insert the opening tool between the white backlight assembly and the metal panel beneath it. Insert the tool at the bottom end of the display, in the middle. Gently pry it up, taking care not to bend the screen as you do so. Rotate the display up, leaving the top near the iPod.


You will need to continue holding this up while you work underneath it.
 underneath the display you will see a metal tray with seven Phillips screws in it. You will need to remove all seven to continue.


Lay the display back down and remove another Phillips screw at the top edge of the iPod.
 Once all the screws have been removed, lift the display up once more, and then lift the newly-freed metal tray up. Rotate them both towards the top of the iPod.


Peel the copper tape off of the top edge of the display. Leave it attached to the metal tray.
Peel the tape that covers the display cable. It is revealed when you lift the metal tray up.
Pry the display cable out of its socket. This is located towards the bottom of the iPod underneath the metal tray. Peel the cable off the adhesive that keeps it attached to the rear panel.
 With the cable disconnected, you can lift the display out of the iPod. Lift the metal tray a little so that the display cable does not get caught when you lift the display unit out.
 Take your new display and run the new display cable back to where you disconnected it originally. Connect the cable and then follow the above steps in reverse to secure everything and reassemble the iPod.