 You can identify the outline of your uterus by finding the white or light grey line around the edges of the ultrasound image. Just inside of this area, there should be a black area. This is the amniotic fluid.Keep in mind that the edge of the womb may not go around the entire image. The technician may have positioned the probe in a way that centered the image on your baby. Even if you only see white or grey lines along one or two sides of the image, this is probably the outline of your womb.
 Your baby will also look grey or whitish and will be located within the amniotic fluid (the dark area inside of the womb). Look at the area within your amniotic fluid to try to make out the outline and features of your baby.


The details that you see in the image will depend on the stage of your pregnancy. For example, at eight weeks, the fetus will look something like a gummy bear or a baked bean; at 12 weeks, you may only be able to identify the head of your baby; while at 20 weeks, you may be able to see the spine, eyes, feet, and heart., At around 18 to 20 weeks, you will have an ultrasound to check your baby’s development, identify any problems, and possibly even identify the sex of your baby. It’s important to remember that it is not always possible to determine the sex of your baby at this stage and you won’t know for sure until your baby is born.To determine the sex of your baby, the ultrasound technician or obstetrician will look for a penis or three lines that represent the labia. Keep in mind that this method of determining the sex of your baby is not 100% accurate. A visual effect may create or obscure the image of a penis on an ultrasound.
 If you are interested in seeing more details of your baby than a traditional ultrasound can provide, then you may want to ask your doctor about a 3D ultrasound. A 3D ultrasound can show your baby’s facial features and it may even be able to detect certain defects, such as a cleft lip and palate.A 4D ultrasound uses the same imaging as a 3D scan, but a 4D scan makes a short video recording of your baby in the womb.If you want to have a 3D or 4D ultrasound, the best time to do so is between 26 to 30 weeks.
Keep in mind that these scans can be quite expensive and may not be covered by your insurance unless there is a medical reason to have one done, such as to investigate an abnormality.

