 If you are worried about having enough retirement income, then consider staying at your job. Although you might have planned to retire at 67, you may want to work for several more years. This will allow you to continue to pay bills without dipping into your retirement accounts, and you can also continue to save money for the day you finally call it quits.


If you work while drawing Social Security, then you may reduce your benefit depending on how much you make. For example, you can earn up to $15,720 per year (as of 2016) without penalty if you take benefits before your full retirement age. But for each $2 you earn over this limit, you’ll see your benefit reduced by $1. This reduction is only temporary, however. You will get full benefits when you reach full retirement age.In the year you reach your full retirement age, you’ll get $41,880 (as of 2016) without penalty. But for each $3 you earn above this limit, you’ll see a $1 reduction in your benefit.
In the month you hit your full retirement age, you’ll no longer see a reduction regardless of what you earn.
 Once you leave a full-time job, you don’t need to stop working altogether. Retirement is a great time to pursue interests you never had time for when you worked full time. Break out into a different field, such as writing, arts and crafts, or blogging. Now is the time to discover new talents.


Many of the largest businesses in the country hire seniors as part-time workers. You can find part-time work by visiting the Seniorjobbank.org website or by searching the job section in the AARP website.Part-time jobs often don’t come with set schedules, so adjust your expectations accordingly.For example, you might be filling in gaps in coverage or helping out when the business has overflow work.
 Consulting is a good way to continue to use your professional expertise but on a schedule that works for you. When you consult, you can pick and choose the clients you want to work with. You’ll also work only when you want to.


Tell your current employer that you’ll be available for consulting work once you retire. Since they know your reputation, they can be a good source of consulting.Also talk to hiring managers at your competitor firms. Send an email or talk over the phone. Tell them you are consulting in your retirement.
You should also consider other industries where your skills might be valuable. For example, you could have had a career writing advertising copy for financial firms. You can transfer these skills to writing copy for other businesses.
 If you have a great idea for a new business, this is the perfect time to start it. Since you can use your retirement savings to cover your cost of living, you do not need to rely on the business for your income--rather you can follow your passion or hobby.