 Back in the days of yore, parents and children wrapped their tree around and around, passing the cord from one set of hands to another. While you’re more than welcome to this method to keep tradition alive, a more efficient way is to wrap from top to bottom, only tackling one side at a time.


For the record, this works best if you’re only dealing with one main color of lights. Otherwise, you may need more strands of your second color to balance your tree's overall look.
 Nestle the very last bulb at the top of the tree. Pick a side of the tree that you’re going to work on, and mentally map out the triangle in your mind. This is where you’ll be weaving the lights back and forth, left and right.


This is generally easier to do starting at the top. This way if you run out, you can easily connect it towards the bottom nearer your outlet, and camouflage it in the thickness at the bottom of your tree.
 Make a zigzag pattern starting from the top, weaving as tightly as you see fit. Make sure each section is nestled in the tree and unmoving. Try to keep the same distance between "layers" of lights so the tree is evenly lit.


You may want to sort of wrap the lights around the branches, putting the branch through the loop in the strand (most light sets are made up of several different strands you can separate). This ensures the lights stay in place and don't get camouflaged behind the shrubbery.
 When you hit the end of a strand, plug in the next set and continue weaving. However, it’s best to not connect more than 3 sets or so, mainly for safety purposes.


If you run out, you have two options: start back up at the top and make a looser weave, or just connect another strand. If you have extra at the bottom, you can start on the next side of the tree (the second triangle you mapped out) and cover the bottom on that side that will inevitably be formed with the next string of lights.
 Now that you’ve got some practice for this new and improved method, sides two and three may be even better. Repeat going from top to bottom, weaving left to right in the same manner as before. Try to keep the weave similar on all sides.
 If you plug them in beforehand, they’ll heat up and be too hot to the touch. Take a look at a job well done. If it’s not perfect, adjust it as necessary.


You can now add other decorations, like ornaments, to the tree and place any presents that you have under the tree. Et voila! Not only is it beautiful, but it'll be easier to take down later, too.

