 Wonder Woman's top is traditionally strapless, so if you want to make a more accurate costume, go with a red bustier or red tube top. Look for one in a glossy material, if possible. For a more modest variation, use a red swimsuit or snug red tank top.;
, Gold duct tape should suffice for this. There are several designs you could use for the emblem, which you can find photos of online, and they range from elaborate eagle patterns to simple W shapes. One option is to cut a W-shaped eagle out of craft foam, spray paint it gold, and then glue it to the top.For something very simple, just line the top front edge of your bustier, swimsuit, or tank top with gold tape.
For something a little more daring, create a double-layer W (one W inside another W) with wings or straight horizontal lines coming off the top ends of both W shapes.
 The bottom half of the costume is fairly revealing and usually only covers the upper to mid thigh. High-waisted boy shorts work perfectly, but blue gym shorts can work as well. If you want a more modest option, though, you can wear a blue miniskirt, like Wonder Woman used to wear in the old comics.In some modern revamps of the comic, Wonder Woman is wearing tight blue or black pants, so you could go this route if you’re not comfortable wearing shorts or a skirt.
In the 2017 film, she wears a skirt with strips of fabric hanging down, which also provides more coverage. Create this look by finding strips of scrap leather and painting them blue before sewing or gluing them to the bottom of your bustier., If you’re going for the classic comic look, add stars to the skirt or shorts by cutting them from white fabric, white tape, or white construction paper. Use fabric glue to adhere the stars to the shorts or skirt, applying them generously., It may be difficult to find red boots, so get the boots in any color and spray paint them red. Or use red duct tape or electrical tape to cover the entirety of the boot. You can also just cover regular shoes with knee-high red softball socks., The very top of each boot leg should be lined with white. You also need a white stripe down the center of the boot, extending from the top to the toe., To make a more modest version of the bustier for a child, select a red tank top, t-shirt, or even long-sleeved t-shirt if they’ll be wearing the costume for a chilly night of trick-or-treating., Since the top likely won’t have a deep neckline to use for the emblem, simply use yellow electrical tape or cut strips of gold duct tape to make nested W’s on the front of the shirt. You can also cut the W’s out of gold glitter foam, which can be found at craft stores.If you’re making a last-minute costume and don’t have any tape, use a black Sharpie to draw the design on the shirt. Just remember to place a piece of cardboard or something similar inside the shirt as you draw so that the ink doesn’t bleed through to the back.
 You can opt for short blue shorts if you’re comfortable dressing your child in them, but a skirt will add a bit of length and femininity to the costume. It can be any material, such as cotton, jersey, or denim, or try something fun like a blue tutu., If your child will be trick-or-treating in this costume and you’re concerned about keeping them warm, find some nude-colored tights or panty hose to wear under the skirt. These can be purchased cheaply at most drugstores., Cut stars out of white fabric, felt, or paper, then sew or glue them to the skirt with fabric glue. If you can find stickers shaped like white stars, let your child help you decorate the skirt with the stickers. Depending on the fabric, they may still need to be glued so that they don’t fall off., Unless your child already owns knee-high boots, it will be easier and less expensive to just buy socks that go up to their knees. Pull the socks over a pair of ballet flats or other simple shoes to create a seamless boot-like look., Use white electrical or duct tape to line the center of the sock from knee to toe. Also add a circle of white around the top of the sock. If you don’t have white tape, tear up an old white t-shirt and sew or glue long strips of fabric to the sock., While typical depictions of Wonder Woman costumes don’t include a cape, many child versions of the costume have one. Simply find a long stretch of red fabric and either sew it to the top of the shirt, or safety pin it to both shoulders., If you cannot find a gold belt, you can spray paint any wide belt with gold metallic paint or you can cut a simple sash belt out of gold fabric. You can also trace the design onto gold vinyl and wrap that around your waist, attaching it in the back with velcro.You can leave the belt as a solid band, or you can add a star or the iconic Wonder Woman W to the front. Cut the desired shape out of cardboard or thin foam that has been spray painted red, and attach the shape to the center front of the belt with craft glue or hot glue.
 Unless you already own thick gold bangle bracelets, the easiest way to mimic Wonder Woman's arm bands is with toilet paper rolls. Cut each roll lengthwise so you can slip your wrist in and out, then spray with gold spray paint or cover in gold craft paper. Add a piece of tape if the cuffs are not staying on your wrists.In the absence of any gold craft materials, use tin foil to wrap the toilet paper holders to create a metallic look.
 Wonder Woman has a thick gold tiara with a red star on it. The tiara is worn around the top part of her forehead and, ideally, should have a slight diamond shape in the center front. You can create the tiara by covering a cheap exercise headband or cheap plastic tiara with metallic gold fabric, wrapping paper, or foil.Finish off the tiara with a red star. You can either adhere a red star sticker to the front, or you can cut a small red star out of fabric or red duct tape., For the lasso, you can use a few yards (meters) of plain tan rope. Traditionally, the lasso is yellow in color, so you can also spray paint it yellow or gold if you so desire. As long as it is light in color, though, the rope should work.Tie a simple loop at the end of the rope to mimic the lasso look and hook the rope, wound up, to your belt.
 You can purchase a plastic sword and shield at a party store, costume store, or toy store. Or you can make them yourself by tracing them and cutting them out of cardboard. The shield should be a circle, and you can draw or tape the W emblem on it like you did with the shirt. For the sword, wrap the blade in aluminum foil to give it a more metallic look., Style your hair in loose waves by wrapping sections loosely around a curling iron and releasing them after a few seconds. If you do not have black hair, you could use temporary dye to dye it black. If your hair is not long enough or if you do not want to dye it, you can also buy a wavy black wig from a party store.