 Follow your normal routine to wash and condition your hair. Aim to do this step in the late afternoon or evening when you have time to let it air dry.;
, Use a towel to get extra moisture out of your hair. Your hair should be about 75% dry.
 Apply a quarter-sized dollop of strong hold foam mousse to your hair. Mousse will give your straight hair more volume.









You can also add texturizer to your hair. This can help straight hair from falling flat.Depending on the length and texture of your hair, you may want to use a different hair product. For example, volumizing mousse is better for stick-straight or fine hair. Styling cream may help control frizz and flyaway hair for thicker hair., Once you have mousse throughout your hair, use both hands to scrunch up your hair. Do this all over your head. Your hair won’t really hold the waves at this point, but it will help your hair from going stick-straight.
 Take some time to let your hair air dry. If you have really long hair, this might take a while. You can speed it up somewhat by turning up the heat in your house or going into the sunshine for a bit.
 Spritz texturizer throughout your hair. This hair product will help your hair hold waves in it.
 Separate your hair into 4 or 5 chunks. Braid each one loosely. You can use a rubber band to hold each end. You can also just scrunch or twist the end of the braid and it might hold on its own (especially if you’ve used enough texturizer).








You can also twist your hair instead of braiding it.
 Go to sleep in your braids. Don’t worry if they get messed up or one of them comes loose. You’re going for a wavy, slightly messy look anyway.
 When you wake up in the morning, gently undo the braids in your hair. Don’t run your fingers through the braids to undo them. This will reduce the waves.
 Use your hands to carefully scrunch your hair all over your head. Then add some hairspray to hold the shape.
 When it’s bedtime again, put 4-5 braids in your hair again. You don’t need to start the process from scratch every night. Instead, skip washing your hair.









You may want to add a tiny bit of texturizer spray to your hair before braiding, although you may already have enough product in your hair.
If you have very fine or short hair and it tends to get stringy quickly, you might want to wash your hair every night. In this case, you’ll have to start the process from the beginning.
Wash your hair every few days instead.

