 A cat infected with C. felis will start showing signs of cytauxzoonosis within 5‒14 days of infection. Anorexia is a common sign of the disease.Pay attention to whether your cat is eating less than usual.;
, C. felis enters a cat’s body as sporozoites (spore-like stage of parasite development). These sporozoites invade large white blood cells (WBCs) and develop into schizonts (a type of cell). Infected WBCs go to a cat's veins and block blood flow.If schizonts block blood flow in the lungs, a cat can develop breathing trouble.


If your cat has breathing troubles, it will start breathing rapidly or exert a lot of effort to take deep breaths.
 A cat with cytauxzoonosis will feel pain all over its body. To demonstrate this pain, a cat will vocalize loudly.If you hear your cat wailing loudly, it's probably in a lot of pain from the disease.
 Jaundice is a yellowing of various parts of the body due to liver problems. Cytauxzoonosis can cause jaundice.Look at your cat’s eyes, ears, and gums to see if they are turning yellow.


Instead of looking yellow, the gums may look pale due to low levels of red blood cells (RBCs)., Cats with cytauxzoonosis are frequently depressed.Signs of depression in cats are below:Loss of appetite
Avoiding human interaction
Sleeping more than usual
Less playful
Strange behavior (no longer using the litter box, becoming more aggressive, grooming less often)

, Cats with cytauxzoonosis develop very high fevers, indicating a severe infection. A cat’s normal body temperature is 100‒102.8 degrees Fahrenheit (38‒39 degrees Celsius).With cytauxzoonosis, the temperature can go as high as 106 degrees Fahrenheit (41 degrees Celsius).You can take the temperature by ear or rectally. Ear temperatures are usually less reliable than rectal temperatures.To take the rectal temperature, coat the thermometer with lube, such as KY jelly. Holding your cat with its hind end facing you, gently insert the thermometer about 2 inches (5 cm) into the rectum and hold it there until you hear it beep.
If you’re not comfortable taking the temperature (or your cat won't let you), your vet can do so.
As cytauxzoonosis gets worse, a cat can become very cold., As cytauxzoonosis progresses, a cat can start showing neurologic signs. For example, a cat may have trouble walking or start having seizures. A cat’s pupils may also start moving rapidly and uncontrollably.Look for these neurologic signs in your cat.


Signs of seizures in cats include body twisting, muscle twitching, salivating, and rigid limbs., Cytauxzoonosis causes severe illness very quickly and is often fatal.If your cat is showing signs of this disease, do not delay in taking it to your vet for diagnosis and treatment.
 Before running any diagnostic tests, your vet will perform a thorough physical examination of your cat. In addition to the physical signs mentioned above, your vet will touch your cat to feel for an enlarged spleen, liver, and lymph nodes. They will also see if your cat is dehydrated.The disease-causing tick may or may not be on your cat at the time of your appointment., Analyzing your cat’s blood will help your vet diagnose cytauxzoonosis. First, they will look at blood cell counts (complete blood count) and levels of other substances in the blood (blood chemistry). On the results, your vet will see low counts of RBCs, WBCs, and platelets. They will also see elevated liver enzyme levels.Your vet will also look at your cat’s blood with a microscope (blood smear).
On the blood smear, your vet will be able to see schizonts in WBCs. They may also see merozoites (what gets released from the schizonts) in RBCs.RBCs are usually not infected until late in the disease. If your vet doesn’t see infected RBCs on one day, they may want to take blood samples each day after that to continue looking at the cells., Frequently, seeing C. felis on a blood smear is enough to diagnose cytauxzoonosis. Sometimes, though, blood smears don’t show C. felis. If this happens, your vet will want to take a tiny tissue sample from your cat’s spleen, liver, or lymph nodes to look for the organism. This sample is called a fine needle aspirate (FNA).To take an FNA, your vet will anesthetize your cat. They will then use an ultrasound machine to identify the affected organ. Your vet will use the image of the affected organ to guide a long, thin needle into the organ and pull up a tissue sample into the needle.
Your vet will analyze the tissue sample with a microscope.

