 The average person requires at least 8 hours of sleep per night to function optimally, so you must ensure that your sleeping environment supports your schedule.


Sleep in a dark room. Since the human body is biologically designed to stay awake during sunlight hours, you must trick your body into thinking it's dark out by blocking out sunlight. In addition to helping induce REM sleep, the melatonin hormone is produced at night in the dark to prevent tumor developments. Exposing your body to sunlight while you sleep will suppress your body's ability to create melatonin. Methods to block sunlight include hanging dark curtains or shades over your windows, as well as wearing a sleeping mask.
Eliminate noise. Since the majority of people are awake during the day, you may be exposed to sounds of traffic and neighbors while you sleep. Methods to block out noise include wearing earplugs or running a fan in your bedroom, which usually blocks out background noises. Turn off your phone or pager before sleeping to avoid interruptions.
Establish a bedtime ritual and sleeping routine. Before going to sleep, perform a relaxing activity to help you unwind from your shift such as reading a book, listening to soft music, or taking a warm bath. You should also maintain a consistent sleeping schedule even on your days off to adapt your body to working the midnight shift.;
, Since the majority of restaurants are typically closed during the midnight shift, it's crucial to focus on maintaining a healthy diet. Prepare your meals at home and bring them to work to avoid eating vending-machine snacks or other unhealthy foods. You will also want to limit caffeine to the hours prior to your shift or at the beginning of your shift.
 In addition to helping you stay fit, exercise will naturally increase your energy, positively impact your mood, and will also help you sleep better. Perform exercise before you begin your shift or during your breaks. Avoid exercising within 2 hours of going to sleep to prevent increased heart rate and restlessness so you can fall asleep on time.
 Make time to call your loved ones and friends from work or during your break and make plans with them on your days off work to maintain social ties. You should also publicize both your work and sleeping routines to friends and family to help them understand and be aware of your current lifestyle.
 Although it may seem difficult to adjust your body's sleeping patterns, there are steps you can take to prepare for daytime sleeping.


Take daily naps between noon and 5 p.m. before beginning a midnight shift. Not only will naps help increase your alertness and performance, but your body naturally experiences increased sleepiness during these hours.
Turn on bright lights between the hours of 2 a.m. and 7 a.m. Bright lights will help decrease your sleepiness, especially when the peak of sleepiness occurs during these hours.
Establish a caffeine strategy and schedule. Caffeine will stimulate your body during the midnight shift and wear off before your shift ends when taken right before or at the beginning of your shift. Try to avoid caffeine a few hours before you go to sleep.

