 Symptoms of valley fever may be mild or severe. They also are symptoms of other conditions, such as a cold, flu, or other common conditions. This means that you won’t be able to notice symptoms and suspect that you have valley fever.


A medical professional will have to do diagnostic tests to check for valley fever and rule out other conditions.
 People who live in the areas where the valley fever fungus grows are at risk. People who visit in these areas may also get it, as well as people in the military who train in these desert areas. Partaking in recreational activities in the desert, like biking or driving ATVs, may increase your risk.


Certain occupations may be at a higher risk. For example, those who do agricultural work, digging or excavation, or any other job where they are digging or disturbing the soil are at a higher risk.
Earthquakes in these areas may increase the risk of valley fever.
Animals can also get valley fever. Dogs are extremely vulnerable to valley fever, but horses, cattle, sheep, and other animals may get it, too.
 If someone has a severe case of valley fever, this it can cause some severe complications which may have lifelong effects. Some possible complications of valley fever include:Pneumonia. It is possible to develop a severe form of pneumonia as a result of valley fever.

Ruptured lung nodules. In some cases, nodules or small cavities will form in the lungs. These may rupture, make breathing difficult, and cause chest pain. They may require surgical removal or the placement of a tube.

Spreading or dissemination throughout the body. The infection may also spread to other parts of the body which can cause serious damage, such as bone lesions, skin ulcers, heart inflammation, and meningitis.
 Valley fever is also called desert rheumatism since it is contracted in desert areas. Cases of desert fever have been found throughout the southwestern United States, including Arizona, California, Nevada, Utah, New Mexico, and Texas. The fungus can also be found in Northern Mexico and desert areas in Central and South America.The central valleys of California are particularly vulnerable. There have also been a lot of cases around Phoenix, Tucson, and El Paso. In Mexico, is mostly found in Sonora and Chihuahua.

