 Termites are divided into three broad types: drywood; subterranean; and dampwood.They each have different characteristics and it is best to be certain that you know which type of termite is which so you can take the appropriate course of action. Subterranean termites feed off the cellulose in wood. The point where wood comes into contact with soil is the main entry point for subterranean termites., Although they are generally dug in below your house and you may not see the termites themselves, it’s worth knowing a little about their appearance in case you find one and you want to identify it. There are three so-called ‘castes’ in a termite colony, each of which are different.


Alates (more commonly known as swarmers) are dark-brown or black, and are around a quarter to a half inch long, with two pairs of wings of very similar length.
Workers don’t have wings, are generally a quarter inch long, and are cream coloured.
Soldiers are also wingless, but they have large mandibles (jaws). They are the defenders of the colony and are distinctive for their jaws and their creamy torso, and their brownish head., Probably the best way to determine whether or not you have an infestation is to look for the signs and marks that often indicate that a subterranean termite colony has taken up residence. One indicator is wood that appears layered. Subterranean termites only consume the softwood, so the hardwood portion remains, and this could give the wood a layered look. Dark patches or blisters in wood flooring can indicate termites.Wood may not look damaged, but if you tap it and it sounds hollow, this suggest that though the veneer is undamaged, the softer wood beneath has been eaten away., Alates (or swarmer) termites are the ones you are most likely to find. What you think are flying ants, might in fact be swarmers. One difference is that swarmers are smaller and have four wings of about the same size, whereas ants have a pair large wings and one of smaller wings.


Once they have mated, swarmers will shed their wings. They will leave them in a pile, which might look like fish scales.
If you see a pile of wings like this on your windowsill, it could indicate an infestation., These foraging tubes go from the soil to the infested wood, and are brown and muddy in appearance. They are the routes the termites use to go to the wood from the soil, and are generally about pencil-width. Sometimes they are easy to spot, but they can also be hidden behind skirting boards, under floorboards or tucked away out of sight.