 Before teams take to the court, team captains need to meet to do the disc toss to determine who will pull first. To do this one person calls ‘up’ or ‘down’ while the other person tosses the disc. If the call is correct that team captain gets to choose whether they receive the disc first or pull. The other team captain then gets to choose which end they want to start at. If the call is incorrect the other team captain chooses whether they want to receive the disc or not. Pull (definition): The throw at the start of each point that initiates play.;
,, Once organised, the person with the disc puts one hand in the air to signal that they are ready to commence play (this occurs at the beginning of every point). They must wait for someone on the opposing team to raise one hand in response before pulling.
 This is where they attempt to throw it as far down the court as they physically can. Afterwards, the other team takes possession.
 Dropping the pull in an attempted catch results in a turnover.


If the pull lands inbounds and rolls out, it must be played on the sideline at the point where it went out.
If the pull goes “out on the full” there are two options: a) put the disc into play on the sideline at the point where it went out, or b) put the disc into play from the middle of the court perpendicular to the point where it went out. For option b, you must signal your intentions by raising one arm in the air before picking up the disc.
 They do this by either a) waiting for a defender to tap the disc and yell ‘disc in’, or b) a self-check where they tap the disc onto the ground. After checking the disc they are able to throw it to another team member. This is similar to basketball rules when the ball must be checked into play at the beginning of a point.
 Upon receiving the disc, they must come to a complete stop before passing to another player. By passing from player to player, offence is attempting to work the disc up the court towards their endzone. Offence (definition): The team with possession of the disc. Endzone (definition): The area in which a team catches the disc in, in order to score.
 If the disc comes into contact with anything that is out of bounds, such as a spectator, then it is out. When catching the disc the player must ensure their first point of contact with the ground after making a catch is in bounds, otherwise a turnover ensues. If your first point of contact is in but your momentum carries you out, you must return to the point where you went out before carrying on play. If you land with one foot out and one foot in, you are straddled and this is out. Also, dropping the disc due to contact with the ground is a turnover. A receiver must make as few steps as possible to come to a complete halt when catching the disc otherwise this is travel. If the disc is caught at the same time by both a defender and an offence player possession goes to offence. Straddle (definition): when one foot is in bounds and the other foot out of bounds.
 Pivot (definition): When you plant your foot (left for right handers and right for left handers) and step to the side (allowing you to navigate a throw around your defender). Fake (definition): A pretend movement one way to fool your defender opening up space on the opposite side.
 Similar to man-on-man marking in hockey. The idea is that offence will not want to pass a disc to a player who is being marked closely. Therefore, offence players need to get free of their defenders by cutting. Cutting (definition): An attempt to get free to receive the pass. It begins with a fake then followed by a sudden change of direction and speed. Man-on-man (definition): The most common type of defence. It is where a defence player marks an offence player and attempts to stay as close as possible to the player in order to receive an intercept or forcing a mistake.
 They begin by saying ‘stalling, one, two…’ The player holding the disc has just seven seconds to pass it to a teammate. If the disc has not been released on ‘seven’ the defender takes possession.
 Turnover (definition): change of possession.
, After each team has signaled they are ready the team that score the point then pulls.

