 To adopt internationally, you must be at least 25 years old. In the United States, you must also be a U.S. citizen. If you are married, then at least one spouse must be a citizen.Each foreign country also has eligibility requirements. You can find them by visiting the State Department’s website at http://travel.state.gov/content/adoptionsabroad/en/country-information.html and selecting the country you are interested in adopting from.
To adopt a child from Egypt, for example, the parents cannot be over 55 years of age. The couple must be married and not have more than two children. Furthermore, at least one spouse must be of Egyptian nationality.;
, Many private adoption agencies help prospective parents adopt internationally. In order to adopt from a foreign country, you often need to work additionally with a foreign adoption agency. Your home-based agency can help you find an acceptable foreign agency. A representative of your U.S.-based agency can also accompany you to the foreign country and help guide you through the process.To find an adoption agency that handles intercountry adoptions, you should visit the Child Welfare Gateway, which is a service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. They have a directory available at https://www.childwelfare.gov/nfcad/. You can select your state and then “Private Intercountry Adoption Agencies.”
To check that the agency is licensed, contact them and ask for their license number. They should happily provide it. Then contact the state licensing authority and check that the agency’s license is current.If you are adopting from a country that is a party to the Hague Convention, then you need a “Hague Approved” adoption agency. An agency will be identified as such in the Child Welfare directory.If you are not adopting from a Hague Convention country, then the agency does not need to be “Hague approved.”
Before deciding to hire the agency, ask for at least three referrals. You should call the references and ask how happy the families were with the agency’s handling of their intercountry adoption.
 Should you work with an adoption agency, then the agency’s own lawyer will handle any legal issues that arise. However, if you choose not to work with an adoption agency, then you will certainly need an experienced adoption attorney to help you navigate the many different requirements.


You can find a qualified adoption attorney by visiting the American Academy of Adoption Attorneys.Once at the website, you can click on “Find an Attorney” and search by state.Call and ask about the attorney’s experience. You will want to hire an attorney who has experience in intercountry adoptions, not just domestic adoptions.
 If you adopt a child from a country covered by the Hague Convention, then you will need to undergo 10 hours of training.The Hague Convention covers over 75 countries. A list can be found at the State Department’s website at http://travel.state.gov/content/adoptionsabroad/en/hague-convention/convention-countries.html. If the country you are adopting from is not a signatory to the Hague Convention, then you only need to take training if required by your state.Your adoption agency should be able to connect you with the required training programs.
 There are many forms and documents you must fill out or create in order to successfully adopt a child. You should give yourself plenty of time, as an intercountry adoption can take over a year to complete from start to finish:Complete a dossier. This will take two to four months. You will create the dossier with your adoption agency. It will include a variety of documents related to your home and finances.
Apply to the federal government for approval. You need to be pre-approved for an international adoption, which will require that you fill out and submit various forms. This process also takes two to four months to complete.
Submit a dossier to the foreign country. After you submit it, the foreign country can take up to six months to process. You cannot get a referral to adopt a child until the dossier is processed.
Wait for a referral. Referral times can vary widely. For adoptions from China, prospective parents now wait roughly eight months to receive a referral.Travel to the foreign country. You will need to schedule a trip to the foreign country to see the child. In some countries, you might need to stay for up to two weeks. In other countries, you will need to make two trips.
File the dossier in the United States. Once you return to the United States with the child, you need to file for a court date in order to complete the adoption. This step typically takes one to three months.
 The home study will determine your suitability for adoption. It will be submitted to the United States Customs and Immigration Service (USCIS) and the foreign country’s adoption agency. If you are adopting from a Hague Convention country, then the home study must be submitted with your initial application. If you are adopting from a non-Hague country, then you have a year to submit your home study., A licensed social worker will need to assess the safety and comfort of your house. You should begin by cleaning it. Take out any trash, accumulated newspapers/magazines, or old toys or clothes. Pay particular attention to the bathroom. Make sure there is sufficient hot and cold water and repair any loosened tiles or broken shower curtain rods.


See to it that the house has sufficient light and ventilation. Put screens on the window and replace broken light bulbs.
Also address safety concerns. Walk through the home and see if you can find anything that might endanger a child. Make sure to conceal exposed wires and repair broken or wobbly banisters and steps. Lock up firearms and store chemicals out of the reach of children.
Check about bedroom requirements. Some states require that the child have his or her own bedroom. States may also limit how many children can share the same bedroom. Your adoption agency can share the list of requirements.
 The precise requirements for your home study will differ depending on your state and the country you are adopting from. However, you most certainly will need to be interviewed in your home. All adults who live in the home must be interviewed.You should be prepared to talk about why you want to adopt, as well as what you think your strengths and weaknesses as a parent are. Be prepared to also discuss any domestic violence or sexual abuse that you have either suffered or witnessed, either as an adult or as a child. The home evaluator wants to assess how suitable you are for parenting a child.
Always be truthful with the home evaluator. If you try to cover up information (such as arrests), then you will only harm yourself in the eyes of the home evaluator.
 Each adult will need a criminal history check. You must disclose any arrest or conviction, otherwise your application could be rejected., You will need to submit a dossier to the foreign country’s central adoption agency. The dossier contains a variety of information and will take several months to complete. You will create it with your adoption agency and tailor it to the requirements of the foreign country. A typical dossier includes:the home study
medical reports
information on finances and employment
copies of important documents, such as birth certificates and marriage certificates
certificates that show completion of any required adoption education
letters of reference

, You cannot enter foreign countries without a valid passport, so make sure that yours has not expired. If you need to renew your passport, you can do so by mail. See the State Department’s webpage at http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/passports/renew.html for more information.



Get a US Passport also contains helpful tips and information for those getting their first passport.
 In order to bring a child legally into the United States, you need the USCIS to pre-approve you. You must be found suitable for adoption. You can apply for this pre-approval by completing specific forms. The form you use will depend on what country you are adopting from.


If you are adopting from a country that is not a party to the Hague Convention, then you will need to fill out Form I-600A, Application for Advance Processing of an Orphan Petition.Work with your adoption agency or attorney to make sure that the form is filled out completely and accurately.
If you are adopting from a Hague Convention country, then you will need to complete Form I-800A, Application for Determination of Suitability to Adopt a Child from a Convention Country., Once you have identified a specific child to adopt, you will need to complete the applicable petition, which you can download from the USCIS website. Alternately, your adoption agency will get the forms for you.


Form I-600, Petition to Classify Orphan as an Immediate Relative. Use this form when adopting a child from a non-Hague country.
Form I-800, Petition to Classify Convention Adoptee as an Immediate Relative. You will use this when adopting from a Hague Convention country.Your adoption agency will advise you on the timing of these petitions. For some countries, you can identify the child you want to adopt before leaving to visit the foreign country. For other countries, you won’t know what child you have been offered until you are actually in the country.
 You will largely not be in control of anything that happens related to the adoption once you arrive in the foreign country. You will need to pad extra days into your visit in case you are delayed for some reason.


Talk with your U.S.-based adoption agency about how much time you need to complete the adoption.
 Depending on the country you are adopting from, you might not know anything about the child when you show up in the foreign country. In some countries, the process will be different. You will be sent information about the child to your home address and you will make a decision whether to adopt the child before traveling to the foreign country. For a Chinese adoption, you will be sent photographs, some medical information, as well as the child’s name and birthdate., In order to be issued a visa to travel to the U.S., the child must be medically examined in his or her home country by an approved doctor. The purpose of this medical examination is to screen the child for certain infectious or contagious diseases.The medical exam required by the U.S. Department of State is not comprehensive.If you want a more in depth examination so that you know the health of the child, then you will need to schedule and pay for a more comprehensive examination.
 In many countries, you will need to complete the adoption in the foreign country. In all likelihood you will not be able to leave with the child until you have the adoption approved.
 You may need to register the child with a state agency before you leave. If this is the case, make sure you follow the necessary instructions in order to lawfully complete the adoption process.
 You will need to go to the U.S. Consulate in the foreign country to complete paperwork and be interviewed so that you can get a visa for the child’s travel and entry to the United States.Your adoption agency’s representative should help you with this process.


Different visas are issued if you are adopting from a Hague Convention country or not. However, the process of being interviewed should not be substantially different.
One difference is timing. You will submit the visa application before the foreign adoption in a Hague Convention country but after the adoption proceedings in a non-Hague country. Talk to your adoption agency, who is familiar with these timing requirements.
 Depending on your circumstances, you may need to petition a court in the United States to adopt the child. If you fully adopted the child in the foreign country, then you will not need to re-adopt in the U.S.Nevertheless, you have the option to re-adopt in the U.S. You might choose to do so if you want a state birth certificate or if you want to rename the child.To adopt, your lawyer or the adoption agency will file the necessary petition with the court. You will then probably have to attend a hearing. As the birth mother is in a foreign country, there should not be anyone at the hearing opposing your petition.
 It is normal for many parents with new adoptees to seek counseling for themselves or for the child. Often, children have difficulty adjusting to a new culture. Also, adoptive parents often seek to understand how they can support their child’s heritage. You should ask the adoption agency what post-adoption services they offer, or if they can refer you to services.


For example, you might want to join a support group. A support group can offer a variety of services, including family events, discussion groups, education workshops and newsletters, as well as community referrals.If you adopt a child from a foreign country, there might be a support group made up of other parents who have also adopted from the same country.
 Some countries will require that you submit information to them periodically to report on the child’s welfare and health. Each country’s requirements are different, and you should contact your adoption agency with questions.Be sure to make required reports. Although the foreign country cannot come and take your child away, you will hurt the ability of other people to adopt from the foreign country if you decline to provide necessary reports.

