 You teacher may have hundreds of students, especially if they’re a college professor. You’ll need to include your name (first and last), your class, and section. If you are still in high school, this might mean your period or time slot. This way you won’t waste the teacher’s time with making them figure out who you are, and they’ll spend more time on the feedback you need., Sometimes students struggle with this when first emailing teachers. You can say “Hi Dr. Smith” or “Dear Ms. Turner.” If your teacher has emailed you, do not be less formal than they have been. Keep the tone professional. Instead saying, “Hey, what do ya think of my paper? It isn’t the greatest,” say, “I’m not sure I understand the assignment. I had some specific questions regarding the paper.”, Don’t worry about explaining all the context of your questions unless the context is necessary for those questions. For instance if you’re requesting feedback on a possible extension, your teacher may need context, but if you are simply trying to ask a question about an assignment, don’t tell them the story about how your dog made you run late and why you’re emailing now (unless it’s very close to the assignment time), or anything else that might be irrelevant to the assignment at hand., Not only is your teacher not likely to give you feedback that close to a due date, they are likely to be irritated that you’ve waited to the last minute to ask them for feedback. If you must send last minute questions, be brief, specific, and apologetic. It will make the teacher more likely to respond, assuming they see the email in time., Oftentimes, the teacher will tell you on the syllabus what file formats they will accept for assignments or in emails. For instance, if your teacher specifies a .doc file, don’t send a .pdf or a .pages file. If you are unsure, you can send an .rtf or .pdf file, or simply ask., You simply need to email the professor and be polite. If the professor has office hours, you can visit those, or make an appointment. You can say, "Dear Professor Smith, I didn't do as well on my exam as I expected. Could you help me work through some of the mistakes I made so I can do better on the next exam?" Your professor should typically respond favorably to such a request.

