 Wash your hands with soap and clean water. Dry your hands on a clean cloth and apply a hand disinfectant. Rub the disinfectant through your hands and let it air dry.








Only remove your earrings after the amount of time recommended by your piercer, usually at least six weeks. If you take the earrings out too early, the holes could close or become infected.If you have long hair, tie it back so you can easily get to your ears.;
, Take a cotton ball and dip it in rubbing alcohol or the cleansing solution you may have been given. Gently wipe around the earring so that you wipe the ear free of dirt and skin cell buildup.








You can also use a cotton swab if you're worried that a cotton ball might snag on your earring.
You should clean your ear like this every day until you're ready to take the earrings out.
 Use the thumb and index finger on one hand to grasp the front of your earring. With the thumb and index finger of your other hand, hold the back of the earring post.Keep a firm grip on the earring so that it doesn't fall when you remove the earring back and pull it out. Be especially careful if you're standing over a sink.
 Use your fingers to gently wiggle the earring back so that it moves back and forth, loosening and removing it from the post. The other hand should still be holding the front of the earring in place. You could also try peeling the back away from the post if you can't wiggle it free.








Avoid spinning your earrings when initially wearing them or removing them. Spinning or twisting can rebruise the healed part of your ear. Constantly touching and spinning the earrings can also cause infection., Once the back of the earring is off, you can slowly pull the post out of your ear, keeping a firm grip on the jewelry or stud. Repeat the process with the other earring.








Never push the post through your ear to pull it out of the back, even if the jewelry or stud is small.
 Disinfect your hands and let them air dry. You should also disinfect the new pair of earrings. Since your ears are still getting used to earrings, choose earrings made of gold, surgical steel, or hypo-allergenic material. Avoid wearing hoops, dangling, or fish-hook styles as your second earrings. These may be heavier and could pull down on your ear lobes or get caught in your hair. Let your holes heal for a few more weeks or months before wearing these types.








If you'd rather let your holes close up, keep the earrings in for the recommended 6 weeks so that the ears heal. Then, remove the earrings and wash the ears every day until the holes close up., Your ear shouldn't bleed when you take out your earrings. But, if you notice bleeding when you try to remove your earrings, you may torn some skin because your holes were not completely healed. Put pressure on the ears to stop the bleeding. You can use gauze or a clean towel to push against the ear lobe for 10 minutes.


If the bleeding continues after 10 minutes, call a doctor.
 If you notice any redness, swelling, or discharge, you may have an infection. You should also put some antibiotic cream on the ear. If the symptoms don't improve after a day, or you also develop a fever or the redness spreads, get medical attention immediately.Make sure you keep your earrings in and clean your ears with an antiseptic solution. If you remove the earrings, the infection could spread., If you notice your ears smell bad or the earrings smell bad after you remove them, you need to be more thorough when cleaning. Once your ears have completely healed, take the earrings out and wash your ears with clear glycerin soap and warm water. You should also wash your earrings with clear glycerin soap and warm water. Wash on a regular basis (every few days) to eliminate the smell.A buildup of skin cells, oil, and bacteria can make your ears and earrings smell bad.
 If your ears hurt when you try to remove the earrings, you may want to let them heal a little longer. Make sure that you're doing a good job of cleaning your eyes too, since skin buildup could start to cover the hole. You should also check to see if your earrings are made of gold, surgical steel or hypo-allergenic material. If not, your ears may be reacting to nickel or another material.


If you continue to feel pain after changing earrings and cleaning your ears, contact your doctor.
 If you still can't get the earrings out, ask a friend to help you remove them. You may just be having trouble seeing what you're doing and another set of hands can help you take the earrings out. If you and a friend are still having trouble, go back to the place where you had your ears pierced.


The person who pierced your ears should have a tool that can remove your earrings.

