 Creating an environment with less clutter will help you avoid tripping, bumping into things, or cutting yourself. As with many things in life, creating an environment in which it is easier to reach your goal (to be less clumsy), will make it much easier to achieve success.


Leave your shoes at the door, so they aren’t in your way later.
Donate, recycle, or throw away old things that you no longer want or need. This will help reduce clutter. ;
, This way when you're walking your clothes won't get caught on anything. The length of your pants should fit you perfectly. This way you can't trip over your pants.


Make sure your shoelaces are not too long. This will help prevent you from stepping on them and tripping.
Your pants should not be long enough to get caught under your shoes. Proper length pants will give you one less thing on which to trip., Organizing things in your home can help prevent accidents. When you know where everything is, you are less likely to accidentally knock something over or be caught be surprise by something (for example, a knife on the counter that could cut you).


Put things back after you use them.
Make sure to zip-tie, or otherwise bind, stray cords so that they do not become tripping hazards. , If you already have railings installed in your house, make sure that they can actually support your weight and are securely attached to the wall. Use the railings when you walk down the stairs. Walk deliberately and use the safety equipment you have. Railings aren't just for trying to catch yourself when you fall, they can help prevent the fall in the first place.
 Bathrooms, kitchens, and other places that might have slippery floors like tiles can be hazardous. Non-slip maps can help provide you with a safer surface on which to stand and work, such as in the shower or in front of the sink.


Non-slip mats are often made of rubber. They are available in many department stores and specialty stores that deal in bathrooms, kitchens, etc.
 It is much easier to be clumsy when operating in a dimly lit area. If your built-in lighting is insufficient, consider adding additional lamps in your home.


Overhead lighting is often the best choice to provide ambient lighting, the kind of lighting that lights up a whole room. This kind of lighting will help you see clearly. Look at your room with the lights on and determine shadowy areas. Add additional lightning to ensure these areas are clearly lit as well. 