 One of the harder parts of any separation with a romantic partner is letting go. Even when the other person has moved on, you may find yourself imagining a whole slew of “what if” scenarios; however, remind yourself that there are likely also many reasons that it didn’t work out.Reflect on how you felt when you were dating. Often, we look back on past relationships through rose-colored glasses. You may have even been questioning the relationship yourself.
Accept that she has moved on. You may have been holding out hope that things would work out between the two of you and you might have another shot at love with your ex. It may be painful to let go of that dream, but you can take her marriage as a definitive answer to any of your lingering questions: your romantic relationship is over.
Even if you weren’t convinced it was meant to be, it still hurts to be the one who is left behind. Remind yourself, however, that you’re likely feeling drawn to her in part because of her sudden increased distance.
 Everyone always has a list of things they want to spend more time on, try out, or grow more familiar with. Choose one or two activities you want to try or do more frequently. For instance, start hitting the gym three times a week instead of just once. Alternatively, pick up a new hobby altogether.


Try to choose something active and something creative. You can interpret these as broadly as you wish. The point is, staying active will literally help your body and mind feel better, and having a creative outlet can provide a powerful way to express your emotions.
For example, yoga or guided meditation can not only make you feel great, it will also likely lead you to meet new people. Simple, weekly activities can open up door to whole new friend groups and lifestyles!
Maybe you’ve always wanted to play guitar. Here’s your chance! You can probably even find people to learn and practice with by contacting local music stores or searching online.
 The classic example is a vacation. Start and email or group text thread with a group of your friends and pitch some ideas for a weekend trip. Choose somewhere relatively nearby so it will be easier and less expensive for people to commit. Pick a weekend a month or so ahead of time. This ensures you and others can prepare for the trip, and will give you something to look forward to for the next month!


If you can’t escape for a trip, make plans to have friends over next weekend, just to hang out. There’s nothing like a video game marathon to distract you for a while and help you relax.
 Sometimes a rude awakening can be exactly what we need. Use your new found freedom to refocus on your goals. When you catch yourself thinking about her, distract yourself immediately. Choose a goal you want to achieve, and whenever she comes to mind, think of something you can do to help achieve that goal and get to work.


If you’re looking for a new goal, consider meeting someone new. Instead of just waiting to meet someone, start introducing yourself to people you’re attracted to more frequently. This may be especially easy at events that have to do with something you enjoy.
 Some of the scarier aspects of enduring a romantic partner marrying someone else are the different forms of self-doubt that will inevitably arise. You may find yourself questioning your ability to trust someone again, or to maintain a romantic relationship. Nip these doubts in the bud by dating someone else.Take advantage of your new found freedom! This doesn’t mean you have to jump into anything serious. In fact, you shouldn’t. That said, you should definitely introduce yourself to that cute barista you’re always happy to see.
If you are feeling betrayed and find it difficult to trust enough to start dating, take some time to work on coping with your emotions and learning to trust again.

