 Once you have traveled to France, you’ll have to go through border control and customs to enter the country. The officers will definitely want to look at your passport and visa, but they have the right to request additional documentation before allowing you entry.If you are arriving in France with a preexisting visa, it will probably save you some time as you go through customs because the governmental authorities will not investigate your documents as thoroughly (since they know you already went through the vigorous process with the embassy).
If you are getting your travel visa when you arrive, they may ask you some questions about your trip, require proof that you will leave the country within a certain period of time, or request to see various documents. So be prepared for this.
 Once you arrive in France, you’ll need to apply for your permanent resident card, even if you have a visa. To do so, you’ll need to mail in your OFII (Office Français de l'Immigration et de l'Intégration) form that you received with your visa and wait to hear back from them. You will be asked to appear in person at the local préfecture to undergo a simple medical examination and to complete your resident application.Once this is complete, you will be granted your resident permit (carte de séjour) which will be good for one year, regardless of how long your visa has been granted for.
You may need to bring additional documents to your OFII appointment, but they will notify you ahead of time.
You can’t submit your OFII paperwork until after you have already arrived in France.
 If you’re going to be living in France permanently, you should consider opening a bank account at a French institution. This will save you from possibly hefty international transaction fees from using your foreign bank account and bank card while living in France.To do so, you’ll need to bring your passport and proof of residency in France. This could be a copy of your rental agreement or something from your school if you are studying in France.
You will probably have to wait a week or so for your French bank card to arrive in the mail.
Some common banks to use in France include LCL, BNP Paribas, Société Générale, Banque Populaire, and La Banque Postale.
 If you’re living in France, you (and your children) are entitled to free education. School is mandatory from ages 6 to 16, so your kids will need to be enrolled.To enroll your children for the first time, you’ll need to contact the service des écoles at your local courthouse (or mairie, in French). They will help you find the school nearest your residence that your child should attend.
You may also consider an international school for your child, especially if they don’t speak French, to ease the transition. However, this type of school may not be free.

