 With the dough at room temp, begin to flatten it with flour-covered hands and lay it between two sheets of parchment paper. Roll the dough until it is about ⅛ inch (⅓ centimeter) thick.If you're planning on sticking the letters on a crust, get your pie in the oven and prepare the letters while the pie begins to bake.
 Cookie cutters are the easiest way to cut individual letters out of pie dough. You can find letter-shaped cookie cutters in all sorts of sizes and fonts, at home goods store or online. If you want a budget option, see if your local dollar store has plastic letters for crafting. These will likely work just as well., Cut a piece of parchment paper that is roughly the same size as your flattened dough. Draw all of the letters you’ll need on the paper to make sure you’ll have enough room. Once finished, place the parchment paper on top of the dough with your markings facing up. Use an item with a thin point, like a skewer or toothpick, to gently trace the letters into the dough beneath the paper.Remove the paper and use a knife to carefully cut out each letter.
You can also print a sheet of paper with whatever letters you wish and trace them onto the parchment paper.
Always use parchment paper for tracing letters onto the dough, as it will stick to the dough much less than other types of paper. Further, parchment paper won’t leave behind any chemicals or become damp and tear apart.
 Another way of fashioning letters involves cutting ⅓ inch (just under a cm) thick strips of dough. Cut the strips into smaller pieces and attach them to one another to form letters, or simply twist and bend the strips. Store letters on parchment paper until you’ve got as many as you need.For instance, to make a capital “T”, cut off two short pieces of the strip, one a bit longer than the other. Use the shorter piece to cross the top of the longer piece, and viola.
When making letters with multiple small pieces of dough, brushing the letters with beaten eggs is especially important.

