 Know who they are and what party they are representing.


Visit their offices in their electorates, ridings, zones, areas, etc. Ask to meet with your local representative.
Go to "meet the candidate" events hosted in your area. This will give you the opportunity to meet them and to listen to their policies.
Follow their Twitter and Facebook accounts.
Watch them in action in the legislature, lower/upper house, council chamber, parliament, or wherever they appear. Some countries, states, and provinces have televised debates or parliamentary/legislative sessions. Some have select committee sessions open to viewing (you can visit in person or watch online or on TV). Some provide YouTube clips or their own viewing portals. Contact your local representative to find out what is available for you in terms of direct viewing.;
, Look up what they want to provide for you and others. Make sure you know what they're talking about. Also do a bit of research on them, such as their educational background and any criminal records. Be direct––write letters with your questions to the relevant persons and expect a reply. If you don't get a reply, follow up on it; they will know you are serious about learning more.


Find out how they are viewed within their party, not just by outsiders; remember that everyone remains an individual, even when toeing the party line.
Keep an open mind––politics is an area where reform can occur, so if someone does have a criminal past, see how they have absolved themselves and whether or not you consider their current work sufficient to overcome that and whether their experience is being put to good use.
 There have been many great leaders from the main parties, and their greatness has been based on their abilities/skills, their knowledge, their experience and their intellectual prowess. Don't let their title or party membership sway you. Look for someone who is capable, competent and responsible, who is willing to put people before power.
 Go with your gut and the knowledge you've gleaned from doing your research. Do listen to what others have to say––it is important to gauge what others feel and think but you must still reach an opinion based on what you know, think and feel is the right choice.
 Try to have at least two sources for each candidate. You can't get all the information you need, based off of one website or book. If you agree with everything the research says about them, vote!

, If they try to change the subject when a certain issue comes up or they don't even pay attention to that issue, they're not the candidate you want. They are going to be slick avoiders, which is stage management, not political progress. You want a leader who will address every issue, no matter what, no matter how hard, no matter how tedious and most of all, no matter how unglamorous.
 You're ready! With your research and by going with your gut, you're sure to pick a leader that will benefit your country. The act of voting in itself is a sign of caring about your future and being an active citizen, so reward yourself afterward. You deserve it, for its effort well spent.

