 Tell yourself how confident you are. You may not believe this initially, but the more you tell yourself "I am a confident person", the easier it will become to feel confident. Your subconscious will believe you are confident if it is told often enough. In fact, Carnegie Mellon University researchers found that self-affirmation stimulates a person’s problem solving ability and can even lead to increased grade point averages while in school., Share your affirmations with others by recognizing their talents. Tell someone, “I really agreed with your point” or “I think that you made a good choice back there.” If you notice a person’s signature jewelry piece or perfume, make a nice, sincere statement about it, such as, “That bracelet is really stunning. Where did you get it?”

, Hold your head up high, keep your spine straight, and walk with purpose. As you walk also try to establish eye contact with others and smile as you do so. People tend to notice someone who emits an aura of self-awareness. They can sense that this person has self-worth, which is to be respected.


Take up space. In a physical manifestation of conflict avoidance, it is easy to give in to the urge to compress your body as much as possible in the presence of others. Resist this urge. Instead, own your territory at the conference table, for example. One way to do this is to spread out your papers for reference and make gestures that occupy the space., It is really easy to fiddle with your phone to defray the awkwardness connected with social invisibility. Instead, force yourself to keep your phone put away. Make yourself interact with a set number of people (or give yourself a time limit) before you can pull it back out.
 Not everyone is equipped with the natural gifts of Robin Williams or other superb comic icons. However, this doesn’t mean that you can’t be funny. Try to figure out your own unique brand of humor. Do you like knock-knock jokes? Or, perhaps you favor biting social satire? Or, droll or dark commentaries? Take some time to explore different types of “funny” so that you can bring your own approach to social gatherings.


Humorous anecdotes are great ice-breakers. Read one of the many online “fake news” sites and gather stories to discuss with others. This is a comfortable way to bring up touchy political issues while stimulating conversation. Other people will undoubtedly ask questions and you get to be the authority of the moment.