 Get your dog into a standing position and position yourself in its line of sight. Focus the dog's attention on a treat in your hand. Raise that hand in front of the dog’s nose to let it get the scent, then to above its head level. When you hold the treat above the dog’s head, most dogs will naturally sit to get a better view of it.


Give the dog an immediate treat and praise. Follow the routine of treat and praise and say “good sit” when the dog is performing the behavior. Your pup may be slow at first, but more treats and praise will speed up its response.
Make sure that you do not praise the dog until its actually sitting. If you praise halfway through the sit, the dog will think that is what you want. Also, make sure that you do not praise it for getting back up, or you will get that behavior instead of the sit.
If your dog does not sit with the treat technique, you can use your leash and collar. Stand next to the dog, facing the same direction as it. Place a little backward pressure on the collar to encourage a sit. You may even need to encourage the sit by adding a little gentle scoop behind the dog’s hind legs. Gently lean the dog backward with the help of the collar while doing this. As soon as it sits, give the dog immediate praise and reward.
Praise natural sitting behavior. Look for times throughout the day when your dog just sits on his own. Praise that behavior, and pretty soon you'll have a dog that sits for attention instead of jumping or barking at you.
 The “come” is used whenever you want your dog to come to you. This command is potentially life-saving, as it can prevent your dog from running off if he gets loose. Begin by getting your dog’s attention. You want to make it run toward you. Use praise and your “happy voice” to encourage the dog to move toward you. Once the dog comes, give immediate praise.Pair the behavior with the verbal command. As your dog begins to realize it will be rewarded for coming to you, start giving the verbal command “come.” When it responds to the command, reinforce it in praise by pairing it with “good”: “good come!”
Move the training to more public spaces. Because the “come” command could save your dog's life, it must learn to respond to it even when it's distracted. Move the training sessions from your home or yard to a public park. There are more sights, sounds, and smells demanding his attention there.
Give enormous rewards. Because this command is so important, the praise you give for performing it should be extravagant. Responding to the "come" command should be the best part of your dog's day.
 Take your dog on regular walks with a leash. This is important not just for training, but for its physical and mental health. Depending on what breed of dog you have, the dog may need a lot of exercise to keep it happy and in shape.


Discourage pulling. Most dogs will pull on the leash when they're learning to take walks. When it starts pulling, stop immediately. Don't take another step until the dog comes to your side and focuses its attention on you.
Change directions. An even more effective method is to walk in the opposite direction and encourage your dog to come with you. Once it has caught up, praise and treat it.
Make it fun to be by your side. Your dog's natural impulse is to chart its own course and investigate its environment. You need to make walking by your side more appealing that that. Use an enthusiastic voice when changing directions, and lavish the dog with praise when it comes back to your side.
Pair the behavior with a verbal command. Once the dog walks consistently at your side, you can give the behavior a name, like “heel" or “let’s go.”

