 Tap the App Store on your iPhone to launch it.;
, Type in “Star Alliance” on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. To do this, tap the “Install” button beside the app.


The Star Alliance Navigator app is free.
 Locate the app on your iPhone. Its icon has a black background with the Star Alliance text and logo on it. Tap on it to launch it.


Once launched, you will be brought to the home screen with the different menus listed on the middle and on the bottom panel.
 On the home screen, there are two menus. One is on the middle and the other on the bottom panel. Tap on “Flight Search” from either menu.


On the bottom menu, the “Flight Search” is the airplane icon.
After tapping the button, you will be brought to the Flight Search screen.



The main difference between “One Way” and “Round-Trip” is the return date.
 In the search form, locate the From field and type in your source location. This is the place where you are departing from. This can either be the airport name or its 3-letter code.
 In the search form, locate the To field and type in your destination. This is the place where you are going to. This can either be the airport name or its 3-letter code.
 In the search form, locate the Departure field and set your preferred departure date. A date field and a calendar menu will appear. Scroll up or down on the month, day, and year to set the date.


Tap “Done” to return to the search form.
 In the search form, locate the Return field and set your preferred return date. A date field and a calendar menu will appear. Scroll up or down on the month, day, and year to set the date.


Tap “Done” to return to the search form.
This is only applicable if you chose “Round-Trip” from step 2; otherwise, skip this step.
 Start your search by tapping on the blue “Search” button. This is the only button found on the search form at the bottom part.
 The resulting flights that match your search parameters will be shown. You will have to go through three tabs to complete the selection:


First is the Outbound for the outbound flight.
Second is the Return for the return flight.
Last is the Itinerary for the complete trip detail.
Scroll up and down to select an outbound flight you like. The carriers’ logos will be displayed on the left part of the results for easy identification.
The departure times, arrival times, total flight duration, connecting airports, and flight numbers will be displayed per flight result.
 When you’ve selected a flight, tap on it. More flight details will be displayed. Details per flight leg will be displayed by groups.


Aside from the data shown from step 6, you will also be able to see the total flight distance and aircraft models and types.
Tap on “Select Flight” to take this flight.
 Scroll up and down to select a return flight you like. The carriers’ logos will be displayed on the left part of the results for easy identification.


The departure times, arrival times, total flight duration, connecting airports, and flight numbers would be displayed per flight result.
 When you’ve selected a flight, tap on it. More flight details will be displayed. Details per flight leg will be displayed by groups.


Aside from the data shown from step 8, you will also be able to see the total flight distance and aircraft models and types.
Tap on “Select Flight” to take this flight.
 You will be brought to the Itinerary tab, which displays both the selected outbound and return flights. Tap on the flights to review the flight details.


If you’re satisfied with your itinerary, you can add this to your phone’s calendar by tapping on the “Add to Calendar” button.
 On the home screen, there are two menus. One is on the middle and the other is on the bottom panel. Tap on “Flight Status” from either menu.


On the bottom menu, it has a globe icon on it.
You will be brought to the Flight Status screen. You can check status by Flight, Route, or Airport.
 If you know the airline, the flight number, and the departure date of the flight you want to check, tap “Flight” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Start by selecting the airline from the drop-down list. Input the flight number on the next field.
Set the departure date. The departure date only allows for five dates, namely the previous 2 days, today, and the next 2 days.
Tap “Status” when you’re done.
 If you know the source and destination airports and the departure date of the flight you want to check, tap “Route” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Set the source and destination in the From and To fields, respectively.
Set the departure date. The departure date only allows for five dates, namely the previous 2 days, today, and the next 2 days.
Tap “Status” when you’re done.
 If you know the source airport, the departure date, and the time period of the flight you want to check, tap “Airport” on the header menu. You can use the data you have to check the flight’s status.


Enter the source airport in the first field for location.
Set the departure date. The departure date only allows for five dates, namely the previous 2 days, today, and the next 2 days.
Set the time period by selecting from the drop-down list.
Tap “Status” when you’re done.
 Whatever option for searching the flight status you used, the results will be displayed the same way. The results will be displayed with the destination airport, the departure and arrival times, the carrier logo, and the flight numbers.


Tap on a flight to view its latest flight status.
 On the home screen, there are two menus. One is on the middle and the other on the bottom panel. Tap on “Airport Info” from either menu.


On the bottom menu, it has a boxed airplane icon on it.
You will be brought to the Airport Info screen.
 Tap on the first field to enter the airport code or city name. You can also scroll through the list of available airports.


Tap “Select Airport” to bring up the result.
 On the airport result screen, you will see three tabs for Airport, Lounges, and City Guide. Under the Airport tab, you can visit the airport’s website by tapping on the “Visit Website” button.


Doing so will launch your iPhone’s default browser to open the said website.
 On the same Airport tab, you can download and view the airport’s map conveniently from your iPhone. Tap on the “Download Map” button to download and view the airport’s map.


This is conveniently, especially if you plan to roam around an airport in between flights.
 Tap on the second tab for Lounges. The result will display a list of all member airlines’ lounges on the selected airport with the airline’s logo on the left side and the name of the lounge on the right.


Tap on a lounge to view its location and the facilities available in it.
 Tap on the third tab for the City Guide. This is useful if you want to explore the city directly from your iPhone.


You can read something about the city by tapping on “City Overview.”
You can read about lodging options by tapping on “Where to Stay.”
You can read on dining locally by tapping on “Dining and Drinking.”
You can read on entertainment options by tapping on “Entertainment.”
You can get some basic city facts by tapping on “Basic Facts.”

