 Being a “good Christian” is not so much about performing any specific actions as it is simply believing in God as a higher power and growing in love for Our Lord Jesus Christ, allowing Him to transform your life.The following steps are all good activities for Christians, but the one thing that makes a true Christian is simply loving and trusting in God.


Talk to a pastor, your parents, or other Christians if you have any questions about your belief in God.
 Find a church you really like—maybe it’s one that your parents, relatives, teachers, or friends go to—and attend services regularly. Church is a place where you can worship God, but also, connect with other Christians to help grow your faith and better understand Jesus’ message through sermons and Bible readings.


Find out when your church holds other events and activities in addition to weekly services, such as Sunday School, charity events, or other ways to get involved with fellow Christians and the community.
 Talk to God daily to thank Him for his guidance, ask questions, confess sins, and pray for others to follow Jesus Christ in order to lead better and more fulfilling lives.Start by picking a time and location to pray every day. Whether you kneel, stand, or walk, there is not one way to pray, so find what is best for you., Start reading on your own or join a Bible study group. Take notes on what you find interesting, and write down questions about what confuses you. Talk to someone at your church or another Christian you trust to deepen your understanding of the scripture.Try reading just one passage every day and seek to understand it fully by asking all the questions you need to.
 Remember that even if you adopt another lifestyle like emo, as a Christian you worship God first and foremost. Being emo isn't the greatest commandment; loving the Lord is.


The Bible says, “Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established.” (Proverbs 16:3), If other people at your church or in your Christian community approach you with negative judgment or untrue stereotypes about the emo way you act or dress, kindly talk to them about how being emo is just a way of expressing your personality and doesn’t interfere with worshipping God.


The Bible says, “But the Lord said to Samuel, ‘Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart.’” (I Samuel 16:7)Use this and other Bible verses to help you explain self-expression and why your identity as emo doesn’t interfere with your identity as a Christian.
You can even introduce others in your church to Christian emo bands to help them see the crossover between these two identities and share what you like.

