 If you cannot resolve the problem with your veterinarian and you feel that the issue is of a serious nature (such as medical malpractice), you can look into setting up a peer-review board to investigate the veterinarian. Not every U.S. state has a peer-review procedure in place, so you’ll need to speak with the state veterinary medical board and see if this is an option.Each U.S. state has its own veterinary medical board. They are all listed online—including a contact person’s name, address, office phone number, and office email—at the American Association of Veterinary State Boards website.If you live outside of the United States, or in a U.S. state that does not have an established peer-review procedure, you can seek out and contact the veterinary board where you live.
 This is a formal procedure, and you’ll need to follow your specific state veterinary licensing board’s protocol. Look online for the website for your state’s Board of Veterinary Medicine, and search for their specific complaint procedure. You’ll need to fill out relevant paperwork, and also write a complaint detailing names, dates, and factual negligence or malpractice performed by your veterinarian. Include copies of relevant supplemental information including invoices, forms, medical records, and witness statements.Your state’s Board of Veterinary Medicine will only be able to address matters related to veterinary licensure and malpractice. If you have an interpersonal conflict or fee dispute with your vet, the Board will not intervene. If the Board supports your claim, they have the power to revoke the vet’s license.Send the paperwork and the written report via email, fax, or US Post Office to the Board’s office. You should follow this up with a phone call the next day (or a week later if sent by the Post Office) to make sure that your complaint was received.
In California, for example, you would submit a complaint (including the legal form and written complaint) through the state’s online complaint system. Then, the Veterinary Medical Board would review the complaint and, depending on the severity of the allegations, ask for further narrative statements and medical records. The Board will appoint an analyst to review the complaint file, determine if the vet is at fault, and may close the case or issue a fine and citation (among other options).
 This is a separate procedure from the complaint to the Board. A small-claims suit is relatively easy to file: you’ll need to visit your local courthouse and fill out a few sheets of paperwork. Since you’ll need to present your own claim in a small-claims court, you’ll also need to have detailed medical records from the veterinarian, copies of veterinary bills, and witness testimonies, if applicable.If the court supports your claim, the court will make the veterinary office reimburse you for your “out-of-pocket” veterinary expenses. If your animal has died as a result of the vet’s malpractice, the office will also reimburse you for the animal.
 If you live outside of the U.S., the process for filing complaints and contacting veterinary licensing boards will work differently than it does for Americans. You’ll need to contact a government agency which deals with veterinary medicine and malpractice—look at the state or province level first, and if that fails, look at the national level. You may also decide to contact an attorney to help you pursue a legal recourse.


For example, in England, if you feel that your veterinarian has engaged in professional misconduct or otherwise been negligent towards your pet, you can contact the Royal College of Veterinary Services (RCVS).