 Sometimes the best way to manage stress is to take some time away from what’s stressing you. Taking a time-out gives you the chance to calm yourself, build up your energy, and approach your work with a renewed perspective.This may mean taking a five-minute walk during the day to clear your mind and boost your mood.
It may mean taking advantage of your vacation days or taking a mental health day.
 When you have an emotionally stressful job, this is one way that you can avoid emotional burnout. It’s a great way to clear your mind, release tension, and reduce stress.It’s also something you can do for a few minutes on your break at work or for a longer time at home.


Make yourself as comfortable as possible. If you can, lie or sit somewhere quiet where you won’t be disturbed or interrupted.
Take a few deep breaths and try to clear your mind. Focus on your breathing and relaxing your body.
Pay attention to emotions that you’re feeling. For example, you might think to yourself, “I feel anxious right now and my body is tense.”
If you start thinking about work, gently turn your mind back to your breathing, body, and emotions.
 This is one stress-reduction technique that you can use in the moment and as a long-term stress-management strategy. It’s an effective way to avoid emotional burnout because it can lower your heart rate, release tension in your body, and help you think more clearly.


Inhale through your nose slowly and deeply. Hold the breath in your stomach for a few moments and then let it out slowly through your mouth.
Try different types of deep-breathing techniques. For example, you may want to visualize calming colors or a peaceful scene while you’re breathing.
 If you don’t already journal or don’t include work-related issues when you do, you may want to consider doing so. Journaling is a good way to manage your stress and your emotions related to your job. It gives you a safe space to release and explore your feelings. It’s also a good way to document any situations at work that are causing you concern.


Write about the things that happen at work, how they affect you, and how you feel about it.
Make a list of strategies that have been useful in helping you manage your work-related stress. Add to it and refer to it often.
 Physical activity can help you avoid emotional burnout for a number of reasons. It supports your immune system and overall physical health which will make it easier for you cope with work-related stress. It’s also a good way to release excess energy and tension.You don’t have to try to fit a two-hour workout in every day, but it may benefit you to be active for at least a few minutes each day.


You can try activities like yoga, tai chi, swimming, or hiking if you’d like some time to think through your emotions.
Activities like team sports, martial arts, or weight-lifting are a great way to release tension and energize yourself.
Even standing beside your desk and doing a few stretches can help you manage stress.

