 All of the major networks make many of their shows available to watch online for free via their own websites. You may have to wait a day or two for a prime-time show to become available on the site, and you'll have to sit through a few commercials, but the pros far outweigh the cons. You can watch when you want to, or when it fits your schedule, and there are actually fewer commercials online than on TV.


Don't wait too long to watch the latest episodes because shows are usually only available for a limited amount of time after they've aired.
 While the number of movies you can watch on these type of sites is very limited, this is a great way to be able to watch current TV shows for free. Not all shows, or current episodes, will be available to stream for free, so if you're desperate to watch something specific this may not be the best way to go about it. But remember, it's free!


For example, Hulu pulls in shows and movies from several online sources, mostly the major networks and a few cable networks, too. Hulu only makes five episodes of any TV show available at any given time, so if you miss one, you're out of luck. The site is free to use, but they also recently launched their Hulu Plus service where you can watch any episode of any TV show season they have available without worrying about expiration, and get access to other premium content as well. Either way, you still have to sit through some commercials.
 Many of the cable TV stations now offer online streaming as part of your cable TV package. This includes basic cable channels, such as FX or USA, as well as premium channels like HBO or Showtime. To access the content, you will need to know your account login and password, available from your cable company. While its true that the cost for access is included in your cable bill, the downside is that many of these channels make you watch ads as well, basically costing you both time and money. In general, these sites are currently only available to paid cable subscribers, however there is some talk that individual subscriptions to the websites may be available in the future.

