 If your parents are happy with you they’re more likely to say yes. In the weeks leading up to your request, do your homework regularly and study for tests so that you do well in school. Additionally, stay on top of your chores. You want to be in your parents’ good graces when you ask them for a nose piercing.


Go the extra mile by volunteering for chores around the house. Your parents will appreciate your extra effort.
If your parents are stressed out about something wait for a better time to ask for a piercing.
 Address a concern on each slide. For example, slide one could address concerns about the healing process and then explain the process in detail. Another slide might talk about the cost of a piercing and ways you could earn the money yourself. Make sure you include an introduction and conclusion slide as well.Keep all of the slides brief but be informative.


Anticipate questions and concerns. This will help you plan out your slideshow.
If you’re having trouble thinking of potential concerns, ask a friend’s parent for input.
 Exercise your sense of showmanship by setting up a viewing area with seats and snacks. Introduce your slideshow by stating your purpose and asking them to hold all questions until the end. While presenting, speak slowly and maintain eye contact with your audience.If your parents get angry or interrupt, let them voice their concerns and then ask them if you may continue. It is more mature to stay calm than to lose your temper.
If your parents say they need time to think about it, let them have time. If you nag them they may say “no” out of anger.
 Create an outline by organizing your arguments into three parts: the introduction, three or four body paragraphs, and the conclusion. The introduction will acknowledge your audience and present your idea in a positive light. The body paragraphs will present the arguments you found during brainstorming and all of their corresponding solutions. The conclusion will explain the benefits to your audience.For example, in your introduction you could acknowledge your parents by mentioning the stress of raising a child and helping them make responsible decisions.
In the conclusion the benefits to your audience could include chores you’ll perform in exchange for a piercing.
 Use your outline as a guide to write your letter. Keep the tone of your letter positive and reassuring. Instead of writing “I’ll get mad if you don’t let me get a piercing,” write about the many reasons that a piercing would benefit your life. For example, you could explain that a nose piercing could improve your social life or help you explore your own unique sense of style.


Proofread your letter and leave out emoji’s and abbreviations. Nothing looks less mature than a simple spelling mistake!

