 If you're taking a medication for another health condition, such as diabetes or high blood pressure, insomnia may be one of the side effects. Do this not just for any prescriptions you are taking but any over-the-counter medications as well.If you're having trouble sleeping and think your medication may be to blame, tell your doctor about it. They may be able to alter your dose or put you on a different medication that will still treat your medical condition without disturbing your sleep.;
, Some medical conditions, such as gastro-intestinal disorders or anxiety, can also cause insomnia or disordered sleeping patterns. Once the condition is treated, your sleep problems should go away.Be sure to tell your doctor about your sleep problems, and let them know that you believe the medical condition is interfering with your sleep. This information may play a role in how your doctor chooses to treat your condition.
Honesty is the best policy with doctors. Let them know about any other symptoms you might be experiencing as well.
 If your sleep is disrupted because of snoring or other problems, you may have a sleep disorder, such as sleep apnea or restless legs syndrome. These disorders are more common in older adults, and if not diagnosed, they may potentially become dangerous.To diagnose a specific sleep disorder, you'll have to undergo at least one sleep study. Your general practitioner should be able to refer you to a sleep clinic for a sleep study and further testing.
Based on the results of the sleep study and other information about your general medical condition, you may be prescribed behavioral therapy, medications, a CPAP machine, or other treatments to help you sleep better.
 As you age, you may confront a number of challenges that can cause stress or lead to mental disorders, such as depression. If you have recently had to deal with something traumatic, such as the death of a loved one, or a life-changing event, such as moving to a new home, this may disrupt your sleep.Getting therapy or simply talking to a professional can help ease anxiety and other symptoms that may be causing you to lose sleep or have difficulty falling asleep.
The mental health professional may prescribe you medication for your mental condition, which could alleviate your sleep problems. They may also teach you coping mechanisms and relaxation techniques to improve your sleep.
Make sure you mention your sleep problems – the mental health professional won't want to prescribe you a medication with insomnia as a possible side effect.

