 Meditation is one of the best ways to develop your intuition. When you meditate, you learn how to silence your mind and access your feelings. By meditating on a regular basis, you may develop your intuition and find it easier to call on it when needed.To do a simple meditation, sit in a comfortable, quiet place and close your eyes. As you sit, try to clear your mind. If a thought pops into your head, then acknowledge the thought and then allow it to pass.;
, Writing down your thoughts and feelings each day may also help you to develop your intuition.Try to take about 15 minutes or more every day to record how you are feeling.


Don’t restrict yourself when it comes to journaling. Just write whatever comes to mind. For example, you might write about feeling stressed, describe a positive experience, recall a memory, or even write a poem to express your emotions.
 You might also consider keeping a dream journal to access your intuition.You can use your dream journal to compare your dreams to your waking life to see if you can learn anything from your dream experiences.


To keep a dream journal, place a journal and some paper next to your bed and write down the dreams that you remember as soon as you wake up.
For example, if you have a dream about running away from a friend or coworker, then that may indicate that you feel like getting away from the person. This could be your intuition telling you need to distance yourself from the person a bit more.
 Making time for yourself is also an important way to develop your intuition. When you are alone, make sure that you expose yourself to some things that will allow you to feel and explore your emotions.For example, you can listen to moving music, read poetry or literature, or look at art. Pay attention to the feelings that the music, art, or literature evokes from you and try to consider why you may be reacting in these ways.
 Discussing the idea of intuition with a friend may help you to understand how it works and what you can do to access it.Try asking your friend how he or she accesses intuition and share intuition experiences of your own as well.


You may also consider reading a book about intuition together to learn more about the subject.

