 There are no instructions as to what to do and what not to do, other than to rely on your experience and the things you've already learned raising your own children. The most important focus is to build a strong, caring and loving relationship with your grandchildren, so that they know you can be relied upon and that you're there for them in a non-judgmental and supportive capacity.
 A little spoiling is natural, but too much can cause grandchildren to view you as a pushover or as a source of funds or goodies without end. Give them the odd treat that you know the parents won't be offering but don't overdo it.


Ask permission from their parents before taking your grandchildren someplace or buying them large, expensive presents.
 Once you have more than one grandchild, it can be tempting to have a favorite or two. Do not think that this goes unnoticed though––children are very perceptive and will pick up on it quickly. Avoid doing this, and keep your preference for any one child under wraps. Treat all of the grandchildren the same, giving them equal love and affection. Over time, it may be that when the children are older some of them visit you more than others, but by then they'll have made their own choices and you can make it clearer that you are supportive of the children who continue to connect with you.


If playing favorites is part of a family feud, try to avoid this. The children aren't at fault for the sins of the parents or grandparents. All you're teaching them is to be disruptive and disrespectful, not how to be kith and kin.
 Not being the parent gives you so much more leeway to be the kind, gentle and thoughtful influence in your children's lives. Cherish the time you spend with your grandchildren, even the lows, as these moments will make precious memories for each of you to look back on.
 This includes doing your best to avoid being judgmental. While you're two generations before them, and things were done in certain ways in your day, realize that times always move on and how your grandchildren see the world is likely to be somewhat different from how you see it. This is how life has always been and ever will be––as the older and wiser one, aim to see things from their perspective as much as your own and understand that they only see what is around them as the standard, not what you once grew up in.


Avoid saying things such as "in my day we'd behave ourselves and not expect anything like what you get" and other such negative remarks. Instead, aim to explain to them how things were different when you grew up and how you feel that has an impact on today's world. Use it as a way to examine history and change, not as a way to pass judgment on the child's actions or thinking. Otherwise, your grandchildren will simply switch off and consider you stuck in the olden days and ways.
Avoid being mean or unsupportive. This will only cause the grandchildren to not tell you things in future and may even cause them to stay away, which they can do as they're not your children.
Be supportive of their choices. They don't need to feel stupid or bullied by their own family. If they make choices that you really cannot connect with, explore your own reasons for being uncomfortable or unwilling to understand, and try to reach a compromise or at least an understanding.
 Topics for stories might include how things were when you were little, how life use to be and what has changed. You can also share funny memories that you had with your family, and fairy tales and folk tales.


A good family storyteller is worth their weight in gold. Even with TV, iPads and the internet, there will never be a replacement for a live, loving and friendly storyteller. Your grandchildren will lap it up!

, Do this when they are at the park, home, or some other place. Take many photos to share around.


You can also make them photos for times to remember. Take photos of them dressing up and doing a parade for you, for instance; that's always fun.
 Go to a park, the zoo, a craft place, a toy shop, shopping, show, marketplace, etc. Getting your grandchildren outdoors and taking them to places builds fitness, memories and camaraderie. Be the adventurous grandparent and thrill them every time they visit.


Realize that when taking small children to museums and educational places because, they may not understand much about these places. However, they will gain a subconscious appreciation for them, so don't feel that such educational visits are wasted. It's all going toward forming their deeper understanding of the world.
 Try giving them fun and educational things. You can give them gifts from your holidays, seasonal gifts, birthday gifts, and "just because" gifts.


Remember not to overload on the gifts, however; a good bond is all about quality time.

