 There's no point going to Ikea with a rough idea and getting everything that looks good. Do you have enough money to run the place? Do you already have the place where the salon would be? Are you qualified? Do you know anyone who is qualified? Once you start to employ other colleagues, you're going to need to start paying them. Find out a good starting wage. Make sure you have enough money for everyone else as well.;
, Is you salon going to be red? White? Blue? White and blue? Rainbow? What parts of your salon are going to be different colours? Are you going to go for a posh look for your salon, or maybe diamonds and pink? Whatever you choose, choose wisely. Make sure you write this all down. Once you have the budget and colour scheme, proceed to step 3.
 Look at the 'Things You Will Need' section below, don't figure out where your furniture is going to go yet, just figure out what you need and make sure everything will fit in your salon. Everything we have included is a definite must, so make sure to include it in your salon. Once you've written down what you need, go to a store like Ikea and see if you can buy your furniture there. If you can't, keep looking but if you can, take pictures and notes of every item you need.
 Everything must have it's place. If it looks too cramped, you're going to need to make the salon bigger. If it looks too spaced out, add more furniture. When you've made your plan, make sure you're happy. If you're working with other people and don't like their idea's, speak up. It might just save your business.
 Make a website, if you know how to and make sure it looks professional and neat. Make sure your name isn't tacky, doesn't offend someone and make sure that it isn't taken already! Search online, look carefully.
 Make sure everything is in place. Make sure you've installed sinks, shelves for your shampoo and conditioner, bottles of hairspray, nail polish and nail products. Take a picture of your new salon! Enjoy it, spend time there, employ the right people, hold meetings, hold interviews.

