 Diarrhea is a result of too much water in the colon. This happens when undigested, liquid food passes through the small intestine and colon too quickly, preventing the excess water from being absorbed into the bloodstream. Soluble fiber absorbs excess fluid in the bowel like a sponge, firming up loose stool. Try to include at least one portion of a fiber-rich food with every major meal.
Foods rich in soluble fiber include: apples, beans, berries, figs, kiwi, legumes, mangoes, oats, peaches, peas, plums and sweet potatoes.
Be aware that the use of fiber to treat IBS is somewhat controversial and may require some trial and error experimentation to see if it helps alleviate your diarrhea.;
, Caffeine stimulates the gastrointestinal system, leading to strong contractions and more bowel movements. Additionally, caffeine has a diuretic effect, which may worsen dehydration caused by diarrhea.Switch to decaf versions of your favorite caffeinated drinks, like coffees, teas and sodas.
Drink lots of water to compensate for the fluid loss caused by diarrhea — aim for 8 to 10 glasses per day. One of the dangers of diarrhea is it can cause dehydration.
 Alcohol consumption can affect the ability of the body to absorb water. As the intestinal cells absorb alcohol, they lose their ability to absorb water because of the toxicity. This is because alcohol depresses the digestive tract’s movement.When the intestines do not absorb enough water to mix with the food, excess water will be left in the colon, leading to diarrhea. Remove alcohol from your diet completely to see if your IBS improves.
If you you must drink, opt for a small glass of red wine instead of hard liquor or beer.
 Your doctor may recommend you do a two week trail of a gluten-free diet. The insoluble fiber found in gluten — which is in rye, wheat, and barley — may worsen IBS symptoms.By cutting out gluten, you may find that your IBS improves significantly., Some people have difficulty absorbing fat, and unabsorbed fat can cause the small intestines and the colon to secrete more water, resulting in watery stool.Normally, the colon absorbs water from undigested, liquid foods in order to firm up the stool. But if the small intestines and colon secrete more water, the colon cannot absorb all of the water from the undigested liquid foods, resulting in diarrhea.
Avoid fatty foods like fried foods, butter, cakes, junk food, cheese and other greasy foods.
 Sugar substitutes such as sorbitol can lead to diarrhea due to their laxative effects.Sorbitol exerts its laxative effect by drawing water into the large intestine, thereby stimulating bowel movements.
Artificial sweeteners are widely used in processed foods such as soft drinks, baked goods, powdered drink mixes, canned goods, candy, puddings, jams, jellies and dairy products. Always check the label before consuming.

