 For the hae bee biam, you’ll need 3 cups (250 g) of dried shrimp. Ready the shrimp by running them under cold water at the sink. Rub them between your hands to ensure that they’re well rinsed.You can find dried shrimp at Asian markets and online retailers.;
, After you’ve rinsed the shrimp, dump it into a colander. Shake it well to drain all the excess water from the shrimp.It’s a good idea to let the shrimp sit in the colander for a moment to allow some of the excess water to drip out. You can then shake the colander to get rid of the remaining moisture.
 Once the shrimp are drained, add them to a food processor. Pulse the shrimp until they reach as fine or as coarse a texture as you prefer, and set them aside for the moment.If you have a small food processor, you may want to grind the shrimp in two batches.
The shrimp in hae bee hiam traditionally has a fairly coarse texture, but you can customize the texture to suit your preferences.
 For the spice paste, you’ll need 8 fresh red chillies. Use a pair of kitchen shears to cut the chillies in half lengthwise. Next, use a spoon or knife to scrape out the seeds inside and discard. Set the chillies aside for the moment.Avoid touching the interior or seeds of the chillies with your hands. If you touch your fingers to your eyes afterward, it can cause severe burning.
 Carefully remove the papery outer skin from 5 large shallots. Next, use a sharp knife to roughly chop the shallots into chunks.Because the shallots will be processed with the rest of the spice paste ingredients, there’s no need to finely chop or dice them.
 The spice paste requires 6 lemongrass stalks. Use a knife to cut away the root ends, and then peel away the first layer of the stalks with your fingers. Next, cut the stalks crosswise into thin rounds.You can usually find lemongrass at Asian markets and natural grocery stores.
 Add the chillies, shallots, lemongrass rounds, 4 cloves of garlic, 3 candlenuts, and ¾ ounce (20 g) of belacan to a food processor. Pulse the mixture until it forms a fine paste, and then transfer it to a separate bowl.Candlenuts are similar in appearance and texture to macadamia nuts. You can often find them at Asian markets, spice markets, and online retailers.
Belacan is a shrimp paste that comes in block form and is often used in Southeast Asian cooking. You can usually find it Asian markets and online retailers.
 Add ½ cup (125 ml) of cooking oil to a large wok. Place the wok on the stove, and allow the oil to heat on medium until smoke begins to rise from it, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Peanut, canola, corn, soybean, coconut, or olive oil work well for stir frying the dish.
 Once the oil begins to smoke, add the spice paste to the wok. Reduce the heat to medium low and stir the paste well. Allow it to cook for 30 minutes, or until the oil separates from the paste. Be sure to stir it constantly.It’s important to keep the paste moving as you stir fry it or it won’t cook evenly.
 For the hae bee hiam, you’ll need 12 to 14 kaffir lime leaves. Use clean hands to carefully tear the leaves from the edge to the stem.Adding the lime leaves is optional.
 After you’ve torn the kaffir lime leaves, add them and the ground shrimp to the wok with the spice paste. Mix well so all of the ingredients are fully combined., Once all of the ingredients are well mixed, allow the mixture to cook on medium low for another half hour. Just as before, make sure to keep the ingredients moving the entire time., When the mixture is finished cooking, fish the kaffir lime leaves out of the wok with a fork and discard. Next, add 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar and stir it in so it’s fully incorporated.If you prefer, you can finely chop the kaffir lime leaves before adding them to the mixture and leave them in the hae bee hiam.
 Once the sugar is fully mixed into the hae bee hiam, let it cook for another 10 minutes. Stir the mixture the entire time so it cooks evenly.The mixture should have a dry, crumbly texture when it’s finished stir frying.
 When the hae bee hiam is finished cooking, transfer it from the wok to a large bowl. Let the mixture sit for 15 to 20 minutes so it cools completely., After the hae bee hiam has cooled, use a spoon to add it to an airtight jar. Store the hae bee hiam in the refrigerator, and use it with 2 weeks.You can serve hae bee hiam with steamed rice or plain porridge. You can also spread it on toast or a sandwich for extra flavor.

