 You will need two different sized bags: a small, pint-sized bag and a large, gallon-sized bag. The small bag will be used to hold the ice cream mixture, while the large bag will be used to hold the ice and salt. You need to be able to seal and reseal the bags.


If worried about making a mess, you can put the small bag inside of small bag. You can also put the large bag inside of another, similar-sized bag. This adds extra protection and helps prevent any liquid from seeping out and getting over your hands.
 Pour ½ cup of half-and-half or heavy cream into a small resealable bag. Add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of sugar and ¼ teaspoon of vanilla extract.


If you want your ice cream to be less sweet, use less sugar and vanilla flavor.
You can keep your bag stable by placing it into a small bowl, and then adding in the ingredients., Once all of your ingredients are inside the small bag, reseal it. Make sure that there is as little air as possible left in the bag once you seal it.You can do this by sealing the bag close part way, squeezing out the excess air through the small space left, and then sealing the bag the rest of the way.


If you are concerned about making a mess, you can put the bag inside of another, similar-sized bag once you have sealed it. Seal this second bag as well.
 Add 3 cups of ice and 1/3 cup of salt into your gallon-sized bag, and mix it up. The bag should be part-way filled with ice. If the bag is all the way full, then use less ice; you want there to be enough room for the smaller bag to fit inside.


Any type of salt will work, but larger salt crystals will work better., Move aside some of the ice cubes in the big bag, and wedge the small bag in between them. You want the small bag to be surrounded by ice. Once the small bag is sitting snugly inside, seal the big bag.


If you are concerned about liquid leaking out and making a mess, you can put the ice-and-salt bag inside another bag.
If the bag is too cold for you to hold, you can wrap it in a towel or wear gloves., Once the small bag is inside the larger bag, and both bags are tightly sealed, shake and knead the bag. Do this for about 10 to 15 minutes., Once the ice cream mixture feels solid, you can remove the smaller bag and discard the ice-and-salt bag. Your ice cream is almost finished.
 If your Oreo cookies are not crushed or crumbled, you will need to do so now. The crushed pieces can be as large or as small as you want them to be. They can even be a combination of large and small pieces.Overall, the pieces should be no larger than your thumbnail. You can crush or crumble your cookies in various ways:


Add some Oreo cookies into blender or food processor and blend them until you get the texture you want.
Use a knife to chop up some Oreo cookies into smaller pieces.
Place the cookies into a large, resealable bag, and smash them with a mallet or rolling pin.
Use your fingers to crumble the cookies. You will end up with mostly large chunks.
 Using a spoon or spatula, fold your crumbled cookies into the ice cream. You can use as many or as few cookies as you want.

