 Incredibly hot or cold water can actually damage your skin, sending your skin cells into shock. Use room temperature water instead and just make sure that you are rinsing your face completely. If you think you might have residual soap on your face, then rinse one more time than normal.


Soap residue can clog pores just like grease and make up can, but instead of breakouts, your skin breaks down after prolonged exposure to the base soap.;
, If your face wash irritates your skin, it probably is removing too many oils. A moisturizer will add good oils back into your skin and help seal water in your skin. Dehydrated skin leads to irritation, dryness, flaking, and general discomfort. The key to a good skin care program is a good moisturizer.


Moisturizers that contain humectants (substances that reduce water loss) are very effective. Look for moisturizers with urea, alpha hydroxy acids called lactic acid or glycolic acid, glycerin, or hyaluronic acid in the ingredient list. If you find them there, then you’ve found a great moisturizer., Too often dry skin itches and we scratch and scratch and scratch. Doing so only further damages your skin and can possibly lead to secondary bacterial infections of the skin. If you develop such an infection, you may need antibiotics or at the very least you will prolong any skin issues. Fight the urge to scratch. Use other means of combating that itch., Aloe vera is a miracle plant. It alleviates discomfort associated with most skin conditions — e.g. sunburns and dry and irritated skin. You can grow your own aloe vera. If you use it in its natural form, cut one of the leaves off the plant and squeeze the gel out. Rub the gel on your irritated skin. If this doesn’t sound pleasant, you can purchase aloe vera in dozens of different brands and scents at the pharmacy or grocery store., One of the most common treatments for dry skin (caused by a face wash or not) is petroleum jelly. This jelly is gentle on the skin. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends petroleum jelly over other consumer products for mild dry skin and general irritation. It is inexpensive and can be purchased at most grocery stores and pharmacies.
 ACV is an effective antiseptic, anti-bacterial, and anti-fungal agent that fights itching.Just put a few drops on a cotton swab or ball and then spot the intended area. You can use raw, organic, and unfiltered apple cider vinegar or processed ACV.
 If your skin gets too painful, remains dry and irritated for a long period of time, or results in bleeding, see your dermatologist. They may prescribe a new hygienic program or a prescription medication for your skin type. They will also be able to identify if you have a more chronic skin issue — unrelated to your face wash — like eczema or rosacea.

