 This is extremely important for safety and convenience reasons, so don't forget to do it. Put the selector switch in the "OFF" position, and once everything's powered down, go ahead and expose the hinge pins on the refrigerator's ice door by sliding the covering bracket aside. Take out the pins–– there ought to be one or two on either side of the bracket––and put them somewhere out of the way, but don't lose them.
 That screw you just removed also secured the harness in the back of the unit, so remove that too. The only thing that should be left by now is a set of locking tabs. These tabs sit on each side of the ice-maker and hold it in place. Use your flat-bladed screwdriver to press them out of locking position, then slide the ice-maker toward you.
 You should be able to see a wire harness coming out of the back of the ice-maker. If not, just slide it forward some more. Making sure to keep the infrared door shut, pull the tab on the side of the harness and disconnect it. Pull the ice-maker out, and put it on a clean, level surface. It's time to swap out the base of your old ice-maker so that you can put it on the new one., This will make it easier to remove the bottom assembly. Remove the three hex screws with your hex screwdriver, push in the two tabs attaching the wire harness connector to the end of the base assembly until the harness falls out, and discard the rest of your old ice-maker. You won't need it any more. As always, make sure to keep any screws you've removed some place close at hand.
 Line up the holes for the screws and screw everything down nice and tightly. Put the harness connector through the hole the old one fell out of, and once the tab on the end of it is clearly visible, lock everything in place. Now it is time to put your new ice-maker into the fridge!, Make sure that it locks in. Next, line the ice-maker up so that it slides on the grooves on each side of the open cavity in front of you. Slide the ice-maker backward until you hear a snap––that's the sound of the locking tabs engaging. Now it's time to reinstall the wire harness cover. Just run it up the back and over the top of the harness itself, and then screw in the 1/4" hex screw that holds it in place. To re-install the door of the ice-maker, engage one hinge pin, and once it's back in the bracket where it belongs, put in the other one (bend out the tab if you have to, but be careful; you don't want it to break!).
 Your icemaker is now brand-new and ready to use. Turn the power switch from "OFF" to "ON", and make yourself a well-earned drink! You've just replaced your ice-maker.