 Chest pain (angina) is the earliest sign that you might be developing coronary heart disease (CHD). Angina is better described as a strange or unexplained pain felt in the chest area. Some people describe it as discomfort, tightness, heaviness, pressure, burning, aching, numbness, squeezing, or fullness in the chest. The pain may travel through your neck, jaw, back, left shoulder, and left arm. Since these areas share the same nerve pathways, the pain from the chest will usually radiate to these areas. You might feel chest pain during activities, heavy meals, when you strain for any reason, and when you are in an extremely emotional state.If CAD is the cause of your chest pain, then the pain is a result of too little blood flowing to your heart. This typically occurs when demand for blood flow is highest, hence the association with angina and physical activity in early stages.Angina typically presents with other associated symptoms, including shortness of breath or difficulty catching your breath, dizziness or palpitations, fatigue, sweating (especially a cold sweat), upset stomach, and vomiting.;
, Atypical angina means symptoms such as abdominal discomfort, breathlessness, fatigue, dizziness, numbness, nausea, tooth pain, indigestion, weakness, anxiety, and sweating, which can present without the usual chest pain. Women and diabetics have a higher chance of presenting atypically.Atypical angina also has an increased “unstable” occurrence, which means it presents at rest rather than simply with exertion and carries an increased risk of heart attack., Shortness of breath generally happens in the late stages of this disease. Coronary heart disease reduces the heart's ability to pump blood through the body, leading to congestion of the blood vessels. When this occurs in the lungs, you feel short of breath.Talk to your doctor if you feel like you can’t catch your breath when you are doing simple exercises, such as walking, gardening, or doing household chores.
 An irregular heartbeat is also referred to as arrhythmia.This can be described as feeling like your heart skips a beat or speeds up every once in a while. You can also feel an irregularity in your pulse. If you feel this irregularity coupled with chest pain, go to the emergency room.In cases of CAD, heart arrhythmia occurs when decreased blood flow interferes with the electrical impulses to the heart.The most severe form of arrhythmia associated with CHD is sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) wherein the heartbeat isn’t just abnormal but stops entirely. This usually leads to death within minutes if the heart cannot be restarted, usually by means of a defibrillator., The worst complication stemming from CHD is a heart attack. People who are in the late stages of coronary heart disease are much more at risk of having a heart attack. The pain in your chest will become more severe, you will have a hard time breathing, you might feel nauseated and anxious, and you will break out in a cold sweat. You should call an ambulance immediately if you think you or a loved one is having a heart attack.A heart attack may sometimes be the first sign that you have CHD. Even if you have never had other symptoms of heart disease, seek medical attention for any type of severe chest pain or shortness of breath, as it could be a sign of serious health issues such as CHD.
Sometimes a heart attack can present with atypical symptoms such as anxiety, fear of something terrible about to happen, or a heaviness in the chest.Any unusual symptoms that come on suddenly need to be evaluated by a doctor as soon as possible.

