 If you're working a full-time position which requires you to work 40 hours a week, have a goal of working regular hours, from 9 to 5 or so. You can start a little earlier or end a little earlier if it suits your needs, but you should be available during business hours so you can communicate with your colleagues.


Keep a planner at your desk where you will mark the hours that you will work every day, along with any planned lunches, meetings, and even scheduled breaks.
Every morning, before you dig in to work, review your planner to get a better sense of what your week and month will look like. If you have a lot of meetings set up for the end of the week, you should try to work a bit more at the beginning of the week to balance them out.
 Having a to-do list will make you feel more organized and less tempted to slack off or multi-task. You should keep a to-do list that has three separate lists: things you need to get done that day, things that you need to get done the next day, and things that you need to get done that week. That way, if you get a jump start on the day's work, you can move on to completing the tasks for the next day or the ones that just need to get done that week.


You can designate certain tasks for certain days. For example, you can do all of your filing on Mondays, spend most of your Tuesdays communicating with your clients, start new projects on Wednesdays, and so on.
You can reward yourself every time you check off an item from your to-do list. If each task takes about an hour to complete, tell yourself you'll have a snack, quickly check your email, or go for a 10-minute walk when you complete it.
 Being able to successfully work from home means that you will be the master of your computer, phone, and fax system. These will be your lifelines and if you want to succeed in an at-home professional environment, you won't be able to ask anyone for help. Therefore, before you jump into working from home, you should know the ropes at your home work station.Have a firm understanding of any programs your office relies on, such as Google Docs or Excel. Poke around on those programs during your spare time and make sure you know exactly what to do during work hours so you don't get bogged down.
Learn to love your computer. You should know exactly how to make your computer work as efficiently as possible. If you're serious about working on your computer, you may invest in a second monitor, which has been shown to boost productivity.
Be the master of your phone. You should have a cordless landline phone to avoid any potential problems getting cell phone reception. Learn how to use your phone for conference calls, and how to use the all-important mute button.
Be one with your printer. Learn how to print, fax, and scan all documents quickly and keep reserves of paper on hand at all times.
 Your desk should be just as neat and organized as it would be if you were working from home. The only personal things on your desk should be the same photos or mementos that you would bring to the desk in your office. Your desk should be spacious enough for you to comfortably place your computer on it and leave room for papers and office supplies.


Keep a cup with pens and pencils on your desk. Every month, go through them and throw out any writing implements that no longer work.
Have an outstanding filing system. Whether you keep your files in your desk drawer or the filing cabinet next to your desk, you should organize all of your important papers in different and clearly-labeled folders and you should know exactly where your papers are.
You can keep a filing tray on your desk where you place important documents that need to be filed, but makes sure to file them at the end of the day or week so you don't get bogged down.
Keep office supplies handy. Staplers, highlighters, and post-it notes should all be on your desk or in your top drawer, so you don't spend an hour looking for them.
Don't forget to go ergonomic. If you spent all of your time at your desk, make sure you have a chair that supports your back, and a keyboard and mouse that don't hurt your wrists. If you're typing all day, consider investing in an ergonomic sideways mouse or a split keyboard.

