 Psychosis is a symptom of various serious mental illnesses, and is defined as a psychological break with reality. If the person seems to drift mentally, if their speech becomes slurred and incoherent, or if they respond to auditory or visual hallucinations, they might be experiencing a psychotic episode.If you know a person around you has a history of psychotic episodes, seek hints. Common behaviors in the days before a psychotic episode include: depression or irritability, alternating between inactivity and hyperactivity, and preoccupation with certain ideas, or social withdrawal.;
, Talk to the individual, and try to get them to respond and communicate as much as possible. Make sure to keep calm as you do so and avoid making them feel judged. Just be there for them and try to keep yourself and the environment as calm as possible. If the psychosis is not too severe, gently ask the individual what they’re seeing or experiencing. Keep them calm and make the conversation as normal as possible.If you respond to the psychotic episode with fear and anxiety, it could further trigger the psychotic individual and worsen their experience.
Ask if there’s something wrong, and if they respond, try to get them to describe what they’re experiencing.
Say something like, “I’m not sure what you’re experiencing, can you try to describe it to me?”

, If the individual answers coherently and affirmatively, get them to take the medication. Also contact the individual’s mental healthcare provider as soon as possible.Ask the individual going through this psychotic episode if they’ve had episodes like this before. Find out what helped previously, and repeat that treatment as much as possible.You may also want to ask if the person has taken any non-prescription drugs. For example, if the person has taken a hallucinogen such as LSD, then this would help to explain their behavior.
 If the individual is anxious indoors, it may be worth taking the person outside, or sitting somewhere relatively secluded (that isn’t public, but where you can still get help if needed). Keep children away from the person during the episode, and take especial care to keep away other vulnerable people (old, disabled, etc.) if you believe the person may become violent.


Children may be scared, curious, or needy, and could upset the person who is having the episode.
 Psychotic episodes are serious occurrences, and you need to treat them as such. If you’re around someone who may be having a psychotic episode (especially if it’s someone you don’t know), or if you’re not sure if they may become violent, you should assume that they may be dangerous and call for help.


If you don’t know the person having the episode or don’t know them well, then call for help right away. They may have a friend or family member nearby who is better equipped to assist them.

