 Mobile homes come in different sizes with different amounts of bedrooms. Consider how many people will be living in your house and decide how many bedrooms you need. Mobile homes typically come in 3 different sizes, single wide, double wide, and triple wide.


Single wides are typically long and narrow with their rooms connecting without hallways.
Double wides are twice as wide as single wides and have hallways connecting some of its rooms.
Triple wides are much larger and typically have 3 to 4 bedrooms with hallways and much more open space.
Most mobile homes or trailers require a foundation. For a truly mobile experience, a recreational vehicle, or RV, or camper trailer will provide the greatest mobility.;
, You can purchase a new mobile home from a mobile home company, or you can purchase a used mobile home. Buying a used mobile home can be much more affordable, but you have to do your research in inspecting the home to make sure you are getting a quality home. New or used, you need to research the conditions of the floors, walls, roof, plumbing, and the bottom of the home.Make sure a used home will pass all of the necessary codes in your area. You can find out the building codes in your area by contacting your local government’s building division.
If you’re buying new, check to make sure you’re buying from a reputable company that sells homes compliant with local building codes.
 Look for companies that sell mobile homes locally. This will reduce the shipping cost and distance traveled of your home. Buying locally also ensures you can easily return to the company if anything goes wrong with your home.
 Make sure you do your homework by researching different companies. You can find the same types of homes for different prices if you look around. Check for sales and specials being offered so you end up with the best deal.You can negotiate the price of a new mobile home just like you can a car. Most mobile home dealers have the price of the home marked up about 15 to 30 percent, so they have some room to lower the price for you.
 A down payment is money you pay for the home before applying a loan. This will make your monthly loan payments smaller so the more you can put down the better. Many financial companies require a down payment of a certain amount, such as 5 percent.
 Home loans include interest and can be paid back over different amounts of time depending on the terms, so the monthly payments can be very different with different loans. Decide what monthly payments you can afford, and then use a loan calculator to find out how much you can finance.It is a good rule to keep your home loan payment to under 30 percent of your net income. The payment should include money for the loan, the taxes, and any insurance on the home. The total of these should be under 30 percent of your net income.
The total cost of a mobile home, land, delivery, and land preparation can cost between $75,000 to $300,000, and sometimes even more if you get all of the upgrades., Many different institutions offer loans to buy a mobile home, but they all will have different terms so make sure you do your research before committing.Some larger financial institutions don’t do loans for mobile homes so you may have to look at smaller banks and credit unions. Local financial institutions might be best to get a good loan on a mobile home.
The government issues loans for mobile homes for qualified individuals from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Visit their website to find out their qualifications for a loan.
 Some financial institutions will have the option of rent to own loans. Theses loans let you pay a higher rent payment that let’s you end up owning the home. In a rent to own home, the buyer gets to move into the house before purchasing it. The buyer pays the seller monthly rent money while securing the money to purchase the home when the rent period is up.Some rent to own agreements let the buyer have the option of not buying the home when the lease contract is up, but some are binding agreements that the buyer will definitely purchase the home. Make sure you read the agreement thoroughly before getting a rent to own property. It’s a good idea to have a lawyer look over the contract as well.
 Make sure that the property where you want to place your home is zoned for mobile structures. Each county has different ordinances governing where mobile homes are permitted.Check your local zoning and tax laws to make sure you can put the home where you want.You can find out the zoning ordinances from your county tax assessor's office.
 Although mobile homes can fit on very small lots, you may want to purchase a large amount of land if you can afford it. Determine what you want to use the property for to know how much land you need. At minimum, you’ll want enough land for your entire mobile home to fit on your property with an extra couple of feet around the perimeter as well., Make sure that there is enough flat ground to place your mobile home on your lot. If the lot is not level you, expect to pay more in installation fees to excavate the lot and provide the proper grading to install a mobile home.


You can hire a surveyor to provide you with a topographical map detailing the exact measurements of slopes on the land.
 Look for home builders that are located close to where you are purchasing property.
 Mobile and manufactured homes come with many different floor plans. Pick a plan that suits your lifestyle.Decide how many bedrooms you need. Think about how many people will be living in the home, and if you will want an extra bedroom for guests.
Consider how the floorplan is divided. Think about whether you want the bedrooms next to each other or on opposite sides of the home. Some floor plans are better set up for roommates with one bedroom and one bathroom on either end of the home, and others lend themselves more to a family set up with a couple of rooms together on one end.
Pick a floorplan that has enough space for you and your family. You will want enough sleeping space as well as living space for your family to move around in.
 Different levels of fixtures and appliances can be chosen for a mobile home. When choosing your finish level, consider your budget and what items you need to include.
 Select a manufacturer that offers warranties on the interior, exterior and appliances. A warranty can protect you in case of defective craftsmanship or extreme situations., File paperwork with the county to obtain building permits for your home. Be prepared to pay the necessary fees for your permits.Before constructing a permanent foundation on a land you will need a building permit.
Some municipalities also require special permitting to connect to city utility lines.
If you plan to use your land for any business or agricultural purposes, additional land use permits may also be required.
 Hire a contractor to prepare the lot for the installation of the mobile home. Depending on the slope of your property, excavation may be required.
 Contact the manufacturer of the home to learn how much advance notice they need in order to deliver your home.Be sure to schedule delivery for a day when you have a full day free. Delays may occur, causing your delivery to take longer than expected.
Ask the company about any fees that may be associated with rescheduling your delivery due to unforeseen circumstances.
 Contact the utility companies in the area your home is being installed. Arrange a date to have the utilities connected after your home is delivered.


Use registered contractors to connect your utilities to the city supply lines.

