 Cuddling is a clear indicator that your parakeet likes you and wants to bond with you. If your bird gently nuzzles against your hand, climbs around on your body, grooms you, and rubs against your neck, you will know that your parakeet likes you and feels safe around you., We typically think of a bird's wings as being an instrument of flight, but many birds, including parakeets, use their wings as a sort of body language. If your parakeet is flapping his wings, which may give the appearance of trying to fly in place, it is a good sign of your relationship with your bird. Wing flapping is one way parakeets display happiness around humans., Just as your parakeet's wings can be an indication of happiness, so too can his tail feathers. When a bird wags its tail (similar to a dog's tail), it usually means that your bird is happy to see you - though it can also indicate that your bird is about to relieve himself. Similarly, flipping the tail up and down is generally considered an indication of happiness, and can be taken as a sign that your bird likes you., The way your parakeet carries himself around you can tell you a lot about how he feels in your presence. Taking his body posture, along with individual pieces of body language like wing and tail fluctuations, can help you get a better picture of your bird's level of comfort around you.A bird in a relaxed, non-rigid posture is typically happy and comfortable around his human.A bird that "bows" his head - crouching down with his head "pointed" toward his human - is comfortable around that person and may be requesting a head scratching or petting.Any kind of rigid body posture, usually accompanied by ruffled feathers and a restless, side-to-side movement, typically indicates discomfort, displeasure, or a lack of trust around a human. If your bird behaves in this manner, it's best to give him space. He either has not yet gotten comfortable around you or does not like something that you are doing. Find out what you are doing wrong and avoid that trigger. 