 For example: get straight leg pants, button downs, cardigans but nothing too girly. Preferably in shades of grey, blue, black and red.;
, If you don't have the proper face shape to get a pixie, you can always get a bob and style it the way you want. Asymmetric haircuts are all the rage right now. If you're a guy; grow your hair long, maybe get a side-fringe. It's more difficult for girls with long hair to look neutral, but if you love your Rapunzel locks or can't stand having hair in your face, you can probably make traditional hair styles work. Or, you could just put all your hair under a hat.
 If you are a male, try plucking or waxing your brows to a thinner, arched, feminine brow. If you are a female, try letting your brows grow out to (or keep them as) their natural shape.
 Forget the red lipstick and the blush. Stick to foundation, matte powder and maybe concealer to hide the pink in your lips. (Go easy on that; you don't want to look like a corpse).
 Anything will do as long as it's not too flashy or girly. Sneakers will work well for casual dress.
 Be the kind of person who can do things for themselves. You can try to get things done by yourself such as cleaning your bedroom, doing your homework, and maybe cooking or cleaning. This will show you are responsible and independent.
 But you don't always have to wear bold, dark colors like black. Other colors can be neutral such as navy blue, forest green, brown, and black. Camouflage is a good pattern to stick with.
 These are a big give away. You should be completely flat. A sports bra may work if you are very small, but for anyone over a AA it won't work. You will need some sort of binder. Please note that binding can be dangerous and damages tissue over time. If you are about an A or a very small B you can use under-armor, which is intended for men who are athletes. You should be able to find their compression vests in a sports store. Under-works, Mango and T-Kingdom make these.
 Girls have very different legs than guys, and they are usually shaved. Try a pair of really baggy jeans to hide your curves and maybe a loose belt slung low on the hips. Couple this with a really big t-shirt, and you can fit in almost anywhere.
, When it comes to physique, well, that one can be a bit harder. Build some muscle! Don't go body building (because some "muscles" are better left undefined).

