 You can buy a CO detector at any home improvement store or major retailer. They vary greatly in price but cost as little as $15., There are a number of features you should consider when making your purchase.


A CO detector should be able to emit at least an 85-decibel sound that can be heard within 10 feet. If you or someone in your house has hearing problems, you may want one that has a louder horn.Some detectors come in sets and can be connected with each other. When one goes off, the others will as well. This is ideal for a larger domicile.Check the lifespan of the sensor as they can wear away. Your unit’s sensor filament should last at least five years.Some detectors offer a digital display that will give you an exact readout of the CO measured in the air. This feature is not necessary but may help you detect harmful accumulations more quickly.
 For a small apartment, you can use only a single detector but if you have more than 3 rooms, you’ll want multiple detectors. You’ll want to place them strategically in areas where CO accumulates.


CO is lighter than air so it will rise toward the ceiling. Place the detectors on the wall as close to the ceiling as possible.If your home has multiple stories, you should have at least one on each level. Place one detector near each sleeping area.Don’t place them in the kitchen, garage, or near a fireplace. These rooms will experience short-term spikes in CO that aren’t harmful and will set the alarms off unnecessarily., The display and sound settings vary greater from brand to brand and model to model so you will need read the manual thoroughly. Most digital displays will provide a number that tells you the amount of CO in Parts-per Million (PPM) and some include a timer to specify the length of the testing time. Many will include a volume adjuster, a backlighting option, and auto power-off feature.
 The unit should come with instructions to install. Make sure you have the necessary tools while you are out shopping for the detector so you don’t need to make multiple trips.


Make sure you have a sturdy ladder to place them up high on the wall.
You’ll probably also need a power drill. The screws will likely come with the unit.
 Some units are hardwired or plugged in but most run on batteries. The unit should emit a noise when the batteries are low. Make sure you also have at least one spare pack of the necessary battery type at all times.

