 If you are trying to increase your alkalinity, drink some water with baking soda. Baking soda is one of the most alkaline foods. It helps reduce the acid in your system and increase your pH levels.Drink an eight ounce glass of water with ½ teaspoon of baking soda. Make sure to mix it well.
If you have high blood pressure, talk to your doctor before drinking this.
Use caution when ingesting baking soda. It is safe to ingest, and many people use it to help with heart burn or acid reflux because it has alkalizing and acid-reducing properties. However, you should not ingest too much baking soda. Too much baking soda can cause an electrolyte imbalance, the formation of too much gas too quickly in the stomach, and even stomach ruptures.Do not drink baking soda water for more than a week or two. You should only drink 7 1/2 teaspoons of baking soda each day. If you are over 60, limit that to 3 1/2 teaspoons. Children under 5, pregnant women, and people on certain medications should not drink baking soda water.
 Drinking water is one of the most important things you can do to increase your alkalinity. Replace your daily beverages with water. Try to get at least eight 8-ounce glasses per day.You can drink alkaline water. To do this, you can add ½ teaspoon of baking soda to a gallon of purified water. Shake it really well to dissolve.
There is no medical evidence that supports alkaline water is any better than regular water. Drinking more water is healthy, so you don't really have to worry about the pH.You can also add fresh lemon juice to a glass of water. Make sure the lemon is freshly cut and hasn’t been exposed to air.
You can also buy alkaline drops at health food stores or online that will increase the pH of your water.
 Exercise helps balance your body. Aerobic exercise helps to get rid of acid from your body and restore pH levels in your system. Daily exercise can help your body stay at a natural, balanced pH level.Try walking, running, cycling, swimming, dancing, cardio gym classes, or cardio machines.
 A massage can help increase the alkalinity of your body. Massages can manipulate your muscles in ways that release acid from your tissues. It also helps lower your stress levels, which is important since stress increases the acid in your body.Book an appointment with massage therapist, and treat yourself to some relaxing, alkalizing time.
 Stress can cause acid to accumulate in your body. To help lower stress levels, and as a result your acid levels, find ways to reduce stress. This is different for everyone. Try taking a walk or other forms of exercise, listening to soothing music, or doing something you enjoy.


Spending time with people, reading a book, or burning a pleasant candle can reduce stress.
Many people find yoga, meditation, and deep breathing exercises relaxing.

