 If you are participating in CBT therapy for health-related anxiety, a major focus of your sessions will be on the root cause of the anxiety. Instead of beating yourself up when you notice fears or worries getting the best of you, be curious. Ask yourself, from where did it arise? How severe is it? Use the A-B-C Model to help you learn more about your anxiety.Find the Activating event. What happened that made you start to become anxious? (e.g. A friend was diagnosed with terminal cancer)
Notice your Beliefs. What are your thinking about the activating event? (e.g. You think that “life is short.” You wonder why your friend didn’t catch the symptoms in time)
Reflect on the Consequence. What did your behavior cause to happen? (e.g. You started staying up late researching cancer every night. The more you research, the more worried you become about your own health, so you started making appointments with different specialists)

, One excellent method for taking better control of health-related anxiety is to support your overall health and wellness. This typically starts with cleaning up your diet and getting more exercise. You might also ensure that you get enough sleep (i.e. 7 to 9 hours) nightly.Eat a diet of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, lean sources of protein, low-fat dairy, and nuts and seeds. Limit salty, sugary, and fattening fast foods and processed foods. Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Exercise for at least 30 minutes on most days of the week. Try running, weight lifting, yoga, boxing, or swimming.
 As you learn to control health anxiety it can be handy to develop a relaxation practice. There are many ways to practice relaxation, such as deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, yoga, massage and guided imagery.Learn how to perform these techniques and include them in your daily routine to help promote recovery.
Regular self-care may also help you manage anxiety. Schedule in some activities that you enjoy each week like hanging out with supportive friends or watching comedy films.
 Overcoming health anxiety requires a level of self-compassion. You didn’t develop this condition overnight, and you won’t be able to make it disappear overnight, either. Start a journaling habit to track your progress through treatment. Celebrate the small victories like reducing your body checks or going long periods between doctor visits. Be patient with yourself as you learn new strategies.

