 Listen to music that is upbeat and positive. Avoid listening to music that makes you feel worse. Instead, find the songs that talk about surviving, being strong and getting on with your life.;
, There is no need to go around moping and acting dramatic. You do not know what is going to happen down the track and letting your crush see how positive you are might just be your absolute best defense and your possible chance in the future should things not work out with the person he or she is dating now. Stay calm and avoid making any biting comments.
 Your friends will know and understand your pain. They can empathize with the way you are feeling and will comfort you. Spending time with them will help to keep you happy and away from speaking about your crush and the loss you're feeling.


Talk about sports, the latest stuff, and fun things to do.
Stay with the people who really care for you know how you feel.
 You're young and there is a lot to happen yet, both now and into the future. Setting yourself up for a good future means focusing on self improvement, studying well and working out what you want for your life. Even if this includes a partner some day, it isn't the only thing in your life and it's important to be well rounded and to stand on your own two feet. Realize too, that you may actually start finding someone else a whole lot more interesting, and you need to be alert to this possibility.
 When you go to hang with your crush, make sure it's not with their girlfriend/boyfriend. Why? Well, here are some good reasons why not!:


The girlfriend/boyfriend could dislikes you and perceive you as an enemy.
That person could be your best friend or one of your best friends.
 When not hanging out but you see them, take care to avoid:


Trying to be the third wheel on their date.
Intruding on a date. Just say hi and bye, leaving to where you were going.
Reacting angrily or petulantly. If the girlfriend/boyfriend decides to be rude, just fake a smile and walk away. Keep your dignity intact.
 With the passage of time, it may just be that you're no longer interested. In which case, there is no point trying to light any sparks between you, not even for the sake of "just seeing" and definitely not for revenge or out of spite. If you do still like this person, proceed to the next step.
 Try to talk more or even hang out sometimes. Get to know each other before making a decision about making a move. Do not rush into targeting this person for a romantic alliance. He or she will need time to get over the former relationship and you won't be very happy if you end up being the "rebound" person who also doesn't last.
 If you do still like him or her enough, then pluck up the courage to ask him or her out. The answer may be yes, it may be no. If yes, great, proceed as needed. If no, realize that he or she still needs time or simply doesn't view you as an appropriate match. It's part and parcel of growing up and everyone experiences rejection as well as acceptance.

