 One of the reasons people love finches is the sound of their songs in the morning! For instance, the House Finch sings a long, twittering song. Finches communicate important information to one another through song, so you’ll get to enjoy their wonderful tweets!Finches sing to their babies before they are born in order to communicate environmental conditions.
 As long as they are well fed and have enough room to fly around and socialize with one another, finches are easy to care for! In comparison to other birds, like the Parakeet, owning a finch is not a huge time commitment., Finches love to hang out with one another, so you should avoid purchasing just one finch! In contrast to companion animals that like to spend time with humans, finches mostly socialize with one another. As such, you should purchase finches in pairs of the same variety.If you buy one alone, it will be unhappy or bored.
 If you own a cat and are thinking about getting finches, you should think about how you will ensure the safety of your finches. Cats will typically hunt birds. The best way to prevent a fatal interaction is to keep the finches away from your cats. Although finches spend most of the time in their cage, you may want to avoid choosing a finch if you own cats.You can still care for a finch in your house even though you own a cat or a dog. You'll just have to make sure the cat or dog cannot access the finches at any time.
 Unlike Parrots, finches do not typically enjoy human touch. They are the type of bird that is really enjoyable to watch and listen to. If you want a bird that involves more interactivity, you should consider a Parrot., Finches can cost anywhere between $10 and $100. But you also have to consider the cost of the cage, food, water dishes, and perches. In addition, you need to budget for possible veterinarian bills in case your bird gets sick or injured. A bird cage costs between $60 and $1000.
Food and water bowls cost between $8 and $30.
Toys cost between $20 and $100.
Two perches cost between $12 and $30.
A nest will cost between $4 and $12.
A bag of bird food will cost between $9 and $20.

