 New potatoes are the first potatoes of the season, often small and carrying a delicate flavour. What you may find upon trying to wash these potatoes, is that the peel will come off by itself, just from the water pressure. Try to wash these potatoes gently, so as not to remove much peel and don't bother peeling off their lovely skin.;
, Potatoes that are really dirty and have blemishes are often best peeled. Peeling helps to remove the dirt (always wash first though) and will lift away many of the blemishes.
 Peeling became a habit with the rise of pesticides on edible food. When you grow your own or purchase certified pesticide-free potatoes, this ceases to be a reason for peeling., Many people don't peel potatoes because they don't enjoy doing it and it's just one more kitchen chore! Always give the potatoes a good scrub to remove dirt and cut out any blemishes but apart from that, the potatoes will generally be fine with their peel left on.


Challenge your recipes. Perhaps you've always made that potato recipe with peeled potatoes, and perhaps the recipe says to peel. However, being the intuitive and creative cook that you are, give it a try unpeeled and see what results!






At least try dishes made with unpeeled potatoes before saying you don't like them. You won't know unless you give it a go!







, Of all things, this one is the most important for determining whether or not you'll peel the potatoes. Here are some basic tips:



Mashed potatoes: You'll need to peel first unless the potato skin is very thin and fine. Thick peel doesn't mash well and it tends to simply tear apart and get stuck throughout the mash, annoying the diner when eating. If you are absolutely certain that the potato skin is thin and likely to disintegrate, then you can probably get away with not peeling but be sure to wash well first. Never leave peel on if you want really smooth mashed potato.







Roasted potatoes: This is usually a taste preference. If possible, leave the peel on for a crunchier, tastier experience. However, some people actually prefer the peeled version (and a crunchy crust still forms), so base the choice on trialing what everyone prefers. You could even do half half when roasting––half peeled and half unpeeled.






Fries or chips: Most fries and chips benefit from leaving the peel on. It's added taste and it looks lovely. However, again there are many people who prefer no peel, whether out of habit, seeing most fries and chips without peel, or simply from taste. Either way works well.







Soups: Smooth soups require removal of the peel. Soups which leave the potato chunks unblended or mashed can usually get away with the peel being left on. Again, this is all a matter of personal preference.







Baked potatoes: Leave the peel on, no question about it!







Steamed potatoes: This is one time where only new or delicate skinned potatoes should have the peel left on. For older, tougher-skinned potatoes, it's best to peel them.







Potato salad: Skins are naturally softer once cooked, and provided you've scrubbed the potato well and are using potatoes without tough skins, unpeeled potatoes in a salad are just fine. Some people may prefer the peeled potato version though, and tougher potatoes are best peeled.







Potatoes added to stews, curries, casseroles, etc.: There is no hard and fast rule here and provided the potatoes are clean and the blemishes have been removed, the peel can be left on. However, in some cases, the peel must be removed to ensure a smooth texture. You might need a little trial and error here.
 Peel from potatoes that is clean and free of green spots or blemishes can be added to soups and stock for flavouring.

