 Porn conventions usually take place in large facilities like convention halls. Some porn star conventions travel around, while others are stationary annually. Check newspapers, magazines, or online to find out when and where shows are. They will list them in "events" or "news." Make sure to write down the location and time on a piece of paper so you do not forget., This is critical because porn conventions are usually packed. People reserve their tickets months ahead of time. Therefore, the conventions will be almost impossible to get into the day of. Use the online site of the porn convention, or use the phone number you find in the newspaper/magazine to preorder tickets., Each picture and/or signature of a porn star costs money, as does the initial entry fee. There are also plenty of sex toys, novelties, and food to purchase. Carry some extra money in your wallet/purse. Make sure that you carry cash, in case some booths do not accept credit cards., While you are seeking a porn star nearby, the convention hall is likely not to be next door to your house. That means you will need to schedule ahead how long you need to drive, how much gas you will need, a hotel to stay in(if overnight), and bus tickets to get to the hall itself. Use an online hotel website to find the perfect place to stay. Use sites like Google Maps to find nearby busing/public transportation near the convention center., A trip to a porn convention is not for everyone. Choose friends who are open minded. Ask them what they think about porn. Whether they have any favorite porn actresses/actors. A group of close girls/guys almost always works best. If you are an open-minded couple, this might be something you are interested in as well., Your porn stars only appear at certain times, at certain locations within the convention hall. Print out a copy of the event schedule, usually found on their online website. Map out when and where you need to be, and estimate how long it will take you to walk to each location. You can also pick up a schedule when you enter the convention hall, but you won't be able to plan ahead., Outside porn conventions are usually a set of protestors, of a religious/moral nature. These are to be expected. There are also those who "flash" throughout the convention hall. This is also to be expected. Porn conventions are a mixed bag, full of surprises, so go into it with an open mind.
 People start camping out to these events, sometimes days in advance. While it is not necessary to get there that early, you should try to get there when it opens. This will alleviate some of the more heavy traffic you might experience in the convention hall during primetime hours. You can also get some of your desired visits out of the way, and just relax the rest of the time there.
 Find the location of your favorite porn star to get your movies, posters, and pictures signed. You will also want to bring a camera so that you can get your picture taken with him or her. Spend time chatting, whether it be small talk, or how much you appreciate their work. This is your chance to meet and interact, so take advantage of your time., While nudity is prohibited at these conventions, there are usually porn stars or strippers dancing. They might be doing this on a pole or on stage. Feel free to watch and have a good time., While you can certainly ask porn stars questions at their individual booths, there tend to be lines. This means you have to get in and out in an timely manner. However, often times porn stars conduct forums at these conventions. These are times where porn stars open up on stage about their personal and professional life. Feel free to ask them questions you have about them, or the industry as a whole., While meeting a porn star in the flesh can be difficult, you can always find them online. Plenty of sites showcase professional and amateur porn stars who "cam." This is where they interact through text/chat while they strip. Because a lot of these stars are amateurs, you might even be able to meet up with one of them for one-on-one time. The first major step is to search for "cam girls/guys" online, and find some that you are interested in., Whether you are in a public chatroom, or in private one-on-one time, it is important that you are serious in your dialogue. Do not use slang, or be rude to the model. Be respectful, and have a decent conversation, whether it be small talk or sexual in nature. Ask them questions about their life, what they like to do in bed, or fun hobbies they have. These are not objects, but human beings with real emotions., Even if you are just joining a cam site to say hi and talk, it is important that you pay the star tips. Tips are usually a small dollar amount that you give them to show you appreciate them. This is often times how many of these stars make a living. It is rude to simply take advantage of them and not pay., You will need a credit card in order to pay the girls/guys tips. These sites are protected by security and privacy measures. However, if you do not feel comfortable giving out your credit number, these sites are probably not for you. Make sure that when you are charged, it is written down discretely on your credit card bill if you do not want to raise suspicion.
 Sometimes you might meet someone on a camming website and really hit it off. You might even want to meet the person in real life. In that case, it is important to set up the parameters beforehand. What time you are meeting, where you are meeting, and what you plan to do on that date. Is it purely sexual, a date, or simply a chance to have fun with another person? It is probably best to bring a friend along to bail you out, just in case you meet someone a little sketchy., There are plenty of people on the internet looking to make a fool out of someone. Whether it be standing them up on a date, or stealing their identity. It is always best to double and triple check information. Never meet someone outside of your home that you have not seen at least on a cam before. Never give out personal identity information online, or to someone you barely know.
 If you decide to go out on a date with the cam star it is best to treat it as a real date. Do not view the person as a sexual object. Ask them normal questions, like how your day is going, or what do you like to do. Focusing on his/her cam work can be nauseating and a turn-off. Instead, relax, and spend time getting familiar with the cam star., Unless you live in Los Angeles, it is very unlikely you will simply run into a porn star. However, you may meet someone online, like a cam star, whom you wish to meet up with. You may have also been introduced to a porn/cam star through a friend/acquaintance. In that case, it is best to treat the situation/meet-up professionally. Shake the person's hand, and tell them your name. Let them know what you do for a living. Share some background about your family, and origin., After you have introduced yourself, ask the person where he/she would like to go on a date. If you have ideas in mind for a restaurant, or movie this is even better. Be confident when you ask the person for the date, otherwise they might view you as being intimidated., Whether it be his/her eyes, hair, demeanor, dimples, laugh, sense of humor, or clothing style. Especially in the first couple of dates, it is best to stay away from talking porn too much. Obviously a little is necessary in order to understand their professional work, but don't overdo it. Focus on what makes the person an individual., While the person might have a higher sex drive, it is not up to you to judge simply because of the person's work. A date with a porn star is just like any other date. It is not a free chance at easy sex. Porn stars are people with feelings, and real human experiences. Focus on emotions, common goals in life, and passions. Look at the person as a soon wife/husband to be. Ask yourself, what good and bad qualities do you see in them? Do they reflect your own?, If you plan on dating a porn star, you are going to need to be accepting of their work. Each person chooses their own destiny in life. A few dates in, talk about some parameters. Maybe when and where they will be filming the pornographic movies. Discuss with them how their work conflicts and/or agrees with your own goals and beliefs.