 Adrenal tumors cause an excessive release of sex hormones (estrogen, testosterone, progesterone) from the adrenal glands. Treatment options for adrenal tumors are surgery or medical therapy. The surgery is called an adrenalectomy, which is the removal of an adrenal gland. Surgery is the treatment of choice for adrenal tumors because it is curative (provides a cure for the disease).If both of your ferret’s adrenal glands have tumors, surgery would not be a good idea. Removing both adrenal glands would lead to serious health complications.Medical therapy uses medications that prevent the release of adrenal sex hormones. The medications do not shrink the tumor.
Medical therapy is recommended for ferrets that are not healthy enough to undergo surgery.;
, If your ferret is healthy enough for surgery, your vet will perform an adrenalectomy. The left adrenal gland, which is most often affected, is easier to remove than the right adrenal gland. Removing the right adrenal gland is challenging because it is attached to a major vein called the vena cava.If the right adrenal gland has the tumor, your vet may refer you to a veterinary surgeon who has experiencing removing right adrenal glands.
You should be able to take your ferret home on the same day as surgery.
 With the adrenal tumor removed, your ferret’s symptoms will start to improve. For example, your ferret’s hair will regrow after a few months. Also, your ferret will get its appetite back and start regaining weight. If your male ferret had trouble urinating before the tumor was removed, that problem will also go away after surgery.In male ferrets, adrenal tumors can cause an enlargement of the prostate gland, which is a reproductive organ located next to the bladder. An enlarged prostate gland blocks the flow of urine from the bladder. This is an emergency situation that requires immediate veterinary treatment., If surgery is not an option, your vet will recommend several different medications: melatonin, deslorelin, and Lupron. Each works in different ways. Melatonin, which is naturally produced in the body, works by regulating the normal rhythm of hormone release. It can also stimulate hair regrowth.Lupron prevents adrenal sex hormone release. Given as either an injection or implant under the skin, it lasts for several months.Lupron is expensive.Deslorelin is an implant. Like Lupron, it inhibits the adrenal sex hormone release. Each implant can be effective for as long as 8‒20 months.