 The first step is to remove any debris from your floors. Grab a broom and sweep your floor clean. You may also want to mop it with warm water and a little bit of a water-based cleaner.Remove loose surface dirt and dust with a clean, soft cotton cloth in specific areas, like under furniture.
Suck up dust or surface dirt with a vacuum cleaner, using the hose and soft brush attachments.
Cleaners that have a neutral PH balance won’t disturb the finish of your floor. Cleaners like detergents can remove dust and dirt, but have a higher PH balance. Only use these on older floors.;
, To get a real good cleaning in that lifts the dirt and grime you can’t remove by sweeping you can damp-mop your floors. Use a wood cleaning product that is designed for your hardwood floor. Dilute the product in water according to the instructions on the bottle. Then, dip a sponge or mop into your solution and wring it out until it is close to dry. Scrub your floor.


You want your sponge or mop to be damp and not wet so you don’t leave any standing water on your floor.
Floor cleaners like Bona Hardwood Floor Cleaner are specifically made to be safe on hardwood floors, and will even get rid of scuff marks and hardened spills., Before you go and start scrubbing at those scratches, marks, and stains, determine which kind of hardwood floor you have. If your stains are surface level, you probably have a hard urethane finish. However, if the stain goes deeper into the wood, you may have a soft oiled finish.For hard finishes, only use a soft, clean cloth to wipe. Harder brushes, harsh chemicals with a higher PH balance, or steel wool can ruin your coating.
For soft finishes, you can use No. 000 steel wool and wood floor wax. If the area doesn’t lighten up, apply vinegar to warm water and soak the area for about an hour. Then rinse with a clean damp cloth. As a general rule for soft finishes, use steel wool and floor wax for tougher marks, and a light cloth with dishwashing detergent and water for lighter, or oil-based stains.

