 The best time to teach a child is when they are young. That way, these ideals and values will stick with them throughout their lifetime.


In fact, apologizing is an art and there are key elements to an effective apology. According to Ellen Notbohm, apologies need to be specific and making amends should be a part of the apology.Children also need to acknowledge or admit that they were wrong and learn how to ask for forgiveness. The same goes for the offended party – children need to learn to forgive and move on.;
, Explain to your child that a good apology has different parts and that a mumbled "sorry" will not suffice. For instance, a good apology should have each of the following:


I’m sorry for …. “stepping on your toes” (specific behavior)
This is wrong because …”It hurt you when I did that” (acknowledgement that it was wrong)
In the future, I will … “be more careful where I step on” (restitution for wrong done)
Will you forgive me? (asking for forgiveness)

, Children also need to learn how to apologize in the appropriate tone of voice.


You can model this by saying the same statement “I am sorry I stepped on your toes” in different tones of voice and asking your child which she thinks tells her you’re really sorry.
Body language is also important. Crossing the arms while stating the apology, glancing sideways or looking down at the toes drips with insincerity. You need to encourage your child to look you in the eye when she’s apologizing, to stand straight or at least keep still and use an appropriate tone of voice.
 Children who have been taught by parents how to apologize properly might become baffled at not being apologized to if they are the ones being offended.


Some children are even brave enough to approach the offending child’s parent or caregiver and point out that the other child has hurt her and that he didn’t say sorry.
Even though the other parent can force out an apology from the offending child, you still need to talk to your child about these things. The best you can say is that not all children are like her - ready to admit their mistakes and ask for forgiveness.
 Beware if your child blurts out an apology a little too quickly, such as “Fine – I’m sorry”. Children have a keen sense of an impending lecture, especially if they know they are in the wrong, and will say sorry just to avoid the lecture.


In this case, try to limit lectures the next time your child has misbehaved. Moreover, this attitude will tell you that your child has not really learned anything apart from saying the words. Most younger children won’t even know why the offended party is still upset even though they’ve already “apologized”.
In this case, point out to your child that although saying sorry helps, he still has to mean it. For older children, you can reinforce this by letting them read books about apologies such as "David Gets in Trouble" by David Shannon, "Martha Doesn’t Say Sorry" by Samantha Berger and "Zach Apologies" by William Mulcahy.
 It's important to understand the fact that most toddlers cannot yet grasp the concept of apology and empathy since they are still in the “me” phase. That is why as parents, you need to be able to step in right away during a conflict and be ready to state when an apology is needed.


For children 2 years and below, avoid focusing too much on forcing a “sorry” out of your child after they have done something wrong; instead, focus on the rules that your child has to follow in order to avoid future conflicts.
Examples of these rules are – “no hitting other kids”; “share your toys with your brothers/sisters”; “take care of your toys”, etc. The more you focus on abiding by these rules, the less likely you will encounter conflicts later on.
 Older preschoolers (around 3-5 years old) have a greater capacity to understand simple cause and effect situations, because of their developing language and cognitive skills.


Therefore, you can start to teach her the basics, for example: if she feels pain, he/she says “ouch!”; if he/she hurts someone else, she can say “sorry”. Even if these kids don't fully understand why they have to say it, you can encourage them to make it a natural reaction.
Keep any explanations simple. For example: “We say sorry when we’ve done something that hurts someone – just like when you stepped on Mark’s toes”.
 Help your child to understand empathy by saying something simple like “How would you feel if someone stepped on your little toes? Wouldn’t that be painful”?


Although it's too early for a preschooler to fully understand what empathy is, you can still help them understand in the simplest terms that what she/he feels or will feel when hurt, and that these feelings can also be felt by others.
One meaningful approach for toddlers and preschoolers would be to help them relate the other child’s feelings. This way, children can understand the link between their action and the other child’s reaction.
For example: “Look at Mark, he’s rubbing his toes where you stepped on. That must be painful. Let’s see if he’s okay.”, In order to teach your child to apologize, it's important to continue to reinforce rules and enforce consequences, as necessary. For example, you could say something like:


“If you keep trying to hurt your playmates, we won’t be coming back to this playground anymore and even if we did, nobody would want to play with you. Would you like it if the other kids didn’t want to play with you?"
Sometimes parents focus so much on forcing an apology from the child that they fail to correct the misbehavior that caused the trouble in the first place.
 As a parent, one good thing you can do is ask your child questions to help her understand her actions and how she felt at the time.


Perhaps he/she did something wrong because she was mad or frustrated for not getting to play in the monkey bars. In this case, a lesson in “taking turns” is in order. Next, you can help your child tie his/her emotion and action to the result. For example:
“I understand you got mad because of that, but we don’t hurt others just because we’re mad. Next time, you can tell Mark that it’s your turn at the monkey bars – or better yet, tell him you’ll both go”., Starting at age 6, young children already have a better sense of what’s right and what’s wrong and they start to develop empathy; but that doesn’t mean that apologies will come any easier.


Yes, they are no longer in the “me” phase of their development, but then comes other feelings of fear, embarrassment, and hesitation to “lose face” in front of others – which are equally challenging feelings to overcome.
Here are some things you can do for your child to help them overcome an aversion to apologizing.
 As a parent, you will often hear words like “He did it!” or “He started it!” Make sure to calmly explain to both parties that it doesn’t matter who’s at fault in order for one to apologize. The fact that the conflict happened means they need to be sorry about it.


Calm them down for a while and explain that they need to recognize that something “bad” happened and that they should feel sorry that it had to happen in the first place. You can place your child in a quiet corner and tell her she needs to stay there until she is ready to stop being mad.
You can tell your child to help you out with something to get her mind off the conflict for a while. This will help young children calm down, recognize the hurt feelings and restore the relationship then, before moving on.
 Doing things together also helps young children to calm down. Sometimes the only thing keeping them from apologizing is fear that their apology will be unwanted.


To overcome this, you can say something like “You obviously hurt Mark’s feelings because you stepped on his toes. I’ll go with you and we’ll apologize together, okay?”

, Some kids find it easier to act out the apology by kissing or hugging the offended party or bringing the offended party a flower or a card stating the apology.


Make sure to be present when your child acts out the apology so you can explain to the other child that the action means he’s sorry for what happened.
 It’s hard not to feel mortified when you see your child refusing to apologize for something that she did wrong – whether to you or to another person. But keeping your own anger in check helps keep things calm and you are better able to convey the importance of apologizing to your child.
 No one will feel good about an apology that’s made under duress because if he states an “I’m sorry” that’s just too quick, or in a whinny or snarly voice, then it’s a meaningless apology because he walked out still feeling angry and indignant; and this won’t teach your child anything.


If she/he refuses at first, talk to him privately and calmly ask why he/she refuses to apologize. If he worries that he will be snubbed by the offended party, tell him that you will stay with him during his apology.
If your child is more comfortable showing his apology then you can explain to your child that it's okay to say he/she's sorry by giving the other child a hug, or by making them an apology card.
 If your child is still being difficult, you should let your child know that there will be consequences for his actions and that a refusal to apologize will make people look at him in a negative manner.


Point out that if he refuses to apologize, the other child may not want to be his/her friend anymore, or the other children may not want to play with him/her.
As most children generally want to please others and do not like the thought of people being angry with them, this will often be enough to convince them to apologize.
 A lot of parents feel that saying sorry to their child is a sign of weakness. On the contrary, this is actually a sign of maturity and wisdom. Remember that apologies are not only for kids.


A child who has never been apologized to will not understand the concept of an apology. Moreover if you do not apologize to your child, he/she might harbor feelings of hurt. This will not be good for your relationship in the long run. In fact, the best way to teach anything to a child would be through example.
If you have done something wrong, be ready to admit it but refrain from long explanations. Try to be specific, for example “I’m sorry I yelled at you. That was uncalled for”. This will teach your child that although everyone makes mistakes, it is very important that apologies be made to make things better.
 Sometimes, a child will simply refuse to say sorry to the offended party. According to Dr. Howard Bennett, MD, from the George Washington University School of Medicine, children learn by letting them experience the consequences of their actions. However, this is not to say that you should automatically scold your child.


Instead, you can model appropriate behavior in front of your child and turn your focus to the offended party. Let your child hear you say sorry – “I am so sorry for what happened, Mark. John is usually very careful when he plays but today I guess he just wasn't being careful enough when he stepped on your toes”.
When your child sees that you have given extra attention to the hurt party, he/she will think about what he/she did and if he/she starts working his way towards an apology later on, be sure to praise him/her for that. Be ready to hug your child. This way, he/she will be assured that any mistakes that he makes will not affect your love for him/her.
Remember that rewarding appropriate behavior is more effective than handing out punishments and modelling good behavior is a lot better than forcing a reluctant apology from your child.
 In sibling conflicts or play date squabbles, you can use appropriate consequences to teach your child that he/she needs to man up and take responsibility for what he/she did. Apart from saying sorry for destroying a sibling’s toy or hurting someone during a play date, make sure that he also helps in fixing the toy.


Try to refrain from nagging or spanking right away. There have been numerous studies about how spanking affects children and all these studies basically show the same result – that spanking children does not produce good long term results.
In fact, a major study done at Tulane University published at the American Academy of Pediatrics showed that spanking remains to be a strong predictor of aggressive and violent behavior in children.Simply put, spanking teaches children that it is ok to hit or hurt others who are smaller and weaker. As parents, what you need to do instead is to get to the bottom of the bad behavior.
 Your child must have had a reason for acting so. It might be due to frustration or anger. It could just be way of getting your attention. Nonetheless you need to find out the reason for your child's actions. That way you will know the best way to reprimand him/her.


Older children and teenagers can have heavier consequences in order for them to learn from their mistakes. It could be a few extra hours of house chores for 2 weeks, no video games, no sports or an added effort to reach a specific grade in class.
Whatever the consequence is, make sure that your child comes out of it wiser. Make sure that your child understands the need to fix things up for the offended party.
 It will also help if you let your child know that you recognize and acknowledge his/her feelings of indignation or embarrassment about the conflict and the need to apologize.


When he/she has apologized, show him that you appreciate his humility in asking for forgiveness by saying “It takes a lot of courage to admit your mistake and I am proud of you for that."

