 This is extremely important to know because it will allow you to take a clear approach to matches. Are you in the category of a retriever (you don't have tons of power to hit winners but your foot speed and defense let you get many balls back)? Or are you an aggressive player (you're not the most consistent but you can dictate points with your power)?;
, This is not necessary but it can be a very helpful step. Look at where the pros hit and the tactics they use. Obviously you won't be able to use the same plays to perfection but it can put some ideas in your head.
 Be sure to practice every day leading up to it, possibly at the same courts that the tournament will be played on.
 You might have an early morning match or an afternoon match so set your alarm clock to the appropriate time.
 This will give you energy for a good part of the day.
 Dress in your most comfortable tennis outfit, and tennis shoes. Apply a lot of sunscreen if it is sunny out and you are playing outside.
, At the match, sign in, get the balls, and head to the court you were assigned for the warm-up.
 Try to see what shots he or she is good and bad at, which shot he or she favors the most, etc. Most players tend to go for the forehand and don't have as good a backhand, so try to hit to the backhand as much as possible.


Test all of the opponent's strokes (forehand, backhand, volleys). Hit some balls up the middle and see which stroke they choose to hit. This can tell you what their favorite shot is, so keep in mind that it is probably their strength.
 Unless you believe theirs is very bad, you can let them serve to gain confidence and get the early lead. On the other hand, if you choose to receive first, this will give you a chance to play some points without the added pressure of trying to hold serve.
 Never show worried facial expressions or noises when things don't go your way or else this will make the other player's confidence go up making him play very well. When you are confident, no matter what type of player, you will play very well. So this will make you lose the match. Keep your racket up, and be aggressive toward your opponent.
 Even if your style is an aggressor, don't go for a knockout winner on every shot. You can easily donate the match to your opponent before you know it. Use topspin to hit deep and set up points, always directing balls to your opponent's weakness if possible. Chances are they will miss if you get enough balls back so don't always try to be like Andy Roddick.
 Use your head at all times!!! Start using some low slices, try to approach the net, hit serves wider, etc. Add variety and never stick with a strategy that has you losing.

