 What determines "regular" will depend on a number of swimmers using the pool and the temperature of the pool water. The best indicator is to monitor the results of home chlorine tests; when the test results show that combined available chlorine and free available chlorine are below their recommended ranges, then it's time to shock the pool.Pool experts recommend shocking a pool at a minimum of once a month. If the water is warm (such as for a spa pool), twice a month minimum is recommended.However, some pool experts recommend shocking pools once a week, or more frequently, if the pool is used heavily, after large amounts of rain, or during extended periods of hot, sunny weather.;
, This will prevent the sun's UV rays from affecting the chlorine or other chemical and ensures that the majority of the chemical is available to shock the pool., This must be done before adding the pool shock chemicals to the swimming pool. All forms of pool shock chemicals are granular and should dissolve relatively quickly.


Fill a 5-gallon/19 liter (5.0 US gal) bucket with water from the pool.
Slowly pour the granular pool shock into the bucket of water.

Never add water to a chemical; always add chemicals to water.
 Agitate the water for one minute or more to dissolve the pool shock chemicals.
 You will see the water being carried out into the pool by the jet of water coming from the return line.


Pour slowly enough that all of the water from your bucket is carried out into the pool and does not settle to the pool floor. Pouring slowly is also vital to prevent splashing on your skin, clothes and any surfaces, which can injure or stain, depending on what the splashes land on.Pour as close to the water's surface as possible.
 When you are pouring and get near the bottom of the bucket of dissolved shock water (down to about 1/4 left in the bucket), fill the bucket back up with water.


Stir the bucket of water again for one minute or more, to dissolve left over shock granules at the bottom of the bucket, which did not dissolve the first time.
Continue pouring until all the contents are used.
If undissolved granules reach the pool floor bottom, stir them up with a pool cleaner.
 Swimming in water with too much chlorine is very dangerous. Wait until the water reads 3ppm or less.

