 If you want to be a baseball writer, you need to become a true baseball expert.In addition to understanding the game itself, you should understand the business of major league baseball and how it is organized. Other areas you might explore include:


Baseball and the law (e.g. major baseball-related lawsuits that have occured)
Sports ethics (e.g. major ethical controversies, such as steroid use)
Baseball and medicine (e.g. common injuries and treatments)
Baseball in other countries
College baseball
Take every opportunity you can to learn more about baseball. Read books about the sport, watch documentaries, listen to podcasts, and go to games.
 It is common in sports journalism for great players or games to be compared to those who came before them. It may not seem important to know who the top players were in the 1950s, but having this knowledge will be helpful in understanding the culture of baseball, and in writing about it effectively.Many people who are really interested in baseball history will watch or listen to old games from years gone by to get a deep understanding. Many historic games can be watched on YouTube.
Baseball has at times played an important part in other historical events, influencing and feeling the impact of cultural changes, political upheavals, wars, and social movements. Understanding this history will give you a stronger background for your own writing.
 Learn as much as you can about the star players, past and present. Learn their strengths and weaknesses, past performance (e.g. batting averages, etc.), great moments, and so on.


Learn about their personal histories and, when possible, their personalities and feelings about the sport. This will help you flesh out the stories you tell in your articles, making them come alive for your readers.Knowing who the new up-and-coming players are will also be helpful. Consider who the new players who show the most promise are, and learn about them too.
 To get a better sense of how to write great baseball stories, read examples from other writers. As you read, look for elements of the writers' styles that make their work powerful or fun to read.


You can find many examples of great sports writing on line and at your local library., Take every chance you get to practice your writing. Try out different styles of articles such as opinion columns, player profiles, and game write-ups.


Every time you go see a game, take notes and do a write-up afterward, even if you don't have any immediate plans of publishing it. Note significant events in the game, as well as the overall environment and mood, audience reactions, and so forth.
Consider starting blog to publish your baseball writing online. This can be a great way to practice writing about baseball for an audience, developing your own style and voice, and can start getting your name out to the public.