 You know what they say: there ain’t no party like a dog party. And as much fun as it will be for you, hosting your dog-owning friends and their own four-legged family members will absolutely make your dog’s day. Be sure to remove anything fragile or potentially dangerous to your dog from the areas where visitors will be allowed, and plan to accommodate hungry, thirsty, and socially excited canines.
 It’s not always possible to host a bunch of your human friends’ dogs. However, your dog can still enjoy the company of your friends with you. To make sure your dog feels comfortable, provide it with a safe zone where only it will be allowed to go during the party.


Don't host large gatherings before your dog is trained to behave around other people,
Further, be sure to tell guests that a dog will be present and make sure they will comfortable as well.
 When the context is appropriate, bring your dog along when you visit a friend’s home. The important factor here is always ensuring that the host is aware that a dog is coming and gives their approval. Ask a host ahead of time before bringing your dog to another’s home, even if you know you’ll be hanging out in their yard.While you may be excited to introduce Sir Woofsalot to your buddy’s miniature poodle, the poodle may not be fond of canine visitors. Similarly, very young children may be attendance, and their parents may not feel comfortable with dogs around quite yet.
 You probably already know it, but bringing your dog to the bar is just about the easiest way to get a conversation going there is. Fortunately, many restaurants and bars with outdoor seating do allow dogs to sit on the patio or deck. Call ahead to make sure your canine will be welcome, or be willing to change you plans when establishments won't allow your furry companion in.Never allow your dog off of their leash in public bars or dining areas. Even if your dog is incredibly well behaved, it’s important to ensure that other patrons know that your dog is safely under your control.

