 Since rabbits are prey animals, they are good at hiding their pain.Therefore, you will need to rely on other clues that your rabbit is having dental problems. One of the common clues is anorexia.Other clinical signs of dental problems include weight loss, bulging eyes, discharge from the eyes and/or nose, long teeth, and slobbering.Your rabbit may also become a picky eater.Bad breath, poor coat condition, and reduced activity are also signs of dental issues in rabbits.;
, Common dental problems in rabbits include tusk-like incisors, molar spurs (sharp points on the end of the tooth), and loose teeth.Tooth abscesses, which are pockets of infection, can also occur.Sometimes, dental problems can be caused by trauma (e.g., accidentally getting stepped on), which can lead to jaw damage and difficulty eating., Untreated and undetected dental problems can lead to major illness in rabbits.For example, overgrown incisors can grow into some of the soft areas of your rabbit's mouth, increasing his risk of infection.In addition, your rabbit could become malnourished and suffer from digestive problems, such as gastrointestinal stasis, if his dental issues are preventing him from eating.


In extreme cases, untreated dental problems in rabbits can become life threatening., If you notice signs of dental problems in your rabbit, take him to your veterinarian as soon as possible.The sooner your rabbit can get treated, the quicker he can get back to good health and normal rabbit activities.


Take your rabbit to a veterinarian that has experience treating rabbit dental problems.If your current veterinarian is not comfortable treating the dental problems, ask them for recommendations on local veterinarians with experience in rabbit dentistry.
 You may have noticed some signs of dental problems, but your veterinarian will be able to take an even closer look and diagnose the specific dental problem. A rabbit’s mouth is surprisingly small, so your veterinarian will likely sedate your rabbit to examine his mouth.While your rabbit is sedated, your veterinarian will probably take skull x-rays to get a more detailed look at your rabbit’s teeth. Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging are also helpful, but your veterinarian may not have access to these imaging techniques at the veterinary clinic.During your appointment, tell your veterinarian about your rabbit’s diet (e.g., brand name of food, treats, supplements, etc.).Also, describe the signs of dental problems you noticed.
 Discussing these options will help you make an informed treatment decision.


Treatment of rabbit dental problems typically involves trimming or extracting the teeth. Antibiotics would be needed for an infection.Pain medication is given if needed.
Treating dental problems in rabbits is not always easy, and can get expensive. The treatment plan you and your veterinarian decide upon should address your rabbit’s pain and nutritional needs, and your needs., Rabbit dental problems require veterinary care. For overgrown incisors, molars, or premolars, your veterinarian may trim the teeth with an instrument called a dental burr. Using a dental burr is safer and more effective than clipping the teeth.Clipping the teeth is inaccurate, painful, and can possibly lead to tooth fractures.Since rabbit’s teeth grow continually, your veterinarian may need to trim your rabbit’s teeth regularly. After several trims, many rabbit owners decide to have the veterinarian extract the teeth.Overgrown molars develop spurs that can either curve inward toward your rabbit’s tongue or outward toward his cheeks. Spurs are very sharp and can cause extreme pain, making it very important for your veterinarian to remove them with the burr.With loose teeth, bacteria can travel beyond the gum line and cause facial abscesses. If your rabbit’s dental problems become this severe, your veterinarian would need to remove as much of the abscess as possible, along with extracting the affected teeth and maybe even removing part of your rabbit’s jaw.If your rabbit’s dental problems are due to physical trauma (e.g., tooth fracture, jaw damage), your veterinarian may have to do more extensive treatment.
 One of the most important aspects of at-home care is a proper diet—feed your rabbit fresh vegetables and plenty of fresh, high-quality hay. If he is unwilling or unable to eat his normal diet, you can feed him a critical care formula so he can still get all of his nutrients.Your veterinarian would be able to able to recommend a critical care formula.


If he can eat his normal food, you may need to cut the vegetables into small bits.
If your veterinarian has prescribed antibiotics or pain medication, administer them according to your veterinarian’s instructions.
Your rabbit may be a bit groggy or slow after surgery, but he should recover after a few days and start getting back to his normal routine. If your rabbit isn’t eating or seems lethargic, contact your veterinarian.
 Regular dental examinations are essential to your rabbit’s overall health.In fact, an annual dental examination is one of the best ways to prevent dental problems in your rabbit. Your veterinarian would be able to assess your rabbit’s dental health and, if necessary, recommend changes to his diet to keep his teeth healthy and worn down., Not only is hay an excellent nutrient source for your rabbit, but it also helps him keep his teeth worn down properly. Rabbits need to grind their teeth from side to side to keep them worn down, and hay promotes this horizontal grinding.Providing your rabbit with a constant supply of fresh, high-quality hay will help keep his teeth worn down after treatment and prevent further dental problems.


Hay has an abrasive texture that is necessary to wear down your rabbit’s teeth., Unlike hay, pellets and treats promote only up-and-down grinding.This will not wear down your rabbit’s teeth properly, which could lead to overgrown teeth. You do not need to eliminate pellets and treats completely from your rabbit’s diet, though. Simply reduce his intake of these foods and make sure he has plenty of hay on which he can grind his teeth.
 Since rabbits love to chew, your rabbit will probably appreciate having multiple chewing choices. Untreated wooden sticks, willow sticks, and wicker balls are good chewing choices for rabbits.Homemade toys such as empty toilet paper rolls, cardboard boxes, and old cotton towels are also ideal for your rabbit to chew on.Replace the items when they start to look worn or damaged.
Chew toys, although helpful for preventing dental problems, are not a substitute for veterinary treatment of dental disease.