 Visit http://www.amazon.com from any web browser.;
, At the upper-right corner of the page are some quick access links. Hover over the “Hello. Sign in Your Account” menu, and click on the yellow “Sign in” button that will appear. You will be directed to the Sign In page.
 Enter your Amazon account username and password on the corresponding fields, and click on the yellow “Sign in using our secure server” button to proceed. You will be signed in and brought back to Amazon’s main page.
 From the home page, click on the “Today’s Deals” link found at the upper left part of the page, right near the Amazon logo. This will bring you to the current deals page that displays all currently running deals and promotions on Amazon.


Check the Gold Box and Lightening Deals on the first page. These are extremely limited offers that are usually valid between 1 and 24 hours from the time they are posted. If you click on an “Add to Cart” box, you will not need to type in a promotional code to receive the discount as long as you purchase the item within the specified deadline.
 From the page’s submenu, click on the “Coupons” link. This will bring you to the Amazon Coupons page.


This page lists all the coupons, properly categorized, available on Amazon.
You can also reach this page directly by visiting http://www.amazon.com/Coupons/.
Coupons are products that include Amazon special offers, such as a percent discount or a buy one, get one free offer.
 Browse through the page and see all the available coupons. There are coupons for grocery items, electronics, books, and a lot more.
 To know more about a coupon, click on it. You will be brought to a page that lists all applicable items on Amazon on which this coupon can be applied to.


If you want to avail of the coupon you’ve just selected, just buy any of the items listed by clicking on the “Add to Cart” button.
 Click “Clip this Coupon” to add the code to your cart. Make sure to add the number of items needed to validate the coupon.
 Make sure the discount is reflected in the order page before you pay. If it does not show, you may not have fulfilled the requirements for the promotion.


Make sure to checkout soon after adding the coupon. You may want to do some comparison shopping with a search engine to ensure the coupon is an exceptional deal.
The clicked button will be changed to a text reading “Coupon Clipped” and will appear under the “Your Recently Clipped Coupons” section of the page.
 Search these sites at the beginning of the month, since new promotional codes are often posted at the beginning of the month.
,, You may see an expiration date and a success rate next to the coupon.
 Most sites will bring you directly to Amazon, because they receive an advertising fee for sales that originate at their site.


The advantage of navigating straight to the site is that you may not need to enter the promotional code at checkout; however, you can look for deals with codes you can write down and navigate to Amazon using a different browser window, if you choose.
 Add the items to your cart.
 Enter the promotional code underneath the order totals in your shopping cart. Click “Apply” to activate the code.
 Most promotional codes will not allow you to ship to more than 1 address.
, Once there, you can vote on whether or not the promotional code worked for you.
 Click on the link that says “Shop by Department.”

,, Look for a banner that says “Get 20 percent off your next purchase” or a similar promotion.
 Click the button and sign in to your account.
 Look for the promotional code to click on or enter in order to receive a discount on your next purchase.
 Use these offers according to their deadline and terms.
 Complete your shopping by adding items to your cart. Click on the “Add to Cart” buttons of all the items you’ll be purchasing. The coupons will only be applied on all applicable items on your cart once you checkout.
 Before proceeding with your purchase, read the promotion details tagged with every coupon. Just hover on the coupon and click on the “Terms and Conditions” link; a window will pop up with the relevant promotion details.
 All the items you’re about to purchase are placed in your shopping cart. View your cart by accessing its page.


Click on the “Cart” button from the upper-right corner of the page. Your Shopping Cart will be displayed with all the items you’ve just added. Items with applicable coupons are properly identified with a small coupon box right underneath the item price. At this point, the coupons you’ve clipped haven’t been applied yet.
 Finalize your purchase; click on the “Proceed to checkout” button found at the right side of the page. Complete the rest of the checkout process.


All applicable discounts carried by the clipped coupons will now be applied. Your final total should reflect the discounted prices.

