 Keep your torso straight without leaning forward. While you will eventually cross your legs, the act of sitting down is identical to the one used for maintaining traditional ladylike posture.


Keep in mind that crossing your legs at the knee is much less modest than keeping your legs parallel. It will both emphasize your legs while raising your skirt's hemline., Once you are seated, fold your hands and place them on your lap between your legs. Maintain this placement when your hands are not in use. This position will also weigh your skirt down, preventing you from flashing your undergarments while crossing your legs.
 Begin by raising your right thigh slightly. Then, place your right calf in front of your left. Be sure to keep your thighs together. Spreading your legs, even when adjusting in your seat, is traditionally considered unladylike. Also, even with your hands in your lap, spreading your legs runs the risk of momentarily exposing your underwear.
 Your right knee should now be directly on top of your left knee. Your calves should be tight together, forming a diagonal with your feet pointing towards either your right or your left.You will not be able to have a straight up-and-down leg placement with both feet on the floor in this position.
 Your right and left calves should remain as parallel and as closely lined up to each other as possible. Be sure that your legs remain firmly together while you sit. Keep your toes pointed downward.Remember to always sit up with your torso straight.
 At some point while sitting, you may want to switch positions so that the opposite leg crosses over the other. This can be done if you are quick and graceful enough but should be avoided if you are wearing a particularly short skirt. Simply uncross your legs so that they are in the same position they were in right after you first sat down. Then, simply move the chosen leg over the other to return to a crossed position.


Remember to make sure your hands are in your lap while uncrossing and recrossing your legs.

