 This allows you to become more familiar with the French kiss, including how to set the mood, and how to move your head, mouth, and body while kissing.;
, Bad breath and poor oral health in general can ruin the mood, especially if you can smell your own bad breath during practice sessions.
 Dry, flaky lips can be a turn-off, and feel rough against your partner’s mouth. Drink plenty of water, and apply lip balm as needed to keep your lips soft and sensual.
 The ability to maintain direct eye contact with your partner often signals deep intimacy and the desire to kiss. Gaze at yourself using a mirror to become more comfortable and familiar with making eye contact with your partner., This allows you to practice French kissing alone and without distractions for as long as needed until you feel comfortable with the act. Lock yourself in your bedroom or bathroom before you start practicing.
 The more relaxed and romantic you feel, the better you’ll fare during your French kiss practice session. Light candles, play soft music, and make other changes to your environment as needed to set the mood.
 This prevents your nose from bumping into that of your partner’s while French kissing.
 This may be your hand, pillow, an ice cream cone, lollipop, or piece of fruit.


Using your hand: Curl your left hand loosely to form the letter “O.” The “O” represents your partner’s lips and mouth.
Using fruit: Bite into a ripe, firm fruit such as a peach or plum. This creates a small hole that resembles a person’s mouth.
 This allows you to focus more on the physical sensation of the French kiss, and prevents you from appearing dishonest, insincere, or creepy to your partner.
 Avoid opening your mouth too wide, which can alarm your partner and result in a wet, sloppy kiss.
 This slow movement allows you to gauge whether your partner is ready to French kiss, and prevents him or her from being alarmed or surprised at any sudden tongue thrust movements.
 When kissing a responsive partner in real life, your kisses will naturally build in intensity, pressure, and length. The key to practicing French kissing is to start slowly, and fall into a natural kissing rhythm with your partner based on their physical responses to your kiss.
 These movements may including touching, stroking, curling, and sweeping., This allows you to experiment with kissing styles and sensations so you know what might feel best to your partner.