 Many glucometers will calculate and store your average blood sugar readings over 1 week, 2 weeks, and/or 1 month periods. Some let you “flag” results as being either pre- or post-meal, which can really help you and your physician monitor your diet and how much insulin you need at different times.Ask your doctor if functions like these are important for you to have in your glucose meter. They will be able to tell you how valuable this information might be.
If you have poor eyesight, get a machine with a large, bright screen, or one that gives results out loud.
 Maybe you have a hard time keeping track of your blood sugar over time. Maybe your partner, child, or parent accompanies you to your doctor and helps you maintain your diabetes. Some meters allow you to transfer all the information to someone else’s computer, usually with a USB cable. Consider whether this is an important tool for you., For some patients, being able to check for ketones in their blood is a necessary function of a glucose meter. Obtain a glucometer with this function if you have type I diabetes or are prone to ketoacidosis., If you, or a loved one you are caring for, speak a language other than English, take this into consideration. Some meters can speak or write in non-English languages, and finding one that’s appropriate can make care much easier., Some blood glucose meters use what is called GDH-PQQ test strips. It’s been found that these strips and meters may give an inaccurate reading if you are taking certain medications that contain sugars. Meters that still use GDH-PQQ test strips are Accu-Chek, TRUE2Go, TRUEtest, and TRUEresult. Avoid these models if you use any of the following:Peritoneal dialysis solution icodextrin
Certain immunoglobulins like Octagam 5%, Vaccinia Immune Globulin IV, HepaGamB, Gamimune N 5%, or WinRho SDF liquid.
Orencia (abatacept)
4% icodextrin adept adhesion reduction solution
The radioimmunotherapy medication Bexxar
Anything that contains or metabolizes into galactose, maltose, or xylose.

