 Wash and dry the watermelon before cutting it. After cutting it into pieces that can be stored more readily, cut away the rind and remove any seeds you see.


Wash your hands with hot soap and water first to prevent any bacteria on your hands from contaminating the fruit.;
, If necessary, use a clean vegetable brush to scrub away any dirt.


Pat dry with clean paper towels.
Cut the watermelon in lengthwise halves, then into quarters. From there, you can choose to cut the fruit into wedges, slices, cubes, or balls. Cubes and balls are the easiest to freeze.
If you did not do so as you were cutting the watermelon into pieces, cut off the rind and fish out any seeds with your fingers.
 Keep the pieces in a single, even layer and make sure that none of them are touching.To reduce the amount of cleaning up you might need to do, you could consider lining the baking sheet with parchment paper before placing the watermelon on it.
It is important that you do not allow the pieces to touch. If the pieces do touch during this initial freezing process, they might freeze together, making it harder to pack them now and to defrost them later.
 Place the baking sheet in the freezer for a few hours. When ready, the watermelon pieces should be frozen solid and no longer soft enough to press into with your fingers.


If you have difficulty removing the frozen watermelon from the baking sheet, you might need to use a sturdy spatula to help you. Usually, however, the heat from your hands will be enough to help free the pieces from the tray.
 Place the frozen watermelon into a large freezer-safe plastic bag or resealable plastic container. Leave at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace and label the container with the current date.


The headspace is vital because it provides the watermelon with ample room to expand as it freezes. Without the headspace, the container may break or open.
The container you use must be resistant to both moisture and vapor, and the material must be thick enough to protect the watermelon against other odors or flavors. Glass is not recommended since it is prone to breaking in extreme cold.
 Watermelon can usually be kept frozen for 8 to 12 months as long as the temperature remains at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius).


When you are ready to use the watermelon, let it thaw in the refrigerator before adding to dishes or otherwise consuming it. Thawed watermelon should be used within four days.

