 Puppy proofing is basically the same as baby proofing your home. Remove any small, sharp, hazardous items from places that the puppy can get to. Make sure that all electric cords, wires, batteries, etc. are put away and are not connected to the wall in places where the puppy can chew on them. There is a danger of electric shock if your puppy chews on connected wires.Keep in mind that as the pup grows it may be able to reach table tops as well.
 Dogs enjoy eating plants and grass very much, so if you are a plant-lover you may have to move, or re-home, a lot of your plants. The stems and leaves of some plants contain various substances that can be toxic to the pet who chews on them.


Some examples of these plants are dieffenbachia (or dumb cane), caladium, philodendron, and elephant's ear.
In addition to this, many yard plants such as shrubs, flowers, and trees are also dangerous to your puppies. Some examples include rhododendrons, chrysanthemum, and oleander.
 Some of the more common you need to look out for include household cleaners, insecticides, fertilizers, and mouse and rat poisons. The odor of these products may attract your puppies, so you need to put them where your puppy can not reach them.
 Some of the foods that we eat, including chocolate, onions, raisins and grapes, and even sugarless chewing gums, can be toxic to pups and should be kept well out of reach. You can find good information online about what your pup should avoid, in addition to discussing it with your veterinarian.


If your puppy does ingest a foreign object or toxic substance, contact your veterinarian immediately., When you bring your puppy home to a new and unfamiliar environment, it can take anywhere from 2 days to 2 weeks for them to get accustomed to their new surroundings. It is best to decide where they will be allowed to go before bringing them home. This will help to avoid confusion and establish their area from the beginning.


Use baby gates and shut doors to any rooms that will be off-limits to the puppy and be consistent with this off-limits training. Later you can gradually expand their area as they become more adjusted.
 The kitchen is a common area for food and water because it is easy to clean. Once you decide on a place, it is best to keep them there at all times. This will eliminate possible confusion and make it easier to maintain a routine.
 Buy a comfortable dog bed or learn how to make a dog bed for your pooch. By giving your puppy a comfortable place to sleep right when you bring it home, you can train it not to sleep with you in your bed. Be aware that once a pup is allowed to sleep in your bed, it can be difficult to teach them to sleep in their own.


Entice your puppy into its bed for the first time with a chew toy or a bone. To get it to want to sleep in the designated area will take continued and consistent training.
Establishing the area, your bed, a doggie bed, or a crate, ahead of time will help to make the adjustment easier.
 If you already have a fence, or are planning to have a fence installed, inspect the fence thoroughly for any space that may be small enough for your puppy to squeeze through. Patch any holes or spaces immediately to avoid any unexpected escapes from the yard.


Also, check your yard daily for objects that may have fallen or been thrown into their area. Remove anything potentially harmful before your puppy goes outside., If you plan on keeping your puppy in a doghouse, design the perfect doghouse with proper protection for all seasons. For instance, the doghouse should have a raised floor that provides extra insulation.


Furthermore, do not keep your puppy in doghouse for longer than eight or nine hours at a time. 