 Decide a few days ahead which class and which period you're going to skip. For example, you might decide that you're going to skip French next Wednesday, 3rd Period. When choosing the class you're going to skip, take a few things into consideration. Think about your teacher and whether or not they take roll. It is best to know which teachers do and don't take roll in their classes. It is easier to skip classes where the teacher does not take roll because you are far less likely to get caught. If they do, you could try to sneak out of class after being counted present for attendance.


Also consider what your teacher is like. It is easier to skip classes that are taught by more relaxed teachers. Never skip a class taught by a teacher who is likely to look for you or ask after you.;
, It is important to think about where your class is located before you decide to skip it. If your class is located near an exit that is not locked, this is an ideal class to skip. However, if you have to walk past the principal's office to get to an exit from a certain class, you should probably reconsider your plan to skip.
 It is best not to skip the same subject too many times. Choosing to skip a class that you have not skipped before gives you a better chance of not getting caught.
 Skipping class is not always the best option. If you get caught, there can be serious consequences - both at school and at home. If you miss class, you'll have extra work to make up. Think about why you want to skip and decide if there is a better way to accomplish what you want to do. For example, if you want to skip class because you forgot to do your homework that is due today, maybe you could talk to your teacher instead and convince them to give you an extension. That way, there is less risk involved for you.
 Don't just skip class and aimlessly wander around somewhere you might get caught because you haven't thought about where to go. Think about it ahead of time and know where you are going to go while skipping class.
 Go to a secluded area of your school where you are not likely to be found. This could be under a weeping willow tree, in the janitor's closet, under the stairs, etc.
 If you are skipping class by yourself, this is a great option because it is unlikely that anyone will find you in the bathroom, so you are the least likely to get caught.
 If you can, hide out at a park, store, or mall near your school where you know nobody else from your school will be. It is very important to make sure that you go to a place you won't be seen by people who will know you are skipping class.For example, if your mom's best friend owns a store in the mall, avoid that store at all costs. The last thing you need is for the store owner to tell your mom she saw you at noon on a Tuesday.
 Tell your teacher you need to use the restroom so that you can leave class a few minutes before the bell rings.This will give you time to go to your secluded area on campus to skip or to leave the school grounds before everyone is in the halls between classes. That way, there will be fewer people to see you skipping and it is less likely that you will get caught.


To excuse yourself from class a few minutes before the bell, tell the teacher that you have a music lesson/sports practice, that you need to go and take medication, or that you desperately need to use the bathroom.
 The best thing about saying that you need to go to the counselor is that nobody will ask you why because that is private information and they'll just let you go.
 Tell one of your closest friends that is in the class you're skipping that you're not going to be in class because of some believable reason. Then if the teacher asks, your friend can chime in and let the teacher know why you're absent and the teacher won't become suspicious or keep thinking about it. Have your friend say that you are home sick or that you are at a doctor's appointment with your mom. Remember that you can get in big trouble if you get caught, so you need to have a plan. Or maybe reconsider skipping in the first place or be awesome and keep to your plan!!

, If you drive to school, try to remember to park off campus on the day that you are planning to skip. Most schools have closed parking lots, meaning that you can't take your car out of the school parking lot without a note until school is over.


Note: If you think it's possible that your parents might drive by the school parking lot during the day to make sure your car is there, it might be a better idea to park at school and just walk somewhere when you skip class. That way, your car will still be at school when your parents check up on you.
 This one is easy to find an excuse for. Just say "I'm trying to use the bathroom here," or "I'm on my period" (for girls).
 This one is very tricky to get out of. Your best bet is to fake a fall or sit on the ground and look as sick as you can. If you're good at fake crying, this is also a good idea in this situation.
 This is almost impossible to excuse yourself from. You could say your mom just took you to the dentist/doctor/counselor. Or you could just make a break for it and hope no one recognized you.
 Give the person who caught you one of these excuses:


You were just running an errand for a teacher.
You were on your way to the bathroom.
You left your schoolbag in your locker.
You're on your way to/back from the nurse.
You're new to the school and can't figure out the way to your class.

If you get caught wandering around, pretend to go back to class and go to the nearest bathroom for the rest of the period.
 When you have successfully skipped that class, return to school and attend your next class as normal. Have in mind a few of the excuses mentioned above in case your teacher found out you weren't at your previous class. You could also forge a note from a teacher/parent to make sure all of your bases are covered in case anyone asks you about it.

