 Fling your hair over your head, and then rapidly fling it back again. This creates volume for your bun, making the bun less severe and tight. Then, grasp the hair with your hands and hold it in a ponytail.


You can brush your hair before this step. Since you are putting your hair up into a bun, you can skip this step.
This style can work anywhere on your head. For a high, messy bun, use your fingers to brush your hair into a high ponytail on the top of your head. For a low bun, gather your hair at the base of your neck.
If you need some texture in your hair, add some sea salt spray or dry shampoo.;
, After you have pulled your hair into a ponytail, twist the hair clockwise. As the hair is twisted, it will wrap around itself until you have one long twisted strand.









You can also twist the hair counter-clockwise. The direction does not matter to the overall look of the bun; it is purely up to your preference.
If you have unruly or thick hair, putting your hair in a ponytail before making a bun may help keep hair secure and in place.
For an extra bit of style, leave one thick strand loose. After securing the hair into a bun, braid this strand of hair and wrap around the base of the bun for added flare and sophistication. Secure the braid by tucking the end under the bun and using a bobby pin to keep in place.
 Once the hair is fully twisted, bring the strand towards your head. Wrap it in a circular motion around the head the same direction in which you twisted it. The hair will begin to coil into a bun.








An alternative is to twist the hair halfway, then circle into a bun, leaving some of the end strands loose. Take the loose strands and spread it over the bun. Hold it in place with your palm., Holding the bun with one hand, use the other hand to get the hair band from your wrist or from a nearby counter. Wrap the hair band around the bun until tight.









Don't worry about not getting the hair secured perfectly. A quick, easy bun has the ends of the hair sticking out. You can tuck the ends under the hair band if you don't want them sticking out.
An alternative is to use bobby pins to secure the bun instead of a hair tie. You will probably need between 4-8 pins.
You can also add ribbons, barrettes, or clips for decoration. Pull down a few strands for a flyaway, bohemian look.

