 Don’t wait until you’re 50 to start eating right and working out. The easiest way to have good habits when you’re older is to start them when you’re young, then simply adapt them as your body changes. You might feel challenged trying to change your diet or find time in your schedule to exercise – remember that practice makes perfect, so start today!;
, With age come changes in your hormones and metabolism. You will start to lose muscle mass and gain a little more fat overall, which means your body doesn’t burn calories like it used to. The first step to preventing unwanted weight gain is recognizing that you may need to improve your habits just to keep your current shape. Start eating a healthier diet, increase your amount of physical activity, or both.If you have always lived a healthy lifestyle, keep it up! Do not be discouraged if it becomes harder to maintain your fitness and shape over time.
 Surround yourself with friends and family who encourage your goal of maintaining a healthy weight.Include others in your shopping and meal planning and cook healthy meals together. Have a “gym buddy” or “walking partner” and hold each other accountable for getting your exercise. You’ll find it easier to maintain good habits when supportive people are involved.


Help your friends and colleagues avoid middle age spread, too. Set a challenge to all lose weight and keep fit together.
 People who do not get enough sleep tend to snack more and consume more calories.Being sleep-deprived can also affect your mood and energy, making it harder to stay active. Aim to get 7-9 hours of sleep every night.Tips for getting good sleep include:Follow a regular sleep schedule. Go to bed and wake up around the same time each day.
Don’t nap too much during the day.
Avoid caffeine after 4pm, or earlier if you’re sensitive to caffeine.
Use your bedroom only for sleeping to train your brain that “bed” means “sleep.” Don’t watch TV in your bedroom.
Develop a relaxing bedtime routine. Have a warm bath, read a book, give yourself a hand massage, or have a cup of decaf tea.

