 Technically, Ouija can be played alone, but it's best to play with at least one other person. Especially if it's a dark and stormy night.


Two people is ideal. The more people you have, the more hectic it may get (loud, distracting, etc.) and you may confuse the spirits. More than two is fine--just make sure everyone stays calm and respectful.
 Before getting down to the business of contacting "the other side," you may want to get in the mood by dimming the lights, using candles, lighting incense, and burning sage.


Ouija can be all about timing. Sometimes the board is ultra-responsive and sometimes it seems asleep. It's best to try it at night or into the wee hours of the morning.
Remove all distractions. There should be no loud music, noise from the television, or kids running around. A séance requires your undivided attention in order to be successful.
Turn your phones off! Accepting a call in the middle of the conversation interrupts the progress and mood.
 On the original instructions of the game, it says to place the board on the knees of the two participants, with their knees touching. It also says, "Lady and gentleman preferred." So, take it for what it's worth. However, this shouldn't really affect your experience at all.


Working on a clear table or on the floor is fine. So long as everyone can clearly see and keep fingers on the planchette, or pointer.
The participants should be on either side of the board or at the base of it; sometimes the planchette moves fast and the letters need to be quickly processed and sequenced. Viewing the board upside-down could confuse the intended message.
 Sometimes the spirit needs a minute to warm up. You may not get answers right away. Don't give up.


The myths about 'moving the planchette to warm it up' mean nothing. The spirit is the one providing the answers, not the planchette, so slow answers will be nothing to to with the planchette. Some spirits can move the planchette faster than others.
Sometimes the planchette moves very quickly and sometimes it moves very slowly. If getting a message out of your planchette is like waiting for dial-up, don't get angry. Wait it out or close the board and resume a little later.
 If you are speaking to a highly communicative spirit, talk to it! Be friendly. This will encourage him/her to cooperate with you.


You may not get the answers you want. This is not the spirit or the board's fault. Getting angry or violent will just ruin the vibe of the board and the room.
 It's best not to bombard your spirit with questions on the content and length of your next history exam. Start simple, like a normal conversation.


Your first questions should have easy, short answers.

How many spirits are in the room?
Are you a good spirit?
What is your name?



, The last thing you want to do is stay up all night contemplating your imminent death. If you don't want to know the answer to a question, don't ask it. But if you do choose to ask about your future, take note that it will be jokingly. Just like us mortals, spirits can't see the future. They're messing with you if they tell you your sister is going to die in a week.


Don't ask silly or stupid questions. "What did Billy tell his sister about me?" is not something your spirit may want to waste time on. Not to mention how long it would take to spell the answer out!
Don't ask for physical signs. That's just asking for trouble. What's more, those you're communicating with may not be able to follow up. It's best to keep it contained within the Ouija. However, some spirits are ok with asking for proof. It varies.
Don't believe everything the board tells you. If it says you're going to die in the next ten minutes, just don't go running in front of buses. That's you fulfilling the prophecy, not the prophecy being correct.
 Designate one person to ask all the questions. This keeps things simple and prevents the ones on the other side from getting confused.


However, all players should have a say in questions. Take turns thinking up questions, but have the medium address them to the board.
 It should be resting on the "G" space on the board to start.


Ask all players to gently place their index and middle fingers on the planchette. Slowly move the planchette in circles to let the board warm up and concentrate on what you want to ask. Rest your fingers on it firmly but without much force; if you hold it too stiffly, it won't move as easily.
 This could be anything -- a prayer, a welcome, or even trinkets scattered around you.


Have the medium greet the spirits and affirm that only positive energy is welcome.
Line the board with jewels or other relics. If you are seeking to talk to a deceased relative, have something of theirs nearby.
 These should start out simple and progress as you get the feel for that specific session.


If your spirit indicates that he/she is bad, it's best to close the board and resume again later.
If you start getting rude or vulgar responses, do not mirror it with your own rude behavior. But you don't start using vulgar words. And don't shout if you get too scared just say goodbye to the spirits and quit.
 To get the best, most effective results, all players need to clear their minds and focus on the question at hand.


Everyone playing needs to sit seriously and respectfully. If you have a friend who is laughing or encouraging ridiculous questions, kick them out of the room.
As the planchette moves, you may want to have one person serve as the writer. Sometimes responses get quite lengthy and need to be worked out.
 Sometimes this happens quickly and sometimes it happens slowly; once in a while, it doesn't happen it all. But if everyone is focused and attentive, the planchette should slowly take off.


Make sure no player is dominating the planchette. If they are clearly the reason it's moving, they shouldn't be playing the game. Each player should have the same amount of weight distributed on the pointer.
 If the planchette starts doing "figure eights," or counting down from Z to A, or counting down from 9 to 0, end the séance by moving to goodbye. Any of these 3 things happening indicates that the spirit is trying to escape from the board. It's very important to tell the spirits goodbye. You would hate to be left all of a sudden, wouldn't you?


Have the medium state that it is time to finish the séance and sweep the planchette over the 'GOODBYE' symbol on the board.

Of course, if you enjoyed the time with your spirit, say, "Goodbye!" and wait for the planchette to move to "Goodbye" in turn.


Before you box your board up, rub it with a soft, dry cloth. This keeps it clean and prevents dust and moisture from building up.

