 Both vegetarian cookbooks and online sites devoted to vegetarian recipes will provide you with lots of great inspiration. Vegetarian dining is a great way to try lots of new foods that you may not have thought about before. In some places, there are vegetarian fairs or festivals that you can attend and try all sorts of different new foods.


If you really like a particular dish at a vegetarian restaurant, ask for the recipe. If they're willing to share it with you, it might become a regular favorite dish at home.
Ask your vegetarian friends to share their favorite recipes with you.
 You'll find a wide variety of vegetarian food available once you start searching for it specifically in grocery stores, health food stores, and farmer's markets. When you stop putting meat in your shopping basket, a new world of possibilities opens up. Try the following foods:


Look for unique fruits and vegetables such as starfruit, pomegranate, grapefruit and other less well known foods.
Quorn is a fantastic meal choice, quick to cook and full of protein. It comes in different varieties of meat free meat dishes. It should be available in most supermarkets.
Look in your grain aisle for new grains like orzo, quinoa, couscous, barley, millet, alfalfa and others. They are all delicious.
You'll also find that most supermarkets carry interesting faux meat foods, like veggie dogs, veggie burgers, vegan faux chicken, and veggie riblets. Not every vegetarian likes these meat analogs; for some vegetarians the flavor is a little too meaty, or the texture is undesirable. But it's worth trying a few to see whether you like the taste and texture, as these additional foods open up many more possibilities.
Try tofu, tempeh and seitan. These can be cooked in many different ways and can be used as a substitute for meat in a lot of conventional recipes. They're usually cheaper than meat analog products too, as they don't have to be shaped into anything and they don't have other ingredients added to them.
 Many additives, thickeners and the like are not vegetarian (such as gelatin). You'll need to know which ingredients in foods to avoid and to remember them when out shopping. Carrying a small card with numbers and names of additives to avoid can help when you're starting out. If in doubt, don't purchase an item until you've done the research on its ingredients.
 Make sure that you're still getting enough vitamin B12, calcium, protein, and other vitamins and minerals that come primarily from meat. It may help to take vitamins and calcium tablets if you don't already, but aim to get most of your nutrition from good quality food.


If you're still eating dairy products and eggs, B12 deficiency will be less of a problem. Vegans may need to take a daily supplement to ensure adequate levels of B12.If you notice that your sense of smell is weaker, take more vitamin B12.
Note that many people will ask you where you get enough protein from and where you get energy from. It can be helpful to remind such people that most edible food contains protein; there is a misunderstanding that only meat and eggs are a viable source of protein. Moreover, most plant foods contain the essential amino acids in varying amounts, so combining say, rice and beans during the same day, will help achieve the right balance.Some plant foods contain all of the essential amino acids, such as soy products.Be aware that simply dropping meat and relying solely on eating processed food, sugary snacks and fast food is as unhealthy a diet as it is possible to have. A vegetarian who lives off such foods and never bothers to cook fresh meals with vegetables, grains and beans, etc., will not fare well in the health stakes and it is likely that such a person would be nutritionally deficient.
 This practice keeps the prices down and the vitamins up; the fresher the vegetable or fruit, the healthier it will be.


Keep a recipe book of your own that follows the seasons. This will help you to make the most of the glut of pumpkins or cherries when they arrive!
Whether to go organic or not is something you should consider. Read about the issues behind "conventional" versus organic food. Where organic food is more expensive, it can be helpful to focus most on the top suggested foods that are best consumed organic, as these foods tend to have the most pesticide residue issues.
As much as possible, grow your own food. Nothing beats fresh garden-harvested vegetables for taste and nutrition. Even a kitchen windowsill garden will improve your access to fresh food like lettuce, tiny tomatoes and herbs.

