 Making a crocheted doily lampshade is easy, even though the finished project will look like a work of art. The process you will use is called paper mache, which is when you dip paper into glue and layer it over a form such as a balloon. The only difference is that you will be using crocheted doilies instead of paper to create your lampshade. Before you can get started, you will need to:Create or gather your doilies. You will need several doilies to create a large paper mache lampshade, or just a few doilies to create a small paper mache lampshade. If you already have some, then you can just use these. If not, then crochet some doilies to use for your paper mache lampshade.
Protect your surfaces and clothes. Paper mache can be messy. Make sure that you place some newspaper or plastic down over the area where you will be creating your paper mache lampshade. You may also want to put on an old t-shirt or apron to protect your clothes.
Blow up a balloon. Next, you will need to blow up a balloon to the desired size of your lampshade. You can inflate the balloon fully if you want a large lampshade, or just inflate it partway for a small or medium sized lampshade. Tie off the balloon after you have inflated it. You can also tie a piece of string to the balloon and to suspend it in the air while you work on it. For example, you could tie the string to a ceiling fan (turned off, of course) or tie it your shower rod.
 Pour ¾ of a cup of plain white glue into a bowl and add ¼ cup of water.Stir the mixture until the glue and water are well combined. Then, begin dipping your doilies into the glue and water mixture one at a time.


Make sure that you have enough glue to dip the doilies into. You may need to use a couple of containers if you are trying to make more than one lampshade or a large lampshade.
Saturate each doily completely with the glue and water mixture.
 Begin layering the doilies over the balloon one at a time immediately after you have coated them in glue.The doilies should overlap slightly on the edges so that they will bind together and form the lampshade. Arrange the doilies on the balloon in whatever way is most pleasing to you.


Make sure to leave an opening for the lightbulb to fit through the lampshade if you are going to create a hanging lamp. You can use the tied-off end on the balloon as a guide for this opening. However, you may also want to measure the light fixture that you are using to ensure a good fit.
Another option is to place the doily lampshade over the top of a lamp in place of a normal lampshade. If you decide to do this, check the top of the lampshade to determine the size of the opening on the top of your lampshade.
You can even cover the entire balloon except for a small opening on the top.This will result in a round lampshade that you can use with a light fixture and hang from the ceiling. If you go this route, then make sure the opening is large enough to fit the lightbulb into. You will need to criss-cross a few pieces of string over the top of your doily lampshade to secure the light fixture piece in place.
 Leave your doilies on the balloon overnight so that they can dry completely. Place the balloon somewhere that will be protected from pets and children. After the doilies have dried completely, you can deflate the balloon by sticking a pin in the end.Gently pull the balloon away from the doilies.
After the doilies are dry and your balloon is deflated, your lampshade is ready to use!

