 You will need to join a gym to get access to all this equipment. If you really don't want to pay the price, skip the section about curls. In fact, just use something heavy in place of weights such as a shopping bag full of potatoes, make sure it's not too heavy though.
 This means drinking more water, eating more lean protein and fiber, and making more time to engage in vigorous, fat-burning exercise. Sleeping well is also important, because it keeps your body healthy and facilitates muscle growth. With that, read on for specific exercises that target your biceps.
 These are the best exercises for biceps. There are hundreds of different kinds of curls, each used to help work out a specific part of the body. Curls are done with dumbbells and barbells. Some of these are listed below:


Basic Biceps Curl. The standard biceps curl targets the whole muscle. Start by holding the barbell or dumbbell in your hands with your arms facing down. Keep your elbows straight and held in tight to your sides. Exhale as you bring the bar to the chest until your biceps are fully contracted. Then inhale as you lower it (don't drop it, do it slowly.) Repeat.
Concentration Curl. This curl targets the upper biceps. Sit down on a chair or bench with a dumbbell in one of your hands. Lean forward slightly and place your triceps (back of the arm) on the inside of your thigh. Inhale as your lower, and exhale as your bring it up to your shoulder. Switch to other arm.
Hammer Curl. The hammer curl targets the lower bicep. Hold a dumbbell in each hand with your palms facing your leg. Exhale as your bring your forearm up until it touches your biceps. Inhale as you lower, keeping the elbows close to the body.
Body Drag Curls. In a standing barbell curl position, slide the bar upward against your body until it reaches your mid-chest level - about as high as you'll be able to move it without cheating it up - then lower the bar the same way, making sure it does not lose contact with your torso. Your elbows will move backward and your shoulders cannot assist in the movement.
Reverse Curls. Start by holding a dumbbell in each hand with your palm facing behind you, the top of your hand facing forward. In one swift movement, bring the dumbbell up at the same time as turning it. You should end up with your arm in the basic bicep curl position. Lower and repeat. This is a great exercise for both biceps and forearms.
Preacher curls. Preacher curls target most of bicep and help in increasing strength. Start by taking a barbell or a pair of dumbbells and rest your arms on the pad and press your chest against it. Curl the weight slowly and bring it back down. The preacher pad isolates your biceps as well. When doing these curls keep the bar right at the middle, not at the bottom or top. Then you will get really strong.

