 You and your spouse should plan to take a mini vacation every few months. Take one night where you go camping, get a hotel room, or stay in a bed and breakfast just the two of you. This will help give the two of you some much needed private time to work on physical and emotional intimacy.You should try to spend a weekend away at least a couple of times each year.
If you can’t afford to go away, you can get grandparents or family friends to keep your children for one night so you and your spouse can have your romantic getaway at home.
 Physical intimacy is just as important as emotional intimacy. Sometimes, increasing physical intimacy can help to develop and nurture emotional intimacy. Though it may seem impossible to find time for sex, schedule time for this throughout the week.For example, you may go to bed early or get up early to have sex. You may decide to use the time while the kids are at practice or right after they leave for school to be together.
While being together may not seem romantic if it is scheduled, busy adults don’t always have time for spontaneous romance. Making time to be together, touching each other, and engaging in foreplay will help you not worry about whether it was spontaneous or not.
Try leaving a sexy note on your spouse's pillow, or send a text message to schedule in some intimate time.
 Another way to increase intimacy is to do small things throughout the day that will surprise your spouse and make them feel good. These small things usually take a few seconds to a few minutes and lets your spouse know you are thinking about them.For example, you might send them a text that says, “I love you” or “I miss you.” You can cook dinner if you normally don’t, do the dishes, or wash a few loads of clothes.
 Couples have different interests and friends, and this is perfectly fine. However, if you are trying to build intimacy, you may want to start including your spouse in things you like to do. Ask them to come along with you, to go out with your friends, or to try out an activity you enjoy.For example, if you enjoy fishing, ask your spouse to come with you. Even if they don’t fish, they can sit with you and you can talk, or they can read a book and you can enjoy being together. If you like to be active, you may ask your spouse to go hiking with you or to play a sport at the park.
If you go out with your friends to watch a game or for a weekly taco night, invite your spouse to come along.
 If you are struggling in your time together to find things to talk about or feeling comfortable around one another, work on getting out of your rut. Try to do something new together. It can be anything, as long as you are doing it together.For example, you may try taking a cooking or painting class, learning a skill like a foreign language or sewing, or going to play trivia. The idea is to do something together that will increase your communication and intimacy.

