 Fun fur is a bulky weight yarn classified under weight category five. As such, the yarn is fairly thick and will create heavier, bulkier work.Fun fur comes in a variety of color options. You can find it in solid colors, striped colors, or patterned colors.
As for gauge, a 4-inch (10 cm) square of fun fur yarn will consist of 14 rows, each containing 12 single crochets, when you use a size K-10.5 (6.5 mm) hook.
Fun fur yarn is also called eyelash yarn, furrish yarn, fuzzy yarn, and boa yarn.;
, As a bulky yarn, fun fur should be worked using a larger size hook. The smallest hook you use should be size J-10 (6 mm), but you can use hooks as large as size P (15 mm).Larger hook sizes will produce larger stitches. Larger stitches will be easier to see. They will also prevent the final work from being too dense and heavy.
When following a pattern, it is best to use the hook size recommended in the pattern. When no hook size is mentioned, choose one within this range.
 Furry yarn can be used to create a wide range of projects. When starting out, it's best to find a crochet pattern that specifically calls for furry yarn instead of trying to adapt a pattern that calls for a different style of yarn.


Fun fur yarn is commonly used to create full scarves, hats, ad handbags. It can also be used to add a furry trim to sweaters, hats, boots, and gloves.
You can find fun fur patterns for things like pillows, wreaths, and stuffed animals, too.
 When you work stitches using fun fur yarn, try to keep them fairly loose and relaxed. Do not make the stitches too tight.


Loose stitches are easier to see and will create a lighter finished work.
In addition, the little pieces of "fuzz" coming off the strand are more likely to get tangled in your stitches if those stitches are tight. Loose stitches will help the project remain neat and tidy.
 No matter how skilled you are with standard worsted weight yarn, you should take your time and work more slowly when you're getting started with fun fur.


Going at a slow pace will prevent you from accidentally yanking the yarn and getting the pieces of fuzz tangled together.
 Regardless of whether or not you use stitch markers when you work with worsted weight yarn, you must use stitch markers when you use fun fur yarn. The rows and rounds can be too difficult to see otherwise.


For normal projects with normal yarns, you would usually place a stitch marker at the end of each round or row.
For fun fur projects, however, you should divide the round or row into quarters and place markers at the end of each quarter. Work one-quarter of the stitch count instructed for each row/round in between the stitch markers.
Using stitch markers more frequently can make it easier to keep an accurate count of your stitches.
 If you make a mistake and need to unravel some of your work, you need to do so slowly, working one stitch at a time.Unraveling the yarn too quickly will cause it to tangle.
Hold onto the previous stitch with one hand while unraveling the current stitch with your other hand.
If some of the previous stitches do get tangled as you unravel a current one, carefully wiggle the current stitch in the opposite direction. Doing so should loosen the partially unraveled stitch and free the trapped fibers of the other stitch.
 While not strictly necessary, it is strongly recommended that you work your first few fun fur projects using a light color fur.


Stitches created with light colors are easier to see than those created with dark colors.
 Work in an area that offers plenty of light and avoid working in shadows. The excess light should make it easier to view the stitches.


Bright light is especially important when you do need to work with darker colors.
 If you still have a hard time seeing the stitches as you work with fun fur, hold a strand of worsted weight yarn together with the fun fur as you crochet.For best results, use a lightweight worsted yarn.
You'll be crocheting stitches using both the fun fur and the worsted weight yarn. Because of this, you will need a larger hook than the one called for in the pattern. Increase the hook by one or two sizes.
The fibers of the furry yarn should mask the appearance of the worsted weight yarn beneath. Just in case, though, try to match the colors of the two yarns as closely as possible.
 When working one stitch into a previous stitch, work it into the back loops of that stitch without touching the front loops.


Doing this makes it easier to see where you are supposed to insert the hook.
This trick also allows you to count the number of rounds you've completed if you get lost. Turn the work inside out and count the number of excess rings. There should be one excess ring per completed round.
Note that this trick will work best if you are using a pattern that specifically instructs you to work in the back loops only, but you can still try it with patterns that instruct otherwise. Just be aware of the fact that the final work may look slightly different from the work pictured with the pattern instructions.
 Try working along the inside rim of the yarn strand when you crochet with fun fur. Doing so will keep the outside of the work fuzzy and will prevent you from needing to turn the work inside out before stuffing or finishing it.


Turn the piece so that the crochet hook is at the side opposite you. As you insert the hook, do so by sliding it from the middle toward the outside.
If crocheting in this method seems too difficult, you could still stick with your standard technique. Know that any single-sided work (hats, stuffed animals, etc.) will need to be turned right-side out before you finish it, though.
 For this pattern, you will need three to four balls of furry yarn in any color you choose.


A size J-10 (6 mm) crochet hook is recommended.
You will also need to large-eyed blunt yarn needle and scissors.
 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slipknot.


To make a slip knot:

Create a loop with the loose end of the yarn.
Pull yarn from the attached end of the ball through the loop, creating a second loop in the process.
Insert the hook into the second loop and tighten that second loop until it lies snug against the hook.



Note that the foundation row does not count as the first row.
To make a chain stitch:

Grab the attached side of the yarn with your hook.
Pull the yarn through the loop on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Work one double crochet into the fourth chain stitch currently from the hook.


This stitch starts the beginning of the first official row.
The three stitches you skipped will form an edge along this side of the work. This edge will count as one double crochet stitch when you do a final stitch count at the end of the row.
To double crochet:

Yarn over the hook.
Insert your hook into the stitch.
Yarn over the hook again.
Pull the yarn-over back through to the front of the stitch.
Yarn over the hook again and draw this yarn-over through the first two loops on the hook.
Yarn over the hook once more and draw it through the last two loops on your hook, completing one double crochet stitch.
 Work one double crochet into each of the remaining stitches in the foundation chain.


You should be able to count 16 stitches at the end of this first row (including the three-chain stitch at the beginning of the row).
 Turn the work over to the other side and work a turning chain of three chain stitches.


This turning chain will count as the first double crochet stitch of the second row.
 Double crochet once into the top of each stitch in the first row.


Including the turning chain, you should count 16 stitches at the end of the second row.
 Continue working rows of double crochet in the same manner until the scarf reaches a length of 40 inches (101.5 cm), or the length you desire.


Turn the work over at the end of each row.
Make a turning chain of three chain stitches when beginning the next row.
Double crochet once into each stitch until you reach the end of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie off the yarn.


Use a yarn needle to weave the remaining tail into the stitches along the underside of the scarf, thereby hiding and securing the end.

