 If you decide to buy putty instead of making your own, buy name brand Silly Putty or its off-brand equivalent. Silly Putty can be found at craft stores. Instructions for making silly putty are as follows:To make silly putty, you'll need Elmer's Glue-All Multipurpose Glue, Sta-Flo concentrated liquid starch, a measuring cup, a spoon, and a mixing bowl.
Pour the glue into a mixing bowl. The more glue, the more silly putty. Keep track of how much you put in. For example, if you've got a 4 ounce bottle of glue, maybe you'll want to put in half, giving you 2 ounces of glue in the bowl.
Use your measuring cup to measure out as much liquid starch as the amount of glue you used. Then pour that liquid starch into the bowl with the glue.
Use a spoon to mix and stir together the starch and glue in the bowl. Let it sit for 5 minutes.
After 5 minutes, take the putty out of the bowl. Knead the putty with your hands for 5 to 10 minutes to make sure there are no inconsistencies in the mix.;
, You can find iron oxide shavings at an art supply store., Use your hands to knead the putty until it's a little softer. Stretch it into a flat shape. You can also use a rolling pin to make it stretch further.Do this on a disposable surface, like newspaper or a paper plate.
 You don't want to be breathing any of the iron oxide. Also, pop on some rubber or latex gloves to save your hands from getting dirty from handling the iron oxide., Silly Putty often comes in 0.8 ounce containers. For this much putty, a tablespoon of iron oxide should do. More iron oxide will make it more magnetic, but too much will be hard to work into the putty. You can always add more later if you desire.As a rule of thumb, for every ounce of silly putty, a tablespoon of iron oxide should be used. So if you made your own silly putty and used 2 ounces of glue and 2 ounces of starch, you have 4 ounces of putty, so 4 tablespoons of iron oxide should be use.
 Pour a tablespoon of iron oxide shavings across the stretched out putty. The iron oxide should go onto the center of the putty., Fold the putty up and then flatten it out again. Keep kneading until it is black all throughout.Just keep squishing together the putty with the iron oxide in it. As you do, the iron oxide will become evenly spread throughout the putty. After the putty loses all its color due to the iron oxide, keep massaging and squishing the putty for 3-4 minutes.
 Be aware that normal magnets aren't likely to be strong enough. You might want to use rare earth magnets like neodymium to work with this putty.You can always add more iron oxide if the magnetic putty isn't reacting enough with magnets. Just sprinkle more iron oxide shavings into the putty and knead and squish it again.
The stronger the magnet, the better it will react with the magnetic putty, and the more iron oxide you put in the putty, the better it will react with magnets.

