 It is well documented that meat production is environmentally troubling in several ways.



Greenhouse gas emissions. A UN report determined that meat production accounts for 18% of global greenhouse gas emissions, primarily methane released from livestock agriculture.Methane is a particularly problematic greenhouse gas because its impact on climate change is more than 20 times that of carbon dioxide.Deforestation. The expansion of pastures for livestock, and particularly cattle-ranching, accounts for 80% of the overall deforestation of the Amazon Rainforest.This has serious ecological consequences like loss of biodiversity, soil degradation and increased carbon dioxide emissions.Pollutants. Giant livestock farms housing high volumes of pigs, cows, or chickens can generate a massive amount of waste equivalent to that of a small city. These farms have been linked to high levels of nitrates in drinking water which can increase the risk of methemoglobinemia or "blue-baby syndrome.", While one person's decision to stop eating meat will not have a direct impact on the meat industry, taken as a whole, the current meat production system is deeply unsustainable. Not eating meat can be a positive choice not to support this system.


Intensive animal farming uses up resources faster than they can be replaced. For example, meat production has a considerably lower energy return ratio (food energy per fossil energy expended) than food plant crops.This mode of agriculture has consequences for both the treatment of animals and the health of humans. On meat farms, the animals are often closely packed together, without access to fresh air and are bred to grow unnaturally fast and large for the purposes of maximizing meat.In these conditions diseases spread quickly. Antibiotics are used widely, which can in turn enter the food chain and promote antibiotic resistance in humans., Raising an animal for slaughter requires considerably more grain, water, and land than simply growing grains and vegetables for direct human consumption.


Given the current situation of food insecurity and the estimated 795 million of the world's population who are undernourished,some ecologists believe that the increased yield of grain could be enough to save millions of people from starvation each year.