 Decide if you’d prefer to be in an explicitly dating-oriented relationship, as opposed to a long term, deeply-committed relationship. Your ideal partner for each of these scenarios will slightly differ.


If you’re seeing someone, talk with your partner about the type of relationship you each want. This may lead to productive growth between you, or important conversations about different perspectives that you should both be aware of.
 Continue to pursue activities that interest you independently when you’re seeing someone. Pursue activities together in which you each have independent interests. Allow one another the freedom to pursue personal interests. Counter-intuitively, this will diminish the potentially detrimental effects of inevitable differences between your individual identities.


If you’re both working towards bettering your own happiness, and support one another in doing so, you’ll likely enjoy a happy relationship together.
Vocalize the fact that you’re glad that you’re both comfortable with having separate interests.
Enjoy one another’s self-contentment. Let the relationship you share together validate who each of you are as individuals. A romantic relationship will provide a shared sense of satisfaction if it empowers both of you to be even happier because you’re together.
 An ideal partnership will only last if you can easily relate to one another, and continue to be comfortable together. Recognize the value of spending time with those who seems to grasp and appreciate your approach to everyday life. This sort of natural compatibility supersedes any specific features that you may overinflate – either positively or negatively – in a relationship that lacks this unspoken admiration for one another’s way of living.Tell your partner that you’re immeasurably happy to be a part of their life, and that you’re equally thrilled that they’re a part of yours.
 This is harder (and much less cheesy) than it sounds. Profound romantic connection is an incredibly exciting experience. It requires physical attraction, intellectual admiration, and an often inexplicable contentment in one another’s presence.Be fully conscious of the way you feel while you’re developing a healthy, mutually-fulfilling romantic bond. There are few experiences in life that compare to sharing a partnership that empowers and enables two people to love each other completely. This will be most evident in unexpected moments of nonsensical joy. Enjoy them!

