 Before trying any type of alternative medicine for your arthritis, visit your doctor. They can help you figure out which alternative therapies are best for your health.Tell your doctor which treatments you’ve considered and ask if there are others that may ease your symptoms. Recognize that many alternative medicine treatments for arthritis are controversial within the professional medical community.;
, Taking herbal supplements can ease symptoms of arthritis including inflammation and pain. Some may also increase your mobility.Purchase herbal supplements from a quality and reputable manufacturer to ensure their safety. Organizations such as the National Institutes of Health and Arthritis Foundation have information on specific supplements at their websites.Follow dosing instructions given by your doctor or the product packaging. Common herbal supplements for arthritis include:Devil’s claw
Boswellia
Rosehip.
Black currant oilBromelain
Evening primrose
Stinging nettle

, Omega-3 and Gamma-Linolenic Acid are two of the types of fatty acids that can ease arthritis. They have anti-inflammatory properties and can minimize pain, stiffness, and swelling.Most fatty acids come as caplets or oils. Follow dosing instructions given by your doctor or the product packaging. Some of the most common fatty acids for arthritis include:Gamma-Linolenic Acid (GLA)
Black Currant Oil
Borage Oil
Fish oil
Green lipped mussel
Flaxseed oil, Two substances found in human joint tissue are glucosamine and chondroitin. Made into a supplement from natural shellfish, glucosamine and chondroitin can relieve inflammation and other symptoms of arthritis.Follow your doctor or pharmacist’s instructions for taking glucosamine and chondroitin.
Be aware that glucosamine and chondroitin may not be suitable for individuals with asthma, diabetes, blood clotting disorders, or shellfish allergies. You may also have abdominal discomfort when taking glucosamine and chondroitin.
 Though many supplements come in pill form, you can also find herbs, vitamins, and minerals in the form of foods such as flaxseed and ginger.Adding certain foods to your diet can reduce inflammation, stiffness, and pain.Season dishes with turmeric and ginger to reduce pain, stiffness, and inflammation.Sprinkle whole or ground flaxseeds on to cereal, yogurt or even soups.You can also sprinkle rose hips powder on similar dishes to ease your arthritis., Capsaicin is the compound in chili peppers that makes them hot. But it can also ease the pain of arthritis. You apply capsaicin three times per day as a topical cream, gel, or patch.Be aware that capsaicin can cause burning and irritation. Avoid applying it on sensitive skin or near your eyes.

