 They should be a healthy pink color like our own. An anemic animal has pale pink or even white gums. The gums can also be pale because of shock, but in this situation regardless of whether the cause is anemia or shock, get the cat seen by a vet.


Given a recent history of trauma, pale gums are a sign the cat need supportive care such as intravenous fluids.;
, Each red blood cell lives for up to 100 days, and unless the animal experiences rapid blood loss (trauma), it is common for anemia to develop slowly when cells die but aren't replaced. The bone marrow is the factory that makes red blood cells and in older cats, the active bone marrow slowly gets replaced with non-functional scar tissue. Thus the body's ability to make new cells slowly dwindles.


The other side of the coin is the red blood cells, and just like every cell in the body it has a natural lifespan programmed in. It is inevitable that over time these red blood cells are recognized as "old" by the spleen and destroyed.
 In the early stages there are few symptoms, and indeed the slow decrease in numbers of red blood cells gives the body time to adapt to less oxygen, which means the signs of anemia are masked for even longer. Only when the anemia is quite severe will that cat start to show signs. These include:


Low energy levels (sleeping more!)
General weakness
Lethargy. This might show itself as the cat who used to greet you, no longer getting up when you come home The hunter who spent all day in the fields may stay home asleep, or the cat who groomed obsessively no longer bothering to take care of his coat - the signs can be very subtle.
Cats with anemia often have a poor appetite, so eating loss and weight loss (although general signs) should be noted.
 It is also likely that the cat has an underlying health issue which is causing the anemia. You are more likely to spot signs of this causative disease, than the anemia. Some of the most common diseases which can cause anemia are:


Kidney Disease: Increased thirst, wetting more often, vomiting, poor appetite.
Cancer, especially of the bowel: Vomiting, diarrhea, blood in the feces, weight loss, poor appetite, increased thirst, low energy levels
Gastric Ulcers: Recent history of NSAID medication (such as metacam), vomiting, vomit sometimes containing blood
External parasites: Presence of lice or fleas in the fur, itchiness. If the cat is otherwise well, killing the parasites removes the cause of the anemia. Provided the bone marrow is functioning and pushing out replacement red blood cells, within 2-3 weeks the cat should be feeling much stronger. Unless the cat was dangerously anemic, in which case he would be weak, listless, and poorly, a vet is unlikely to give a blood transfusion if the initial problem is identified and addressed.
 Unfortunately, problems such as bone marrow disease are largely "silent" - that is they don't show signs other than a decreased product of red blood cells.


Also, some conditions such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia (where the body's immune system destroys it's own red blood cells in a case of mistaken identity) the deterioration can happen within a few days.
However, very rapid hemolysis (breaking down of red blood cells) can flood the plasma with hemoglobin products which have a yellow tinge. The latter will color the urine bright orange and cause the oral membranes and whites of the eye to be jaundiced (bright yellow).

