 If your child has not been to the doctor’s in some time, remind them of why the checkup is important. Say, “Before returning to school, you need a back to school checkup. It will help you stay healthy and strong.”, If your child is relatively young (age eight or below), you might try role-playing with your child. For instance, you might take the role of doctor to show your child what the back to school checkup will be like. You might say to your child, “Okay, now open your mouth” and peer inside your child’s mouth. You might give your child a gentle squeeze around their arm and explain, “This is what it’s like to have a blood pressure cuff on.”Look for children’s books of an appropriate age level for your child that deal with going to the doctor. Read the book with your child to help them learn more about back to school checkups.
Encourage your child to ask you questions about the doctor’s office and the checkup before you go.
Encourage your child to ask questions of the doctor when they are getting the checkup.
 If your child is young, they might worry about going for the back to school checkup. After telling your young child that they will soon be going to a back to school checkup, ask them how it makes them feel. With luck, the young child will reply, “happy” or “excited.” However, if your young child says they are afraid of the checkup and not looking forward to it, allay your child’s fearsLet your child know that you will remain with them throughout the checkup. This will free them from worrying about separation.
If you know your child will need to get a shot (vaccination, flu shot, or a similar procedure involving a sharp needle) tell your child that the shot will only sting a little, and that there is no need to worry about it. Remind the child that they are very brave and will have no trouble managing a shot, should it be necessary.
Always talk about the doctor and the back to school checkup in a positive way to put the child’s mind at ease.
If your child is older – say, a tween – they will probably not have anxieties about the purpose of back to school checkups. In this case, just listen to your child attentively and address any concerns related to the checkup they might bring to you, such as scheduling conflicts, what parts of their body will be examined, and how long the process will take., A good doctor for your child will not only be knowledgeable and thorough, but also friendly, interested, and sympathetic toward your child. If your child’s doctor seems aloof and does not relate well to your child, your child might find getting a back to school checkup (and future doctor visits) an unpleasant chore.Don’t be afraid to change your child’s doctor if you believe your child could be getting better care.
If you’re going to a new doctor, it can be hard to determine whether or not the doctor and the child will have a good relationship. In this case, you could ask friends for recommendations or read online reviews.
Most importantly, though, pay attention to the doctor’s interaction with your child during the back to school checkup. Use it as test run to determine if the doctor is worth returning to again for next year’s back to school checkup.

