 Fluorescent lighting can contribute to the triggering of migraines in those who are particularly sensitive to light. If you suffer from migraines and think the fluorescent lights in your office or at home are part of the problem, the first thing you should do is ensure that they are fitted with the correct diffuser. A diffuser works to make the light emitted imitate natural light as much as possible.

These diffusers are relatively inexpensive, costing anywhere between $10 and $50, and are easily available online or at your local hardware store.
If you are in an office, speak to your boss about the problem and ask him or her about getting a diffuser installed.;
, An alternative to a diffuser is to install a filter between the fluorescent bulb and you. The filter can help alter the light that reaches you by filtering out certain elements. Research has shown that blue filters in particular can relieve the symptoms of migraine sufferers., If it is not possible to attach a filter to the source of the light, an alternative way to achieve a similar result is to wear specially designed glasses. There are glasses available which filter red and blue light. These can ease your symptoms and even help prevent migraine attacks. Speak to your doctor about these devices. They are available in a number of different frame styles, and as clip ons for your ordinary glasses.
 Flickering lights can trigger a migraine for some people, so if the fluorescent light is flickering be sure to fix this and switch off the light in the meantime. Fluorescent lights should be properly maintained in order to prevent flickering, but if you have a problem, raise it with whoever is responsible for maintaining the lighting in your office.However, just because you cannot see flicker does not mean that the fluorescent is not flickering. Normally operating fluorescents with older-style ballasts will flicker at twice the line frequency, or 120 Hertz; this is not perceived as flickering, but can still cause headaches in some people.
Light dimmers cause significant flicker because they "dim" the light by rapidly switching it on and off. TV and computer screens also flicker.
Fluorescent lights are not as straightforward to change as ordinary light bulbs, and a flickering light normally indicates that you need to change the ballast.
Replacing a ballast is not that expensive (though it may be cheaper and more economic in the long-term to buy a new fitting). You should look for a modern electronic ballast made by GE or Philips; these can be obtained for around $25 at Home Depot or Lowes, and may need appropriate fluorescent tubes. These electronic ballasts will flicker at 20,000 Hertz, too fast to cause trouble for humans. Most large organizations have a person who maintains fluorescent lights and can replace ballasts, or it can be done by a home handyman/handywoman or electrician. , Particularly bright lights can contribute to migraine symptoms, so one simple way to lower this risk is to reduce the amount of fluorescent lighting in the room. The way most straightforward ways to do this are by removing some of the bulbs from the overhead fluorescent lights, or just turning off some of the lights. This won't always be feasible in an office or work environment, but investigate the possibilities.

If you do reduce the amount of light, ensure that there is enough to work with and you do not risk straining your eyes.
Consider using floor or desk lamps to light your office with softer, less intense light.
 Even after adjusting the settings on your monitor to reduce glare and intensity, you may find that the screen still reflects the glare of the fluorescent lighting. Reflected light from the overhead fluorescent lights and from windows and doors can contribute to a developing migraine. Put a filter over your screen to reduce the glare from other lighting sources.