 It's normal for autistic people to stim or attach themselves to certain objects or subject matters. Don't teach your child that it's wrong to stim or enjoy special interests, because it stunts their emotional growth and makes them feel ashamed and afraid to show their true selves.


Special interests can help build confidence and expertise. They may even turn into a great career someday.
 Many autistic children thrive when they have a regular, predictable routine. Knowing when they will eat, play, learn, and sleep makes the day less frightening, overwhelming, and unpredictable. This helps relieve anxiety and the meltdowns that can follow it.


Implementing a new routine can be difficult, so be patient. It will take some time for your child to understand the routine and realize that it will remain the same or similar every day. Explain the routine to your child, and use a picture schedule to help him/her predict events. Your persistence will pay off – once the routine feels natural and internalized, your child will feel better.
 Keep this play relaxed and child-directed, and let your child play as he or she wants to play – even if this play is somewhat unusual or repetitive. For example, if your child likes buttons, give him or her a handful of them to play with, and join in if possible.
 Some autistic children respond very well to music. If you notice a lot of anxious behavior, try playing something soft and pleasant. Doing so may help your child relax.
 Incorporating a brief massage into your child’s daily routine may help promote relaxation. This massage doesn’t have to be professional – you can perform it yourself!

, If your child feels chastised or attacked, he or she will likely retreat to a solitary world. Therefore, it’s best to stay warm, kind, and positive, even if you feel frustrated. When chiding your child, remain compassionate and reassuring, giving your child time to calm down afterwards.
 Tell your child that he or she is just as important as other members of the family, and follow through on your words by treating your child with love, respect, and generosity. When children feel secure, they are less likely to need the rigid and repetitive habits.

