 Spend some time familiarizing yourself with the bodily processes behind menstruation. Many women feel more comfortable with their first period if they understand why menstruation occurs.


Your menstrual cycle is a bodily process that begins in puberty, when you reach sexual maturity. Each month, your body prepares you for possible pregnancy. The walls of your uterus thicken with extra blood and tissue and your ovaries release an egg.The egg will move down one of your two fallopian tubes into the uterus. If fertilized, the egg will remain in the uterus and grow into a fetus. If this does not occur, the lining of the uterus breaks down and bleeding occurs. This is what is referred to as your monthly period.;
, Not all women begin menstruation around the same time. While the average age is 12, some girls start as late as 16 and others as early as 8. There are some ways you can get a sense of when you may expect your period.Other signs of puberty may give you a sense of when to expect your first period. Most girls have their period about 2 to 2 and a half years after they start to develop breasts.If you're getting close to having your period, you may notice a thin, white discharge coming from your vagina. This usually happens around 6 months before your first period.If you have an eating disorder, such as anorexia nervosa, your period may be delayed due to hormonal changes that occur in the body under physical stress.
 Periods are not usually painful. However, some women do experience physical symptoms before and during their period. You may have some emotional side effects, such as mood swings, as well.


Just before and during your period, you may experience cramping in the lower abdomen as well as breast tenderness. Due to hormonal changes, some women may also experience changes in mood. You may be more irritable during your period or you may experience mild sadness. You might notice you cry easier before and during your period.Over the counter painkillers like ibuprofen can be used to treat cramping and physical symptoms. Exercising regularly, even during your period, can help regulate your mood., When you first start getting your period, it may only last a few days. Bleeding may be inconsistent or very light. On average, periods last between 2 and 7 days., A great way to prepare for your period is to make a period kit. This is a kit that contains all necessary supplies for your period. In the event you start your period, you'll have your kit ready to go.


In a small, discreet bag place feminine products. Most girls prefer to use pads when first starting to menstruate. You can purchase pads at a local supermarket or drug store. If you're not comfortable buying pads alone, have an older female relative take you shopping. She can give you recommendations. You may need heavier pads when first starting your period.
You should also keep some over-the-counter painkillers in your kit. This will be helpful in the event of cramping.
A clean pair of underwear can also be helpful. If you have your period unexpectedly, you might need a change of underwear.
It might be a good idea to have two period kits: one that you keep at school and one that you keep at home.
 Many girls are nervous to use tampons when first starting their period. It's okay if you want to use pads at first. However, be aware that tampons are perfectly safe when used properly.


If you are very active, it might make sense to use tampons. Tampons are easier to use for exercise and sports.Understand a tampon cannot get lost inside of you. It is physically impossible for your tampon to go into your uterus. In the event a string breaks off a tampon, it's fairly easy to fish the tampon out.Tampons must be changed every 4 hours, however. This is to prevent infection., On occasion, you may have to ask another girl in your class for supplies. Keep in mind all women have been in this predicament. You should not be embarrassed to reach out to female classmates. Be aware of which of your female friends have already had your period. This way, you'll know who to ask., When you get your first period, you'll likely want to tell your parents. This is so they can help you purchase supplies and answer any questions you might have. Talking to your parents about menstruation can be awkward but you can avoid embarrassment by choosing a method that feels safe for you.


Families have different ways of handling things like puberty and menstruation. Some families are very open and may even celebrate a first period. Other families may prefer to talk about such things privately. Keep your family's personality in mind when deciding how to disclose your period to an adult.You can talk to a parent by simply pulling your mom and dad aside and being straightforward. Try saying something like, "I just got my period. Can you help me get some supplies?" Your parents, depending on their personalities, may feel a little uncomfortable talking to you about menstruation. However, keep in mind they would rather you ask any questions you may have then have you remain confused.If you have siblings, they may tease you a bit about your period. However, try to ignore the teasing. You can counter by saying your period is simply a sign that you're maturing., If your period happens at school, you'll want to be prepared. Keep spare underwear and pants at school. You can keep them in your locker or backpack. Change between classes in the event of an emergency. You can also conceal leaks by wrapping a sweatshirt around your waist., Make sure you have at least some dark clothing, especially dark pants or skirts. While pads and tampons will usually prevent leaks, in the event you have a leak darker clothing conceals it better., Many girls are surprised and alarmed by their first periods as they may be irregular. However, menstrual irregularities are very common when you're first having your period.


It's common for your miss a period here and there. You may not have your period for a few months in a row. It can take up to 2 years for your menstrual cycle to become regular.When you first start your period, your periods may be very light or very heavy. You may also start bleeding, stop, and then start again.