 Know which areas of the house might present problems when sneaking about. For example, stairs can creak and so can the railing. Do a test run when you're just walking about, so that you know which steps and areas squeak, shift or make noise of some sort. Then you will know which parts you need to be careful about and to make sure that you go step by step, lightly and quietly.


Learn to move without bumping or tripping on anything.
Memorize the best route that doesn't raise suspicion, whether it's daytime or nighttime.
Test the fridge and pantry doors for creaks and the best opening techniques that minimize noise.;
, It can help if your outfit has big pockets. A bathrobe or hoodie helps.


Wear something comfortable and loose.
Wear socks if you have a hard floor (your feet might stick to the floor and make noise). If you have a carpet floor, then you should be okay without socks.
 If you are often awake later at night while your parents are asleep, that is a good time. However, daytime sneaks are also possible as long as you don't go during meal preparation times or when someone else is making a snack, etc.


If sneaking at night, wait for about 30 minutes after your parents go to bed, to be sure your parents are asleep. At night, listen to where your parent's room is at just to make sure if they're still asleep. If you hear them awake, either get the heck out of there or hide in the kitchen.
 Walk down to the kitchen, check to see whether anybody who might cause you trouble is around. Once you're at the kitchen, wait for a couple of minutes before advancing.


In case you accidentally wake anyone, be ready to disguise the food raid as a bathroom visit; flush the toilet on your way back. You can also try to pull it off as if you were grabbing a glass of water if you have a cup in your hand.
 If it's daytime, try singing something quietly or humming casually.
 Note that the food areas can make noise when doors are opened:


The fridge usually makes a lot of noise when it opens, so try putting your foot against the fridge and opening little by little with your hands. Once you have pried it open, grab whatever you can quietly.
If it's a cabinet that creaks when you open it, try opening it slowly. If it still creaks, try opening it super quickly, in the hope it'll be quiet.
 If it's something like a granola bar, then it's easiest to just stuff it in your pocket. If it's something like potato chips or pretzels from a larger bag, then get a glass (that you can't see through) and quickly fill the glass with the chips/whatever and walk away casually.
 Take care not to bump into anything. If there is a mirror near the kitchen and it is daytime, check that you're not bulging in odd places.


Be careful not to leave a trail of food as you leave the kitchen. Dropping food will bust you.
 If this includes going via the bathroom, that can help to cover your tracks.
 Shove the food into a safe spot quickly on reaching your room, so that it can't be seen if your parents come in. Places could include: Under a desk, underneath a bed, or under a pillow (for small snacks that don't cause too much bulge). If hiding snacks under a bed, make sure the covers conceal the space between the bottom of your bed and the floor.


In some beds, if you lift the corner of your mattress, you may find a little area made of metal, like a little box. You can't really hide a lot in it, but it's good for candy bags.
If you have a bookshelf in your room, you can stash your food inside there by grabbing it and pulling, then put the food behind and push the bookshelf back so that it looks like the beginning a simple bookshelf not used for secret stashes or food swiping.
 After you're done eating, hide leftovers and wrappers somewhere in your room like in your underwear drawer or somewhere only you will know where it is. A good place few people look in is under the bottom drawer in a stack of drawers.
 If you are washing the dishes, cleaning the kitchen or doing some cooking, you have a good opportunity to put food into one area where it will be easy to grab later. Just be sure it is well hidden, such as behind a large cereal box or similar.
 A good time to do this is while your parents are out.
 Make sure to walk without crinkling the wrapper but do it casually. If done right, you can sneak candy right under you family's noses, and no one will be the wiser!

, Crumpling it up a little might make it less suspicious. You can just tell someone you're throwing a piece of trash away if they ask.
 Of course, the cup should not be see-through. Also, make sure you can't see the snack easily above the cup. This is particularly useful for sneaking things like fruit, cupcakes, chips, almost everything. But be warned, this only works if you are allowed to have drinks in your room.

