 There are a variety out there so it is important to do a bit of research, if necessary. One way to narrow down your choices is to decide what problem areas you want to work on. For example, do you have dry, flaky skin that you can't seem to get rid of? Then a full body massage that includes an exfoliating scrub may be your solution. Need to revitalize your complexion? Then a facial is ideal.;
, The most timely method is to do an online search for day spas in your city. Finding a credible review site is the most valuable resource because it's a one-stop-shop for a list of day spa facilities close to you. In addition to basic info about the day spas, there are reviews written by actual customers.
 Visit the website for each day spa (if they have one) and find out if they offer the specific service you're interested in. For the ones that do, call them up and ask if they have any specials for first-time customers. This is a great way to save money on a beauty treatment.
, Make a note of any brand names they mention, which you can look up online later on.
 Any discounts, specials or limited time offers will be sent directly to you, giving you more opportunities to get the best beauty treatments without paying full price.
 This is the ultimate way to save money on beauty treatments. While specials and discounts on day spa services are great, they do add up over time but if you can manage to find the right DIY beauty treatment that you can do right in the privacy of your home, you'll be able to maintain your results at a fraction of the cost at the spa.
 For example: body scrub treatments. Browse through the products on your results list. Once you have a list of products, begin a new online search for reviews about each item. This is a good way to see what results other people have gotten by using the product.
 To find the best deal, compare prices online. To save even more money, try to find an online retailer that has free shipping or discounts on purchases from first-time customers.
 You can also see if the site has your other favorite beauty products for sale, such as cleanser, anti-aging wrinkle cream, moisturizer, etc.

