 Making sure it's undisturbed will allow your pet to grow accustomed to its new environment before you handle it. You should resist the urge to pet or pick up your pet, as this may alarm them and break its trust. Instead, start by putting your hand in the cage and allowing it to sniff you so that it becomes familiar with your scent. If your hamster sniffs you before running away, understand that this is normal behavior. Continue doing this for two or three days.;
, Remain still and allow the hamster to come to you. Wait for a few moments to give them time to accept the treat, but be cautious, as they may nibble your fingers or bite you. After a few times of taking the food, they might eventually climb onto your palm and eat there. While they are completely focused on enjoying the treat, slowly lift them into the air and place them onto your lap. With a firm but gentle grip, carefully stroke their fur. After a moment, place them back into the cage. Performing this action will help create a trust bond.
 Place a treat slightly over their head and encourage them to stretch up for it. Every time you do this, tell them in a firm voice, "Stand." Your hamster may eventually stand whenever you command them to, even if there is no treat. If they obey you, make sure to reward their behavior. This method can also be applied to other tricks, such as "paw", only you place the food in front of them so that they have to reach out for it.
 It can be a strong indicator of your pet's health and happiness. It can tell you a lot about your hamster and what it is thinking. You can keep track of its regular habits so that if something is wrong, you can immediately tell by watching its behavior. The more you know your pet, the faster you'll be able to catch signs of deteriorating health or happiness. The following steps will help you to find out what you're trying to know.
 If they are alert or looking around, your hamster has just seen or heard something of interest. If they are laid back and half closed, your hamster is tired and you should let it sleep.
 If it is standing motionless on two legs, it hears and sees something and is standing to get a better look. If it is curled up in a ball, your hamster may be tired.
 Squealing is usually a bad sign. It could be your hamster is angry, annoyed, scared, or in pain. Check for illness or other possible causes. Squeaking means that either your hamster is frightened or wishes to be left alone. Constant gnawing on the cage means that your hamster needs something to chew on, as it is bored or stressed. If your hamster frequently runs, stops, frantically looks around, and ferociously grooms itself before repeating the routine, your hamster may be bored, stressed, wanting to exercise, anxious or flustered. Give it something to do and check for any sources of stress. Yawning and stretching are good signs, as it means they are content or recently had good sleep. If your hamster starts showing any type of irregular behavior (coughing, sneezing, wheezing, walks hunched up, etc.), it could be sick.

