 If you suffer from acne, see a dermatologist for more help. Washing your face daily removes dead skin, oil, and dirt that can build up and cause pimples. Moisturizer then helps your skin stay fresh and smooth, as cracked, dry skin is more likely to get infected or lead to pimples.It's important to experiment with different face care products and find one that fits you. If you have dry skin, for example, you should look for products that cater to your specific needs.
 For people with dry skin: if your skin is so dry to the point that its flaking off, exfoliate it. In the shower, or with warm water in the sink, take a washcloth and rub the extremely dry areas on you face with a little soap on the washcloth. Dry, then apply toner and lotion to your whole face. If your skin isn't as dry, then just apply the toner and a good moisturizing lotion.For people with oily skin: definitely pick up oil-free face products. Wash your face at least twice a day and use clay masks regularly to control the oiliness. Use light face lotions and avoid touching your face too much since the dirt on your fingers plus the natural oils of your face will combine to cause breakouts.
 If you don't wish to use any dedicated acne creams, then try washing your face in warm water in the morning and before bed. Change your pillowcase and sheets as well, as they hold onto old dirt, oil, and makeup from your face. If you want to get rid of surprise breakouts, try a product that guarantees quick pimple elimination.


Never touch your face with your hands, and wash off your makeup completely every night. Leaving things caked on your skin leads to acne.If you have normal, average skin, try washing your face twice a day and applying moisturizer as you normally would. Use a face wash to keep your face nice and clear.
 Soft, non-cracked skin is lovely. Use lotion, cream, or body butter on your hands, arms, and legs (if you're planning on wearing an outfit that reveals these). You can also use lip butter or any kind of moisturizing lipstick/balm on your lips so it doesn't get chapped. If you want, get a tan in the summer (but it's okay if you're fair-skinned).
 Exercise and tone up your body. Find a workout that suits your schedule and makes you feel good. This does not mean you need to be a thin, waifish model type. Getting active and moving around tones your body, increases confidence, and helps you stay healthy. All three of these things will help you look hotter, and there are lots of ways to get active:


Join a yoga, spinning, or exercise class at your local fitness center, or play a sport..
Do push-ups, sit-ups, etc. during commercial breaks while watching TV.
Run, bike, or swim 4-5 times a week. Try not to drive unless you need to.
Aim for, on average, 30-60 minutes of physical activity a day., You don't have to be really skinny to be in shape. Looking fit is more attractive than being too skinny. Remember, the super-skinny celebrities and models that you see in magazines are almost always Photoshopped. It is more important to love your body and feel good than to match the unrealistic (and often unreal) image in advertisements and magazines.
 Do little things, like integrating more fruits and vegetables into your diet, while cutting out major sweets and fats. Make sure you're drinking water throughout the day, as it helps manage weight and keep you healthy. Most importantly, eat slowly -- your body takes 10-15 minutes to feel full, and many people overeat during this time., Depending on your culture, it can be seen as attractive and even hygienic to shave, pluck, or wax certain areas of your body. Some common candidates for hair removal include:


Legs
Armpits
Bikini line.
Eyebrows.
Lip or chin.
 These are excellent places for the bad bacteria to grow and cause bad breath if left unchecked. If you want, you could use white strips, mouthwash, or mint-flavored gum afterwards. Your smile will look (and smell) bright and fresh.


If you wear braces or retainers, don't forget to clean those too. They can get very dirty if they aren't cleaned regularly.

