 If you're excited to be around your guy and only feel your excitement build after you spend more time together, then chances are, you have a crush. If the guy made you feel too relaxed instead of excited, then this would mean that you're comfortable around him but probably don't see him as crush material.


If you can't stay still when you're around him, then you may have a crush. If your hands shake, or you can't stop talking, or you just keep gesturing when you speak, then your energy level is higher than usual because you have a crush.
If you're so excited that you laugh at everything he says even if it's not that funny, you probably have a crush. If you like the guy, you're more likely to think that every word that comes out of his mouth is hilarious.
If you're so excited that you can't sleep at night because you keep thinking of the guy or replaying your conversation in your head, then you have a crush.
If you feel a jolt of excitement and your heart races when he greets you, texts or chats you, or even just when he says your name, then you have a crush.
 If you have a crush on the guy, then you won't feel completely comfortable around him. Instead, you would feel nervous because you're worried about what he thinks about you and don't want to say the wrong thing. If you're nervous, it means you care what he thinks about you, and if you care what he thinks about you, then -- you guessed it -- you have a crush.


If your hands tremble, your knees shake, or your voice wavers when you're around him, then he's making you nervous.
If you're so nervous that you keep rambling when you talk to him or just completely clam up because you can't think of anything to say, then you have a crush.
If you're so nervous that you bump into things around him, walk into tables, or drop all of the contents of your purse in front of him, then you have a crush.
If you're so nervous that you always feel embarrassed, or constantly blush when you're around the guy even though there's no reason for it, then you have a crush.
 If you have a crush, then it's natural for you to not want the guy you like to be dating, talking about, or maybe even hanging out with other girls. If you're cool with him having a girlfriend or flirting with a lot of girls, then you probably don't have a crush on him.


If the thought of the guy dating other girls makes you cringe, you probably have a crush.
If the thought of the guy just hanging out with other girls makes you feel squeamish, then you definitely have a crush. Just try not to make this a problem in the future or you may be facing some jealousy issues.
If he has a girlfriend and you think he has a great relationship and are happy for him without any complications, then you probably don't have a crush.

