 Take a shower using a scented bath gel and a soft sponge. Use warm water and really get clean. You should always be clean and smell nice when you go to school, be sure to use deodorant every morning. While you're in the shower, shave your armpits and legs (if you're allowed to), and wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner. Use a washcloth with some soap or shower gel and scrub your body. Brush and part your hair in the shower, so it dries nicely. Try to take a shower every other day or every day, but since it is not good to wash your hair every day, you may want to use a shower cap every other day if you choose to shower every day. After you shower, you can put in de-tangler or leave-in conditioner if your hair gets frizzy.;
, Wash your face using a facial cleanser and use a lightweight moisturizer afterwards. Facial cleanser or a bar of facial soap helps to remove dirt, oil, and makeup from the face, making your skin less prone to acne. Make sure you aren't allergic to any of the products you're using.
 Brush your teeth every day and night using a good toothpaste, and remember to use mouthwash to keep your breath fresh and your teeth white! Try to stay away from products like whitening gels and strips - these products eat the enamel of your teeth, and can be very harmful to your gums. If you have used whitening toothpaste in the past, start using an enamel protecting toothpaste like Pronamel. Keep on lip balm to keep your smile flawless. If you have braces, make sure you clean your teeth extra-well. That way, even though you don't have a perfect smile, you won't have food particles stuck on your teeth.
 Now that you're getting older and sweating more, wear deodorant. Also, consider putting on a light spritz of sweet smelling perfume.
 When you pick out your outfit, always try it on and look in the mirror to see how it looks; if it doesn't look nice on you, try a different outfit that fits your body or goes well against your skin tone. If an outfit looks and feels good on you, don't try on another. Keep in mind, you are going to be in school, so choose something comfy and modest, but cute. Be daring and try new styles. If you never wore skirts in elementary school, try wearing one for a day to see if you like it. You might be surprised. Shorts will always be in style, so be sure to have a few.


Don't wear see-through shirts. Sometimes if you wear a white or light-coloured shirt your bra will show through. Try to wear a tank top or cami underneath to avoid that.
Don't try to look immodest; you're only in middle school, so wearing skimpy clothing will only give people the wrong idea. Dress modestly to avoid ending up in the principal's office. If you're wearing a low-cut shirt, for example, put a bandeau or a tank top underneath to cover up some of your skin.
 Accessories are really fun, and they add some extra style and flair to an otherwise boring outfit. They can compliment your outfit or bring out an accent color. Try wearing some as bracelets, bangles, charms, rings, earrings, necklaces, etc. and see what you think.
 Blow dry, curl, scrunch, braid, or straighten your hair. Don't forget to use a special spray so your hair doesn't get damaged from all the heat. If you have thick hair or dry hair, use a detangler or leave-in conditioner to calm your hair down. Finish off with a nice smelling hairspray to keep the frizz away. To add some extra flair, add a hair accessory such as a pretty barrette, headband, clip, flower, etc.


Style your hair differently. For example, instead of the basic ponytail, go for a French braid. If you want to be really adventurous, get an entirely new haircut, or even just side bangs. You might want to try side bangs first because they are a whole different look, but if you don't like them, you can always clip them back so they're not noticeable.
 Just because you're in middle school does not automatically mean that you should start wearing makeup. If you wear makeup, use it lightly. Make sure you look natural. In middle school, a bit of mascara and some lip balm goes a very long way. Paint your nails and pluck your eyebrows,only if you think it is necessary.
 A smile makes every outfit better. Having the "look" does not matter if you aren't happy with yourself. Try to be different, but don't forget that everyone will respect you if you respect yourself. It makes you the best you possibly can be, being pretty and happy. Don't lose confidence and don't let people bring you down, because some people are just haters; don't worry about them.
 Make sure you put body lotion on your face, arms, and legs. This will keep your skin clear, soft, and healthy looking.
 You need confidence! If confidence means make-up, try not to over-do it. Remember, be yourself! An original is always worth more than a copy. You'll realize that others will start to complement you more than usual if your just your self!

