 Both acute and chronic renal failure are often accompanied by high urine output or no urine output. Chronic renal failure, specifically, is accompanied by urinary incontinence and/or recurrent urinary tract infections. Damage to the renal tubules results in polyuria, which means excess production of urine and usually occurs in the beginning stages of renal failure. Chronic kidney failure can also cause decreased amounts of urine, which usually occurs in more advanced forms of the condition. Other urinary changes may include:Proteinuria: During renal failure protein and red blood cells leak in the urine. Protein in the urine causes foamy urine.
Hematuria: Dark orange urine is the result of red blood cells in the urine.;
, One of the first signs of acute renal failure is fatigue. This may be due to anemia, which is when you don’t have enough oxygen-carrying red blood cells in your body; less oxygen makes you feel tired and cold. The onset of anemia is attributed to the fact that kidneys produce the hormone erythropoietin (EPO), which triggers your bone marrow to make red blood cells. However, because the kidneys are damaged, they make less EPO, and hence fewer red blood cells are produced., Edema is the medical term for fluid buildup in your body, and it can occur in both acute and chronic renal failure. When your kidneys are no longer functioning as they should, fluid builds up in the cells and causes swelling. This happens mostly in the hands, feet, legs, and face., Dizziness, poor concentration, and mental apathy may be related to anemia, as not enough red blood cells are reaching your brain., Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) causes fluid filled cysts to build up in the kidneys and sometimes the liver; these can be painful. The fluid in the cysts contains toxins that can injure the nerves in the lower extremities, resulting in neuropathy, the disfunction of one or more of the peripheral nerves. Neuropathy, in turn, causes pain in the lower back and legs., As your kidneys begin to fail, metabolic waste products that are mostly acidic begin to accumulate in the body. The lungs will try to compensate for this high acidity by removing carbon-dioxide through hyperventilation. This will cause you to feel like you cannot catch your breath.There may also be water accumulation in the lungs, which makes it difficult to breathe normally. This is because the lungs cannot expand adequately during inspiration due to the surrounding fluid., Chronic renal failure causes pruritus (the medical term for itchiness). This itchiness is created as phosphorus builds up in your blood. All foods contain a certain amount of phosphorus, but some foods, such as dairy products, contain more phosphorus than others. Healthy kidneys are able to filter and remove phosphorus from the body. However, during chronic renal failure, phosphorus stays in your body and causes crystals to form on the skin, resulting in itching., This is especially true in the case of chronic renal failure; in this case, symptoms will only appear when the kidney can no longer remove waste products from the body or maintain water balance., Both acute and chronic renal failure are often preceded by certain medical conditions. If you know you have any of the following conditions, be especially wary of any kidney failure-like symptoms you may develop and promptly consult with your doctor for further guidance:Myocardial infarction, or heart attack.
Blockages of the urinary tract.
Rhabdomyolysis, or kidney damage due to muscle breakdown.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome, or the obstruction to the small vessels inside the kidney.
 If you notice symptoms attributed to renal failure and you have one of the following conditions, consult with your doctor for further guidance. Conditions which can lead to chronic renal failure include:Poorly controlled diabetes.
Longstanding hypertension, or high blood pressure.
Chronic glomerulonephritis, or the inflammation of tiny filters in the kidney.Certain genetic diseases like polycystic kidney disease, Alport’s syndrome, or Systemic Lupus.
Kidney stones.
Reflux nephropathy, or the backwards flow of urine back into the kidneys.
 A diagnosis of renal failure, chronic or acute, often takes the form of blood tests, imaging tests, urine output measurements, urine tests, or a kidney biopsy.