 Veterans Business Outreach Centers help veterans and their families develop businesses. In particular, VBOCs focus on the following people, all of whom are welcome to use the centers:veterans
veterans who are disabled while on service
Reservists and Guard Members
family members
service members on active duty who are preparing to transition from the military to business ownership;
, VBOCs are designated by region. You will use the center that has been designed for your state. You can find your nearest office by visiting the Small Business Administration website at https://www.sba.gov/offices/headquarters/ovbd/resources/362341.
 Each regional VBOC has its own website, which you can visit. You generally can register directly with the regional VBOC by clicking on a registration link.You will have to provide the following information:first and last name
email address
password
personal details
details about your company
areas of assistance requested

, A business plan is a five-year plan that describes key details of your business. Business plans are essential because they help you gain financing.Any bank will want to see a solid business plan before offering you a loan. The VBOC can help you with the following parts of a business plan:the legal form your business will take (sole proprietorship, corporation, limited liability company, etc.)
organizational structure
estimated costs of equipment
strategic plan
market analysis
financial plan, including budget projection, financial projections, and funding needs

, You might already have a business plan in place. In this situation, you can get help analyzing its strengths and weaknesses. After analyzing the plan with the VBOC, you can work to improve it.
 Your VBOC also offers training projects and counseling focused on the needs of veterans who were disabled while in service. These programs can be offered by the VBOC or by another SBA resource partner.For example, the Fayetteville State University VBOC provides a “Boot Camp” for disabled veterans that is free of charge for those selected., Your VBOC can visit your business to make sure that you are following the business plan. The VBOC can also analyze your monthly financial statements to check whether you need to update your business plan or whether you need to make other changes., Some VBOCs also offer one-on-one counseling with staff members.This type of counseling is ideal if you already have a business and need answers to specific questions. A name and email address should be provided on the VBOC website for you to schedule a counseling session.
 VBOCs offer a variety of educational videos that address the needs of small business owners. You can generally find a listing on the VBOC website and can watch some of them online. The following are some of the offerings:Small Business Administration courses
Doing Business with the Defense Logistics Agency: An Overview for New Vendors
Boots to Business, a training program focused on helping service members transition out of the military and into business

, Your VBOC can also help you with other business needs, either by providing direct assistance or by offering training. For example, VBOC can help you with the following:the franchise process
marketing on the Internet
accounting
international trade

, VBOC staff are happy to provide technical assistance to clients. However, they won’t actually write your business plan for you. Instead, they will review it and help you revise it, if necessary.


A good business plan can take six months to a year to write, from start to finish.For this reason, you should start thinking about drafting a business plan as soon as possible.
See Write a Business Plan for a Small Business for more information on getting started.
 VBOCs don’t provide loans or grants to businesses. Instead, they help you create a business plan that you can show lending agencies and banks. They also help you put together financial projections, which banks will want to see before offering a loan.The Small Business Administration also does not make direct loans. Nevertheless, the SBA will guarantee a loan. You need to work with a bank in order to access an SBA guarantee.
 VBOCs can help you think through basic legal issues, such as what form you want your business to take. However, you might discover that you have more complicated legal issues that require assistance. If so, you should reach out to a lawyer.


You can find a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.