 This should include plenty of open space, try to find gold coloured dirt which will pack really well. You might have to dig down a bit to find it. (Make sure to get and permission from the property owner before you start.) Also, slightly downhill is preferable, because it makes it easier to maintain speed through the jump line.
 It's a good way of economizing space . Its more work to use a wheelbarrow, but your line will be of higher quality. Good jumps take lots of time, and then even more maintenance. But they are worth it.
 Using that wheelbarrow, make a huge pile of dirt, more than you think you'll need. Pack it down as you pile it up, paying particular attention to the back and sides. The lip will come later. Right now, you're making the base nice and solid.
 This should be nice and wide, and transition smoothly to flat. The steepness of the landing ramp depends on the steepness of the lip. Just like before, pack it in, make it solid.
 The lip should be 2–3 feet (0.6–0.9 m) wide, and the landing 3–5 feet (0.9–1.5 m). Don't build a "rhino horn", put in the time and do it right, so you don't have to redo it later. Pay attention to the curve of the jump, make sure your bike can roll over it smoothly, not with a sudden jolt into a new direction. The faster you're going, the longer the transition from flat ground to take off needs to be. The landing ramp should be a little shorter, vertically, than the take-off ramp.
 If there are any retaining walls or ledges, make sure you build them solidly. If you're aiming for length in the air, around a 40 degree angle would be best. For height, build the ramp at a greater angle. Make sure your jump doesn't get too steep too quickly!

, You can make different style jumps, you can have a flat double (where the takeoff and the down ramp are the same height), step up (where the down ramp is higher than the takeoff), step down (where the down ramp is lower than the take off) usually the best for length, Table top (where the gap between the takeoff and landing is filled).
 There needs to be a good rain, followed by aggressive packing in before the jump will be solid enough to hit smoothly. Remember, good jumps take time!

, This will save many headaches later, and ultimately improve "flow".
 To do this, sprinkle cement sand over the up ramp and leave it overnight. The moisture overnight will make the cement set, protecting the lip and keeping it just how you like it.
,,, and SLOWLY pour the water over all the dirt on the jump, pour it too fast and the dirt will just run off


Important: Don't ride on the jump the day you built it. Remember, good jumps take time!






Do not cement this jump.
If you add 1 inch wide pieces of wood that are at the dirt level it will make the jump stronger and you will be able to get more traction. Make sure the wood is the same length as the jump and put them every 2 inches.

