 This is to ensure that, when you choose a credit card with a no-interest loan offer, you locate one with a credit line that you need. This amount can be how much you need to finance a home improvement project, repay your immediate debts, or for any other short term use. Just make sure it is an amount that you can reasonably repay within a short time (less than one year, in most cases)., This can help you select an offer with the best terms and conditions. Be vigilant as credit card offers have a diverse variables that impact the quality of the offer. When looking for offers, try using a website dedicated to comparing these offers, rather than directly applying for them. This is because each time a lender checks your credit report to see if you qualify, it can have a negative effect on your credit score.


Look for a long enough zero-interest period, a high enough limit, a good rewards program, and a low APR that begins after the zero-interest period. This way, you can continue to use the card after the introductory period ends., A no-interest offer will not be prudent if it has an interest-free period of 6 months when your budgetary constraints require 12 months to pay back the loan.


Offers can last for between 6 and 24 months, depending on the issuer, your specific card, and your credit score., Most no-interest offers require credit scores of 700 or greater. Your credit score can be ordered through many legitimate companies for a fee, but consumers should know that they are eligible to receive a free credit report and credit score once per year.


If you receive an offer for a zero-percent interest rate credit card in the mail, this does not necessarily mean you will qualify for that card.Your free credit report can be obtained from annualcreditreport.com.
 If you are late when making a monthly payment or don't make the minimum payment required by the bank, not only will you probably be charged late fees and reoccurring interest, you may often lose the no-interest offer from that point forward. This information will be listed in your cardholder agreement., If the offer for an interest-free period is extended for balance transfers only, purchases using this card will not be eligible for the no-interest offer and will be subject to the bank's regular terms and conditions. In other cases, the zero percent rate may only apply to purchase, and not balance transfers, cash advances, or bank charges. Be sure to read the fine print of your cardholder agreement carefully., If you still have a balance on the credit card account when the introductory period ends, the lender will start charging you interest on that balance. This interest will be charged at the stated rate on the card, which may be almost 30 percent!


Your lender is not required to tell you when this period is ending, so set up calendar alerts for when the interest-free period ends to help you remember., Deferred interest is interest that is accrued by your account balance during your interest-free period, but not charged to you. If you pay off your balance completely before this period ends, your deferred interest will never be charged to you. However, if you still carry a balance at the end, you may be required to pay this interest, which would be the same effect as though you never had the interest-free offer on the card (in other words, it charges you for all of the interest you thought you were free of).


For example, if you borrowed $1,000 on a credit card that offered zero-interest for one year and always paid the minimum payment of $20 each month, you would have a balance of $760 at the end of the year.
Because you have a remaining balance, you would be charged deferred interest, which would depend on the stated rate on the card. For example, a 22.9 percent interest rate would give you $205 worth of deferred interest, making your total balance now $965.
Not at all cards have deferred interest, check your cardholder agreement for details., Many credit cards offer the ability to transfer you other debts to that credit card by using the credit card to pay the balance of your other debt. You would then simply pay off the credit card. By using a zero-interest credit card to do so, you can save a significant amount of money in interest and consolidate your debt payments to one account, thus simplify your life. However, be warned that you will charged a transfer fee for doing, unless your credit card specifically waives transfer fees.


A standard transfer fee is 3 percent, so a transfer of a $5,000 balance would cost you $150.Be careful to not use your entire credit limit when transferring balances. This would increase your credit utilization ratio (how much credit you use versus how much you qualify for) to very high levels and can have a negative impact on your credit score., You may even be able to use your zero-interest rate credit card to pay off your other credit cards. By transferring your balance, you effectively stop accruing interest on your first card balance and can then begin using the money you were paying in interest to help pay down the balance., You can even use your zero-interest credit card to transfer part of your student loans balance. This could save you a significant amount of interest, as long as you can make the payments before your card's interest rate goes up. However, there are also drawbacks:


If your rate on your credit card does go up before you repay the balanced transferred, you will be stuck paying a much higher interest rate than you were paying on your student loans in the first place.
If you transfer your balance to a card, you lose the ability to deduct student loan interest on your taxes.
You also lose the flexibility offered in repaying qualified student loans. This means if you get into further financial trouble, you cannot adjust your payments.
Furthermore, you lose the ability to qualify for student loan forgiveness for the balance that you transfer., You will likely only be able to transfer your balances over to a zero-interest credit card once. This is because carrying large amounts of debt on this credit card will reduce your credit score, which will likely leave you unable to qualify for another zero-interest, introductory credit card deal. So, be sure to only put as much debt on the card as you can pay off before the introductory period ends.