 Swap Magic is commonly found at independent gaming or computer repair shops. You can also purchase it online, but make sure you buy it from a reputable place, such as Amazon.



 


You’ll need to buy CD/DVD copies of the software, as burning your own copy will not work. Any site that demands payment for a download of Swap Magic is likely a scam. Only buy software from sites you trust.
Swap Magic 3.8 also allows you to play games that are not rated for your country. Make sure you know the laws before playing games that aren’t designed for use in your area.;
, Swap Magic removes the need for modchips by working in tandem with a Slide Card. The Slide Card, a small plastic device, is designed to open your PS2 while a disc is spinning so you can swap out games. Swap Magic 3.6 and up almost always comes with a Slide Card (and Slide Cards are universally compatible), however, if you find a copy that doesn’t include one, you can almost always order one from the same place you found Swap Magic.
 You’ll need a small Phillips-head screwdriver, a small flathead screwdriver, and a well-lit flat surface on which to work. You’ll only need to remove the front cover of the PS2’s DVD drive, which doesn’t involve taking the whole machine apart.
 The DVD tray will slide out, which is the position you’ll want it to be in when you remove its cover.
 Use the power switch on the back of the unit, as the front switch will close the drive. Unplug the unit from its power source.
 The screw you’ll need to remove is located on the bottom of the DVD tray.
 Using a small Philips-head screwdriver, remove the screw at the lower right corner of the tray. Keep the screw nearby, as you’ll be screwing it back in shortly.
 The cover is the front of the DVD drive, and it’s held in by two small clips on the left and right edges of the drive. Using a small flathead screwdriver or a pin, gently separate the cover from each clip while pulling the cover toward you. Don’t use too much force or else you’ll break the plastic. But if you do break the plastic, you can repair it with super glue.
 Use the Phillips head driver to gently reinstall the screw.
 You’ll need to plug it back into the power source and reconnect it to your television.
 Swap Magic 3.6 comes with 2 different discs: a CD and a DVD. If the game you want to play is burned onto a CD, insert the Swap Magic CD. If your game is burned on a DVD, insert the Swap Magic DVD.
 Once the PS2 loads the Swap Magic disc, the words “Insert disc” will appear on the television screen.
 With the arm facing right, insert the Slide Card under the tray on the left side of the drive tray. There should be a 2 centimeter gap between the Slide Card and the left edge of the tray. Once the Slide Card is inserted, grip the DVD tray firmly and slide the Slide Card to the right. The tray will eject. Remove the Swap Magic disc from the tray.
 When the game is inserted, gently push the tray back into the PS2.
 The next few motions are slightly different than the removal of the Swap Magic disc:


Slide the Slide Card to the right once more, but this time, when the tray ejects slightly, release some of the pressure on the Slide Card, then continue sliding it to the right. This slight break in the sliding motion will allow the Slide Card to move around the locking mechanism to ‘catch” properly.
Slide the Slide Card back to the left, as far left as it will go. This will close the tray. You can remove the Slider Tool once the tray has closed.
 This will start the game. You should be able play any copied game.

