, Staying up too late baking, making and shaking won't help your energy levels on Christmas Day. Moreover, you risk making mistakes once you're too tired–– you don't want to mix up Great Uncle Jorge's hearing aid with young Briony's Bratz doll or burn the cookies. Going to bed around 10 or 11 will ensure a restful night's sleep.


If you attend Midnight Mass, try to have a nap around midday on Christmas Eve. It'll help give you the energy needed and then you can get a good night's sleep upon returning home from Mass, (or have a sneaky lie in on Christmas morning - better if you don't have kids).
Ensure that your room is dark and quiet. Light and noise streaming in can prevent you from sleeping. Also, make sure that the room is nice and airy with windows open because this can help you sleep better with fresh oxygen in your room. If you get cold, close them but staying cool can help you get to sleep quicker (not too cold though).
 Rather than racing around finishing last minute touches, be satisfied with what you've already done and leave any leftover chores to the early morning, when you'll feel more awake. Avoid watching TV or listening to head-banging music; you need to relax into a sleeping mindset.


Get one of your favorite blankets and curl up with a good book. Preferably choose a book that takes your mind off all the excitement and/or worry about the next day. i.e make sure you don't read Christmas books or watch Christmas movies as this can cause in excitement.
Spend time with a pet. Dogs are great cuddle buddies, so are cats! Take your dog for a walk––it'll take your mind off things and get some good exercise in.
Call, text or visit friends. They're probably feeling similar to you and the distraction can be helpful. However, if you sense that your friend is too busy, don't keep them too long or you might increase their stress levels if they feel obliged to keep talking to you.
 A warm bath before bedtime can sooth and relax you enough to aid sleep. The addition of a calming bath oil such as lavender will heighten the effect. (See "Tips" below for more bath oil suggestions.)

, To help with sleep, use herbs and scents that have been traditionally associated with sleeping aids. Add some lavender scent or a lavender filled sachet to your pillow to release its odor when you place your head on it. Other suitable herbs include lime flower, chamomile, catnip, lemon balm and hops., For example, go into another room and read or do some yoga poses. Keep the lights low and avoid doing anything stimulating like watching games or sending messages on Facebook. Avoid the temptation to go and do more Christmas preparations or you might end up not going back to bed. You can also keep yourself distracted by telling yourself 'the faster I go to bed the quicker I get presents'. Say that over and over, kind of just like counting sheep. So hopefully you get a  good night's rest. One more thing that you can do is set an alarm clock and say 'the faster I go to sleep the more hours of sleep I get', just in case the part about present keeps you even wider awake. Now when you do the timer, your brain is racing to get to sleep because, your brain assumes that if you don't get sleep you will lose the race. Time your activity and return to bed a half hour later, hopefully distracted enough to fall asleep now.
 Talk to your teddy (children) about your holiday that might be coming up or talk to the teddy about something other than Christmas. If you are an adult, talk to your partner or get them to snuggle up with you somewhere.