 The history of humanity is the story of people that, over tens of thousands of years, migrated from the jungles and savannas of Africa into Europe and the vast sweep of Asia; navigated ships through the islands of Polynesia using the currents and the stars; followed the hunt from Siberia, across the frozen-over Bering Strait, into the wild heart of North America; and spread, by roughly 10,000 years ago, across the whole grand span of the Americas – to the tip of Tierra del Fuego. Everywhere that our ancestors went, some people stayed and some people eventually moved on. The people that stayed adapted to their environment in various ways: people in cold northern climes, with less sunlight, developed lighter hair and skin, while people living nearer the equator tended to produce more melanin to protect their skin from the heat.


Look past these superficial differences at the underlying DNA. From South Africa to Siberia, Bangladesh to Brazil, Canada to Kazakhstan: we are all genetically homo sapiens. We are all human., Some say that there was once a tribal function to discrimination. When groups of ancestral, pre-modern humans were competing for resources and territory, there may have been real danger in the inability to distinguish between someone from your "own" group and someone from another, potentially hostile group. Studies of our ape cousins have shown a similar distrust for individuals from a rival group. Consider the thought, however, that while this tendency may have come about for a reason, it is not necessarily something that still serves our species., Understand that laws and individuals have been discriminating against non-white human beings for hundreds of years in the United States alone. Learn about the abolition of slavery, the Jim Crow years, the Civil Rights Movement, and the ways that racism has persisted through it all. Read the news and stay up date about the events that people are talking about. Learn to connect the dots of systemic injustice from the past to the present.