 Neck rolls are a simple exercise that you can do periodically throughout the flight while sitting in your seat. This exercise will stretch your neck and keep it from getting stiff.Move your head up and down and side to side slowly, making a "yes" movement followed by a "no" movement.
After a few slow movements, lean your head sideways, trying to touch your ear to your shoulder. Don't crunch or use your hand to force the stretch. Simply relax into it for a few seconds, then bring your head up to center and do the other side.
Tuck your chin towards your chest and roll it from side to side slowly to stretch the back of your neck.;
, Stretching and rolling your shoulders is something that you can do periodically during long flights to release tension in your neck and back. This exercise also helps improve your circulation to prevent stiffness.To do shoulder rolls, simply raise your shoulders and move them forward, down, and back as though you're drawing a circle with your shoulders. Keep your movements slow and smooth, and make sure your back is neutral and your feet are flat on the floor.
To stretch your shoulders, reach your left arm in front of you and wrap your right hand around your left elbow. Slowly pull your left arm to your right, across your chest. Hold the stretch for about 15 seconds, then slowly release. Repeat with your other arm. Since this stretch requires a little bit of room, wait until you debark the plane to do it.
 Your hips and thighs can get tight and stiff after sitting in your seat for a long period of time. You can do this stretch in the airport after the flight, or in the aisle of the aircraft – just make sure you don't kick anybody.Put one hand on a wall or the back of a seat for balance. With your other hand, reach back and grab the ankle on the same side of your body, pulling your foot up toward your body. Your knee should be facing down towards the floor.
Make sure you are standing straight with good posture and your shoulders back. Engage your core and breathe from your belly, expanding your chest as you inhale and collapsing it as you push the air out.
Hold the stretch for a few seconds, breathing deeply. Then release your foot and slowly lower it to the ground before repeating the stretch with the opposite leg.
 Child's pose is a common yoga pose used to ground and calm yourself mentally and physically. It also provides a good stretch for your hips, back, shoulders, and chest.You may want to move to an area where you have privacy. If you're not in your hotel room, try to find a secluded corner in the airport where there isn't much foot traffic and you won't have to worry about anyone stepping on you or tripping over you.
Kneel on the floor with your knees in front of you and slightly spread. As you inhale, stretch forward slowly, hinging at the hips and reaching over your knees. If you can comfortably rest your forehead on the floor, do so – otherwise, bend forward only as far as is comfortable.
You may want to rest your head on a pillow or rolled-up jacket or sweater if you can't rest your head all the way on the ground.
Stay in the child's pose as long as you want, breathing deeply and feeling the stretch in your back. When you're ready, inhale and raise back up to a sitting position, then slowly stand.
 You can do the Figure 4 pose from a standing position, or lying on your back next to a wall. The standing position allows you to practice your balance and concentration, but after a long flight you may find the reclining position more stable.To do a standing Figure 4 pose, start standing with your feet just touching and lower your hips into chair pose. You should look as though you are sitting in an invisible chair, with your shins perpendicular to the floor.
Find a point on which to focus, then shift your weight to your right foot as you lift your left foot in front of you.
Cross your left ankle over your right thigh, just above your knee. Bring your palms together in front of you. Hold the pose for several breaths, then release your left foot to the floor and do it with the other side.
You can do the same pose lying on your back, and you don't have to worry about balance. Put your right foot on the wall and bend your knee at a 90-degree angle, then cross your left ankle over your right thigh. Hold for several breaths, then release and do the other side.

