 Heat up a hot glue gun and draw a line of hot glue onto the bottom of a baby onesie that fits your child. Immediately begin attaching feathers to this line of glue, adhering the feathers at their base so that the tops of the feathers face downward.


Draw the line of glue roughly 2 inches (5 cm) from the bottom of the onesie.
Attach the feathers so that they are side-by-side, if not overlapping. The feathers should fan out so that some point straight down and others point down and slanted to either side.
Make sure that the onesie you use is one that you do not plan to use for other purposes in the future. Once the feathers are glued on, they will stay on for good.
The onesie can be in any color, but if you choose a yellow onesie, any gaps left in between the feathers will be less noticeable.;
, Attach more feathers to the front of the onesie in the same manner used to attach the bottom feathers. Only draw one to three lines of glue at a time to prevent it from cooling off as you attach the feathers.


Make sure that the feathers mostly point downward by do so at varying angles. If the feathers all lie in the same exact direction, the final result will look too flat.
 Take a step back and look over the front of your onesie. If any areas look too flat or if any sections appear empty, fix it by gluing more feathers into the space.


For an area that looks flat, glue extra feathers into the section beneath the current row of feathers. Make this secondary row of feathers point upward instead of down so that the patch ends up looking fluffier.
 Turn the onesie over so that the back faces you. Glue feathers onto the back of the onesie using the same method you used for the front.


Start with a single line of glue at the bottom of the onesie, position roughly 2 inches (5 cm) from the bottom hem.
Gradually work your way up, gluing feathers to the rest of the onesie back one small section at a time.
Fill in any empty spaces or flat areas with more feathers.
 Standard craft feathers are too long for use with the sleeves. Before you cover the sleeves, you need to snip the rest of your feathers in half using sharp scissors.


Note that any excess half feathers that remain after you coat the sleeves can be used to fill in additional gaps or flat areas of the costume.
 As with the body of the onesie, you should work from the bottom up. Start at the edge of the sleeve and work your way to the shoulder.


Glue feathers onto the front and back of each sleeve. Work in small sections.
Fill in any gaps or flat areas with additional half-feathers as needed.
 Use sharp scissors to cut a foam drink cozy in half lengthwise or vertically. Even the bottom of the cozy should be cut in half.


You will be left with two identical halves, each with a half-circle bottom.
 Use hot glue to attach the half-circle bottom of the cozy to the front of a snug baby cap. Trim the front of the orange cozy half so that it resembles a half-moon beak shape.
 Apply more yellow half-feathers to the hat, working from the bottom up. Attach two large craft eyes on either side of the orange foam beak.


Work around the entire crown of the cap, filling any empty spaces in with additional feathers as needed.
 The individual pieces of your costume are now complete, so all you need to do is put the whole thing together. Slip on some yellow leggings before putting the feathered onesie on your baby. Cover the feet with orange socks and place the feathered-and-beaked cap on your baby's head, with the beak at the front.

