 Look around and make sure that the dog is actually unattended and not just running around without its leash while its owner waits to the side. Pay attention to the dog’s demeanor: if the animal appears openly aggressive, do not attempt to approach it. You can keep an eye on it from afar while waiting for animal control authorities, but take no further measures.If you’re in the car, make sure you can pull over safely. No matter how frightened a stray dog looks, causing a traffic accident won’t help them out.;
, Even if you’re confident that you can capture the stray dog, you should try to call local authorities first to see if they can come handle the situation in a timely manner. These officials will have special equipment and training in order to bring the animal in safely, so they’re always the better option for this scenario.


In a big metropolitan area like Chicago, there are hotlines and special impounds set up for this event, so check online listings for the appropriate numbers to call.If you’re in a more rural area, you might need to call the local sheriff or police office to get connected to the proper resource., If you can’t get a hold of animal control authorities and the dog appears reasonably docile, you can try to make contact with the dog yourself. The best way to do this is to get the dog to approach you and not the other way around, so feel free to use some food to appeal to the animal. If you’re in the car, see if you have any food stashed away which you could offer to the stray.Anything with a crinkly bag like potato chips will be particularly useful to get the dog’s attention to and encourage them to come over to you., When the stray comes nearer, get down on your knees and turn sideways to appear more welcoming.By observing this canine etiquette, you can begin building trust between you and the frightened animal. If you found any food to lure the animal, you can drop some on the ground and act like you’re picking it up or eating it.
 You can gain further trust from the stray dog by using body language and sounds that dogs understand. In addition to averting your eyes and kneeling down, you can speak in a low, slow manner, lick your lips, and yawn exaggeratedly.Dogs use this gesture to calm themselves down, and they understand it in others as a sign of friendliness and reassurance.
 Once you’ve managed to make safe contact with the animal, put it in a crate, your car, or other barricaded area where it can stay until you take the next step in the process. Make sure it has food and water so that you keep building its trust.


Don’t worry too much if the dog paces anxiously or whines for some time after it is penned up. This is natural behavior and should subside once the dog understands it is safe where it is., Once you’ve captured the stray, your next step is to find out how to return it to its proper home. Or, if it turns out to be a feral dog, you want to help find it a new home. The easiest way to identify a dog is through an ID pendant on its collar. Call the number on this tag and see if you can meet the owner to return their pet.


If the animal does not have a collar or ID tag, you should check to see if the dog has a microchip implanted under their skin around their shoulders. Your local shelter or veterinary clinic should be able to scan for a microchip and give you any identifying information it yields.