 At the end of the day, your face has been through a lot. Rounds of makeup, sunlight, exposure to dust and dirt -- to make sure all those things to wreak havoc overnight (resulting in breakouts), cleanse your face before bed. Choose one that moisturizes and has a calming scent. It should be gentle and leave your face feeling smooth and clean.


If you're leaving make-up stains (eye or otherwise) on your pillows, use a soft makeup remover, too. It's possible that your cleanser isn't strong enough.
Some women like to cleanse in the morning, too. If you're face is a little on the oily side, this is a good idea. But this cleanse should have a citrusy scent; lemon, orange, mango, or pomegranate-scented cleaners can make you feel more energized.;
, Your skin, especially your face, is very important. After you wash your face, apply a moisturizer to prevent your skin from drying out. An unscented lotion is fine, but a cream designed just for your face is better. And if you're nearing that age where wrinkles are on the horizon, invest in a good night cream. Better to start too early!


Really you should be moisturizing everywhere. Take a day every week to slather your hands and feet in lotion or body butter and sleep with socks and mittens on. The 8-hour deep moisturizing session will leave your hands and feet soft as a baby's bottom.
 Your teeth are what everyone sees when you smile, so make the best of them! Always brush your teeth in the morning and night, so as to avoid bad breath and have good oral hygiene. Use a good toothpaste, and change your toothbrush every 3 months, to ensure what you're putting in your mouth is clean.


If yellow teeth are a concern of yours, a quick and easy (and cheap!) option is to dab a bit of baking soda on your toothbrush after you brush your teeth each night and give your pearly whites a quick extra scrub down. Baking soda is a natural bleaching agent and just a bit is enough to wear down those pesky yellow stains.
 8 hours of tossing and turning on that pillow can quite literally do damage to your tresses. Since you probably can't avoid the unconsciously switching positions part, put your hair up in a high bun or in a loose braid before bed. And you'll wake up with volume and waves naturally!


And when it comes to hair products, splurge for that occasional leave-in treatment. Twice a month or so, deep condition your hair, leaving it overnight. The extra nutrients will be soaked up by your strands, leaving them glossy and beautiful.
 If you sweat a lot or sometimes forget to put deodorant in the morning, use clinical strength deodorant before going to bed. If you forget to add again in the morning it still works throughout the day. That means no deodorant stains on your black shirt in the morning!


In case it needs to be said, make sure to shower on the regular. If you're exercising routinely, that goes double. Use a good body wash and loofah it up!

, By now you've probably heard about the wonder that is water -- it's great for your hair, your nails, and your skin. It can prevent breakouts and give you that natural glow you've been looking for. Oh, and it's great for your organs, too!


8 glasses of water a day is good, but try to do even more. It can even help you lose weight! Up your intake by a liter and you could drop 5 pounds without really even noticing. Cold water can up your metabolism and crush your appetite, too!, If you've ever had a late night that involved nachos, candy bars, and beer, you know exactly where this is going. Oily, fatty, and sugary foods can lead to breakouts. Salty foods and alcohol can lead to bloating and your face being puffy in the morning. These foods are not only bad for you on the outside, but they're bad for you on the inside, too! All the more reason to eat healthily.


You'll be doing your body the most favors if you drink lots of water and don't eat a heavy meal before bed. Keep dinner light and avoid having more than one alcoholic drink and piling on the sugar and salt.
 Simply taking 10 minutes in the morning to do some yoga stretches can get your blood flowing (giving your face a more natural color) and work your synovial fluid (the fluid that lubricates your joints). And it'll wake you up! Nothing like a good, natural wake up call to get that endorphin rush for the rest of the day.
 After saluting the sun, take another 10 minutes to do some meditation, clearing your mind and upping your positive energy. Smiling can make us more beautiful, so set your mind on a positive track to put that pep in your step. Just a few minutes of me time spent with a clear head can make the rest of the day so much easier to tackle.
 8 hours of supporting your head's weight (up to 10 pounds!) can wreak some serious terror on your face. Because of this, try to condition yourself to sleep on your back. Sleeping on your stomach or your side puts weight on your face, ultimately resulting in lines and puffiness.


Satin or silk pillows will be a great investment, too, and the more the merrier. Softer pillows prevent your hair from breaking and sleeping at a slight incline (propped up, that is) keeps your face from being puffy all over. Gravity helps lymph and blood flow so fluid won't accumulate.
 Try to sleep for at least 8 hours every night. On two pillows! When we don't get enough, even our skin gets tired -- it sags, you get bags, and it loses its glow. Your blood vessels dilate (not a good thing) and you're extra stressed throughout the day, leading to even more problems.So don't risk it! Pile on the beauty sleep -- it's free and it feels darn good.


Your body is actually going into repair mode while you sleep, from your brain to your muscles to your skin. New cells are actually being regenerated. However, too much sleep isn't great, either. Keep it somewhere between 7 and 9.