 Both partners stand side-by-side next to each other. The partners should be separated about 3 feet from one another. The guy puts out his right arm, while the girl put out her left. Both hands grab onto one another. If the partners are too close, step slightly to the sides until the interlocked arms are straightened., The girl turns her body towards the guy. This means that the girl will slightly twirl to her left, and step towards the guy with her right foot (foot pointed towards his body). This should be done with both partners' hands still interlocked. The girl continues to twirl a second time until her interlocked hand is on her left hip. This entire move should be a 360 degree turn by the girl., The girl then lifts up her left leg. The guy catches her left leg with the upper part of his left forearm. The left hand of the guy wraps tightly around the girl's left leg, and pulls her up. The guy should now be supporting her midair. His left arm around her left leg, and his right hand still interlocked with her left hand. The girl should be facing away from the guy., The girl locks her legs together. This will make it easier for the guy to spin the girl around. The guy then makes a full, 360 degree turn, holding the girl in midair. The guy should maintain a tight grip at all times, otherwise the girl could fall down., The guy shifts his left hand and switches his grip. He goes from holding the girl's left leg, to holding her right leg. The guy then pushes the girl's body forward with his chest, twirling the girl forward. As he does this, his hand is still interlocked, and his other hand grasps ahold of her leg. The girl can then spray her right arm outwards., The guy lifts up on the girl's right leg slightly. The guy then lets go of the girls leg, and lets her come to the ground on her two feet. Both partners bend their knees, and lift up. Finally, the partners can release their hands., It may take a few days of practice. The first step, getting the girl in the guy's arms, should be your first goal. Once you are in that position, the guy really has full control. He then can spin around fairly easily. The most difficult step is the last. Just make sure the guy's grip is tight enough so that she does not fall when twirling outwards.

