 Many people think that they only need to wear sunscreen when they’ll be outside for extended periods of time or when the sun looks particularly fierce. However, you should wear sunscreen any day you’ll be outside even briefly, whether it’s sunny or cloudy. The sun emits UV rays at all times, so even a dark day or a quick trip to the supermarket can do damage to your skin and contribute to your risk of developing melanoma. Pick a waterproof variety with broad-spectrum protection that has an SPF of 30 or higher.While you should always wear sunscreen, be particularly vigilant between the hours of 10:00 am and 2:00 pm, as this is the time of day when sun rays are strongest.
Sun exposure provides your body with essential Vitamin D, so make sure you get it from the foods you eat or the dietary supplements you take.
 Your skin can dry out easily if you don’t moisturize it frequently. You can preserve moisture by using a dehumidifier and keeping the thermostat down, but the best way to keep your skin hydrated is by regularly applying moisturizer.Also apply facial and body lotion immediately after bathing in order to lock in moisture., Some dermatologists contend that you should wash your face in the morning and at night, while others assert that it’s only necessary at night. You can decide which routine feels best for you, but you should at least cleanse nightly in order to remove makeup and buildup from the day.Use warm water rather than hot water when washing in order to keep your skin from losing moisture.
 While it can seem like your sore, pulsing whitehead is screaming to be popped, try to resist this temptation. Popping pimples can cause unsightly scabbing and push bacteria further into the skin in the short term and also permanently scar your skin.Instead of popping, use topical ointments such as salicylic acid or 5% benzoyl peroxide in order to dry out the pimple without force., While it’s fine to use over-the-counter cortisone creams for temporary rashes and irritations on your body, you should never use them on your face. It can cause painful and chronic conditions such as perioral dermatitis, a rash that occurs around the mouth. If a rash develops on your face, consult a dermatologist before applying any topical creams or ointments., It can be tempting to nervously touch or feel your face—especially when you have a pimple or itchy, dry patches—but try to avoid this as much as possible. The natural oils in your fingers can clog the pores on your face. Additionally, the bacteria that your hands pick up throughout the day can be transferred this way.

