 The fastest and easiest way to get to the North Pole, if you can afford it, is to fly. Flights to the North Pole depart primarily from Norway, but chartered flights are also available from CanadaFill out the paperwork and book your tickets.


To fly from Norway, you should expect to pay between ten and twelve thousand dollars. Visit the Polar Explorers website, open the "expeditions" tab and pick "North Pole Flights." The information and forms you need to register for the trips are all located on this page.Chartering a flight from Canada can cost as much as ten times as much as trip from Norway.For rates and booking, you'll need to contact Kenn Borek Air by phone, email, or fax. Contact information is available on their website.Because of the harsh conditions at the North Pole, booking a trip there will require you certify that you are in good health,, and also to purchase medical evacuation insurance.Other forms of insurance, such as trip-cancellation insurance are also recommended.If you just want to see the North Pole but don't feel strongly about actually standing on the spot, you can take a sight-seeing flight that will pass over the North Pole but will not actually stop there. This is a considerably cheaper option.Flights are available from Berlin, Germany, and start from about $500 dollars. These flights can be booked through the Air Events website.;
, Flights to the North Pole from Norway depart from Longyearbyen, a village north of the Arctic circle.Kenn Borek Air, the company that books charter flights from Canada is located in Calgary, but flies out of several locations.Book a ticket from wherever you live to one of these places.


Norwegian Airlines flies regularly to Longyearbyen from Oslo.You'll probably need to book two separate flights--one to Oslo from wherever you live, and then a second flight to Longyearbyen.
You'll need to contact Kenn Borek Air to establish details as to where you'll fly out of., Whether you are flying from Canada or Norway, your next stop will be Barneo, an ice-station about 60 miles from the North Pole.Accommodations and meals at Barneo are provided as part of many North Pole visit packages., From Barneo, you can take a helicopter to the North Pole.The helicopter ride is 20-40 minutes long, via an MI-8 helicopter that is stationed at Barneo.Polar Explorers will give you several opportunities to take pictures and typically provides a champagne toast to their North Pole travelers. However, because of the intensely cold temperatures at the pole, you'll only have about an hour to take it in before the helicopter takes you back to Barneo.Alternatively, you can ski in from Barneo, an adventure known as "skiing the last degree." Tour packages to do this with a trained guide will cost you roughtly $25,000. You can also go by snowmobile or dogsled.
The Polar Explorers website has information about the itinerary and cost for each of these options, as well as the application forms you'll need to fill out. Visit the North Pole Expeditions page and select the option you are interested in.If you're an athlete, you also have the option to participate in marathon that departs from Barneo in April. This will cost you roughly $15,000 dollars, but includes a flight from Svalbard, Norway to Barneo (and back), as well as accommodations and a helicopter trip to the pole. Visit their website and fill out the online application to register for the race.