 The recommended build for an offensive Twisted Fate is 21-0-9.;
, You will need attack speed runes. Invest in Greater Mark of Alacrity x9, Greater Seal of Alacrity x9, Greater Glyph of Alacrity x9, and Greater Quintessence of Alacrity x9.
 You're now ready to get into the game. Your recommended skills depend on what you think necessary. Exhaust is a helpful skill, Cleanse can save your life, Heal isn't too bad of an idea, and Flash is great for chasing enemy champions. If you haven't got much experience with Twisted Fate, go to a custom game so it won't count against you as you get used to him.
 Once in the game, you should choose Stacked Deck as your first skill. For shopping, buying Doran's Blade and a health potion is the recommended choice, but a Vampiric Scepter can also suffice.
 You want to build your skills up like so:


Stacked Deck
Pick A Card
Stacked Deck
Wild Cards
Stacked Deck
Destiny
Destiny > Stacked Deck > Pick A Card > Wild Cards

, Often, since Twisted Fate is a ranged attacker, he will be sent to the middle of the map (assuming you are playing in Summoner's Rift). Try to turret hug and stay behind your minions. Twisted Fate is an easy target early game.
 Once you have saved up 920 gold, you can return to your base and buy the Berserker's Greaves, which will enhance your movement by 2, and increase Attack Speed by 25%.
 Once you are level 6, attack enemies until your Stacked Deck is up to the count of 3 so that you will do the increased damage on your next attack. Return to your base and prepare a Gold Card. Press R to activate your Destiny skill, and then find a weak enemy champion to take out. Select a spot nearby, so that once you appear you will deal heavy damage and stun them. This will more than likely kill them.
 The Sword of the Divine will give you a much needed 60% boost in Attack Speed.
 Depending on the other team, you can go three different ways with another item in the shop. If you just want something typical and inexpensive, go with the Last Whisper. If the enemy team has many spellcasters, you might want to purchase the Wit's End. The recommended option is Madred's Bloodrazor, which is mandatory if the opposing side has at least 2 players with maximum health above 2000.
 If you are losing, definitely buy the Banshee's Veil. If you are winning, Banshee's Veil can be replaced with The Bloodthirster, Infinity Edge, or the Black Cleaver.
 Twisted Fate thrives off of ganking. Use Destiny to warp to weak targets, stun them, and kill them. This can also be used to save your teammates from approaching champions.

