 Ask another person to hold a 12" (30 cm) ruler in front of you.


Place your open hand under the ruler and have your tester drop the ruler without letting you know. Catch it when you can.
See where you rate (distance passed when caught):

Less than 4" (10 cm) = age 20
6" (15 cm) = age 25
8" (20 cm) = age 30
10" (25 cm) = age 35
12" (30 cm) or a complete miss = age 40+

;
, Stand up. Raise one leg to the front with your knee bent at a right angle and hold your arms out to the sides.


Close your eyes and see how long you can hold this position. Just make sure, especially if you're older, that you have someone there to catch you if you fall or that you have a soft place to land.
Check your results (time passed before having to return leg to floor):

Over 30 seconds = age 20
20 to 30 seconds = age 30
15 to 20 seconds = age 40
10 to 15 seconds = age 50
Less than 10 seconds = age 60.
 You'll need a partner for this test.


Write out a list of 6 different sentences. Have someone else place 2 mixed up letters (and/or symbols) on Line 1, 4 on Line 2, 6 on Line 3, 8 on Line 4, 10 on Line 5, and 12 on Line 6.
Read a line and then cover that line up. Write down what you have remember next to the covered up line. Repeat this step until you've gone through each line.
Calculate how much of each sentence you remembered correctly and write it down as a percentage. Add all 6 percentages and then divide that number by a total of 6 to get an average.
Rate yourself (by percentage correct):

100% = age 20
90% = age 30
80% = age 40
70% = age 50
60% = age 60
50% = age 70
40% = age 80
30% or below = age 90, Find a balance between food types, keeping processed foods to a minimum and choosing healthy fats, proteins and carbohydrates to fuel your brain.
 Here are some things that you can do to increase your intake of good fats:


Cook with healthy oils like olive oil.
Add more omega 3 fats by eating foods such as salmon, walnuts and flax seeds.
Take a PS supplement. Phosphatidylserine (PS) is a phospholipid found in abundance in your brain cells. Taking supplements of PS and other phospholipids may boost your mood, memory and concentration., Lecithin granules, ginkgo biloba, niacin, B12, the amino acid pyroglutamate and B5 are also helpful brain boosters.,, When you eat a meal, half of your plate should contain either fruits or vegetables.


Choose a variety of colorful fruits. For example, combine strawberries, plums, bananas and kiwi. You can also make a fruit salad to serve with a meal or as a meal in itself.Vary your colors when you eat vegetables. Mix it up by eating sweet potatoes, spinach, black beans and green peas.
Fruits and vegetables are good sources of antioxidants. Foods that contain a lot of antioxidants and phenols help to both prevent cell damage and break down special fats that are important to your brain., Therefore, for the health of your brain as well as the rest of your body, drink 8 8-ounce (240 ml) of water every day.
 These include:


Baked goods containing white flour and processed sugar including doughnuts, cakes, cookies, pies and pastries
Alcohol
Hard cheeses and processed dairy products
Sugary foods like soft drinks, fruit drinks and sugary breakfast cereals
Creamy sauces
Hydrogenated oils and trans fats
Mayonnaise
Packaged convenience foods and fast food, After age 25, our taken-for-granted physical health begins to decline, helped along by inactive lifestyles. Physical exercise is important for your brain because it provides much needed oxygen; improved blood flow to the brain helps the growth of new brain cell "branches" (dendrites).People who exercise have been shown to have denser brains than those who do not. Loss of brain density and volume becomes more prevalent as we age and is a major factor in mental decline.Weight bearing exercise has been shown to improve levels of serotonin and dopamine in adults, which are two brain chemicals related directly to brain aging., Sleep is a powerful way to combat aging.


Research has shown that a regular 8-hour sleep pattern slows age decline and protects people against chronic age-related memory loss.
Go to bed at the same time every night and rise at the same time every morning. Make sure to get 7 to 8 hours of sleep. Your brain will be grateful — and younger — for the much needed consistent and regular recharging.
 Puzzles such as crosswords, Sudoku, trivia games, brainteasers, mazes and word puzzlesare all superb mental workouts.
 Do this with a friend so that you can both improve your memory.
 For example, place different objects on a tray, try to memorize them and then cover them up and repeat what they are. Continuously increase the number of objects you're trying to remember.
 The best games require you to solve mathematical problems quickly. Puzzles that require you to race against the clock are also helpful.
 Try to remember chunks of text, phone numbers, lines of printed letters or anything else that you can spot around you.


Try to remember things about people sitting near you. Close your eyes and try to remember things about them and check if you got it right (take care not to stare).
You can also do this with pictures in a magazine that are filled with action or elements. Stare at a picture for 10 seconds. Then, write down as many things as possible that you can remember about it and compare your recall after.Become a good storyteller. This is a great way to keep your memories alive and helps you to perceive past events in a positive light, by using the storyteller's technique of finding a moral, a lesson, or a confirmation within the past experience.
 Reading has long been a guaranteed way to keep your brain alert and attuned to new ideas and perspectives.
 "Neuroplasticity" is the term used to explain the brain's ability to reorganize its neural pathways based on a new experiences.


Try a new way of doing something that you've always done. This is a really good way to create new patterns in your brain.
Learn a new skill. Learning new skills will continuously push your brain and will give you opportunities to meet new people, sample new experiences and introduce variety into your life. Trying something new can actually help you to "declutter" your brain and remove irrelevant information and replace it with useful information. , Teaching yourself a new language is one of the most rewarding mental workouts. When you're proficient, you can plan a trip to a country that speaks that language to give yourself a rewarding new experience.
 When you teach others, you draw on past experiences and apply them in a different way. You will also draw on many problem-solving skills when teaching or tutoring.
 Stress is good for you in small doses because it keeps you on your toes and it helps to remind you that you're alive and need to be careful in certain situations. Excess, pronounced, and never-ending stress typical of our modern way of living, however, kills brains cells and ages your brain faster. To decrease your brain age, reduce your exposure to and intolerance of stress by finding ways that minimize it, ways that work for you. Some ideas include:



Meditating. Meditation is one of the more effective methods for reducing stress in your life and it can be done at home, at work and even while traveling.
Taking up a physical activity that releases stress, such as yoga, martial arts, kickboxing or tennis.
Learning to be more assertive and to express yourself. Assertive people are better able to state their needs and wants politely but firmly. Expressing yourself clearly and refusing to allow yourself to be used or swayed by others is a good way of keeping stress at bay.
Exercising more. Exercise wards off the effects of stress by burning off the stress hormones and chasing away the cortisol that destroys brain cells. Mood improves with exercise too, as noradrenaline is secreted and endorphins enter the bloodstream. These substances give you a lift and help to ward off depression., Your attitude affects brain activity and influences your mood and emotional state. A positive outlook that allows you to maintain a belief in your value and self-worth will allow you to live a fulfilled life in which your brain remains open to new possibilities. On the other hand, constant negative thinking can easily shut you off from continued learning and growth, which will cause your brain to age faster.

Learn to control negative thinking. The first step is to recognize negative thoughts. The second step is to change the thoughts to something more realistic and positive. Changing negative thinking is the same as changing any other bad habit. The more you practice positive thinking, the more your brain will respond.
Work on your emotional intelligence. When you have emotional intelligence, you can recognize your emotions, reason with them and use them to enhance thought.You will be more creative, make better decisions and implement positive solutions to problems. The better you get at mastering your own emotions, the better you'll become at enabling constructive emotions in others as well, which will create more fruitful connections in your life.Reframe the Past in your mind. While you cannot change the past, you can change your attitude toward it and avoid slipping into a victim mentality. Re-examine events that brought you shame, guilt, humiliation, sadness and fear so that you can let them go and move forward.You'll decrease your brain age with a better attitude because you'll remove useless, energy-sapping thoughts and replace them with healthier, forward-looking and self-forgiving thoughts that will energize you.
 People who love what they're doing in life tend to experience a greater sense of purpose and happiness. You may not be in your dream job, activity or relationship, but you can find things to be grateful for in the life you're leading. Mix up work tasks every day and pursue plenty of other activities to add playfulness, interest and fun into your life.
 When undertaking mental workouts, be sure to focus and concentrate properly. You won't get benefits from simply going through the motions – you must really throw yourself into doing the mental workout activities with full attention.
 Whatever your beliefs or lack of them, nurturing your spiritual self or connecting to the awe and wonder of life is an important aspect of keeping your brain young.Our brains are wired for spiritual experiences, such as times that we take a holistic approach to our place in the world and seek complete well-being and a sense of purpose.Practice prayer, meditation, reflection, taking time out or whatever allows you to focus on your spiritual self. This will give your brain the space to make connections and to seek "the flow" of life in which heart, mind, and body all work as one.
Nurturing your spiritual self increases your compassion for both yourself and for others, allowing you to connect better with others and thereby enhance your brain functioning.,

Purple, including shades of violet and lavender, may improve your ability to think and achieve.Purple is associated with memory, imagination, creativity, wisdom, and strategic problem-solving, so adding more of this color into your life can help focus your brain.Buy some purple supplies. Buy purple picture frames, office supplies or even a purple cell phone.
Surround yourself with purple. Paint your walls purple. Wear purple clothes or accessories and put purple furniture in your thinking zones in your home.
Construct a purple visualization board to help you prioritize the most important things in your life.
Hang a map of the world inside a purple frame. Stick purple stick-pins into the places around the world that you'd like to visit or revisit.
 A lonely brain tends to age faster and while you don't need to be the life and soul of the party, you do need the lift that regular connection with other people can provide you.


Don't just hang people of your own age group, especially if you're older. People tend to think similarly to those they spend time with and "feeling old" is catching
Older people tend to prefer to be around people they're most familiar with while younger people tend to enjoy meeting new people and getting to know a wider variety of people.If you're going to keep your brain younger, think young by mixing up your social contacts and spending time with people in all age groups.
 Thinking about your youth, and of memories you had when you were young, can keep your brain young.


In 1979, a Harvard psychology professor Ellen Langer created an experiment in which elderly people were sent to live in a house set up as if it were 1959, 20 years earlier. They had to watch 1950s TV, wear clothing from the era and act as if they were living in the '50s. Those who participated in the study displayed improved recall, intelligence and even eyesight. They even appeared younger when before and after photos of them were compared.A study by John Bargh showed that people who thought about words related to aging slowed down after they did the test.Aim to think mostly of words relating to youth, vitality, energy, and pep whenever you consider your own age.
Seek to see yourself as younger than your biological age. How you think about your age is as important as what you eat and how much you exercise. Much aging is in the mind. If you live and think like a younger person and your brain will definitely cooperate.
 Multi-tasking reduces your brain's effectiveness and can cause you stress. Instead, complete single tasks with greater focus.
 Instead, choose pastimes that are more interactive and require brain input. Only use TV viewing as an occasional treat.

