 When you've got more issues to handle than seems humanly possible, a good place to start is by letting go of the things that you can't change. Often we cling to situations like this, trying to find ways to rewind the clock. This takes away energy from problems that we can actually fix. Focus on moving forward, not on trying to go back.


Let go of your past. Let go of your mistakes. Instead of hating yourself for them, learn from them. That's enough. Let go of that friend that just refuses to forgive you for whatever it is you did. Instead, focus on solving your other problems and work on making the rest of your life and actions as good as they can be.
Problems in your past will often come to a better resolution when you work towards a better future...even if that just means you starting to realize that those mistakes don't define you.
 When you have a lot of problems to deal with, it will pretty much always mean some things are going to have to be sacrificed. You can't usually find a solution that results in everything going 100% your way. This is true even when you only have one problem. Life is hard and you will have to prioritize. Figure out what means the most to you and focus on making that happen. Let everything else follow the path of least resistance so that it's not taking up all of your time and energy...even if that means it doesn't end well for you.
For example, if you're having problems with your family, problems with school, and problems with work, you'll have to choose which is the most important. Generally, your family will always be there and you can get other jobs. Second shots at school, however, are rare.
 When we have loads of problems to deal with, it's not uncommon to put off dealing with the issues. You are probably, whether you realize it or not, frozen with fear. What happens if you make the wrong choice? The soon you make the decision, that means that consequences start happening, right? However, putting off making a choice is (in itself) making a choice. Often, that choice will make the problem worse. Don't put problems off. Start working on solving them as soon as you can.


Think of this like having a giant pile of homework assignments. You can do them right away and not get overwhelmed or you can be afraid of failing and let them pile up. Not doing them just leads to you getting an F anyway. Ignoring them doesn't make them stop appearing.
 As you begin to work on solving your giant pile of problems, the best approach is to just take things one step at a time. Look for a first step and take it. Look for the next step and then take that. Don't worry about getting things in the perfect order; you'll find the better way to do things as you go along and we rarely do things perfectly in life anyway.Making a chart of the steps you need to take to solve each problem can often be really helpful. This visual device allows you a better way to see how everything fits together.
 This is so important for staying sane and solving problems in the best way. Never feel like you're all alone in the problems that you have to face. You are surrounded by people that love you and want to help you. Even perfect strangers will often help you if you go to the right people. Getting help doesn't make you wrong, weak, or undeserving. Humans are social creatures and we're evolutionarily designed to help each other.


For example, let's say that you're struggling to figure out how to write a review for work. Go online and you'll find loads of business people who do stuff like that all the time. Post in a forum and you'll see so many people come forward saying things like, "No one ever taught me how to do this and I really wish they had. It doesn't need to be this hard."

, Dealing with lots of problems all at once can really drag you down. It's very common to feel hopeless in this situation. It feels like nothing is ever going to change and that this will be your life forever. However, if you keep a positive attitude and stay positive, you'll find those problems flying by before you know it.


One good approach is to appreciate the problems in your life. If you didn't have problems in your life, you wouldn't know how to recognize the good things that you do have. This is especially true with problems surrounding people we love. We often forget how much we love them until something shows us how much we stand to lose.

