 Set up one or two diaper changing spaces in easy-to-access spaces in your home. For example, you could set up a changing table in the nursery, your bedroom, or near a bathroom. If you don't want to use a changing table, you can easily change the baby's diaper on a comfortable flat surface (like a bed).


It's a good idea to pack a diaper bag or backpack with some diapering supplies. Keep the diaper bag in the changing area so you can stock it and then grab the bag when you need to leave the house.
 You might need more than just a diaper and some wipes to change the baby. Keep things organized and easy to find by using dividers, containers, and small baskets. This way you know right where something is if you need it quickly.


For example, it will help to have a drawer or basket that has extra pajamas or pacifiers if your baby needs a change in the middle of the night.
 Newborn babies can go through 8 to 10 diapers a day, so keep a lot of clean ones nearby. They should be easy to reach so you don't have to step away from your baby during the diaper change. You'll also need to keep wipes nearby to wipe your baby's bottom.If you're constantly refilling the diapers at your diaper changing station, consider leaving a new box of diapers in the same room. This way, you'll never be completely out.
 Babies frequently get rashes and you might need to apply diaper cream or petroleum jelly. Keep tubes of these at your diaper changing area so you can easily use them when you notice a rash.It's also a good idea to keep these in your diaper bag so you can treat your baby's rash when you're out together.
 Decide how you'd like to dispose of or handle the soiled diapers. For example, if you're using disposable diapers, set up a trash can or odor-sealing canister. If you're using cloth diapers, you may want to set up a wet pail where you can store the diapers until you're ready to wash them.It's a good idea to keep hand sanitizer nearby to quickly clean your hands before you wash them in the bathroom. Remember to keep the hand sanitizer out of your baby's reach.
 As the baby gets older, you'll need to distract them during diaper changes. Distracting the baby with a toy, object, or book will also keep the baby from grabbing soiled diapers or squirming during the diaper change. Consider keeping some of these near your diaper changing station:Small board books
Pacifiers
Toy keys
Rattles

, If your baby has leaked through their diaper, you'll need to have a change of clothes close by. Keep several clean onesies at the changing area just in case. You should also have a few sets of clean crib sheets in case these get dirty.If your changing table has a soft, removable cover, you should also have an extra clean cover in case the baby gets the cover dirty during the diaper change.

