 It'll be easier to get a task done if you have all the supplies on hand to do it. Avoid wasting time looking for tools or documents by having them all accessible and organized from the beginning.;
, Even though you may just want to do this in your head, actually writing it down has a huge impact.


Try to be specific and reasonable. For example, don't write 'continue novel' or 'clean house.' Instead, write things such as 'write 500 words' or 'tidy the living room floor.' Small, achievable tasks are best. If you have a big goal in mind, try breaking it down into smaller steps on your list.






Don't get too distracted by the list. If list-making is taking more time than just getting down to work, put it aside and start being productive.






If tasks have a deadline, mark them on. This will help you in prioritizing.







Prioritize the tasks. A simple numbering system works well - you can decide to either prioritize the tasks that need to get done first, or get particularly hard/long tasks out of the way first. Alternative, you might even opt to start with a few shorter/easier tasks so that you can knock a few off the list quickly.



Shed light on the situation. If it is day, open the curtains. If it is night, turn on the brightest lights. This will have a psychological impact on you.






List all the advantages of completing the goal you have. Come up with as many things as you can. For example, if your goal is to make friends with a colleague, don't just say 'I will have a new friend.' Instead, advantages can include: I can meet people from their social circles; Our work can be more enjoyable; We can learn from each other; They may encourage me on days when I feel demotivated etc.






Tell people when you will be finished by. This is a very powerful tool for getting things done as it increases the pressure on you. Tell as many people as you can and emphasize how good your finished thing shall be.






Set rewards for yourself.






Open the windows if you can to let in fresh air.
 Some people prefer to work in silence; others like to have music on. Also, find what type of music is best. While most find relaxing, gentle music best for homework, college assignments, etc; others don't. Most people find that the type of music varies from task to task (e.g. fast music for cleaning or relaxing music for paperwork).


Remember that you may not be able to play music for the task. For example, you may not be allowed to play music at work/school.






Try not to play music that you will be tempted to sing along with.
 Distractions can include phones, emails, social media, family etc. Whatever is deterring you from working needs to be removed. If you are being distracted every 15 minutes, you will get little work done because it is impossible to get immediately back to work after a distraction. For most people this takes 5 - 10 minutes.


Consider letting your family members, coworkers/classmates, or housemates know that you're buckling down to work on something important, so that they won't distract you.
 Many people believe that multitasking increases productivity, but the truth is tackling things one at a time will allow you to complete more in less time.


Break tasks into smaller chunks if needed. One huge job can seem overwhelming, but if you break it down into sections, it becomes more manageable. For example, "write an essay" seems big, but if you start with "brainstorm ideas" and "write a topic sentence," each part becomes a much smaller and more achievable goal.
As you do each task, check it off your to-do list. This feels great, and can motivate you to keep going down the list.
 The breaks should be no longer then 8-10 minutes. During this time you should stretch and exercise a bit. This will help you come back to the task with more focus, and keep at it for a longer period of time overall.
 In particular, drink lots of water. Your brain and body can only work properly if you are hydrated. While drinks and snacks can be distracting, they also help keep your energy up. If you're thirst or hungry, don't ignore these feelings - take care of them, and get back to work.
 This may seem tedious, but a tidy space means a tidy mind.
 This shouldn't be a problem if you've already removed the main distractions before beginning work, but if you hear your phone ring, or get a Facebook alert, ask yourself: is it worth breaking my work flow? If there's something urgent you need to take care of, do, but if it's something you can take care of later, wait for your break.
 If you lose site of why you're working so hard, look back at your to-do list and try to refocus on your motivation. If needed, taking a few moments to re-adjust your mindset like this will help you stay on task.
 Give yourself the rewards you had promised yourself. Be honest with yourself - if you do not complete the task, do not reward yourself.

