 A great way to reduce stress and turbulence is to develop reliable, repeatable systems for your everyday life that keep you centered and reduce stress. If your days get off to a frantic start, make a conscious effort to slow things down in the morning.Get up a little earlier, make coffee, and include calming activities like yoga, meditation, or something else that you find relaxing. Make it a part of your day, every day.Identify what you would like to accomplish each morning, then customize your ritual to give you the time to do those things without rushing or added stress., If you frequently find yourself getting worked up during everyday interactions, make it a habit to analyze your own responses.


If someone cuts you off in traffic, pause a moment instead of laying on the horn and consider if your response will help the situation, or merely add to your stress.
 Study after study shows that multitasking is a less-efficient way of getting things done than focusing on a single activity, and constantly diverting your attention between multiple things is a surefire way to maintain anxiety rather than calm.Simple changes like leaving your phone in another room, or turning off email notifications can remove common temptations for distraction.Having a prioritized to-do list helps. Focus on completing your most important task before moving on to others. Keep in mind that recreation, exercise, or family time can be a “task” — this isn’t only about work., Not only is it good for your health, it is also shown to reliably reduce stress levels.If you can integrate exercise into your routine, do so. Even 20 minutes of moderate exertion can do wonders for you.
You don’t have find time for the gym to get the benefits of exercise. Get out of your desk chair and take a walk. Take the stairs rather than the elevator.
Integrate soothing music or pleasant imagery into your post-exercise cool down. It will help maintain a sense of serenity as you get back to what you were doing., Creative activity, especially when you can work with your hands, is a fantastic way to keep your thoughts and days tranquil. You can lose yourself in your task, and gain a sense of accomplishment along the way.Woodworking, pottery, and knitting are great ways to engage your hands and mind in a focused, calming manner.
Others find similar solace in art, be it painting, sculpture, or even writing.
The kitchen can also be a place for creative handiwork. Baking, cooking, and even more specialized tasks like brewing can be great outlets for stress and creativity., The health benefits of both yoga and meditation are numerous and well-documented. Both endeavor to give you peace of mind and reduce stress, and yoga can also enhance your strength and flexibility.Yoga engages your parasympathetic nervous system, prompting a “relaxation effect.”Both yoga and meditation have the added benefit of being relatively simple to do just about anywhere. Try a few simple poses in a free moment at work, or in your bedroom just after your rise in the morning to help smooth out your day., Your body’s instinctive reaction to stress and danger, the “fight-or-flight” response, is a fine evolutionary adaptation, but one not always well-suited to a calm, modern life, free from the dangers of wild animals and hostile hunter-gatherers. Luckily, there are ways to mitigate this occasionally unwanted reaction.


Reflect on your feelings. This sounds cliche, but the simple act of identifying feelings of panic, stress, fear, or anxiety can interrupt the neurological processes of fight-or-flight and help you redirect your energy usefully.Focus on your breathing. When you find tension or even panic rising, focus on taking deep breaths. This cuts down on the instinctive tendency toward shallow, quick breaths and engages your autonomic nervous system, which usually controls your body’s physiological responses without your conscious input.Finally, re-label the feelings you identified previously to make them more positive. Recast your panic as excitement, or your frustration as ambition and you can regain control of your body’s stress response, lowering your heartbeat, respiration, and sweating.

