 Keep the water just below lukewarm (cool, but not tooth-chattering cold) and relax for 10 to 20 minutes. If showering, use a gentle stream of water, not a full blast, to avoid irritating your skin. Air dry or pat gently with a towel to avoid abrading the skin.


Avoid using soap, bath oils, or other detergents as you bathe or shower. Any such products can irritate your skin and possibly make the effects of the sunburn feel even worse.
If you have blisters forming on your skin, take a bath instead of showering. The pressure from the shower might pop your blisters.;
, Dampen a washcloth or other piece of fabric with cold water, and lay it over the affected area for 20 to 30 minutes. Re-wet it as often as you need to.
 Over-the-counter drugs such as Ibuprofen or aspirin can lessen the pain, and may or may not reduce inflammation.


Do not give aspirin to children. Instead, opt for something that is specifically marketed as a child's dose of acetaminophen. Child's Motrin (Ibuprofen) is a good option due to the possible anti-inflammatory effect.
 Drugstores also sell sprays meant to relieve red and itchy skin. Sprays that contain benzocaine, lidocaine or pramoxine have a numbing effect that may help with the pain.However, as these are potential allergens, it may be best to test the medication on an unaffected patch of skin first and wait a day to see if it causes itchiness or redness.These sprays should not be used on children 2 years of age or younger without a doctor's advice. Sprays containing methyl salicylate or trolamine salicylate may endanger children 12 and under, and capsaicin can be dangerous for people 18 and under, or for anyone with a chili allergy., Baggy t-shirts and loose cotton pajama pants are ideal clothing items to wear while you're recovering from a sunburn. If you can't wear loose clothing, at least make sure your garments are cotton (this fabric allows your skin to "breathe") and fit as loosely as possible.


Wool and some synthetic fabrics are especially irritating, due to scratchy fibers or trapped heat.
 Cortisone creams contain steroidal treatments that may reduce inflammation, although evidence suggests that they have little effect on sunburns. If you think it's worth a try, you can find low-dose, over-the-counter tubes at your local drugstore or supermarket. Look for hydrocortisone or something similar.


Do not use cortisone cream on young children, or in the face region. Ask your pharmacist for advice if you have any doubts or concerns about using this cream.
This medication cannot be sold as over the counter sunburn treatment in the United Kingdom., Ideally, you should hang out in the shade or wear clothing over affected areas if you're going back out into the sunshine.
 Use a sunscreen with at least SPF 30 whenever you go outside. Reapply every hour, after exposure to water or excessive sweat, or according to the product label.
 Sunburn can be dehydrating, so it's important to counterbalance this by drinking plenty of water while you recover. Eight to ten glasses of water a day are recommended while recovering, with each glass containing 1 cup (240mL) of water.
 When you no longer have open blisters or the redness of the sunburn has subsided a bit, you can safely use a moisturizing cream. Liberally apply a creamy, unscented moisturizer to sunburned areas over the next few days or weeks to prevent peeling and irritation.
 Call your local emergency number if you or a friend has one or more of these symptoms:


Too weak to stand
Confusion or inability to think clearly
Passed out

, If you're experiencing the following symptoms about your sunburn, visit a doctor as soon as you can.If any of these symptoms are debilitating, call an emergency number rather than waiting for an appointment.


Feeling weak
Feeling faint or dizzy
Headache or pain that doesn't respond to pain relief methods below
Rapid pulse or rapid breathing
Extreme thirst, no urine output, or sunken eyes
Pale, clammy, or cool skin
Nausea, fever, chills, or rash
Your eyes hurt and are sensitive to light
Severe, painful blisters, especially more than ½ in (1.25 cm) wide
Vomiting or diarrhea

, If you're experiencing the following symptoms, especially around a blister, your skin might be infected. Medical attention is vitally important.


Increased pain, swelling, redness, or warmth around the blister
Red streaks extending away from the blister
Drainage of pus from the blister
Swollen lymph nodes in your neck, armpit, or groin
Fever.
 It is possible, though rare, to get third-degree burns from the sun. If your skin looks charred, waxy and white, much darker brown, or raised and leathery, don't wait to call an emergency number. Raise the injured area above your heart while you wait, and move clothing to avoid it getting stuck to the burn, without undressing., Contact a doctor immediately if your skin is blistering from sunburn.This is a sign of severe sunburn that should be treated with personal medical advice, and the blisters put you at risk of infection. While waiting for an appointment, or if your doctor does not recommend any specific treatment, follow the precautions and general advice below.
 If your sunburn is serious, blistering "bubbles" of the skin may form. Do not attempt to pop them, and try to avoid rubbing or scraping them. Popped blisters can lead to infection and scarring.


If you absolutely cannot function with the blisters intact, visit a doctor and ask to have them popped in a safe, sterile context.
 Wash your hands with soap and water before adding or changing dressings to prevent infection. Small blisters can be covered with an adhesive bandage (plaster), while larger ones can be covered with a gauze pad or surgical dressing, taped gently into place with medical tape.Change the dressing daily until the blister has gone.
 Consider using an antibiotic ointment (such as polymyxin B or bacitracin) on your blisters if you suspect infection. Infection might manifest as a foul smell, yellow pus, or extra redness and irritation around the skin. Ideally, visit a doctor to receive a diagnosis and advice specific to your symptoms.


Note that some people are allergic to these ointments, so do a "patch test" on an unaffected area first and make sure you don't have a bad reaction.
 Do not tear off the flaps of skin left over from broken blisters. You'll shed them soon enough; don't risk irritating your skin even more now., The remedies below have not been sufficiently scientifically verified, and should not replace scientific medical treatment. Additional remedies not listed below may actually delay healing or encourage infection. Avoid egg whites, peanut butter, petroleum jelly, and vinegar in particular., This method, when applied immediately and often, can take away even the worst sunburns in a day or two.
 Brew three or four teabags in a pitcher of warm water. When the tea is almost black, remove the tea bags and let the liquid cool to room temp. Gently dab at the sunburn with a cloth soaked in the tea, the more, the better. Do not wash it off. If the cloth causes pain, dab at the burn with the teabags instead.Try to do this at bedtime and leave it on overnight.
Be aware that the tea can stain clothing and sheets.
 One study showed that this reduced the body’s need for fluids, lowering the risk for dehydration., Calendula ointment is considered by some to be especially good for severe burns with blistering.You can find it at a naturopathic store; ask the retailer or naturopath for advice. Be aware that no herbal treatment is appropriate for the treatment of serious injuries; if you have severe burns or blisters that won't heal, see a doctor immediately.
 This treatment may soothe your skin.Apply carefully to affected area and leave on.
 Egg oil is rich in omega-3 fatty acids like Docosahexaenoic Acid. It also contains immunoglobulins, xanthophylls (lutein & zeaxanthin) and cholesterol. The omega-3 fatty acids in egg oil are bound to phospholipids which have the ability to form liposomes (nanoparticles), which may be able to penetrate deep and heal the dermis.


Massage the damaged skin with egg oil twice a day. Gently massage the area including the surrounding one-inch periphery for ten minutes during each of two daily sessions.
Leave it on for at least an hour, avoiding exposure to direct sunlight.
Wash off with a mild, pH neutral body wash. Avoid soap or any other alkaline substances.
Repeat twice a day until the skin is restored to its pre-burn condition.

