 A great way to diagnose loneliness is to treat it. Spend time with other people besides your significant other. Fill your social calendar with fun activities and gatherings. Join a club or organization to meet people with common interests. Take a cooking or dance class. Ask a coworker or acquaintance out to lunch or coffee.Other ways to find friends might be reach out to old connections through social media. Strike up a conversation with someone in your favorite shop or boutique. Join a meetup to connect with people who have the same hobbies as you.
If, in the midst of your increased social activity, you don’t find yourself missing the other person or wishing they could join you, there’s a chance you were just lonely.
 Another terrific way to socialize is through volunteerism. It helps you connect with people and make a difference in your local community. Offer to visit a nursing or retirement home and help with craft time. Dedicate a few hours a week to the local homeless or animal shelter. Or, simply offer to babysit your neighbor’s kids each Thursday so that they can have a standing date night.


Giving back to others offers a load of benefits such as enhancing self-esteem and fighting loneliness. If you find that you no longer think about your partner due to your new obligations, odds are you just needed to get out more., Does your relationship consist of you doing all the activities that your partner enjoys? If so, you can help clarify your feelings by pursuing your own passions. These passions may help you feel more satisfied in life. As a result, you may find that you don’t like this person as much as you thought.Take up a new fitness class at a nearby gym. Learn a new language. Bake more often. Go fishing. Just do things that you like.
 Feeling unfulfilled in other areas of life can lead you to jump into a relationship prematurely. Take some time to work on yourself. As you start focusing on your future by goal-setting, determine if the other person factors into the picture.Think about something that you have been wanting to do for you. Maybe that includes getting more training in your chosen career or planning to travel abroad. If you consider that person’s role in your future, then there’s a chance you see them as more than just a placeholder.

