 Before you go ahead and buy your new ceiling fan, there are a number of factors and variables that you need to take into account. The first of these is the size of the room you are buying the fan for. To make sure that the fan works effectively you need to ensure that it is big enough for the space.


Get hold of a tape measure and determine the length and width of the room.
A larger fan will work better in a larger room.;
, Once you have measured the height and width of the room, you need to measure the ceiling height. This measurement will give you the overall size of the room, as well as helping you to determine how far from the ceiling you can suspend the fan.


As a general rule the fan should always be suspended at least seven feet above the floor of the room.
If you have a ceiling height of nine feet or more, you can use a longer drop rod to increase the distance between the ceiling and the fan., Now you have all the measurements, you need to match your room to a recommended fan size. Multiply the length of the room, by the width of the room to find an approximate value for the square footage of the room. Once you have this number, you can match it to a fan size. Some common matches are as follows:


A room of up to 75 square feet = a 29-36 inch fan.
A room of 76-144 square feet = a 36-42 inch fan.
A room of around 144-225 square feet = a 44 inch fan.
A room of between 225-400 square feet = a 50-54 inch fan.A room of up to 500 square feet = a 60 inch fan., You will now have to decide on a drop rod length that fits the ceiling height of the room. Remember that you should always ensure you have at least seven feet of clearance beneath the fan and the floor for safety reasons.


If the ceiling is low, only 7-7 ½ feet, you can get a hugger fan, which is suspended very close to the ceiling.
Choose a close adapter fan for ceilings that are between 7.5 and 8 feet. For higher ceilings you will need a drop rod of the appropriate length.Standard fans tend to be designed for rooms with ceilings between 8 and 9 feet high. For a room like this you will not need to add any length to the down rod.
For taller ceilings the recommendations are as follows:

9 feet ceiling = 12 inch drop rod.
10 feet ceiling = 18 inch drop rod.
11 feet ceiling = 24 inch drop rod.
12 feet ceiling = 36 inch drop rod.
13 feet ceiling = 48 inch drop rod., Once you have determined what size fan you need, you can consider the other factors that will influence your decision on what fan to buy. The first thing you should look at is the efficiency and effectiveness of the fan. You will want a fan that works well, moving air around the room and keeping you cool. Fans should have a number of cubic feet per minute written on the box. This figure tells you how much air the fan moves.


The higher the number, the more air the fan can move.
Be aware that a higher number may also mean more noise.
If the fan has an Energy Star label, it means that it moves air 20 per cent more efficiently than the standard fan models., After you have determined all the information you need about the size and specification of the fan, you should spend a little time researching pricing online. Doing some research will help you get a clearer picture of the pricing range and different places that sell fans. Do this before you go to the store to help you to make a more informed decision.Looking online will also enable you to see user reviews of different fans, which can give you a useful insight.
Remember that user reviews are not always completely reliable.
 Once you have spent some time researching fans online, it’s a good idea to visit some local DIY, hardware and lighting stores to look at the range they have available. With a big purchase like a ceiling fan, it’s generally a good idea to see the item in the flesh before you commit to buying anything. Perhaps the colour or design will look slightly different than it did online.


Visiting a store also gives you a good opportunity to talk to people in the shop who will have experience and knowledge about the different fans.
Be wary of salesmen trying to push you into a purchase, but do try to get impartial advice if you can.
 Fans come in wide-range of prices, starting as cheap as around $40. Remember that this is a potentially big purchase which requires installation and you will not want to have to replace it regularly. It can be hard to judge the quality or longevity of a product, but a good general guide is to pay attention to the length of warranty on offer.


As a general rule for ceiling fans, you should try to get one that has a warranty of at least ten years., Now you have worked out all the technical specifications you need for your fan, you can think about what style and look you want to go for. If you want the fan to be an integral part of your décor, think about how you can tie it in with the colour scheme and style of the room. You can choose to make the fan a big feature by choosing an ornate or striking design, perhaps with lots of light and colour.


Alternatively, if you want to fan to blend in more, you can choose one that is more modest and is of a colour that matches the ceiling.Some fans will have reversible blades, so you can change the colour of the blade you see in the room.
You can even buy shades for ceiling fans, in glass or fabric, which obscure the blades and give you a cleaner look., There is an increasingly wide-range of ceiling fan accessories available, which you can use to customise and change your fan. Light kits are some of the most popular accessories. These enable you to make your fan into a light even after installation. These are good if you want to make your fan into more of a feature in the room, and avoid cluttering up your ceiling with too many fittings.Most new fans include either a wall or remote control.

