 Excessive restraint may increase your child’s distress, so hold and support them as gently as possible.Whichever position your child chooses, make sure they are not vaccinated while lying down, which makes children more anxious.Older children may choose to sit on the examination table. Help minimize the risk of accidental falls by standing against the examination table to provide support.
 If you’re a breastfeeding mother, consider nursing during the vaccination. Babies breastfed during their vaccination maintain a steadier heart rate. They also cry less, compared to those swaddled or given a pacifier., Reduce pain for non-breastfed infants with a sweet-tasting solution. Create a sucrose solution by missing one packet or cube of sugar with 10 ml (two teaspoons) of water in a medicine cup. You can also obtain sucrose solutions from some pharmacies. Using a syringe, place the dose in the infant’s mouth. You can also use a medicine cup or pacifier dipped in the solution. The analgesic (pain-reducing) effect of sucrose will may last up to 10 minutes., You can reduce pain at the time of injection by offering to rub or stroke the skin near the injection site. Use moderate intensity before the vaccination takes place., Distractions can soothe the child, and take his or her mind off the shots. Talk to them, tell them a joke, or give them a favorite toy to play with. Other ideas include squeezing their hand, making funny faces, telling a story, playing I Spy, or simply singing their favorite song., Slow, deep breathing works well as a relaxation strategy. If paired with an activity such as blowing bubbles, it can also serve as a distraction for focusing your young one’s attention away. Pain is reduced if the child uses breathing exercises.Try these steps when teaching your child how it's done:


Start by having your child breathe normally. Ask them if they feel which parts of their body move when they breathe.
Have them rest their hand on the belly.
Ask them to hold the air in for four seconds.
Have them slowly blow all the air out until it’s gone.
Have them repeat until they appear relaxed.
 Coughing once before and once during routine vaccinations helps reduce painful reactions for children during vaccinations. Have your child practice while waiting for the nurse. Model the behavior for them so they understand how it’s done., There are a variety of skin-numbing products on the market that may reduce immunization pain in children, such as a EMLA, which you will need a prescription from your doctor for. Also, consider trying a vapocoolant spray, which rapidly cools the area to help reduce the pain of the needle prick. Pain is significantly lower for children who used these products compared to those who don’t. Plan on applying the cream an hour before the vaccination. , If your child is receiving more than one vaccination, ask the nurse to administer the more painful vaccination second. Giving the more painful vaccine last decreases the overall pain from both injections.Vaccines known to be more painful are M-M-R-II and Prevnar. These should be given last when coupled with other vaccines.