 Forests in Brazil, Russia, Canada and other parts of the world are being cut down or burned by forest fires every day. 78 million acres of rainforest are lost every single year.Scientists posit that if forest destruction continues at this rate, 80 to 90 percent of rain forests will by gone by 2020. Since forests play an essential part in keeping our planet healthy, stopping their destruction can't happen soon enough.


Most forests are destroyed to provide space for agriculture or developments, to provide wood for paper products, or by forest fires that have increased in severity since the advent of global warming.
Saving forests must be a global effort, but there are things you can do to contribute, even if you live nowhere near a rain forest., Showing those in your life that you care about trees is a good way to help other people start taking action, too. Many people simply don't realize how important old growth forests are to the health of the planet, including its human population. The more people who understand and care, the more likely destructive practices will be brought to a halt.Spread the word on social media. When you see a story related to the state of the earth's forest, share what you think about it and encourage others to comment.
Show that standing up for trees is something you believe in. Since saving trees will require a change in lifestyle, some people oppose the idea. By making it clear that saving trees is something you believe is valuable, you'll be acting as a role model to others.
 There are many nonprofits dedicated to saving forests across the world, and they are all in need of donations. Find one you trust and consider making a donation.


For example, Greenpeace is working to stop deforestation. It has projects around the world aimed at saving forests that are under threat.The Rain forest Action Network aims to educate people and help everyone find a way to play a part in saving forests., Changing your consumption habits and helping local trees are both admirable ways to make a difference, but if saving trees and forests is something you're passionate about, you might be looking for a way to do more. Volunteering or working with a nonprofit working on this vital issue is a hands-on way to take action.


You can start by looking at http://arbordaynow.volunteermatch.org/ to find a group in your area where you can volunteer your time. Volunteering with a local group geared toward saving trees is a good way to get familiar with the issues surrounding deforestation.The desire to save trees has inspired heartfelt activism around the world for decades. Look into groups using creative ways to save trees and protest the destruction of forests, like by tree-sitting and blocking logging equipment. Learn as much as you can about what has been done to save trees, and decide how you can contribute.