 No matter the kind of date you plan, wearing something new, or something he especially loves, will help the day feel special. If you wear dresses, try a slinky dress, or a curve-hugging skirt. If you wear suits, wear a well-tailored suit and an open collared shirt. Opt for fabric that feels good to the touch, like silk or velvet. If you aren't worried about matching the décor, wear red.Consider underwear. Wearing lingerie under your beautiful outfit will make every step of dressing and undressing a Valentine's day activity. Think sheer panties or boxer briefs, thigh highs, a garter belt, a thong, or a bustier.
Dress him up too. If your husband is the kind of guy who likes to be dressed up, embrace that. Buy him something you know he wants, or something you think he'd look especially hot in.
The same ideas that work for you work for him. You can get him clothes to show off, or something more intimate to wear just for you. If you're going hiking for Valentine's day, you can even get him some attractive exercise wear, like shiny bike shorts or a mesh tank top.
If your husband prefers feeling in control of his own outfit, plan ahead. Tell him you want to buy him something special, and look around online together till you find the right thing.
 The place you'll be spending time together should be beautiful. You might go to an elegant restaurant, take a hike at sunrise, or walk the beach at sunset. Depending on your aesthetic, you and your husband might enjoy a stroll through a community garden, a visit to an art-deco movie theater, or a visit to a graffitied canal.


If you are decorating at home, put out clean tablecloths in dark or warm colors. Stick some candles in candle holders or old wine bottles, or make floating candles.
Clean up. A mess is depressing, and draping it with streamers is like giving up. If you're celebrating at home, tidy your home. Put away all evidence of work.
Put flowers in a vase, and drop petals on the tablecloth or into the bowl of floating candles.
Food might provide all the scent you need, but buying fragrant flowers or burning incense can also contribute to the atmosphere.
 Certain odors seem to increase male sexual arousal. Strangely, most of them can be found in food.The smell of pumpkin pie and lavender together is hugely effective, followed by a doughnut/black licorice combination. The scent of oranges, lavender, cola, lily of the valley, buttered popcorn, vanilla, and musk are all potent stimulants as well.


Wear perfume with notes of lavender, orange, musk, or lily of the valley.
Bake a pumpkin pie or tart with a lavender-herbed butter crust. Take it out of the oven right before dinner so the house is full of the smell.
Make rum-and-coke cocktails and drink them with a black liquorice straw.
 Though it may be tempting to go full Beethoven on Valentine's day, studies show that upbeat music has a positive effect on men's arousal, while music that invokes a negative mood has a dampening effect.Play jazz, classical, or hip hop that has a positive vibe.


Keep the volume low so you can talk.
 If you and your husband have children, get a babysitter and get out of the house. If you want to be at home, ask a family member to watch the kids, or arrange a sleepover. If you live with housemates or other family members and you can't shoo them away for the evening, set up your date in your room rather than in the kitchen.

