 They should be available online. If not, ask the bus driver and he/she should be able to help. Don’t be afraid to ask, especially if you are using multiple transfers.


Learn how to use a transfer ticket. A transfer will allow the passengers to board a second bus or train going in the same direction to complete their trip. Transfers are generally free (check online or call the transit center for transfer prices) and can be requested at the time of payment.Transfers are generally only available one-way. Also, you may have to wait for the next line when you transfer, so schedule extra time to complete your trip.
Master the pickup times. Time how long it takes you to walk from home to the station. Subtract that time from the pickup time and you’ll know exactly when you need to leave the house. Give yourself a few minutes on both ends.
Keep the transit systems number in your phone so you can call to check the times in case of inclement weather or traffic delays. Often transit systems have apps you can download onto your phone that are very helpful. Take advantage of these if you can.
 They don’t offer change, so this part is up to you. Having it in your hand as you board will make the exchange as pleasant as possible.


Consider buying a pass. In many cases, there are discounted bus passes to people. Check out the costs online and do the math to see whether it’s cheaper to buy a month or year-long pass.
 Using transit means you have extra time to yourself. Use this time for something you enjoy!


Bring a book. Buying cheap paperbacks at the thrift store is economical and fun. You can also invest in a reading pad and download books for free from your local library.
Bring your own music. Downloading music through your phone or buy an iPod. Older models are very inexpensive online and can be used just for downloading music. Make sure to keep the volume at a level that won’t bother your surrounding neighbors.
Listen to a radio program. There are many great apps to download so you won’t miss your favorite radio show now that you don’t have a car. Download them, sit back, and enjoy your time.
 Use your best manners and treat everyone with courtesy and respect. Good manners are contagious and they can keep bad manners at bay.


Keep your bag in your lap. Don’t spread your stuff out.
Don’t eat on the bus. Just don’t. Wait until you get out.Offer your seat if someone older or otherwise infirm boards. It’s a polite and respectful thing to do.
Say thank you to your transit driver. It might be the thing that keeps them waiting an extra ten seconds for you on the day you’re accidentally late.

