 Some are severe, while some less so, but it is important to know what you risk for bigger boobs:

Nerve damage in the breast may cause numbness in the nipples or breast tissue; an inability to feel anything. These effects can be permanent in some cases.
Complications with future mammography. Breast implants make breast-cancer screening more difficult and demand an x-ray technician experienced in working with implants. Your doctor may also require additional tests with each checkup including an ultrasound and an MRI.
Your scars will be firm and pink for at least six weeks. Then they may remain the same size for several months, or even appear to widen. After several months, your scars will begin to fade, although they will never disappear completely.
Capsular contracture refers to a painful complication when scar tissue hardens around the implant and squeezes, which can result in shape changes in the breasts, breasts that are hard to the touch, and pain. Additional surgery is required to deal with capsular contracture.
Uneven results. Your new breasts may be slightly different from one another in size and shape.
Routine activity or injury can cause damage and make implants leak or break. Additional surgery will be necessary to remove the implant or replace it.
One to two weeks after surgery some women suffer severe infections. In rare cases, the implant will have to be surgically removed.
You may experience excessive bleeding following the surgery along with swelling and pain. Again, additional operations will be needed if this happens.
While there is no evidence that implants change your ability to nurse an infant, or change anything about pregnancy, however pregnancy will probably alter your body enough that the implants will have to be replaced for aesthetic reasons.
Implants that break or leak. Beyond factory defects many things can cause the implants to break and leak inside your body including exercise, injury and even normal day-to-day movement. Ruptured implants are a controversial topic and more can be written about the subject. In general, what happens when an implant breaks depends on the kind of implant:

If a saline-filled implant breaks, the implant will deflate in a few hours and the salt water will be absorbed and naturally expelled by the body.
If a silicone-gel filled implant leak or break, the elastic silicone gel may remain within the implant shell, or may escape into the breast. A leaking silicone gel implant may not be noticeable except through expensive tests like an MRI. Thus woman with silicone breast implants are advised to visit with her plastic surgeon every year to make sure they are still functioning properly.



