 Keeping your mouth clean, including the area of your partially erupted wisdom teeth, is vital to your oral health. It is easiest to clean your partially erupted teeth with a narrow-headed toothbrush because it can clean the hard-to-reach spots that normal toothbrushes can’t get to.Brush at least twice a day, including in the morning and before bedtime. You may also want to consider brushing after meals to help remove any debris that may be lingering.Use a soft-bristled toothbrush to soothe your teeth. Gently and slowly brush your teeth using small circular motions.Your gums are likely inflamed an extra sensitive around your wisdom teeth, so be very gentle to avoid further pain and even swelling. You may also want to try single-tufted toothbrushes or electric toothbrushes as well.Make sure that you brush the area under the operculum (which is the flap of skin covering part of your wisdom teeth).
Remember to brush your tongue so that you minimize the risk of anything entering your gums, which could cause or prolong an infection.
Use a fluoride toothpaste for optimal cleaning.;
, Take the time to floss between each of your teeth. You can use normal floss, or you can get electric flossers that help to get any food stuck in between your teeth. Floss around your wisdom teeth to get rid of any debris that may have collected around the teeth or inside the gums.Use at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) of floss and wrap it around each of your index fingers (or whichever finger is most comfortable).You can then grip the floss between your thumbs and forefingers to help yourself clean more effectively.Be extra gentle when you’re guiding the floss between your teeth. Curve the floss against your tooth once it reaches your gumline.Rub the side of each tooth in an up and down motion.You should spend about 20 seconds for each tooth when flossing with care and try counting the motions until they become a natural habit.
Use extra floss if you need to.You can either brush or floss first, though there is some evidence that flossing first may help fluoride more effectively reach your teeth.You can buy floss at most grocery stores and pharmacies, as well as at large retailers.
 After you have brushed and flossed, consider rinsing your mouth out with clean water. There is some evidence that mouthwash can reduce plaque and gingivitis and help overall oral health. Mouthwash may also sweep out lingering particles of food or other germs.Swish it around your mouth. Make sure that you swish the mouthwash around in such a way that it reaches wisdom teeth.
Mouthwashes with a chlorhexidine concentration below 0.02% are the best choices for mouthwash. Products with alcohol can dry out your mouth and cause bad breath.You can get chlorhexidine mouthwashes at most pharmacies and some grocery stores.
Take a week-long break from using chlorhexidine mouthwash every two weeks or it can stain your teeth.
 Rinsing with a simple solution of salt water can keep your teeth and mouth clean in between brushes. This can not only help keep you mouth clean, but also help reduce any inflammation that may be causing your pain.Make a salt solution by dissolving 1/2 a teaspoon of salt in an 8 oz glass of warm water.
Swish around a mouthful saline solution for 30 seconds and then gently spit it out.
Rinse with the salt water solution after every meal to help remove any debris in your teeth.The saline solution can soothe painful gums and inflammation that arises from partially erupted wisdom teeth.
Chamomile tea may also help with inflammation, so you can try rinsing with it once daily.
 You can use an irrigator, or a small plastic syringe, to rinse the areas around your wisdom teeth. Employ this instrument after meals and at bedtime if you like to help effectively clean out any lingering debris that could infect your teeth.You can use the simple saline solution to fill the irrigator. If the water pressure is too strong and your gum bleeds, increase the distance between the tip and tooth and do rotational movements for about 30 seconds
Place the tip of the irrigator close to your partially erupted wisdom teeth.
You can purchase an irrigator at many pharmacies and most medical supply stores.
 Drink plenty of water throughout the day to keep your mouth moist. This can help minimize bacteria production and the risk for infection., Part of maintaining oral health is seeing your dentist every six months. If you are experiencing the eruption of your wisdom teeth, you may want to see your dentist more frequently to help ensure the health of your mouth.


Make sure to let your dentist know of any problems you are experiencing with your wisdom teeth.
 You may experience pain with partially erupted wisdom teeth. Use either an over-the-counter pain reliever or a prescription pain medication from your doctor to help relieve pain and possibly even swelling.Ibuprofen or acetaminophen may minimize or remove any pain you have. Ibuprofen may also help reduce swelling associated with swollen gums.
Your doctor may prescribe a pain medication if over-the-counter pain relief doesn’t work for you., You’ll may experience some swelling and pain as your wisdom teeth erupt from your gums. Applying an ice pack to your cheeks may help relieve swelling and pain around your wisdom teeth.


Wrap the ice pack in a towel to prevent ice burn.
You can place the ice pack on your cheeks for 20 minutes at a time. You can apply the ice up to 5 times a day.
 If the pain of your teeth becomes too much, or if you are experiencing other problems related to your wisdom teeth, including infection, consult either your dentist or an oral surgeon.She can help formulate a treatment plan which may include surgical removal. She can also ensure that you don’t have an infection.


Your dentist may send you to an oral surgeon for further consultation.
 In some cases, infections can occur around your wisdom teeth because bacteria collects under the flap covering your teeth. This problem is called pericoronitis.If the infection is bad enough, your dentist may prescribe antibiotics for your to take or even suggest surgery.The most common antibiotic prescribed for pericoronitis is penicillin., In some cases, surgery is the most optimal way to keep your mouth clean and alleviate pain. Sometimes, surgery is the best way to deal with partially erupted wisdom teeth. Speak you’re your dentist or oral surgeon about the best option for you.Doctors usually perform surgery for a number of reasons including: serious infection or gum disease around your wisdom teeth, tooth decay of the partially erupted teeth, to make room for other teeth to align properly during orthodontic treatment, or wisdom teeth that are harming surrounding teeth.Wisdom tooth extraction is done on an outpatient basis, so you’ll be able to go home the same day as your surgery.The surgery is generally safe and doesn’t have many complications beyond some swelling and pain.