


On desktop, open your web browser and go to https://www.onedrive.com/

On mobile, tap the OneDrive app. It resembles either two white clouds on a blue background (iPhone) or two blue clouds (Android).;
, If you aren't logged in automatically select Sign in and enter your Microsoft Live email address and password to log in.
 This is the default page to which OneDrive loads on both the desktop version and the mobile app.


On desktop, the tabs are located on the left side of the page.
On iPhone, the tabs are located on the bottom of the screen.
On Android, the tabs are located by tapping ☰ on the top-left of the screen.
 Any visual media (e.g., photos and videos) in your OneDrive will appear here.
 On mobile, its icon resembles a clock. Your recently uploaded, accessed, and shared files all appear here.
 On mobile, its icon resembles two person-shaped silhouettes. Any file or folder that you have shared or had shared with you will show up on this page.
 Now that you know how to navigate OneDrive's interface, it's time to upload a file of your own.
 You can upload files directly to the "Files" page, but if you want to organize your files, first double-click or tap a folder to open it.
 It's an upward-facing arrow at the top of the page.


On mobile, first tap + in the top-right side of the screen (iPhone) or the bottom-right corner of the screen (Android), then tap Upload.
 Clicking the Files option will open a window for you to browse for documents, photos, or videos on your computer.


On mobile, you'll instead select the type of file you wish to upload (e.g., photos). You cannot upload text files (e.g., notes) from your phone.
 Doing so will prompt it to begin uploading to your OneDrive account.


On iPhone, you'll first need to tap Done in the top-right corner of the screen after you've selected all items you wish to upload.
 Once it does, you'll be able to view, share, download, and categorize your file on any device on which you can access OneDrive.


Make sure you don't close out of OneDrive or shut down your device until the upload is complete.
 Doing so will select it.


On mobile, tap and hold a file or folder.
 These are at the top of the page, and include some combination of the following things depending on the platform and file type:



Share - Allows you to share your selected file or folder through OneDrive, social media, messaging, or email. This icon resembles a right-facing arrow (desktop), a box with an upward-facing arrow (iPhone), or three connected dots (Android).

Download (desktop only) - Downloads the selected item to your computer's desktop.

Delete - The trashcan icon here allows you to send the selected item to the Recycle Bin.

Move to - This folder-shaped icon with a right-facing arrow prompts you to choose a folder into which you'd like to move the selected item.

Offline (mobile only) - The parachute-shaped icon allows you to add your selected file to your OneDrive's "Offline" folder, which will let you access the stored files while offline.

Details - Resembles the ⓘ icon; you can click the Details icon to see your file's size and sharing information. This option is inside of the overflow menu on mobile.

⋮ (mobile only) - The overflow menu icon here is where a couple of different options (e.g., Rename This File or Save) live.

Copy to (desktop only) - Select a file location to which you'll copy your selected item without moving it.

Rename (desktop only) - Change your selected item's name.

Embed (desktop only) - Generates an HTML code that will allow you to embed your selected file in a website or blog. You'll typically see this option for visual media, though it may show up for some documents as well.
 Doing so will open the item in full-screen mode (file) or expand it to allow you to view its contents (folder).
 It's the backward-facing arrow in the top-left corner of the page (desktop) or screen (mobile). Doing so will return you to the folder in which you started.

