 Make sure that there is a ledge on at least two opposite sides from each other. You’ll need these to rest your plywood or particle board on later, so don’t use a crate if its sides are totally smooth on the inside.The depth of the filing ledges from the rim may vary by design. Generally they’re about a quarter- to a half-inch (0.64 to 1.27 cm) below the rim.
Measure the ledges' depth from the rim before buying other materials so you can pick up an equally thick length of plywood or particle board that will fit snugly inside the rim.;
, Choose any bottom corner of the crate for a starting point. Use your glue stick to apply a bead of glue along the plastic on one side along its bottom. Line up the end of your first strand of sisal rope with the edge of the corner and press the rope firmly into the glue.Expect milk crates to vary greatly in design. Some may have a recessed bottom, while others may be totally flat on each side. Some may offer lots of surface area to attach glue, while others have very little.
Before you start gluing, it may be advisable to do a test-wrap with the rope just to see how it looks. This way you can make any alterations necessary to please your tastes before committing yourself.
 Apply more beads of glue along the bottom of the side that you started with. However, only apply glue a few inches in advance of the rope. As you go, press the rope into the glue and hold it in place for a few moments before applying more beads of glue. Give each section of rope a chance to set into the glue before moving on. Gently pull the rope taut before pressing a section into the glue. This way your rope will wrap around the crate nice and tightly without any slack. At the same time, though, avoid pulling too hard, since the glue hasn’t had a chance to fully dry.
 Once you've finished gluing your rope around the first side, gently pull it tight around the next corner. Apply more glue at the bottom corner of the next side to the crate and press the rope into it. Then continue along the length of that side's bottom as you did with the first side. Repeat around the next two sides so the rope wraps the very bottom of the crate all the way around its sides., Once you have wrapped the bottom of all four sides, continue wrapping toward the crate’s top in the same fashion, adding one layer at a time. However, as you add each additional layer of rope, also apply beads of glue along the top of the preceding layer, in addition to the sides of the crate. Press the new layer of rope into both beads for an even more secure bond.This will take a while, and it may also may use up a lot of glue. For the most secure bond, you can apply glue along every available surface area, including the entire length of each preceding layer of rope. However, you can also simply add an inch-long bead (2.5 cm) every few inches instead in order to use fewer glue sticks.
 Use a measuring tape to determine the space between each pair of inside walls. Be sure to measure both the interior's width and length, even if the crate appears to be perfectly square, since this may only be a trick of the eye. Also make sure you make your measurements above the filing ledges, rather than measure the distance between their edges. Remember that the ottoman's top will be resting on these, so you don't want to make it so small that it will fall between the filing edges, Use your crate’s interior dimensions to pencil an outline on your plywood or particle board. Then cut the wood to size. Place your board inside the rim of your crate to make sure it fits. If it does, place the board on top of your cushion foam and trace another outline. Then use fabric scissors to cut your foam.Plywood and particle board will both suffice for this project. If you have extra plywood handy, great. If not, go with particle board to save money, since it’s cheaper and will be out of view once your project’s finished.
 Use more glue (or any other form of adhesive) to bond the bottom of your foam to the top of your board. Don’t worry about creating the most secure bond ever. This step is merely to reduce the chances of the two separating as you attach fabric after this (which would make that step more frustrating than it needs to be), so as long as the two aren’t sliding off each other, you’re fine., First, lay the fabric out facedown on your worktable. Place your cushion on top of it, with the bottom of the wood facing up. Adjust its position so at least six inches (15.24 cm) of fabric border the cushion on all sides. Then use your fabric scissors to cut out your piece of fabric.The extra fabric along each side of the cushion should be wide enough to pull over the cushion’s side, covering it completely, plus a couple inches of the wooden board’s bottom.
Before you start cutting the fabric, test this out by pulling its free end over the corresponding side of the cushion and its bottom. If it doesn’t cover enough of the bottom to staple it there, readjust the cushion’s position to add more fabric along each side, and then repeat.
 First, ask a partner to help hold the fabric still as you pull it over each side. If no one’s available, choose a side to start with and then place weights on the others to anchor them in place. Then pull the fabric as tightly as possible (without dragging it away from the opposite side of the cushion) and staple it to the bottom of the wooden board. Repeat along the next three sides. Then fold the loose corners of fabric over the bottom of the board and staple them there, too.If your staple gun doesn’t drive the staples all the way into the particle board, simply go over them with a hammer to drive them in.
Avoid using nails or screws, since the board is pretty thin and the foam will compress under weight (meaning that the sharp ends of nails and screws run the risk of poking your feet or bottom through the foam).
 This step isn’t strictly necessary. However, if you’d like to use the inside of your crate as storage space (or alternate between more than one cushion, each with a different fabric), then use a cut length of thick ribbon to create a handle. Simply hold the two free ends together and staple them both to the board, toward its edge, so it sticks out from underneath when the cushion is flipped upright.,