 It's the hardest thing to do when you're crazy about a girl, but it's the only sure way to get out of the friendzone. If you want her to see you in a different light, you have to take some away time so your relationship can reset when you start interacting again.


Commit to being in minimal contact with her for at least 3 or 4 weeks. It sounds like forever, but you can do it! Be polite when you see her, but don't hang out with her, don't engage in long phone calls, don't go on dates, and answer her texts with replies that are short and to the point.
If she asks why you're being so distant, say that you're taking some time to refocus your priorities. Tell her it's not personal, you're just working on accomplishing goals in other areas of your life. Most girls like someone motivated and ambitious; even if she's distraught that you're not spending as much time with her, this is as good a reason as you can give.
 Dedicate the hours you would otherwise spend with her (or thinking about her) to feeling better about yourself. You'll be a new and improved guy with better self-confidence, whether or not she's interested in that at the end of the day. Remember that you're not doing it for her right now — you're doing it for you, so that you feel like the best version of yourself.


Step up your grooming. Try making your routine a little more rigorous, and see how it affects your self-esteem. Amp up your skincare, try a different hairstyle, shower more regularly, try a new cologne, and so on.
Take control of your life. If there's some aspect of your life that currently feels out of control — whether it's school, your career, or finances — now's the time to rein it back in. Figure out what you need to do to stabilize your situation and feel like you're back on track. Then go do it — don't waste any more time stressing about it. Yes, girls are attracted to men who seem like they're in control of their lives. But even better, you'll feel confident and self-assured that things are going your way, because you've made it so.
Cultivate a new hobby or interest. Is there a sport you've always wanted to try? Or a subject you've always wanted to learn more about? Now's the time! Devote yourself to whatever extracurricular interest strikes your fancy, and make it your new focus. Girls are interested in people who are interesting, and having hobbies or outside activities makes you interesting.
 After you've been away for awhile, you'll have the chance to make another "first" impression when you're ready to interact with her again. If you can play it the right way, she'll start to see you in a whole new light.


Look your best. Put extra effort into looking as good as possible when you feel like you're getting close to seeing her again. That way, your next meeting won't catch you off-guard.
Make your intentions clear. If you want her to see you as boyfriend material, act like it! Flirt with her. Maintain eye contact. Pay her a smoldering compliment. Don't just fall into old habits and act like you worship the ground she walks on. Make her feel special, but not at the cost of lowering yourself.
 Instead of being constantly available for her whenever she wants, make her work a little for your attention. For instance, you're not available to come over and watch romantic comedies with her while she complains about her latest break-up; however, you are available to take her to dinner on Friday if she's interested.


Draw a clear line between things you used to do for her in the friendzone, and things you're willing to do for her as a potential boyfriend. Be vigilant about sticking to this difference.
 After you re-initiate contact, don't wait months to ask her out or otherwise move the relationship to the next level. Do it within the week.


Ask her out on a date that is clearly romantic. That means: dinner, on the weekend, just the two of you. She'll get the hint.
State your feelings for her in a clear, confident way. Let her know that you're interested in being more than friends. Tell her you'll accept her decision if she's not interested, but you can't keep languishing in the friendzone.
Break the touch barrier. Hold her hand, give her a hug, offer to cuddle, or otherwise get physical contact on the table. Especially if the touch barrier was a characteristic of your earlier interactions, this is a pretty clear way to send her a message.
Remember that old Sean Connery movie quote: "The key to a woman's heart is an unexpected gift at an unexpected time." The gift doesn't have to be extravagant — try something as simple as a single flower or her favorite treat. Don't make a big deal about giving it to her, just do it with a smile and accept her thanks gracefully.
 If you've tried everything to impress her and she's still not interested in dating, back away gracefully. Sometimes the spark just isn't there. You tried your best, and there are other girls out there who will appreciate the person you are. Move on with confidence!

