 These objects create a brighter "image" of cocktails and blended drinks, such as Pina Coladas. Garnishes can be anything from edible fruit to plastic swords. The most common types of fruit used are strawberries, oranges, limes, lemons, and cherries. Garnishes can be decorated by cutting into slices and hanging them on the side of the glass, twisting a piece of zest or a fruit slice, or inserting a straw or swizzle stick in the drink.
 While shooter and shot drinks are normally created by free pouring, most cocktail drinks recommend that you prepare the glass before pouring the contents in it.

The most common glass preparation is by chilling the glass. A person can either place a glass in the freezer until chilled or add ice cubes in the glass until the drink is ready to be served. Depending on the drink, the ice cubes are removed or the drink is directly poured on it.
Frosting glasses are more seen on margaritas and some cocktail drinks.
 These are the actions of creating drinks.


Building: Easiest technique to do. When making a drink, one should follow a recipe's ingredient list. Also when building, usually the ingredients float on top of each other, but can be mixed with a swizzle stick.






Stirring: Using a long metal or glass rod spoon, ingredients are stirred together, mainly using an old fashioned or highball glass. Some recommend using a method of making six full 360 degree circles while stirring.

Shaking and Straining: Shaking is the most efficient and fastest method to mix and chill a drink at the same time. Usually ice is added to a shaker, followed by the ingredients. Fast and quick shakes should build up condense on the sides of the shaker. When straining ingredients into a glass, a shaker strainer is used or one is clasped on the shaker.






Muddling: As weird as it sounds, muddling is the action of "crushing" ingredients, such as mint leaves with a muddle, fork, pestle, or the back of a spoon. Depending on the drink, the crushed pieces are left in the glass and the drink is poured onto them.






Layering: When done correctly, this method creates the most gorgeous mixed drinks. One of the most known layered drink is the B-52. Ingredients are measured and poured against the back of a tablespoon, spoon, or down the handle of a bar spoon.
Blending: An alternative to shaking drinks, this method creates iced blended drinks. Crushed ice may be more recommended to use rather than regular sized ice cubes.






Flaming: Although the most dangerous technique to creating drinks, it enhances the flavors of the drink. The flames should be extinguished before consuming the drink.
 To get the right amounts of a balanced drink, measuring is very important. Never free-pour something if you're not sure, guessing, or just to fill a glass up. Over or under pouring an ingredient will throw everything off., Explore combinations with a variety of spices, fruits, and different tastes. A suggested fruit list can be found here. You may even find yourself making a new concoction.