 Just like Starburst vodka, this candy cocktail is an alcoholic twist on a childhood favorite.


Separate individual Skittles by flavor. Unlike Starburst, this concoction is best enjoyed in discrete flavors. You will need 60 Skittles for each flavor you intend to make.
Put the Skittles into an empty water bottle. Use a funnel to pour 6 ounces of vodka into the water bottle. Shake until the vodka takes on the Skittles color.
Let the mixture sit a few hours to allow the candy to break down and blend into the vodka. Filter the mixture using an everyday coffee filter, then pour the refined mixture into a seal-able glass bottle. Let freeze for a few hours. Your Skittle vodka is now ready for consumption!, Though not a drink, these fruity, alcoholic treats are fun appetizers to go with your beverage.


Fill a Tupperware container with as many Gummy Bears as you want. Pour vodka into the container until it covers the top of the candy. Seal the Tupperware and keep in the refrigerator for at least three days before eating.
Taste the Gummy Bears after the second day to gauge whether the strength of the alcohol is to your liking. If not, simply add or empty some vodka from the Tupperware.
You may substitute Gummy Worms for Gummy Bears, however, avoid Red Fish and Swedish Fish gummy candies. These candies will not fully soak in the vodka and can sometimes result in an unpleasant goo., This fruity, makeshift candy cocktail can be enjoyed in each Starburst flavor.


Either separate the Starburst squares by flavor or mix the squares based on the taste you want to achieve. Fill an empty water bottle with about 10 unwrapped squares of Starburst.
Use a funnel to pour 7 ounces of vodka into the water bottle. Shake well until the vodka begins to take on the Starburst's color. Let the mixture sit overnight to allow the Starburst to break down and blend with the vodka.Strain the liquid using a standard coffee filter. This will help separate chunks of Starburst and make the solution smoother.
Pour the blend into containers that are freezer-safe. Glass bottles with seal-able caps are best. Freeze the cocktail for a few hours, then enjoy!

