 Some cats will begin to go to the bathroom more often when they have a chronic form of this condition, as the cat is not as able to hold water as well. In connection with this symptom, your cat may begin to go outside the litter box rather than in.In particular, try to see if your cat gets up more at night than usual.;
, Another symptom of kidney disease is increased thirst. Because your cat is peeing more, it needs to drink more to replace the lost water. Therefore, if you notice you are refilling the bowl more often, that could be another symptom., When kidney disease begins to take hold of your cat, it may decide it's not as hungry. In turn, that means your cat will lose weight over time. If you notice your cat getting lighter, that could be another symptom of the disease., "Lazy cat" is a common idiom for a reason. Cats sleep a large portion of their day, up to 16 hours or more. However, you know how much your cat sleeps and plays. If you begin to notice a decrease in energy, that could also be a sign of this disease.In more severe stages, the cat may not want to move much at all, and it may sit hunched-over at times., With kidney disease, your cat's coat may become less vibrant over time. In particular, it may become drier to the touch, which can also make it look duller. While this can also be a symptom of other problems, as many of these symptoms are, it can indicate kidney disease., Several symptoms can creep up in the mouth. For example, your cat's tongue may change color, turning a more brownish color. You may also notice that your cat develops ulcers on the cheeks and tongue. A third symptom associated with the mouth is especially bad breath. Of course, your cat's breath probably always smells fairly bad (fish breath!), but if it develops a particularly foul odor, that could also be a sign., Your cat may start showing symptoms in both its urine and feces. The urine may turn cloudy, which can be hard to spot in litter. However, it may also contain blood, which should be easier to spot. Also, make sure your cat is defecating regularly, as constipation can be an indicator. The opposite, diarrhea, can also be a problem., Most cats vomit from time to time, but pay attention if your cat suddenly has an increase in vomiting.However, not every cat has this symptom, so keep looking for other symptoms even if you don't notice this one., If the symptoms come on slowly, that is more likely to be the chronic form of the disease. If the symptoms appear quite suddenly, that's more likely to be the acute form of the disease., The main difference between most early signs and late signs of kidney disease is the severity of the symptom. Therefore, you may not notice it when it is first beginning because symptoms, like increased thirst, are mild.Therefore, if you suspect your cat may have this disease, it's important to take it to the vet right away, as your vet will be able to run tests to help with diagnosis., This disease can stay hidden for a long time. While certain symptoms are common to this disease, your cat may not exhibit any of them in the early stages. Therefore, it is often difficult to spot the disease early on., Chronic kidney disease is usually caused by an underlying condition, but sometimes, your vet may not know what the condition is. However, some common causes are urinary tract blockages, advanced dental disease, and kidney inflammation.Some other conditions that could lead to chronic kidney disease include thyroid issues and high blood pressure, as well as cancer., It is believed that chronic kidney disease can be passed down genetically from generation to generation in cats. Therefore, if you happen to know the parent of your cat suffered from the disease, your cat has a higher chance of developing it.Also, some breeds may be more likely to develop the disease, such as British shorthairs, Persians, and Himalayans.
 When a cat has dental problems, you may think it's confined to its mouth. However, dental disease in cats often leads to systematic problems, which in turn can cause kidney disease. Therefore, if your cat has suffered from dental disease, make sure to watch closely for signs of kidney disease., While you may not be able to spot as many symptoms early on, your vet is trained to look for signs you likely won't notice. Therefore, take your cat in at least once a year. Twice is better, particularly if you have an older cat.