 Notice that the bottom of the oval looks like an upside down trapezoid while the top of the oval shape is rounded.
 The top line MUST intersect the midway point of the oval shape. The lowest line should be placed at the bottom of the chin. After drawing the top and bottom lines, add two EVENLY SPACED lines between the top and bottom line. At the end of step two, you should have THREE evenly spaced segments between the top and bottom lines (refer to the picture).
 The top four map out the corners of Kobe's eyes, while the bottom two map out the corners of his mouth. Lets look at their relationship. Notice that these dots are leaning towards the right side of the oval. This is due to the fact that Kobe's head is slightly turned. Also, take a second to notice the distance in between the two eyes is equal to one eye length. Finally, notice that the middle part of the space designated for each eye, will line up with the outer corners of the mouth. Now, draw in the six dots.
 Notice that the iris is partially blocked by the upper eyelid.



In this step, make the bottom of the nose by drawing three connected, upside down arches. Do not worry about the bridge of the nose yet. After you make the bottom of the nose, draw the shape for the upper lip...... The upper lip looks like a squished McDonald's logo (picture the golden arches squished).
Add the bottom lip. It is similar to a banana shape. Notice that the bottom lip is thicker than the top lip. Now that we have the eyes and part of the mouth done, take a second to notice the perfect square that is formed when you connect the points from the middle of the eye and the corners of the mouth. Make adjustments if you do not have this perfect square.
 Like the bottom lip, these shapes are very similar to banana shapes. They will help us shade the nose later.


Now add in the ears. Due to the fact that Kobe's head is turned; it appears that his left ear is smaller than his right. This, of course is not the case, but draw what you see.
Draw in the lines, stemming from the chin, as well as Kobe's dimple lines.
Draw in Kobe's hairline. Again, due to the turn of his head, you will see more hair on the right side.
,,,,,