 Discussing with your child, young or old, helps them to better understand what a stranger is, and that strangers are not all the same. While a stranger is someone that your child doesn't know, that doesn't mean that all strangers are to be feared. Get a handle on what your child thinks about strangers in order to address misconceptions.
Be aware of your child's personality and behaviors. If they are naturally fearful and cautious, they may have a different opinion of strangers than children who are very friendly and adventurous.;
, Talk about safety issues in a positive, open and reassuring manner. Avoid using scare tactics or sensational news stories as a way to explain about strangers that could harm your children. Focus on how safety is a matter of awareness and knowing what to do.Help to build your child's confidence in how to handle different situations with strangers by being a role model. Demonstrate conversations with store employees or emergency personnel that show your trust in strangers.
Children can have wild imaginations at times. Avoid painting a picture that strangers are evil kidnappers. Explain that it is very rare for strangers to want to harm children.
 Make it clear that not all strangers are bad people who are out to do harm. Explain to your children that you can't assume someone is good or bad just by looking at them, but there are generally good strangers and bad strangers to seek help from.Talk with them about strangers that they can trust such as police officers, firefighters, emergency personnel, store clerks in uniform, security guards, or a mother with other children.
Explore how strangers are not the same as villains.
Discuss about them about bad strangers. Include examples such as adults who are asking for help by pulling up in their cars asking for directions from children. Make it clear that a child should never enter a stranger's vehicle. Explain that if the situation seems uncomfortable, then this may be a warning sign of a bad interaction with a stranger.
 Young children may be apt to wander off and explore. Make it clear that there are boundaries of where they can go. Make it clear that adult supervision by a trusted person is crucial to help them stay safe.Establish clear boundaries in the home, in their front yard, in their neighborhood, at parks, and in public spaces.
For preschoolers and young kids, make it clear that adult supervision is required at all times. Say that, "I need to see you at all times when we're out in public. Make sure to not leave my sight."
Discuss about those same boundaries when at school or with other caregivers.
 When out in public places, make it clear that if a child is lost or alone that there are safe places to go. Show them the places that you consider safe, along with the routes to take that are safest in your area.Demonstrate the safe routes available by walking or riding with them in those areas and point them out.
Show them public places that are safer and where they are more likely to find trusted adults. These could include schools, stores, libraries, places of worship, and homes of trusted neighbors.
Have them avoid deserted areas where there are few people or large parking lots.
 Remind kids that when they feel lost or overwhelmed to seek the nearest safe space or trusted adult. Give them examples and tools about what to do when they need help.Establish rules about personal safety to your child. Remind them that when they're in trouble, it's important to remember their full name, address, phone number, name of parents, and how to use the phone to call 9-1-1.
For example, if they are lost in a mall, have them identify a store clerk or security guard that can help them feel safer. Tell them not to wander farther, but instead find help once they feel lost. Store employees are more likely to help and have a protocol in place to handle lost children.
 While it's important make sure your child understands safety, scary tactics will likely do more harm than good. Be calm and cautious in how you explain why it's important to stay safe.


Avoid warnings that could make your child very anxious such as, "I might never see you again!" or "They could take you away from me."
Focus on clear and matter-of-fact statements instead. If your child asks why they can't go with a stranger, consider saying, "I want to make sure I know where you are and that you know how the follow the rules."

, Talk with kids about how mean or scary-looking strangers may not be potential sources of harm. Explain how some strangers may act in sweet but manipulative ways to get a child to go with them. They may look like regular, nice people, but these actions may indicate bad intentions:Approaching a child by car and asking for directions or offering a ride
Offering treats or candy in a secluded place such as the person's car or home
Asking for help with a task such as helping to find a lost dog

, Encourage them to listen their own inner voice about what seems wrong with the situation. If something feels uncomfortable or just not right, they don't have to know why. Make sure they leave the situation when something feels wrong.Teach them to walk away or find a safe, public space immediately when they feel something's off.
Focus on teaching this to older kids that are better able to distinguish right from wrong than younger kids (under 6).
 If a kid is a approached alone by a stranger and the situation becomes increasingly dangerous or scary, give your child clear instructions of what to do in this situation. For example, if your child thinks he or she is being followed while walking alone, teach them these four steps:Say no.
Run away.
Yell when running away. This draws attention to yourself so that others can possibly help.
Tell a trusted adult what happened as soon as you can. Find a safe space nearby where others are present.
 Role-play some "What if?" scenarios with your children, young or old. This is a key way to teaching them how to handle difficult or tricky situations. For example, act out a scenario at a park in which a stranger approaches a child. Teach them to find the nearest parent with children, or another trusted adult.Teach kids to maintain a healthy distance, beyond an adult arm's reach, from a stranger. Demonstrate this action by acting as the stranger and showing your child a safe distance to stand from you.
Role-play scenarios should not be overly scary or sensational. Make it a positive learning experience.

