 You will need to ensure you use only the proper type of toothpaste. It needs to be the white paste kind, and not the gel kind.It should also be the plainest type of toothpaste available, not the whitening or sensitivity kind. A mint-flavoured toothpaste is also helpful.


The “toothpaste method" is highly recommended by a number of DIY experts and average people, but it is not recommended by doctors. The reason why toothpaste works to get rid of blackheads and other pimples is because it contains ingredients that help dry out the infected pores. However, as you can imagine, toothpaste also contains many other ingredients that could potentially cause other problems with your skin, including an allergic reaction.Feel free to try out the “toothpaste method” but know that your doctor may not approved. If you’re concerned, try some of the other suggestions that include only pure ingredients.;
, Wash and dry your face, with warm water, using your normal daily routine. Apply a layer of toothpaste to affected areas such as your nose or chin. Let the toothpaste dry completely. After the toothpaste is dry, gently rub it around on your skin to help remove the blackheads from your pores. Wash and dry your face again.Instead of using your fingers, you can apply the toothpaste to your face using a face cloth soaked in olive or almond oil. You can rub the toothpaste into your skin with the face cloth for a few minutes., Wash and dry your face, with warm water, using your normal daily routine. Make a mixture of 1 part toothpaste and 1 part salt. (If the mixture is too thick, add a few drops of water to thin it out.) Rub the mixture onto your face and leave it for about 5-10 minutes. Gently rub the toothpaste mixture around to remove the blackheads from your pores before washing it off.Apply your normal daily moisturizer after your face has been dried.


Make sure your face remains moist throughout this whole process.
As an alternative to salt, you can use baking soda.
Before your moisturize, you can also rub an ice cube around on your face to help close the pores to prevent bacteria from getting inside.
 If you have a large number of blackheads, or acne, considering using a face wash that contains salicylic acid.Always wash your face with warm water to open the pores before applying the cleanser.Always apply a moisturizer to your skin after you’ve finished washing your face.To open your pores even more before cleansing, steam your skin by placing your face above a bowl of hot or boiling water.
Always wash your face after any activities that cause you to sweat heavily., Exfoliation can irritate your skin if it is done too often. Start with exfoliating once per week.If you skin isn’t irritated, you can add a couple more times a week.
 Your hands touch everything else, so you want to prevent your hands from touching your face and transferring oil, dirt and bacteria to your pores.This includes preventing your hair from touching your face if possible. Your hair naturally contains oils will can get on your skin and block your pores., SPF protection should be in any moisturizer you put on any part of your body. And you should use moisturizer with SPF protection year-round on your face., Powder-based make-up is also better than cream-based make-up.Always remember to thoroughly remove all your make-up before you go to bed.Also remember that it’s important to wash your make-up tools and brushes regularly as bacteria and dirt build up on them over time. Wash them with warm water and a gentle soap.
 Hydration is extremely important for all your skin and the best way to hydrate your skin is simply by drinking lots of water., Wash and dry your face using your normal daily routine. Crack an egg and separate the yolk from the egg white, putting the egg white into a small bowl. Brush the egg white onto the your face. Place a layer of tissue, toilet paper or something similar on top of the egg white. Wait for the egg white to dry, then brush a second layer of egg white on top of the paper and add another layer of paper. Repeat the egg white and paper layers up to 3 more times. Let all layers completely dry, then peel the mask off using the paper. Wash and dry your face again to clean-up any remaining egg residue.Another mask option is a combination of 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of oats and 3 tablespoons of plain yogurt. You can also add 1-2 teaspoons of lemon juice if you’d like. This mask should only be left on your face for up to 5 minutes before washing it off with cold water.
If you prefer something red, you can create a mask using a crushed tomato. Rub the crushed tomato not your face for a couple of minutes, then leave it for another 15 before rinsing it off.
 Mix 1 teaspoon of milk and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of raw honey in a small glass bowl and heat the mixture for 5-10 seconds in a microwave. Once the mixture becomes like a paste, allow it to cool. Brush the paste over your face and apply a clean and dry strip of cotton on top of the paste. Let the mixture completely dry on your face. Pull off the cotton and rinse your face with cold water to remove any remaining dry paste.Instead of milk, you can also use 1 teaspoon of cinnamon with 1 teaspoon of raw honey. You will still need to mix these items together until they form a paste, but the mixture doesn’t need to be heated. This mixture only needs to remain on your face for 3-5 minutes before you pull off the cotton strips.
 Clean and dry your face using your normal daily routine. Squeeze the juice out of a fresh lemon and put the juice in a small bottle. Using cotton balls, apply the lemon juice to your face just before bedtime. In the morning, rinse your face and put on your daily moisturizer.The lemon juice can be stored in the small bottle in the fridge for you to a week.
If the pure lemon juice is too strong on your skin, add water to the juice before applying it to your face.
As an alternative, you can mix 3 teaspoons of the lemon juice with 1 teaspoon of cinnamon and apply to your face using the same method. Leave it on overnight.
Another lemon juice option is to mix 4 teaspoons of lemon juice with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of milk. This mixture can be left on your face for about 30 minutes before being washed off. It does not get left on your skin overnight.
 Mix baking soda and water in a small bowl until it forms a paste. Using your fingers, apply the paste to your face and rub it in circles. Rinse your face with water, dry and apply your daily moisturizer.An alternative to baking soda is a mixture of 1 teaspoon of sugar mixed with 1 teaspoon of olive oil or lemon juice. Rub this mixture into your face for about a minute and then rinse off.
 Many skin care manufacturers make products specifically for acne or blackheads. These products may contain things like Retinol, Vitamin C, Tea Tree Oil, and more. Chances are your favourite product line has an item that can help you specifically target your blackhead problem.