 Meditating for 10-20 minutes a day can help you lower overall stress, and even a brief 5 minute meditation when you feel overwhelmed can help you refocus during a stressful situation or workday. You can do it sitting up or laying down, use mantras or guided imagery, or just concentrate on your breathing. The goal is simply to relax your body and calm your mind.


For a simple meditation you can do anywhere on your own, just lie or sit comfortably, close your eyes, and take deep breaths while counting each inhale and each exhale, up to 10. Feel the air in your body as it moves and release all tension with each exhale. If your mind wonders away, gently bring your attention back to your breath.
If you want to try guided imagery, do the same thing while imagining yourself in a calm, beautiful, or safe place. It could be your granny’s kitchen table, a beach on the Indian Ocean, a hot air balloon ride, or anywhere you want. Picture yourself there by using your senses, like sight, sound, smell, and even touch. The more completely you can imagine it, the easier to feel relaxed.Download a meditation app to your phone, like Headspace, for a free trial. Headspace offers 10 days of 10 minute meditations to teach you how to meditate. It’s amazing what just 10 minutes will do for you! Or try one of The Chopra Center’s meditation apps. There are several, many with soothing music, imagery and mantras to repeat during your session.
 Lay of sit comfortably in a calm environment. Play some relaxing music if you like, or open the window to listen to the sounds of nature if you live near a lot of trees. Light some scented candles. Focus on the sounds, scents, and sensations you notice and enjoy each moment as it passes.


Try focusing on a mantra. Say it over and over to yourself gently as you breathe.
Good ones for letting go of a long day include: “Sometimes things are the way they are for a reason;” “Tomorrow is a new day;” and “At this hour, you cannot do anything to change, so rest instead.”, Try chamomile, lemon grass or lemon balm, or verbena.


Be careful not to have any caffeine or it could disrupt your sleep.
Don’t ingest too much sugar close to bedtime.
Having a small piece of chocolate or another treat is ok, but don’t eat a lot within 3 hours of bedtime or it may disrupt your sleep.
 Lavender, in particular, is a great scent for relaxing before bedtime., There are lots of options for what type of journal you keep, and it’s up to you! Write down your accomplishments for the day to remind yourself of how hard you worked. Or, start a daily gratitude journal. Just write about your day to get it all off your mind so you can relax. Plan for the next day so you aren’t thinking about tomorrow all evening and wasting your free time.


Writing down 3-5 things you are grateful for each day is a great way to keep your mood high and release stress. Read it the next morning if you wake up and feel dread about the day ahead.

