 The best way to prevent gun accidents from occurring in your home is to not store any guns at home. People who store guns at home are more likely to be involved in gun accidents than they are to successfully use their guns for self defense. If you have previously stored guns at home, but now you have children, consider whether the benefit of having a gun still outweighs the potential dangers.;
, If you do decide to store a gun at home, it is critical that you lock it up securely in a gun cabinet or another safe location where children will not be able to access it.Do not tell your children where the gun is stored. This may make it tempting for them to attempt to access it.
If the storage area has a key, be sure to hide it extremely well so that your children are not able to find it.
 Make sure that you always store your gun unloaded. This will help prevent children from successfully firing the weapon if they do find it.You should also store ammunition in a separate location from the gun to provide added security. Make sure the ammunition is also locked up and hidden so that children will not have access to it.
 Locking devices are designed to render a gun inoperable while engaged, which can prevent a child from accidentally firing it. Make sure that your gun has an effective locking device and that it is always engaged when the gun is not in your immediate control.Some states have laws that require that handguns be sold with locking devices.
 Accidents are much more likely to happen if you are not familiar with the safe operation of your gun. If you buy one, get training so you understand how to load and unload it, how to clean it, and how to fire it.Never try to figure out how to use a gun on your own. This is how accidents happen!

, Whenever you handle your gun, you should always make sure that you do not point the muzzle at anyone and that you keep your finger off of the trigger, unless you are planning to shoot. This is the best way to handle a gun at all times, but it is even more important when children are present.Follow these safety procedures even if you believe the gun is not loaded. Many accidents have occurred with guns that people believed to be unloaded.
 If you have guns in the house, it is extremely important that your children understand how dangerous they are. Properly educating your children about guns can help prevent tragic accidents if they manage to access a gun despite your other precautions.Be frank with your children when discussing the harm that guns can cause. They need to understand that people can be seriously injured or killed by guns.
Explain to your children that accidents can happen with guns, so it is important not to touch them, even if they have no intention of hurting anyone.
If your children play with toy guns, make sure they understand that real guns are completely different and should never be considered a toy.
 Even if you have done everything you can to prevent gun accidents from occurring at your own home, your children may still be at risk when they are visiting friends. It is a good idea to talk to their friend's parents about whether they store guns at home before allowing them to visit for the first time.If there are guns in the home where your child will be visiting, ask questions about how they are stored to ensure that you are comfortable with the safety precautions the family is taking.
 It's important for your children to know what to do if they find a gun. Let them know that no matter where they are and who they are with, they should never touch a gun without adult supervision, and that they should immediately leave the area with the gun and tell an adult about it. Prepare your children to educate their friends about gun safety. If they find a gun at a friend's house, they need to be willing to stand up to their friends and let them know that it is not okay to play with the gun.
 Your children should also know what to do if they hear about another child carrying a gun or planning to carry one, especially at school. Instruct them to always tell an adult about any rumors they hear involving guns, even if they are not sure that they are true.Make sure they understand that telling an adult about a situation like this is not tattling, and it may in fact save lives.

