 This is an important thing to remember when you have a toddler. If you are constantly telling your child that they can’t do something, can’t have something, or can’t touch something, they are going to feel like they have no control and no autonomy, and they are going to throw a fit. Therefore, before you automatically say “no” to something, think about why you are saying that. If it isn’t that big of a deal to you, then let them have it.One way you can give your child a sense of control is to let them have more choices. For example, you can pick out a few outfits, and then let them choose what they want to wear. At dinner time, give them a couple of options, and then let them choose which one they want to have. These are small things that won’t make too much difference to you but will make your toddler feel like they’ve got some control over what happens to them.
 It is important for your child’s development that you set clear boundaries for what is expected from them. This doesn’t mean that you set boundaries as a dictator, but rather that you show them that you’re setting limits that are there to protect them. When you set a limit for your toddler, think carefully about why you are setting that limit. In some cases, you may find that you are setting limits that aren’t really necessary.Limits related to your toddler’s safety are important, as are limits related to treating other people respectfully. When you set a limit for safety, make sure you do this with empathy.
For example, you can say to your child, “When we are crossing the street together, I expect you to hold my hand the entire time. I know this can be boring for you. You want to run around and play, but there are cars in the street. If you run into the street, you may get hurt. Let's practice looking for cars together.”

, The timeout is a well-known way to discipline a child for negative behavior. For many children, it is also an effective way. If your child is throwing a tantrum, place them in a safe spot that is away from dangerous objects and toys, and within your view. Give your child one warning, and explain what will happen if they don’t comply. If they continue, pick them up and put them in the time out. Turn on a timer for the amount of time you specified. For toddlers, a time out should usually last just a few minutes.


When the time out is over, ask your child if they are ready to talk with you. Don’t force them to do anything if they just want to sit there for a while longer.Be sure that you give one warning. If your child is throwing a tantrum, you can say, “If you don’t stop this tantrum, you’ll have to have a time out for two minutes.” If they continue, put them in the time out immediately. Don’t keep warning them without taking action. The toddler will catch on that you don’t really mean it, and your warnings won’t mean anything.
 When your child is in the middle of a major tantrum, it can be tempting to use spanking as a means of discipline, especially if you were spanked as a child. There is plenty of research demonstrating that not only does spanking not reduce the unwanted behavior, it can also cause more serious issues that can last a lifetime. For example, children who are spanked are more likely to have behavioral problems or experience mental illness.Children who are spanked have similar issues to children who are victims of more “serious” forms of physical abuse such as slapping, punching, and shoving. Though it is not always placed in the same playing field, spanking is as detrimental to your child as any other form of physical abuse, and should not be used for discipline.
Try giving your child a firm hug when they are having a tantrum. This display of your affection for them and the comfort from the hug may be enough to stop the tantrum or at least calm your child down a bit.

