 Modeling behaviors and attitudes that show confidence is one way to build confidence in young girls. It gives them an example to use for their own behavior and approaches to situations.It also builds their confidence by showing them that they are important enough for you to care about how you act around them.


If you find yourself in an aggravating situation, show them how to handle it maturely and appropriately.
For example, if someone cuts in front of you in line, don’t start yelling or arguing. Instead, politely and calmly address the situation.
Or, for instance, if you are frustrated you might model calming yourself down.
You could say, “I need to calm down. I’m going to take a few deep breaths and take a break to clear my head.”

, Whether you are also a female or not, you can model body acceptance to help build confidence in young girls.You can model acceptance of your own body if you are a female. If you are a male you can still show acceptance and appropriate appreciation for different body types.


Talk about the images you see in the media. For example, say things like, “What do you think about that ad? Was that realistic?”
Make a point of complimenting women of all shapes and sizes. For example, you might say, “She looks really healthy and happy.”
Emphasis that being healthy is more important than looking a certain way or wearing a certain size.
Point out that it’s okay to have flaws. If you’re a woman, you can make comments like, “My nose is a little crooked. I like the character it gives my face!”
Compliment features that aren’t physical. For instance, “She is really intelligent and witty. I like her creativity.”

, You can help young girls build confidence by modeling a healthy attitude toward food, getting physical activity, and getting enough sleep. Showing girls what to do helps them see that it can be done and how they can do it themselves.


Invite them out for something physical like a swim, bike ride, or martial arts class. Make sure you are getting physical activity on a regular basis, too.
Eat healthy food and occasionally enjoy a treat. Show young girls how to avoid categorizing food as ‘good’ or ‘bad’.
For example, you might say, “I’m going to have a grilled chicken salad, but I’ll leave some room for a slice of key lime pie.”
Show them that it’s okay to enjoy food and eat until you are full just like it’s okay to relax and do nothing every once in a while.
 Sometimes it’s good to show young girls the different between being confident and being arrogant or stuck up. You can build appropriate confidence in young girls by demonstrating how to be proud of yourself without taking it too far.


For example, if you completed a project for work, you might say “I worked hard on this” to show that you are confident in your work.
Then you might say, “I’d be bragging if I kept talking about how awesome my project was and how great I am.”
Show them how to accept a compliment graciously. For instance, if someone says you look nice, you could say, “Thank you. I appreciate the compliment.”

