 White is an excellent color as it will set off anything you choose to add to the table but the choice is yours. Avoid patterns or designs, as these overwhelm the table too quickly.;
, Usual colors reflect fall - oranges, yellows, golds, reds and browns. Orange is also a reflection of pumpkins, squash and other signs of harvest bounty. Buy serviettes (napkins) that reflect the chosen theme - there are also various fall designs pre-printed on serviettes that might be suitable for your theme.
 This can be placed on the table to represent the bounty of harvest. You can leave it empty, or fill it with fruits such as red apples and yellow pears.
 Make fall colored paper items to provide color to the table:



Leaves - Choose a variety of paper that reflects realistic leaf colors and fits your chosen color theme, such as reds and oranges. Cut the papers into simple leaf designs (draw a template on light card that you can follow with the scissors or craft cutter). Make as many paper leaves as you feel you have time for. You might wish to turn some into arrangements and use some loose, so keep this in mind when making them.
Make small bouquet arrangements with some of the leaves. Place these around the base of a glass candle holder and insert an orange/gold etc. candle in the top of the holder.
Strew a few of the single leaves around the table in an artistic fashion. Ensure that color mixes are matching and in theme.



Napkin rings and tags - Use additional pieces of paper to make napkin rings and name tags.
Cut thin strips of paper and adjust these strips to fit around your folded cloth napkins. Glue or tape in place. Vary the colors if you have a good eye for matching designs.
Make name tags from the same colors of paper. Use a nice matching color of dark mustard type paper to stamp the letters on, or save time and use a Gel pen or similar to simply write the names.



Placemats - Place strips of colored paper diagonally overlapping each other to make diamonds that fit the rectangular shape of a placemat. You can also try round shapes if preferred, or be really daring and try shapes such as pumpkins, turkeys or Cornucopias. Glue in place.
 Adding natural elements to the table underlines the harvest theme.


Purchase miniature squash to decorate the table. These come already packaged with their own incredible charm and colors, so there really is no need to do anything else with them. Look for some that still have wispy tendrils, as these add a delicate finishing touch.
If you have access to clean fall leaves, you might like to add these to the table, or even create a display using leaves, pine cones and twigs.
Use fruit, such as apples and pears, in small displays.
Add a display of fresh flowers in hues of yellow, oranges or muted reds.
Use nuts with the shells off. Either place them strategically loose on the table, or add to a bowl, the Cornucopia basket or some other arrangement. If you have a small toy squirrel, place it next to the pecan nuts.
 Use your best dinnerware and flatware and if you haven't purchased specially themed Thanksgiving serviettes, use plain-colored cloth ones that match the theme. Add fine quality glassware and the set the name tag in place.

