 It’s a good idea to see your general doctor before you decide to boost your brain power. They will likely run a series of blood tests to make sure that no physical ailments will halt your progress. Some conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes, can negatively impact your brain’s ability to process and store information., Going to sleep early and waking early as well is one way to improve your brain power. So, set a consistent bedtime and rising time and try to stick with them. Eight hours of uninterrupted sleep is just enough for your brain to process information and to prepare fully for the next day.To minimize sleep interruptions, turn off your phone and let anyone you live with know your nighttime schedule. Every moment of sleep disruption raises your brain’s stress levels., Your brain will run best with unprocessed foods, lean meats, lots of fresh produce, and healthy fats. Eating healthy can improve both your brain’s memory capacity and overall functioning. Sugar, on the other hand, can slow down brain cell connections and lead to a general feeling of mental fogginess.It is especially important to add foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, such as broiled or baked fish, to your diet. These can boost the spaces in your brain set aside for memory., Create a workout regimen that includes both cardio and weight resistance motions. This routine should take a minimum of 30 minutes. If you want to work out more than three times, then you will likely see even more cognitive benefits. Exercise increases blood flow to your brain and keep its cells active and refreshed., Keep your spine straight, shoulder back, arms uncrossed, and stomach sucked in towards your spine. Check each hour to see that you are maintaining these positions. Poor posture sends a negative message to your brain that can contribute to depression and slowed down memory. Holding yourself in a positive way can push your brain in that direction too., Talk with your doctor about your diet to see if a multivitamin or supplement might be a good fit for you. Fish oil supplements, in particular, are often linked with improved memory and overall brain functioning. Your doctor can also order a blood test to see if your levels are too low on any other important nutrients, such as vitamins B, C, D, and E.Human growth hormone (HGH) supplements can be useful for certain people older than 30 who are trying to combat memory loss and brain slowdown.