 Stand in the front or your house on the street.;
, Be sure that the address markings can be seen. Markings should be at least 4 inches (10.2 cm) in height and reflective.


If your house is within 50 feet (15.2 m) from the street, make sure they are unobstructed and are clearly visible and contrast with the siding on the house.
If your house is more that 50 feet (15.2 m) from the roadway, make sure you have your address markings at the end of the driveway or walkway.
 Hazards include obstructions to fire escapes, combustible liquids such a gas or diesel, overgrown vegetation obstructing windows or exits.
 Check to see if the door open and closes easily. Also, inspect the locks on the door. Deadbolts that require the use of a key from the inside provides great security, however, it makes it difficult to exit in a hurry. Consider changing the lock system to a hand turn style.
 Start in the basement and work your way up. The smoke detector in your basement should be located at the bottom of your stairs. On the first floor, smoke detectors should located outside of bedrooms within 10 feet (3.0 m) of the door. If there are no bedrooms on the lower floor, smoke detectors should be placed at the bottom of the stairs that lead to the second floor. The second floor smoke detectors should also be located outside each bedroom within 10 feet (3.0 m) of the door. If no smoke detectors are present, install detectors to manufactures specification and local laws. If detectors are present, take the detector down and check for a date of manufacture. If the date on the back of the detector is older than 10 years, the unit should be replaced. Also check to see if the detector is working and change batteries if you have not done so within the last 6 months.
 Know two ways out of every room and practice your plan every 6 months. Have a special meeting place. This place could be the dog house, neighbor's house, a tree house, swing set, family car, or any other location your family deems appropriate.
 Make sure windows easily open. If the windows sash can be removed, practice and show all members in your family how to open windows properly.
 If there are none, purchase and place one on every floor in your house.
, Make sure area around the appliances are free of combustibles. Have all fuel-burning appliances inspected, cleaned, and maintained by a licensed professional on a regular basis.

