 Your parents want you to learn the value of responsibility. If you can show them that caring for a dog is making you a more responsible person, they’ll be less likely to give away your dog.Make a list of the responsibilities you’ve taken on since you got the dog. List the daily chores you do to clean up after your dog and the scheduled walks and playtimes you engage in.
If you have siblings or other relatives who have seen you care for your dog, have them chip in on your behalf and express how responsible you are in caring for your dog.
For example, you might ask your sister to tell your parents that having a dog has made you more aware of your actions affect others.
 Most kids spend a lot of time on their phones or computers, so any time spent outside exercising is seen as a good thing by most parents. If your parents think having a dog is making your more physically healthy, they’ll be less likely to want to give the dog away.Tell your parents how often and how far you walk your dog. If you run with your dog, highlight how your dog keeps you motivated to keep going.
For example, you might tell your parents that since you’ve had a dog you’ve been running three miles a day.
Highlight the benefits of exercise. Tell your parents that walking and playing with your dog makes you feel energized and better able to complete your schoolwork.
 Your parents might not know how much your dog means to you. If they understand that you think of your dog as your friend, they might think twice about giving away your dog. The best way to let your parents know you love your dog is to show it.Spend time with your dog and show your dog affection.
If your parents don’t see you playing with your dog or they don’t understand that your dog is your friend, tell them. Try saying, “I love my dog and she’s like my best friend. If I were to lose her I would be really sad.”
Tell your parents that you’d be lonely without your dog. For example, you might say, “My dog helps me feel less alone when you guys are gone or when I’m alone at night.”

