 Grand gestures — the surprise trip to Paris, the dream kitchen, the diamond necklace — certainly have their place in showing love. These are a bit like shots of “love adrenaline,” however. On a day-to-day basis, small gestures of affection and appreciation provide the steady energy needed to sustain love over the long haul.Can you make her feel loved by taking out the trash without being asked, volunteering to take the kids to soccer practice, or doing the dishes before she has a chance to get to them? You might be surprised how much power little daily activities like these can have to make her feel valued in your relationship.Show her you’re thinking of her. Leave her a little note in the morning. Send her a text with encouraging words before her big presentation at work. Don’t just remember her birthday — remember her mother’s birthday. Few things make someone feel more loved than being able to honestly believe that the person you love is thinking of you at that very moment., Yes indeed, that trip to Paris and diamond necklace do help to make her feel loved. But surprises don’t always have to be big to be pleasant and loving.


Take her, unannounced, on fancy date nights. Make reservations to a nice restaurant, get tickets to a show, line up a babysitter, even surprise her with a limo ride if you want. Leave new earrings on the bed that you know she’ll like. Woo her all over again, every once in a while.Especially if your wife responds most to "quality time," just making an extra effort sometimes will pay dividends.Leave that paperwork behind every so often and come home a bit early just to be with her. Go for a walk, make dinner together, or do whatever else may come to mind with your unexpected free time together. Yes, there are a million tasks at work and home you could be doing, but be a little “irresponsible” in order to give her some one-on-one time., It is a safe bet that all women (and men, for that matter) like being made to feel attractive by the person they love. Never assume she knows you still find her as lovely as the day you married her — tell her. A lot.Don’t get caught looking at other women, as this can send a bad message. Just as importantly, get caught looking at her from time to time. Let her feel your eyes on her when she tries on that new dress, or even when she’s in sweats for that matter. It the timing is right (probably not in public) and you know she will appreciate it, go over-the-top and give her a catcall or wolf-whistle.
Never, ever, compare her negatively to the appearance of another woman, or even an old picture of herself. She knows that over the years, some parts of her have changed shape or shifted positions. Let her know that you find the beauty in her as she is now.
 “Women and children first” may be an outdated concept in some quarters, but prioritizing your wife’s needs is not. Do whatever is in your power to ease her burden. Nobody said love was easy, or came without work or sacrifice.While "old-fashioned gentleman" notions like holding open doors and pulling out chairs may or may not be appreciated, gestures clearly intended as signs of attention, respect, and affection likely will be. Much depends upon how you portray your efforts. Don’t carry in the groceries or pump the gas for her because you don’t think she can do it. Do them to make her day that tiny bit easier. Do them with a smile, not a grumble.
Especially if your wife speaks the "love language" of "acts of service," making the effort to prioritize her needs and her comfort should be particularly effective.You are also likely to earn admiration, and it is easier to feel loved by someone you admire.