 When it comes down to it, the way you will be able to show off your genius computer skills is by solving problems. Troubleshooting is one of the most important skills to have in the IT industry.When you’re experiencing a computer issue, start by figuring out what exactly is going on.


Defining the problem as “The mouse doesn’t work” is too broad—narrow it down to the precise behavior or error message, such as “When I connect the mouse to the USB port, I see a message that says ‘This IRQ is assigned to the keyboard.”

, One of the most important skills a genius-in-the-making must learn is how to find information. There’s an art to getting accurate information about computer problems with Google.


Use quotes (“) around exact words and phrases (“this IRQ is assigned to the keyboard” instead of irq assigned to keyboard) to make sure your results match what you are looking for.Using Google to search a single site. If you’re looking for information about wireless networking and prefer your results be from Microsoft.com, type mouse problems site:microsoft.com instead of mouse problems microsoft.
Filter results by date (often relevant, as computers are always changing) by clicking “Search Tools” at the top of the search results, then change “Any time” to a different time range., While the manufacturer’s product pages may be among the first search results, some of the best troubleshooting information will come from user forums.


It will not take you long to figure out which sites return good search results and which should be avoided. If your search for information brings you to a page that seemingly has little to do with what you searched, that source will not be useful to you.
 Don’t be afraid to ask questions—but before you do, try using the forum’s “search” feature to reduce the possibility of duplicating an already-resolved thread.


Many online forums will not allow you to search their content until you register for an account.
 Now that you’ve been practicing your troubleshooting skills, find opportunities to get hands-on experience. Ask people you know if they are having trouble with their computers, and then offer to fix them. Use your new skills to find other people online who’ve experienced similar issues and try implementing suggested fixes.
 Computer geniuses learn how to troubleshoot by breaking things. Rather than messing with the computer you use every day, get yourself a test computer (or even better—a test lab with several types of computers) so you can really get your hands dirty.

