 Essential oils are concentrated extracts derived from medicinal plants. Each essential oil has unique active ingredients that have specific therapeutic effects with benefits for the body and/or mind. Make sure that you are using the right one(s) for your needs by looking into their particular purposes.A list of the most common essential oils and their uses is available here: https://www.organicfacts.net/health-benefits/essential-oils/list-of-essential-oils.html

The most reliable way to do research is to purchase or check out an authoritative reference book on essential oils. Try one that’s written by a certified aromatherapist or professional researcher, such as The Complete Book of Essential Oils and Aromatherapy or Aromatherapy for Every Day.
If you’re not using the correct oil, find the right one by searching for an essential oil that corresponds with your needs; for example, “essential oil for arthritis.”;
, If you’re using aromatherapy to address a specific mental or physical condition, analyze its efficacy by keeping a log to track its effectiveness at treating your symptoms.


Be sure to give your aromatherapy treatment a fair trial by using it for at least a week to see if the results vary. Keep notes for each day’s use(s) to analyze if there’s an overall benefit.
For instance, if you’re using lavender to help address anxiety, take notes about the degree to which it’s making you feel calmer and for how long its effects are lasting. If you’re using gardenia to alleviate the symptoms associated with menopause, take note if it’s helping with your agitation, headaches, and/or hot flashes., Usually, if administered correctly, aromatherapy has minimal side effects. However, you should be alert to anything that may compromise your experience or undermine the efficacy of a treatment or its effectiveness.Some of the rare side effects people have recorded include rashes or other skin irritations, asthma, and headaches.
Essential oils may also interact negatively with certain medications, like pentobarbital or amphetamine. Be sure to check with your doctor if you’re using aromatherapy in conjunction with any prescriptions.
 There are a variety of ways to administer aromatherapy, such as body oils, bath salts, or vaporizers. Some may be more effective than others at addressing your needs.For instance, if you’re using aromatherapy to alleviate muscle aches, you should be using a topical application like massage oils. If you’re going for mental, cognitive, or emotional benefits, vapor methods like a diffuser will be the most effective.
Keep in mind that many popular products, like candles and beauty products, that advertise themselves as aromatherapy often contain synthetic fragrances and/or are probably not efficacious treatments. For aromatherapy tools to be effective, they need to include a natural essential oil derived from plants.