 Gifted children are often passionate about certain subjects, and they'll throw themselves into something they're interested in with abandon. However, that passion can be staunched if their interest isn't respected. That is, if the adults in their life expect them to learn a certain way or a certain amount, it can limit rather than motivate gifted kids.In other words, gifted kids need to have a say in what they're learning. Of course, they can't completely direct their learning. However, with a bit of encouragement, they're likely to learn far more if you act as a guide, rather than someone who's there simply to instruct their learning.
For example, if you're working on fractions with a kid and they master it quickly enough to start figuring out decimals, don't hold them back. Encourage their interest by showing them how decimals are related to fractions.
Another option is to ask your child to teach you. Let your child learn about the subject that interests them and then ask them to teach you about it. This will appeal to their creative side and reaffirm their understanding of the material.;
, A gifted student will stay unmotivated if they're in a situation where they aren't learning anything. Boredom will take over, and they will find anything to keep themselves entertained. However, if you give them room to grow, if they have the capacity to move to something else once they've conquered the basics, they're more likely to stay engaged.For example, say a student is reading at an advanced level. If you try to keep them on a lower level of books, they'll get bored. Give them the opportunity to try out higher level books to keep them more engaged. If the rest of the class is still stuck on picture books but the child is reading at a higher level, consider starting them on chapter books.
Do not take it personally if the child becomes bored and react with annoyance. Focus instead on ways to redirect and challenge them.
 If a gifted child shows an interest in something, try to find a way to help encourage that interest. For instance, put them in touch with local experts in your community. You could also point them to resources in the library. Once you realize a child's passions, you can use that passion to help inspire them to learn in other areas.For example, a child who isn't much interested in math may be inspired to learn it if they have a passion for cooking. They'll learn about fractions and measurements without even realizing it. At home, you can work with a child to go through a recipe. Try doubling a recipe to make it more challenging. As you go along, make sure to talk through the math out loud with the child.
Once you learn what a kid is passionate about, you can use that in the classroom or at home. A more advanced child can be challenged by helping other students or even by helping the teacher. For instance, if the child has mastered the current math unit, encourage them to help other students. Alternatively, if an older child is interested in computers, have the kid help you load software onto the computers or help you with a new program.
Remember to show an interest in their passions yourself. Your interest in the child and whatever they are doing can be a powerful motivator.
 For a gifted student, an uninterested, unmotivated teacher or parent is just going to keep them unmotivated. However, if you show that you care about what they're learning, they're more likely to stay engaged. Someone else cares enough to inspire them, and they're motivated in turn.Try listening to what inspires your children or students. Having someone available to listen, who champions what they care about, can make all the difference.
For example, you could say, "So what has caught your attention this week? What are you excited about learning?" Listening to the answers will give you insight into the child and let them know that you do care.
 If you describe a topic as "difficult" or "challenging," that can lead some gifted students to feel like it will be boring or too hard to do. However, saying words like "interesting" and "intriguing" can convey your enthusiasm to the students and pique their interest, too.For example, you could say, "We're starting a new unit in math today. I hope you are excited as I am. I think fractions are so interesting, don't you?"

