 Put the flour, baking powder, powdered milk and salt in a large bowl. Use a whisk to thoroughly incorporate them. Make a well in the center of the mixture.;
, Pour the warm water into the well.
 Use a wooden spoon to incorporate it with the flour until you have a wet, sticky dough. You can use your hands instead of a spoon if you'd like. Mix the dough gently - over mixing it will cause the finished fry bread to turn out tough., When it's mixed, form it into a ball and place it in a greased bowl. Lay a clean dish towel over the top of the bowl and set it in a warm, dry place so the dough can rest for 10 minutes.The dough doesn't need to sit for longer than 10 minutes. It should be used within an hour or two and fried fresh. The fry bread won't taste as good if you let it sit overnight.
 Pull the dough apart into small pieces, and shape them into balls. Flatten the balls using the heel of your hand to make fry bread rounds about the size of tortillas.


Do not over handle the dough at this stage. Handle it only enough to create the shapes you need.
If you'd like, you can flatten the entire dough ball and use a cutter or knife to cut out individual pieces of dough.
As you work, lay the dough pieces on a plate and place a dishcloth over them to prevent them from getting dried out.
 Place a sizable amount of lard, vegetable oil or vegetable shortening into a cast iron skillet or frying pan. You need enough fat to rise up the side of the pan by about 1 inch (2.5 cm). Melt the fat over medium-high heat. The fat should be heated to 350 °F (177 °C)., Put a small piece of dough in the pan to see if it's hot enough. The bread should sizzle and start bubbling immediately. Make sure it's hot enough before you start cooking the bread.
 Make sure none of them are overlapping, or the dough won't cook evenly.
 When the first side is crispy and golden brown, use tongs to turn the bread over and finish cooking the other side.
 The towels will absorb the extra oil as you finish cooking the bread., Fry bread is most delicious while it's still hot. Eat the fry bread straight from the pan or top it with one of the following toppings:


Honey and butter mixed together
Powdered sugar
Cinnamon

, If you're feeling ambitious, use your fry bread to create a traditional, filling treat. Fill the fry bread with some or all of the following taco ingredients:


Ground beef cooked with taco seasoning
Chopped lettuce
Chopped tomatoes
Chopped onions
Pinto beans
Sour cream
Green chile
Salsa

