 It can be found under the Places option, below your cover photo, alongside other applications such as your Friends and Photos. Occasionally the Places application can be hidden from view; to reveal it, simply look for it under the option marked “More”.;
, Perhaps you selected the wrong option when locating where you travelled? Or maybe you simply don't want the marker to appear on your Map? After entering the Map, use the hand tool to move above your Map until you have found the location (represented by dark, upside-down tear marker). If it is in an area you frequent often, you may have to click onto that area or zoom in using the map controls.
 A pop-up screen should appear from the marker, giving information about the location, including the type of location it is (life event, location lived in or travelled to, or photograph), a date and options to comment and like.
 As you will notice, there is no direct option to remove the location from the pop-up screen. Instead, you will need to remove the location from your Timeline. You can either find the entry for the location on your Timeline manually, however the easier method is to simply click on the date found on the pop-up screen, which will take you to the location's entry automatically.


For photo locations on your Map, instead click on the photo or find it in your Facebook photo albums and select the option to Edit Location and then either change the location or delete it. This will then alter your Timeline's Map.
For work/school locations on your Map, you will need to edit the About section of your Timeline and manually alter or remove the school/job's entry in that section. This will then alter your Timeline's Map.
 As with any other entry on your Timeline, it has an edit button located in the top right of the entry box, represented by a downwards arrow. Click on this button and select the option to "Delete...".
 This will remove the entry from your Facebook Timeline and in turn, it will be removed from your Map, with the marker having been removed.

