 All of your Google account settings and information are stored here.


If you aren't signed into your Google account, click Sign in in the top-right corner of the screen, enter your email address and password, and click Sign in.;
, It's in the middle-center of the page.
 You'll see this option under the "Personal info & privacy" heading in the far-left side of the screen.
 It's below the "Download your data" section on the right side of the page.
 By default, everything here is selected.


Even if you don't want to download everything, make sure the switch to the right of "Mail" is selected before continuing.
You'll see a downward-facing arrow to the right of "All mail"--clicking it will allow you to choose between downloading all of your mail and selecting specific labels to download only emails with those labels attached.
 It's at the bottom of the screen.
 You'll see this option below the "File type" heading near the top of this page.


ZIP files can be opened on nearly any computer simply by double-clicking them. They also take up less space than the other file options in the "File type" menu.
 Doing so will prompt a drop-down menu with different maximum download sizes:


1GB
2GB
4GB
10GB
50GB

, Anything larger than your selected file size will carry over into a new file.


For example, if you choose "4GB" but your file is 6GB, you'll end up downloading two files: a 4GB file and a 2GB file.
 You'll see several ways of receiving your backup file here:



Send download link via email - Receive a link for the download file in your current Gmail address. Clicking the link will prompt your file to download.

Add to Drive - Place the download file in Google Drive. Doing so will take up Google Drive storage.

Add to Dropbox - Place the download file in your connected Dropbox account (if you have one).

Add to OneDrive - Place the download file in your connected OneDrive account (if you have one).
 Keep in mind your maximum archive size when you do this, since your download file might be too large for cloud storage.
 Doing so will begin backing up your Gmail account to your selected file type.


Depending on how many emails you have, this process may take hours (or even days) to complete.

