 Send emails instead of sending out paper memos. Get to know programs like PowerPoint for creating digital presentations rather than printing off packets of information. And if certain forms require signatures, try a service like DocuSign, which allows you to sign forms electronically.Encourage employees to use laptops or smartphones to take notes during business meetings.;
, Many payroll companies have online portals for employees to access their earnings information. Encourage employees to enroll in direct deposit and review their paystubs online instead of receiving a paper check and pay stub., Check computers, printers, fax machines, and copiers as part of your end-of-day routine. Leaving this equipment on throughout the night and over the weekend will use a significant amount of energy.
 Enable the hibernation or standby modes on office computers when they are idle for more than 10 minutes. This will allow the computers to save energy when employees step away for brief lunch breaks or restroom breaks.In some cases, you can save up to 80 percent energy on a monthly basis by modifying the power modes of your office equipment.
 Encourage employees to use this set of utensils when they’re eating in the break room. Provide dish soap, sponges, and a dish rack so they can easily wash dishes when they’re done with them.When ordering food for company events, request that the restaurant or catering company not provide any plastic utensils or silverware.
Provide your employees with coffee mugs or containers imprinted with the company logo to reduce the use of paper or foam cups and plates.
 Toilet paper, paper towels, hand soap, and cleaning supplies can all be purchased in organic or all-natural forms that do not contain harmful chemicals or pollutants., Next to every regular trash can, place a bin that’s just for paper and plastic. Add extra bins for more specific items, like used printer ink cartridges, which can’t be thrown away with regular recycling.Add a sign or label on new bins explaining which items can be placed inside them.
 If paper must be used for faxes or printing, use 100 percent recycled paper and print double-sided whenever possible. Return blank sheets of paper that have accidentally been used back to the paper tray of the printer, fax machine, or copier.
 Real plants will improve the quality of indoor air and help offset any harmful pollutants that are caused by chemicals present in office carpeting and furniture. They also have the added benefit of decreasing stress and enhancing productivity., Open window shades and blinds during daylight hours and turn off indoor office lighting to save energy.


Have landscaping performed outside of office windows to ensure that trees, bushes, and other tall or large vegetation does not prevent sunlight from entering the office.
 Switch fluorescent bulbs to LEDs to save on energy, and use desk lamps rather than overhead lighting whenever possible. Attach motion sensors to lights in spaces like break rooms or conference rooms, so that lights don't stay on once people have exited those areas., Switch out faucets and toilets for newer, water-saving models. Low-flow toilets use half as many gallons per flush as older models, so this upfront cost will lead to lower water bills later on. You can also opt for motion-sensored fixtures so that faucets can’t be left running accidentally., Eliminate short shifts that span throughout 5 days and allow employees to work 10 hours per day for 4 days per week. This cuts out an entire day of electricity usage each week. It also means employees will be commuting less and therefore contributing less to air pollution., Select certain days when all employees need to be present in the office, and encourage employees to work remotely the other days. Or consider allowing employees to work from home full time. Not only will this eliminate their commute, but you will eliminate many overhead operation costs.Have employees use tools such as video conferencing, email, and instant messaging to stay connected to their bosses and clients throughout the day.
 If working from home isn’t an option, encourage employees to get to work in a more environmentally friendly way. Suggest commuting via rapid transit, cycling, or carpooling. Offer incentives like vouchers for train or bus fare, or disincentives like charging employees for parking., Sponsor green events like Earth Week, or a service project like community trash pick-up. Or have everyone calculate and share their carbon footprint, then create a contest to encourage employees to lower it.

