 There are many reasons why you may wish to contact your attorney. Understanding that reason is key to determining whether a letter is the appropriate course of action and, if so, to writing a letter that clearly communicates your message.If you merely wish to inquire about the status of your case, a formal letter is not necessary. Your lawyer is obligated to keep you reasonably informed about the status of your case and will likely contact you whenever there is news to report. If you have not heard from your lawyer in a while, send him a quick email or leave him a voice mail message asking for an update.If your lawyer has requested that you write him a letter, follow his instructions his exactly. For example, if he sends you a list of questions to answer, simply answer his questions one by one as clearly as possible. Do not worry about formatting the letter in any special way or typing it unless your attorney requests that you do so.
If your lawyer has asked that you write him a letter giving your consent to his requesting documents on your behalf, you should ask your lawyer to write the letter for you. This kind of letter may need to meet certain criteria to be effective and your lawyer is the one who will know what the letter needs to include. Your only role should be to revise and sign the letter once you have received a draft.
If you are concerned your lawyer is not working on your case, write him a polite but firm letter explaining your concerns. If you feel more comfortable emailing or calling him, that would be fine as well. You are under no obligation to express your concerns in a formal letter.If you want to fire your lawyer, send him a letter that clearly states you are terminating the relationship and that the lawyer is to cease working on any pending matters. You should also ask that he return all of the documents regarding your case and pay you refund for any unfinished work.;
, Once you have confirmed that writing a letter will serve your purpose, write an opening paragraph that explains why you are writing and stating any questions or requests.If you wish to fire your attorney, state that clearly in your opening paragraph: "I'm writing to terminate our attorney-client relationship."
If you have a legal question for your attorney, ask it up front: "I'm writing to ask you a question about my immigration case. I'm wondering how my departure from the U.S. will affect my legal residence status."

, Once you have explained your purpose, the proceeding paragraphs should explain your reasons for making a particular request or asking a particular question.


If you begin your letter with a paragraph stating that you would like to terminate your relationship with your attorney, write one or two paragraphs that explain why you are unhappy with him. Wherever possible, refer to specific examples.
If you are writing your attorney with a question, provide your attorney with the necessary context for understanding why you are asking your question. For example, "The reason I am asking this question is that I'm planning to leave the United States next month to care for my mother who is sick."

, If you are making a request, be sure to repeat it in the final paragraph. This will remind your attorney of what you are asking from him.


For example: "For these reasons, I would like to terminate our attorney-client relationship and I ask that you return my file to me as soon as possible."

, Your main goal in writing to your attorney should be to communicate your message as clearly as possible. Do not worry about impressing your attorney by using big words or complicated sentences. You want to make sure your attorney understands what you are saying so that he can comply with your request.For example, instead of “enclosed herewith please find,” just say, “I’ve enclosed” or “Here is. . . .”

, Think about your purpose in writing the letter and include only the information necessary to achieving that purpose. Anything beyond the essential information could confuse your attorney and cause him to misunderstand what you are requesting.Avoid unnecessary tangents, like telling your attorney about problems you have been having with your wife, unless they relate to your case.
 Either format is appropriate for a formal business letter.Full block format means that all elements of the letter are left-justified so that the start of each line is at the left-hand margin.
Modified block format means that some elements of the letter are shifted over to the right.
 At the top of the page, on either the left corner (if using full block format) or the right corner (if using modified block format) write out your address.If applicable, also include your e-mail address and cell phone number.
 On the left side of the page, directly beneath your address, write the date of the day you are writing the letter.The date should be placed on the left regardless of whether you are using full block or modified block format.
Write the date in word rather than number form, as in June 8, 2015 instead of 6/8/15.
Allow for two spaces beneath the date.
 On the left side of the page, two spaces beneath the date, write your attorney's full name and address.


Your attorney's name and address should be placed on the left regardless of whether you are using full block or modified block format.
If there is a paralegal that is working on your specific case, you may wish to write to include it in parenthesis next to the attorney's name.
 Beneath your attorney's name and address, on the left hand side, include a subject line referencing your case number.Highlight the subject line in bold so that it appears prominently on the page.
If you don't have a case number, write out your name (or the name of the main client on the case) in the subject line. This will help the attorney and the attorney's staff locate your file.
 By way of introduction, write out a phrase greeting your attorney by his last name.For example: "Dear Mr. Jones" or "Dear Ms. Fisher"
Position the greeting on the left side of the page.
Follow the greeting with a colon, i.e. "Dear Ms. Fisher:"

, If you have already prepared a draft of the letter, simply insert the text of that draft.


Lead with the main purpose of your letter and then explain the reasons for your question or request.Be specific when referencing relevant information including names, dates and places. The more information you include, the better your attorney will be able to assist you.
Keep to one main topic per paragraph, even if you have several issues to discuss in the letter.
End the letter in two or three sentences as politely as you can, even if your letter to your attorney is a complaint about the service you have received.
 End the letter with an appropriate closing phrase."Sincerely" is an example of an appropriate closing phrase.
Place a comma after the closing phrase (i.e. "Sincerely,").
The closing should be aligned with your address. If you are using full block format, place it on the left side. If you are using modified block format, place it on the right.
 After your closing phrase, write out your full name.Align your name on the same side as your closing phrase. If you are using full block format, place it on the left side. If you are using modified block format, place it on the right.
Insert several blank lines between your closing phrase and your name.
 Print out the letter, then use a blue or black pen to sign your name between the closing (i.e. "Sincerely") and your full name typed name., Print an extra copy of the letter to keep for your personal records. That way, if the letter gets lost in the mail or your attorney denies having received it, you will have proof that you sent it.

