 Finding places where exposure could have happened can help with diagnosis, and prevent further contamination.These eggs are frequently passed through accidental ingestion.
Fecal contamination is a possibility especially in poor sanitary/hygiene areas.
You may not be able to visibly spot the eggs. While the worms can grow up to a couple of inches in length, the eggs will need medical instrumentation to detect., You may have come in contact with the same substances they have.See what they ate, drank, or touched of an organic nature that may have been a carrier for the eggs.
 See if another animal or insect have been exposed and carried the infection into local consumables.Sometimes these other animals and insects will eat the eggs and then contaminate the food, water, and/or soil supply indirectly. The infection can spread by one consuming the intermediate host. The intermediate host may not show any obvious signs of infection.
Contact an entomologist (expert on insects) either locally or if one can be reached at a nearby university for assistance on identifying infected insects in the area. Consult local environmental reports to see if any infections are reported.
Ask your local forestry, or game and wildlife service to see if any animals in the area have been infected with tapeworms.
 If you do any yard or farm work, this is especially important.Accidentally ingesting some contaminated soil by putting your fingers to your mouth can lead to infection.
Fecal contamination is a risk as the reproducing worm and eggs can pass through the bowels.
Ask government agencies for reports on potential contamination. Get independent verification if possible.
See if there are any environmental groups that work in the area and have contaminant information. Also independently verify their data if possible.
 This is of even greater concern in poor sanitation/hygiene areas.As with the food supply and soil, this is an at risk area for exposure to the eggs and fecal contamination from intermediate hosts.
Ask to see if others have been infected from a particular water supply.
File requests with the local government to get reports on the environmental health of the water supply. Independently verify the data with other sources if possible.
Check with local environmental groups to see if they have been monitoring contamination of water supplies. But independently verify the data.

