 Determining the appropriate agency to report to will depend on the type of bullying and where the bulling happens, but parents are usually the best people to tell first.Your parents can help you decide what needs to be reported and to whom.


If the bully is a schoolmate or the bullying takes place on school grounds, the bully should be reported to school authorities. School officials can then intervene.
If the bullying includes violent attacks or threats of violence, the police may need to get involved. This behavior is very serious and can lead to extreme physical harm and/or property destruction.
Cyberbullying should be reported to the administrators of the sites used, as well as school officials when the bully is a student, and possibly police if online posts violate your rights.
 Providing evidence will ensure your complaint is taken seriously, as the bully will likely deny any wrongdoing. It also may be difficult for the parents of the bully to accept their child is bullying. Evidence will make it impossible for them to continue ignoring their child's problem behavior.Cyberbullying is usually the easiest to provide evidence for. You can save abusive communication and take screenshots of inappropriate behavior. It's best to do this when you see unacceptable posts and not wait until you've reached the point of filing a complaint. The bully will likely try to delete the evidence once she becomes concerned you have or will file a complaint.
You can provide evidence of other types of bullying by telling others when it happens, asking witnesses to give reports, and keeping a dated journal of events as they happen.
 This will help to establish a pattern of behavior by the bully and also show you are not being petty. The need for intervention will be more evident if you show your own attempts to manage the situation have been ineffective, increasing the likelihood of intervention.


This may also help others generate ideas to manage bullies in other circumstances. Your experiences could save others from being victimized.

