 Historic immigration records are also known as “Ship Passenger Arrival Records,” since most immigrants, historically, arrived in the United States by ship. The National Archives has not digitized its passenger lists, but it does maintain an index for most U.S. ports.The National Archives website has a vast amount of information and searching it can be complex. However, the website does offer tools to help you get started. For example, you can search the National Archives website's catalog, microfilm catalog, and archival databases. Each of these functions is performed in a different manner. Visit the website to learn more., Ellis Island in New York is one of the largest immigration portals in US history. The Ellis Island website hosts a searchable online database listing individuals who immigrated into the United States through this gateway.


Click on the “Passenger Search” button and enter the person’s first and last name. The website will tell you the year that person entered through Ellis Island and what ship they rode across the Atlantic Ocean on., The Battery Conservancy operates CastleGarden.org, which lists 10 million immigrants who arrived in the U.S. from 1830 to 1892. Castle Garden was America's first official immigration center, located in New York City, and is known today as the Castle Clinton National Monument. It closed the year Ellis Island opened.The more information you know about an individual, the easier it will be to search for their records.
Click on “Search” and type in as much information as possible, including the individual's name, country of last residence, ship, port of departure, and date range., The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign manages the Plymouth Colony Archive Project. This online database has compiled biographies, court records, and wills of people who lived in the Plymouth Colony, as well as detailed information about what life was like at that time.


To search the archive, use the search form provided on the website and type in as much information as you have. The search form is provided by Google and once you type a search, you will receive possible hits. Click on the links that you find most relevant.