 To access the router's settings, you will need to use a computer (or mobile device with a web browser) connected to the router's network. Start by determining the name and password of the U-verse Wi-Fi access point.


The name of the Wi-Fi access point is printed next to “Wi-Fi Network Name”. It begins with either “ATT” or “2WIRE”.The password is directly below the network name, next to “Wi-Fi Password”.;
, The process is different depending on the type of computer you are using.


Mac: Click the Airport (Wi-Fi) icon in the menu bar, then choose the Wi-Fi Network Name from the side of your router.When prompted, enter the Wi-Fi password.
Windows: Click the Wi-Fi icon at the bottom right corner of the screen, then select the Wi-Fi Network Name from the list. Enter the Wi-Fi password when prompted.
If you can’t connect to Wi-Fi, run an Ethernet cable from your computer’s networking port to the LAN port on the router. The computer should then automatically connect to the network.
 Any browser (e.g., Chrome, Safari, Firefox) will do.
 This will load the router's web interface.Depending on your router model, you may arrive at a password screen, or you may be brought to a page with a list of settings.


If the configuration page does not load, see these troubleshooting tips.
 Most U-verse routers do not have a standard router password.If your model does display a page that asks for a system password, look on the side of the router for a sticker that contains the text “System Password” (NOT the Wi-Fi password), and enter that.


If a system password is required yet there is no “system password” printed on your router, try leaving the field blank.
If none of the passwords work, call AT&T for support or reset the router back to its original factory settings., Now that you have arrived at the web interface, you have full access to your router. The layout of the settings screens varies depending on your model of U-verse router.
 If you are unable to connect to your U-verse router over Wi-Fi or Ethernet, the device may need to be restarted. After waiting thirty seconds, plug the router back in and give it time to start up, then try to connect.
 If you are unable to pull up the router’s web interface by plugging in the default address (http://192.168.1.254), the default address may have been inadvertently changed.


Windows: Press ⊞ Win+R, type cmd and press ↵ Enter. Type ipconfig and press ↵ Enter. The address next to Default Gateway is the address you should use to connect to the router.
Mac: Open the Apple menu and select "System Preferences". Click "Network", then select your active network connection. The "Router" address entry indicates the address of your router.
 If the login information is not working or the connection times out, resetting the router could fix the problem. You may need to use the end of a paperclip to press the button, as it’s quite small.

Resetting the router will erase any configuration changes you have made.The wireless network name and password will change back to the one printed on the router's label.
Call AT&T for help. If you’re still not able to access your router, you may be experiencing a hardware issue. Call technical support for additional troubleshooting tips.

