 Whether you have pre-ordered tickets, or are getting them at the gate (with or without vouchers) make sure you get to the gate at least half an hour early. Generally queues build up about a half hour before the park opens and it remains busy until 3PM, and then they die down in the park's final opening hours of the day.

If you have an annual pass, aim to get there up to 40 minutes early. You get prioritized entrance, meaning you get to enter the park earlier then the general public, so you can be let in 15-30 minutes early. Make sure you're there right when they let you in to make the most of this time with short queues.
 Be reasonable, and imagine the park will be really busy, so choose 4 - 6 rides you really really want to do, and get them out of the way before the queues get too long. After you've ridden your favourite ones, you can then be more systematic in your choices in order to avoid queues., The public tend to swarm to the right hand side of the park, near Stealth, the Swarm and Nemesis Inferno, so do these later in the day. Try to start off over as far left as you can - the rides like Rush, Vortex, Quantum, and even Saw, Colossus or Samurai. Saw and Colossus both get queues of over 60 minutes in peak times (afternoons and weekends), so do these early., Most restaurants are open by 11:30, and the queues peak from 12:30 - 1:00, especially for popular ones such as KFC or Pizza Pasta. It's recommended to either get to the restaurant as the doors open, or wait to eat until around 2:30PM, when people are doing their final rides and starting to leave. This will pay off two-fold - you won't have to wait in long queues to get your food, and if you're on the rides while everyone else is eating lunch, the ride queues will be smaller., Once you see on the billboards of ride times dotted round the park that the big rides have reached queues of up and over 40 minutes, stop joining these big queues and head for the ones with smaller queues instead. Wait until later on in the day, when people are starting to go home and the queues are dying down, to ride these big rides.