 Be specific about how long you want your side hair to be. If you want short or long side hair, be clear about it. Ultimately, being direct is the best way to communicate your vision., After your side hair, you need to let them know how long you want your hair on top. This is important, as the length of your top hair will largely dictate how you can style it daily. Without this information, your barber won’t be able to do much., While you may take it for granted, you should explain to your barber exactly how you envision your sideburns. This is especially true if you’ve never been to the barber before.


Tell them if you want long or short sideburns.
Let them know if you want thick or skinny sideburns., Although you may not realize it, there are several major neckline options available. As a result, it is important to specify to your barber what sort of neckline cut you want. The most popular options are:


The blocked neckline. This is where your neckline will have a block or rectangular-like appearance.
The rounded neckline. This is sort of like the blocked neckline, but the corners are rounded.
The tapered neckline. This follows your neckline, but has your hair getting shorter as it reaches the bottom. This is possibly the easiest neckline to maintain., While the idea of getting a haircut may seem simple, the way a barber cuts your actual hair may vary. As a result, you need to decide between several distinct ways of cutting your hair. They include:


Thinning your hair out. If you have very thick hair, you might want to ask your barber to use thinning shears to cut some of your hair’s volume.
Cutting your hair with a razor blade. Cutting your hair with a razor will create a more natural look. Your hair may lay flatter, too.
Using a choppy approach. If your barber does this, they’ll cut your hair at many different lengths and at a 45-degree angle. This will create a more dynamic appearance than if your hair was cut equally.
Layering your hair. If you opt for this, your barber will create different layers in your hair. This may create the appearance that you have more hair volume than you really do., The best way to get the haircut you want is to be as specific as possible when you describe it to your barber. This way, they’ll have a clear idea of exactly what you want. Without specifics, they’ll have to use their imagination, and there is a good chance that their vision won’t line up with yours.


Let them know how much hair in inches (or centimeters) you want to keep or have cut off.