 Pushing yourself too hard, especially when you’re just starting out, can be a major contributor to shin splints. Maybe start with a half an hour walk-run, and increase this little by little until you reach the level you’re aiming for.To keep yourself from finding a comfortable pace and slacking off, try to increase your distance and speed by about 10% every week., It may feel like you’re kicking it into high gear when you lengthen your stride, but this puts extra strain on your legs. Take extra care when getting back into the swing of running to reduce your stride length and decrease the likelihood of shin splints.

It’s especially common at the end of a race or workout to lengthen your stride when pushing through to the finish., When you run, your calf muscles get a work out. The same isn’t true, however, for the muscles at the front of your shin. Promote balance between these muscle groups and lower your chances of shin splints by walking around on your heels before and after running.

At first, this activity won’t likely be easy. Try walking around for 15 to 30 seconds at a time for about 3 sets., Sit on the floor with your legs extended straight in front of you. Hold either end of an exercise band or a towel and loop it around the ball of your foot. Pull back lightly until you feel the stretch in your calf.

If you don't have an exercise band or towel, stand in front of a wall with your feet placed 1 to 2½ steps away. Lean to the wall until you feel your calves stretch.
Generally, this stretch should only be held for about 10 to 15 seconds and should be repeated about 2 or 3 times for each leg., Even after taking every precaution, you might still end up with shin splints. It’s a bummer, but a little ice can take the edge off the pain. Ice your shins for about 10 to 15 minutes at a time between 4 and 8 times a day.Over the counter pain killers, like Ibuprofen or Aspirin, can also help alleviate some of the pain. Consult your doctor if pain persists for more than two weeks.