 This is the website for the free Handbrake utility, which you can use to change the size of your video files., This will download the Handbrake installer for Mac., You'll see this in the lower-right corner of your desktop. You can also find it in your Downloads folder.,,,, The file browser will open when as soon as your launch Handbrake.,, If you don't change the name, Handbrake will overwrite the original video file., This button can be found at the top of the window., Changing the resolution will make the video appear smaller on the screen, and also dramatically decrease the file size. You may not notice resolution changes if you're going to be watching the video on a mobile device, making it a good way to reduce file size.If the width is "1920," try changing it to "1280." This effectively changes the video from 1080p to 720p. Other possible Width values for widescreen video include 1024, 1152, 1366, 1600, and 1920.
Make sure "Keep Aspect Ratio" is checked. This will automatically change the height of the video to match the new width so that the proportions stay the same.
 This will close the Picture Settings window and keep your new settings.

Changing the video resolution is not necessary to reduce the file size, but can be a big help.
 The higher the number, the lower the quality and the smaller the file. You may need to try and adjust the settings a few times until you find the right one for you.20 is considered DVD quality. You can probably lower the quality to as much as 30 and still be able to satisfactorily watch it on a small screen.
If you're planning on watching on a large screen, you shouldn't raise the quality slider above 22-25.
 If you can, select an option even slower than Slow. The slower your compression settings, the smaller the end result file will be.,,,, Based on the quality of your preview clip, you can go back and make any adjustments to your settings that you'd like., This will begin encoding the video with your chosen settings. The time this will take will vary dramatically depending on the length of the video and the quality settings you chose.