 Visit the registration page here: https://www.apimages.com/loginRegister. Provide the following information to create an account:


first and last name
company type
company name
email address
password (with at least one upper case letter and at least one number)
business phone
secret question and answer

, You should search for images in the AP Images database. When you find a photograph you want, you should click on the small calculator icon that appears just below the photo. When you hover over this icon, it says “Get price.” Click on it. If you don’t have a license already with AP Images, you should click “Custom Licenses.” You’ll answer a series of questions:


Select the category of use—e.g., Editorial and Publishing.
Select how the image will be used: e.g., on the Internet or in a magazine.
Explain where the image will appear: e.g., web, app, or both.
Select territory of distribution.
Provide other information. For example, if you’re publishing on the web, you should list the duration of use and the monthly unique visitors to your site.
Your price will show. You can save your license and check out if you want.
 If you intend to use a lot of images, you should consider getting a subscription plan. AP Images offers three. Research which plan is best for you by visiting their site: http://www.apimages.com/. Choose from the following:


Photo Choice. You’ll have access to over 34 million editorial and stock images. It is a convenient one-stop-shop if you need both editorial and stock images.
Micro feeds. If you only need imagery from a specific industry or subject, then you can choose a micro feed. There are feeds for fashion, politics, music, tennis, technology, etc.Creative—AP Stock. This subscription gives you access to over 15 million royalty-free images.
 AP has a sales representative who can help you if you have questions. This person should send you an email as soon as you register. Contact them by email or by telephone.


If you searched without registering, visit the “Contact Us” page: http://www.apimages.com/ContactUs. Select your country and call the phone number listed.

