 If the company to which you would like to apply requires a more formal expression of interest, you can email a proper business letter as an attachment. This can help show a potential employer that you understand the formality of the company and make you appear more professional.


You can compose a formal business letter by following the steps for drafting and proofreading an email of interest.
You’ll need to add a couple of additional sections to a formal letter you plan to attach to an email including formal heading and addresses and a formal closing.
Make sure the letter is on letterhead. You can copy and paste your letterhead onto a word document.On the first line of the letter, write in the date.Immediately underneath the date, put the address of the potential employer. Address it either to the possible supervisor or the human resources department.Include your contact information underneath the potential employer’s information including address, telephone number, and email address.
 Since you are going to attach a more formal letter of interest to your email, write a brief introductory email. This can point the company or HR representative to your letter and resume, or any other relevant documents.


The email should include: a greeting and short paragraph explaining your interest, the attached letter and other relevant documents, and a closing.
Your greeting should say “Dear Ms. Smith” followed by a comma.If you cannot locate the name of the person in charge of hiring, you can use “To Whom It May concern” followed by a colon.Your short paragraph can say something like “I am interested in exploring employment opportunities with your company and feel that I can make a significant contribution to your mission. I’ve attached a formal letter of interest and my resume with this email. They address my desire to work for your company as well as my skills and qualifications.”
Your closing can say “I look forward to hearing from you. Please feel free to contact me at any time by email or phone.” End with “Sincerely” followed by a comma., Add your letter of intent and resume to your email. You may want to include other relevant files such as a performance review or recommendation letter. This can help the prospective employer get a better sense of you and your qualifications.
 In order to send the email to the company or HR representative, put the person’s address in the proper field. Having the right email address for the person or company can help ensure it is directed to the proper person.If there is more than one email address that may apply, consider adding them in the “to” field.
You can blind copy yourself to ensure the email successfully sends., Before you send the email, read over the texts one final time. This can help ensure that there aren’t any spelling or grammar mistakes or any missing information.

