 You can take dancing inspiration from yourself and others. Raves are supposed to allow for spontaneous outburst of energy. Dance the way the music tells you, not the way others think you should.


Some rave music is fast and encourages quick, fast-paced moves, while other rave music is more trance-like and is good for swaying more slowly. Let the beat of the music at the rave inspire how you dance and follow the basic beats of the music to stay in time.
 Try to be one with the crowd. Dance in a similar rhythm and style to the rest of the crowd.The more you worry about the way you look the less fun you will have. You don’t need to copy what everyone else is doing but it’s good to stay in rhythm with the crowd. Many ravers use a drug called MDMA. MDMA (short for 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine) is a powerful stimulant drug that produces intense feelings of euphoria and bliss. Legality of MDMA use differs depending on where you live, but it's generally an illegal drug. You will find that the desire to move around and dance comes naturally while under the influence of this drug, but remember to stay hydrated as it does increase your body temperature and encourage you to exert yourself more than you may be used to. Amphetamines are a powerful drug and could send you driving off across Nebraska if you aren’t careful.
 Lots of dance moves popular with ravers are based on break dancing moves, so learn a few basic break dance moves to dance at a rave like a veteran. Raves tend to be crowded, so don't plan on performing any moves that require you to be on the ground or on your hands. Focus on getting a few hand and head movements down and learning a few basic steps.


For example, one popular move is the toprock. Starting walking in place. Now with the beat, start walking in place while rocking back and forth between your toes and your heels. Once you've done this, start crossing your legs in front of each other as your walking. Think of it as an exaggerated walk.
 Unlike other styles of dance that use only the lower body and require the upper body to stay still, rave dancing incorporates your arms, legs and whole body. Put all of yourself into your dancing and don't be afraid to move your whole body to the beat.
 Rave dancers often imitate one another and cause a dance craze that encompasses the whole rave, so look to the other dancers around you for inspiration. If there is a specific arm movement that the other dancers are doing to a particular song, give it a try. You might like it, and at the very least you'll look like you know what you're doing.
 The whole point of a rave is that it is unscripted street dance. For that reason, it’s sort of silly to describe certain moves to use. However, you might feel comfortable knowing one dance move that you can always do if you feel lost. The Melbourne Shuffle is a popular move that involves a fast heel to toe movement as you shuffle side to side. Watch a video of the dance and imitate! The Melbourne Shuffle is easy enough. Start by doing the running man, which is just an exaggerated walk where you do a quick back leg lunge on each step. Now, instead of doing a back leg lunge, take your planted leg and hop back. As you hop back, tap the toe of your lifted foot to the ground. Those are the basics of the Melbourne Shuffle.

