 Blotting the stain will allow you to soak up as much beer as possible. Removing the beer helps lessen the stain. Plus, you won't have to work as hard in the next steps if you get up all the beer you can.Just like with the upholstery, make sure to check for stains nearby. You may find little dots of beer splashed all across your carpet.
 You'll need vinegar, dishwashing detergent, and hydrogen peroxide (3%). You'll need to make two different solutions for washing out your carpet, and you'll use both of them.For the first solution, you'll mix vinegar and water. Mix 1 part vinegar with 2 parts water. For a small amount, mix a 1/3 cup of vinegar with 2/3 cup of water.
For the second solution, first make sure your dishwashing detergent doesn't have bleach, as that could make a dangerous solution later when the peroxide is applied. If it has lanolin in it, that may make it more difficult to clean the stain, so make sure your detergent doesn't have that, either. In a quart of water, add a 1/4 teaspoon of dishwashing detergent.
You'll use the hydrogen peroxide by itself.
 Put the solution in a spray bottle to make it easier to apply. Spray the solution on the stain, essentially soaking it with the solution. Once it's on the stain, use a clean paper towel to blot up the solution., Dip a sponge or clean rag into the detergent solution. A white cloth works best so you don't stain the carpet with the cloth. Blot the stain with the solution.Keep going back and forth between the solution and stain until the stain is removed.
You'll likely need to perform this action 3 or 4 times at least.
 Now you need to take the detergent out of the carpet with clean water. The easiest way to do that is to use a spray bottle with clean water. Spray it on the carpet and blot up the detergent. Repeat the process until you've removed the detergent and you don't see any suds., Once you've made sure all the detergent is out, you can dry off the carpet. Blot it dry with paper towels. However, to make sure it's really dry, place a stack of clean paper towels on top of it, then put something heavy on top of that, such as a brick.If you don't have a brick, you can use something else heavy. Just make sure it's something you don't mind getting wet, or take the time to wrap it in plastic first.
 Once the carpet has dried, check the area again for a stain. If you still see one, you can use the hydrogen peroxide to help get the rest of it up. Apply straight hydrogen peroxide to the carpet with a clean cloth.Leave the peroxide on for an hour. If you still see a stain, blot it up, and add more peroxide, leaving it for an hour again. Keeping repeating the process until you see the stain is gone. You don't need to rinse it out.
Once it's gone, apply a brick and a stack of clean paper towels to make sure it properly dries.

