 Throwing a party for a teenager can be a difficult process, since what they think is cool and what their parents think is cool, often are in entirely different universes. You will want plenty of time to check in with them about what they would like, or if you're the teen planning the party, you'll need plenty of time to check in with your parents and talk to your friends.


Budget the party. See what you can spend on things like food, drinks, decorations, music, and so on.
Have the teen deal with invitations. Again parents usually don't understand what is cool or embarrassing for their teenagers and handwritten invitations could be just the ticket to loserville at school. Let them decide how they're going to invite people, as long as it's the agreed-upon guests and not open to every person in school.
 While a theme party might not be cool enough for your teen, there are lots of different kinds of parties to have. Is it a birthday party? A holiday party (like Halloween)? A graduation party? Each of these will require different decorations (if the teen wants decorations) and, sometimes, different foods.


You should also think about the type of party in terms of its location. A beach front party with a bonfire is going to require different set up and energy to pull off than a Halloween party at your house. An outside party is going to require weather preparations (having an area nearby that's under some sort of cover, for example).
Remember, a girls sleep-over is going to be very different from a graduation party. For the former, a chaperone or parent will simply need to make sure that the girls aren't sneaking out, otherwise you don't usually have to worry about them. The latter type of party is more likely to get out of control and will need supervision.
 You want to make sure that the teen's friends can make it to the party, so try for advance notice for a bigger party, like a birthday bash or Halloween extravaganza (a couple weeks, at least). For a smaller party, you usually won't need as much time, unless it's a really important party.


Avoid school nights and Sunday nights during the school year. Teens should, hopefully, be rested for school and have time to do their schoolwork. Partying will cut into that time.
Make sure that the parents of the invited teens know what's going to be happening at the party .
 Pulling everything together will make the party successful. This means having the right food and the right music. If you've planned it out beforehand, this part shouldn't be too difficult.


For food, you want something that is easy to snack on. Chips and dip, pretzels, candy and cookies, pizza, and some cut up veggies and dip, are all great choices. You could also cut up some fruit and have a fruit platter. If you put some chocolate dip in the middle you'll have a fun (and somewhat healthy) option.
Let the teens provide music themselves. They will typically have iPods and phones packed with their types of music. Simply hook up some speakers and an MP3 hook-up, so they can have it louder to dance to. If you're worried about the neighbors, make sure to test it beforehand and check in with them.
For drinks you'll want sodas and water. Remember, unless the drinking age is 18 or less, you could get in trouble for having alcohol at the party, even if you didn't provide it.
It's a good to use paper plates and cups and forks to make for less clean-up afterwards. Teens aren't usually that picky about what they use to eat with. If you're environmentally conscious, there are usually biodegradable paper plates and things that you can use.
 Again, this can depend on the type of party, but it's usually a good idea to have different designated areas for different activities, like dancing, playing Foosball, video games, an eating area.


Make sure that you've provided obvious trash containers in each area. This will make it easier for them to be less messy and have the clean-up be easier.
It's best if the teen figures out where each area to be (with adult consent) because they know their friends and peers best.
 While having a chaperone hovering nearby can be off-putting for teen parties, not having some sort of supervision can result in a lot of poor decision-making by the teens have the party.


If it's an adult doing the supervision, Try to be somewhere else during the party. For example, if the party is at the teen's house, one of the parents or an older (responsible) sibling should be in one of the other rooms of the house. Occasionally, check up on the party by doing a walk-through on the way to the kitchen or the bathroom.
If there's someone who is in their late-teens, or twenties that is trustworthy, see if they will chaperone the party. They'll be a lot cooler than a parent, but will still be able to keep the party from getting out of hand.
 It's best to have the teen clean-up as a part of their learning process. They have the party, they have to clean-up afterwards. It should also make it less likely that the party gets out of control because they know that they'll be taking care of whatever happens.


Have a few friends stay afterwards to help with the clean-up. Put on some music to make it more enjoyable.

