 These are tools (also available in Buy Mode) that help move, rotate, and design items. Here is the list of basic Build Tools and how to use them:


Hand Tool-Moves objects like fireplaces, doors, trees, and diving boards. Click the hand tool, then the object you want to move. Click it again when you like its location. To rotate an object with the hand tool, simply turn it facing the direction you want it to be, then click to place it.



 



Eyedropper Tool-Use this tool to quickly find an object, wall, or floor. After selecting the eyedropper tool, click on the item you want. You'll have it now in the hand tool!







Design Tool-This tool can change the colors of windows, doors, fireplaces, columns, and garden items. Click the design tool, then the item you want to design. Note: Only certain items can be designed.







Day/Night Tool-Use this tool to see what the lot looks like when it's nighttime. Click the Day/Night Tool and it will toggle between day and night.







Undo and Redo Tool-Use this tool if you've made a mistake and want to go back. Just click the undo tool (or press Ctrl + Z) to go back and change the last thing you did. To redo it, simply press the redo tool (Ctrl + Y).







Top Down View Tool-Use this tool to see your house from a top down view. This is useful to see a plan view of the house.





;
, This tool can be used to create the outline of your house. Click the wall icon. You can click and drag wherever on the lot you want to add a wall. You can also make diagonal walls. To create a full wall (a box) click the box icon in the wall tool. Drag the wall like you would for a diagonal wall, and you have a box!

, If you want foundation, click the foundation icon. There are multiple types. The first one is just a base for your house. Click and drag to use foundation. You can also create diagonal foundation by clicking the diagonal icon. If you decide you don't want it, Press Ctrl and drag over where you want to delete foundation. The brown deck is the same, but that is used for a porch or deck of your house. Note: Foundation is optional, but it adds a nice touch. And, you can't add a raised deck to a house without the base foundation.
 There are lots of ways to use the roof tool:

To create a manual roof, click the "Roof Type" button. Select the type of roof you want, then drag to where you want it to be. Click to release. To delete it, Press Ctrl + Click on the roof.







Roof Patterns. This changes the color of your roof. Just click the color you want, and the roof will change to that color. Note: Every roof on the lot must be the same color.







Dormers. Dormers are an addition to a roof. Just click the one you want, rotate it, then click to where you want it to be. There are different types and sizes of dormers.







Auto Roof Tool. If you can't make a good roof, or just don't want to, you can use the auto roof tool! Just click the type of roof you want, and all of the enclosed rooms on the lot will have that type of roof on the top floor!







, For floors, You can choose from Poured, Stone, Brick, Tile, Wood, Carpet, Linoleum and Miscellaneous floors. Select the one you want, then drag it in the area you want the floor to be. To do it quicker, press Shift and click. Now the whole area is covered in one click! For wall covering, you can pick from Brick, Masonry, Siding, Poured, Paint, Wallpaper, Tile, and Paneling. You apply it the same way as floors (Shift + Click also works with walls) but on the wall. It can be inside or outside. For both walls and floors, if you want to get rid of it, Press Ctrl and drag, OR Ctrl, Shift, and Click.
 You can add trees, flowers, and shrubs. You cannot put garden tools on floor, and they can't be inside. To remove any plant, pick it up with the hand tool and press DELETE. Most garden items have different colors, which can be changed with the Design Tool.
 There are lots of things the terrain tool can do:


Raise Terrain-Simply click to raise the terrain. The more you click, the higher the terrain will be.







Lower Terrain-Just click to lower the terrain. Like raising terrain, the more or longer you click, the deeper the terrain will be.







Level Terrain-Click or click and drag with this tool to make the ground flat and level.







Terrain Type-With this tool you can change the color and type of terrain to desert, sand, grass, and more! Just click the terrain type you want, then drag over the spot where you want it to be. Press Ctrl and click to remove the current terrain and get it back to the previous type.







Pond-Click the pond tool, then click and drag to where you want the pond to be. The more you hold, the deeper the pond is. You can add lily pads and other decorations to the pond in the Garden Tools.
 Doors and windows must be against the wall to be placed. To remove a door or window, pick it up with the hand tool and press DELETE. You can also put in arches, double story windows, and double story doors.
 To add stairs to foundation, click the connecting stairs button and click wherever on the foundation you want the stairs to be. You can change the type of stairs you want, too. Press Ctrl + Click on the stairs to remove them. To add railings, click the railing button, then click by the edge of the stairs. To delete railings, press Ctrl + click on the railing. For stairs to another level of the house, click a staircase you want, then place it where you want. Make sure that you'll be able to place it there!

, Here is a list of them:


Columns-Columns can support upper floors. Click one you want, then put it wherever you like. Columns can easily add to a nice deck or balcony. To remove a column, just click it then press DELETE.







Fireplaces-Fireplaces can really add elegance to a house! Just pick one you like and place it wherever you want. To remove a fireplace, click on it then press DELETE.







Swimming Pools-The pool tool creates a nice in-ground pool for your Sims to swim in. Click the tool, then drag where you want the pool to be. To get rid of a pool, press Ctrl and drag over the pool, but make sure that nothing is in the way, like a pool ladder. Don't forget a diving board and a pool ladder so Sims can get in and out!







Fences & Gates-Fences can be built on decks, balconies, and on terrain. Click a fence you want, then drag to where you want it to be. Press Shift while dragging a fence to create a square or rectangle. Press Ctrl while dragging to delete a fence. A gate must be placed on a fence. Click one, then put it on a fence.







