 One way to address the violence in your community is to identify the driving forces behind the violence. These may include things like a lack of jobs, which might be causing members of the community to turn to violence for survival. Or, the cause might be a lack of family support, which might be causing kids to spend more time on the streets.


By investigating the potential causes of the violence in your community, you can work on some tailored solutions to the violence. For example, a lack of jobs might be due to poor educational opportunities for people in your community. Therefore, improving educational opportunities might be the best way to prepare people for jobs and cut down on violent crimes.
Or, if many of the kids in your community spend their spare time on the streets, then building a community center or increasing the programming at a local community center may provide the kids with somewhere to go after school.
 This is a great way to start organizing your community, and will help promote unity and communication. What you talk about and plan for will depend on your particular community, but here are some suggestions:Discuss how more vulnerable community members, such as elders, can be cared for and protected from violence.
Arrange carpooling or offer to escort those who need to leave their home, but are fearful to go out alone.
If children are present in the neighborhood, have a frank discussion with your neighbors about where the children can gather should they find themselves in danger.
 If your community is experiencing significant problems with violence and social unrest, then it might be a good idea to find out what measures have helped other communities. There are likely several things that will need to happen before things improve, but finding out what worked and what did not may help you to generate ideas for your own community.


Try looking into violence prevention nonprofits for help and information. While the availability of such programs depends on where you live, thousands of organizations exist to assist communities struggling with violence and unrest. Contacting a local anti-violence or community organizing nonprofit is a great way to find out about what others are doing to make positive changes in their communities.
 It is important for you to get as complete a perspective as possible, but remember that unrest in a community often has many causes, all interacting in a complicated way. Always be open to new explanations and perspectives.Be open and honest in discussing issues of violence with your family, friends and neighbors. Conversations about such important, urgent issues can become heated, but do not shy away from disagreement. Instead, try to listen to what others have to say, and try to understand their perspectives before responding.
Community leaders such as religious or school officials, business owners, community organizers, and local politicians are another great resource.
Ask about other people's personal experiences with violence, or other community issues. Ask them what they think has caused these issues, and what they think should be done to solve them.
 If you community is facing major problems with violence and you want to learn more about how you can help, then you may want to consider taking some classes that may help you make a difference. Many anti-violence non-profit organizations offer training in conflict mediation, community organizing, or other related topics. These courses will provide you with new ways of thinking about community problems, and give you the tools you'll need to help build a stronger community.Classes in community organizing are offered at many universities and colleges, and can sometimes be taken remotely over the internet.

