 Choose some generic clothes - you can always change your mind and go to the Clothing Shop in Varrock; however, you should make sure your boots are of a decent color, as you can't easily change them later. Your name shouldn't reflect your combat style anyway, so make it a good one.;
, Most successful RuneScape players train a little bit of everything. Perhaps you should just leave it to chance, and see where quests and moneymaking schemes take you.
 Pures avoid training combat skills they don't need, and only train the ones they do. Pures, when created correctly, are excellent at PKing for their level, but they can get attacked by more NPCs due to their lower combat levels.
 Skillers are known for having high total levels, despite their extremely low combat levels. The ability to harvest resources rather than killing for them can sometimes lead to bigger profits.
 Do you want to have it high or low? While most pures would like a lower Constitution level (it does raise combat), any XP lamps you find may be well invested in this skill. After all, it determines your hitpoints.
 Having a high attack level will allow you to wield better swords and become more accurate with melee attacks. It can be quite valuable, but many pures keep it at 40, 60, or 70 in order to train Strength instead.
 This determines how high your melee attacks will hit. Many melee pures aspire to have an extremely high Strength level.
 If you have high Defense, you can wear better kinds of armor, and attacks will hit you less often. Pures often tend to avoid training this skill.
 A high level in this skill will allow you to wield better bows and wear better light armor, and improve your overall ranged performance. This isn't a very useful skill for PKing until the best weaponry is unlocked.
 With high Magic, you can cast more powerful magic spells. This skill also appeals to some skillers, as it can be used to alchemize items as well.
 Once you get a fairly high Prayer level, you can pray against specific forms of combat to defend yourself. Even pures tend to train this skill.
 This is members only, but summoning familiars can turn the tide in specific battles; however, this skill is very expensive to train, and would be benefited most by a high combat level.
 Which skill sounds the best to you? Do you want to train more than one? Would you prefer to spend more time on non-combat skills?

,