 You can find whole cloves and ground cloves at your local health food store. If you decide to use whole cloves, you will need to buy at least five to ten whole cloves to make enough oil to fill a one ounce glass container. If you decide to use ground cloves, you will need at least one to two teaspoons of ground cloves to fill a one ounce glass container.Keep in mind the more whole or ground cloves you use, the stronger the oil will be. You should then adjust the dosage of the clove oil if the oil itself is stronger and more potent.
If you use ground cloves, you may decide to strain out the cloves once the oil is made. This is based on preference only and is not required to make an effective bottle of clove oil.;
, The olive oil will act as the carrier oil and will help to extract the properties from the cloves. You can use extra virgin olive oil or virgin olive oil.The amount of olive oil needed for the clove oil will depend on how much clove oil you plan to make. You will need no more than one ounce of olive oil to make one ounce of clove oil.
 A dark, sanitized glass jar will ensure the oil does not spoil or get contaminated. Use a jar with an eye dropper for easy application of the clove oil.You can also use a clear glass jar with an air tight lid to store the clove oil. You can put the glass jar in a paper bag and store it in a dark place to ensure the oil does not spoil.
 Once the cloves and the oil are combined and have had time to settle, you can decide to leave the cloves in the oil or strain out the cloves.You can buy cheesecloth at your local baking store or create an easy strainer with a coffee filter.
 If you are using whole cloves, use clean hands to place five to ten cloves in the one ounce jar. If you are using ground cloves, you can place ¼ cup of ground cloves into a 12 ounce jar.If you decide to use a higher amount of cloves in the oil, keep in mind the oil will be more potent and you may need to use less of it when applying it to your skin.
 Once the cloves are in the jar, slowly pour the olive oil in the jar until it sits one inch above the cloves in the jar.


If you are using ground cloves, you will pour one cup of olive oil into a 12 ounce jar. Let the one cup of olive oil drain into the jar completely., Make sure the jar is well sealed before you shake the jar three to four times. This will ensure the cloves and the oil are well combined., The cloves and the olive oil need time to interact so the olive oil can extract the chemical properties of the cloves. You should let the jar sit in a cool dark place and ensure it is sealed well to avoid any contamination of the oil., After ten to fourteen days, you will have useable clove oil. You can decide to keep the whole or ground cloves in the oil or strain out the cloves. This is based on preference and is not required to use the clove oil.To strain out the cloves, place the cheesecloth or the coffee filter over a clean glass jar. Keep the cloth or filter in place with a rubber band around the top of the glass jar. Slowly pour the oil over the cloth or filter into the clean glass jar. The cloves will then be strained out of the oil.
If you decide not to strain out the whole cloves or ground cloves, you can use the same cloves several times by filling the jar up again with olive oil and letting it sit for ten to fourteen days. After two to three uses, you should replace the old cloves with fresh cloves.
 Before you apply the clove oil to your mouth, you should rinse it with a warm salt water solution. This will flush out your mouth and allow the oil to work effectively on your dental issue.If you are using clove oil as a mosquito repellant, you do not need to rinse your mouth out before applying it to your skin. Applying clove oil to your skin can repel mosquitos for up to five hours., Soak a clean cotton ball in the clove oil. Then, gently hold it against your sore tooth or gum. Try to get as much of the clove oil as you can on the sore tooth or gum.You can also use a clean tissue to apply the clove oil by soaking the tissue in clove oil and applying it to the sore tooth or gum.
 Clove oil has been shown to help manage dental pain and act as a temporary solution to dental issues like root canals and dental plaque build up. But you should not use clove oil as a permanent medical treatment for any of your dental issues. See a dentist if your dental issue is severe and requires medical attention., While clove oil is known natural remedy that can work effectively, there are also several health issues associated with clove oil. Never apply clove oil to broken skin and do not take large amounts of clove oil. Side effects of ingesting too much clove oil include mouth pain, vomiting, sore throat, difficulty breathing, kidney failure, and liver damage.Keep in mind children should not take clove oil via the mouth as it can cause severe side effects like seizures and liver damage. If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, you should avoid using clove oil as there is not enough reliable information to confirm clove oil is safe for use in these medical conditions.
If you are scheduled to have surgery of any kind within the next two weeks, you should not use clove oil. Clove oil contains eugenol, which slows blood clotting and can lead to bleeding during or after a surgery.
Do not use clove oil if you are taking any anticoagulant drugs or medications that slow blood clotting, for example, aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, clopidogrel, diclofenac, or dalteparin.

