 Load a flat paintbrush with paint in a light shade of your main color. Apply this paint to your work surface, creating the basic shape of the rose.


This light shade will serve as the actual color of the rose.
Essentially, the basic shape will look like a lumpy circle or uneven cloud. Create shorter, more pronounced lumps along one side of the upper edge. Progress into longer, shallow lumps along the diagonally opposite lower edge.
Clean your brush with water and paper towels before continuing to the next step.
 Side load your brush with a darker shade of your main color, then apply the paint in curves to the inside edges of your rose base.


This new color should simply be a darker shade of the previous hue. It will create the appearance of shadows on the rose.
To side load the brush, only dip one corner of the brush into the paint. Alternatively, you could switch to a thin liner brush.
These curves should roughly follow the lumps you created around the perimeter of the base, but leave some room in between the curves and the actual edge. Place tight curves along the short, pronounced lumps at the upper edge. Draw loose, open curves along the lower edge.
Place each curve at a slightly different level to prevent the tails from connecting with one another.
 Fill the inner space of the rose with additional curves, gradually connecting the space between your lower petal curves and your upper ones.


As a general rule, fill two-thirds of the rose with upper curves that mimic the flow and direction of your original upper curves. Fill the remaining third with lower curves.
Note that each set of curves should gradually become tighter as it nears the center of the rose.
 Clean your brush, then side load white paint onto one corner. Apply this paint to the outer edge of each petal.


The white paint should be used to mimic the appearance of light on each petal.
For each defined petal, apply the white paint over the outer edge. It will typically lie opposite the dark paint on each petal section.
 Use this paint to draw a tight spiral in the center of the rose.


Place the spiral inside the tightest set of curves.
The spiral will usually curve upward, but may not depending on how you painted the surrounding petals of the rose.
 Add any desired touch-ups to the appearance of the rose, then allow the paint to completely dry before handling it further.


If you're satisfied with the way the rose currently looks, you can stop here and skip the final step.
 Apply a very thin and even layer of this paint over the entire rose.


This final layer washes out the other colors, making the variations seem less dramatic and more evenly blended. This step can be difficult, however, since it is easy to apply too much paint, thereby covering desired details.

