 Nighttime temperatures tend to undo daytime gains, even during sunny weather. A pool blanket is absolutely essential at night as this is when the majority of heat loss takes place - when the air temperature is much cooler than the water. An in ground pool will lose heat faster than an above ground pool as the ground area below 3' in most areas is cold even during the summer. Do you have space for solar panels to receive direct sun most of the day? Will you remove the panels prior to high wind storms and perhaps each winter? Will the reduced water flow still clean your pool or is running your pump for more hours acceptable? That said, the low cost and ease of installing your first panels may make it feasible for you to experiment. In most situations plastic solar panels will increase your comfort during the regular swimming season however they are not likely to increase the length of the swimming season unless you supplement with gas heating also. No prior planning can substitute for the experience of trying it out.;
, Proper pool valves are not cheap, but they never block the return flow and can be adjusted to direct all, part, or no water through the panels. Consider a pool valve that will accept an automatic valve controller if you may want to later control the valve from another location or with a clock.
 Water returning from the panels will reenter the return line below the valve. Water is then free to return from the panels to the pool. It is helpful for winterizing the system in the future to buy valves that have unions so that you can open and drain the system.
 If the panels will be installed on the roof, plastic conduit pipe hangers will hold the pipe securely to walls and the eave. At the roof edge install a union fitting on each pipe to make it easy to remove the panels seasonally, or for wind, or to replace the roofing. Even for solar panels on the ground, union fittings will make seasonal removal easier. Consider burying the rigid pool pipes to keep your yard looking neat.
 Purchase no fewer than two. Each panel costs roughly $150. You may want to try two before adding more. Enough panels to equal the area of your pool would be ideal, if you have the space for them. An 18' diameter round pool has a surface area of about 254 sq ft / 40 sq ft per panel = 6 panels. But fewer panels are OK and it may be best to keep your investment modest until you are convinced that all the considerations and benefits are worthwhile. More panels require more pump power, so this is another consideration you will understand better after you have tried two panels. It is common to need to increase the size of the pump by 1/4hp in order to accommodate any lifts higher than a single storey or longer than 100'.
 Use stainless steel hanger bolts ordered on the internet, if your local hardware does not carry them. Consider your roof rafter spacing and locate hanger bolts slightly wider than the 2-foot width of the panels. A generous dob of roofing polymer or "tar" around each hanger bolt is required to prevent leaks. A strap or aluminum bar with a hole at each end fits over the panel and two hanger bolts. Secure with stainless steel washers and wing nuts to make removal of the panels quick and easy. In most communities you will need to submit drawings, comply with codes, and obtain a permit before making any roof installation. These considerations may make installing panels on the ground an attractive alternative.
 Pay particular attention to which end of the panel pipe is IN or OUT, so that the water flow will always be entering IN and exiting OUT. Air will be trapped in the panels if they are installed backwards. When panels are installed on a slope, the OUT end of the panel should be higher.
 Check for leaks. Theoretically, the greater the flow, the more efficient (because the cooler water in the panels absorbs more heat from the sun). You will probably find that the water returning from the panels is just two or three degrees higher, but over a period of a day this will heat your entire pool by a few degrees. If your nights are not too cool, you will gain a few degrees each day. Even a small pool will take about a week to be noticeably warmer. We've been conservative to help keep your expectations realistic, but I have only three panels on my South Florida pool and they are wonderful. With no electric or gas heating, I can enjoy a pool at 80 degrees or more for about half the year. This year I'll add two more panels for a total of five to extend my season. Happy swimming!

,,