 Installing plinth blocks will be easiest if there’s nothing to get in the way. Score the edges of the casing where it meets the wall with a utility knife, then pry it up using a pry bar or putty knife. You can either replace the entire casing this way or carve out the lower section of the trim to make room for the blocks.If you choose to remove the casing completely, you’ll need to replace it with new trim that lines up properly with the plinth blocks.
Make your cuts carefully to ensure that the edges of the trim above the plinth block come out even.;
, Alternatively, you can fit blocks over the trim that’s already in place. Just adjust the width and thickness of the paneling accordingly when you measure and saw. In this case, your plinth blocks will be more like a facade, and probably only need to be cut about half as thick as they would be if you were embedding them into the casing.You'll have the most success installing plinth blocks over trim that's perfectly flat, without any grooves, contouring or other detailing that will make the blocks difficult to fit.
 Spread a thin layer of construction adhesive to the backside of the block, then carefully line up the edges with the trim. When the blocks are perfectly aligned and in the right position, slide them into the blank slots you cut into the casing. Keep applying pressure to the blocks until they’re glued down securely.If you accidentally misalign the blocks on the first attempt, pull them off from the corner and try again with a fresh dab of adhesive.
 The adhesive will keep the blocks right where you want them, but it won’t be strong enough to hold them permanently. Once you’re satisfied with the position of your plinth blocks, nail them down gently. It may help to pre-drill the blocks with holes that match the size of the nails you’ll be using.It’s important that the nails be slightly recessed so that you’ll have room to plug them later.
Nail into the solid framing behind the trim whenever possible. This will provide greater security and keep the blocks from coming loose., Once the blocks have been fitted and fastened, all that’s left to to do is blend them in with the rest of the casing. Fill in the nail holes with a small amount of caulk or spackling, then brush on a coat of primer before painting the blocks to match the trim. Enjoy the sophisticated look of your new molding!Sand the spackling after it dries to make the surface of the blocks smooth and level.Applying a few strips of painter’s tape to the wall around the door jamb will allow you to work your brush all the way into the edges of the blocks.

