 Take the time to write them down. Maybe you want to type because you have terrible handwriting or typing is easier. Maybe you want to write it down by hand because you aren't a very fast typist. You could even do both. Typing might somehow spark one memory of your dream and writing by hand might trigger another.;
, These are all important elements of the story.


Remember that you may not have a falling action or a resolution. The story might even end at the climax. The exposition is essentially the beginning of your story, the hook is what captures the reader's attention, the rising action is that amazing area in between the hook and the climax. Rising action is very important as it builds toward the climax. The more suspense, the better the climax!
The climax is the high point of your story. It is where everything you've been building up to collides. Protagonist beats antagonist (hero beats bad guy). It's the high point, the most memorable moment of your story. Often there is a lot of conflict in the climax. In The Hunger Games the climax occurs when Katniss and Peeta eat the berries. The story can end in the climax, but it doesn't have to. 
There is also falling action where the climax starts to fade away (when Katniss and Peeta are heading home).
Then there's the resolution. Things are resolved, more or less to everyone's satisfaction.
Sometimes these plot elements can be difficult to separate and identify. If you study other people's stories, you can practice identifying the elements, and that will help you develop them in your own work.
 Dreams are often a little weird. It's okay to change the dream a bit in order for your readers to appreciate the story more than they would your raw dream. If you're making a fairytale or children's book, you may not have to change much at all.


If you leave the dream unchanged, you may need to explain how a character is able to fly or possess super powers. Feel free to change the dream to serve your purposes. You may just want as entertaining a story as you can possibly evolve. Fiction is limited only by one's imagination, but if it's too unbelievable the story will suffer.
Be sure to describe any super powers early in the story so that they're not sprung on the reader at the last moment just to help a character get out of a tight spot.The reader will feel cheated if they don't know you can fly until you suddenly soar off to safety. The younger your audience is, the less this would be a problem.
 Adding is okay if it makes the story better! The more you add, the better, up to a point. Removing parts of the dream, replacing them with new ideas, shortening the story: they're all good ways to let your imagination run free! The perfect story is hiding inside your head. Let it loose!


Sometimes if you go to bed thinking about the story, you may dream it again with a few changes. Your dream might even pick up where it left off. Don't rely on this possibility, because it doesn't always happen. .
Ask your friends and family for ideas. They may be able to help you with a scene. They might say something that could trigger a great idea. In any case, the only limits on your story are those imposed by your own imagination.
 Have fun!

