 Recognize the people who are there for you and willing to support you at all times. Know who helps you feel calm and relaxed and who makes you feel anxious. Spend time with the people who help you feel at ease.Think about your friends and family members who support you always. Offer to spend time together. Invite your friend or family member to watch a movie, go to lunch, or garden together.
Say, “Your friendship means very much to me, and you’ve been really supportive of me in the past. I’m working through my difficulties around anxiety at this point in my life, and your support would mean a lot to me. Can I count on you for support?”;
, Be proactive in reaching out to people, even if you haven’t spoken in a long time. When reaching out for friendships, don’t be afraid to cast a wide net, including people you used to be friends with from school or other activities. Recognize you can reach out to many people for support: you may reach out to other parents when dealing with difficult childhood issues, or to a work friend with problems with your boss.Think of who you can count on and trust, then reach out.


Be the first one to say “hello” or ask, “How was your day?” It’s okay to initiate friendships and revive past friendships by taking the first step.
If you have a friend you’d like to confide in, say, “I’m hoping you’re a friend I can talk to and trust. Can I tell you something personal about my life?”

, If you know that caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, or drugs agitate your anxiety, choose to be around people who do not include these substances in their lives. Choose friends who support your healthy lifestyle. Remember that alcohol may calm your nerves, but can increase your risk of an anxiety attack. Nicotine can also contribute to higher levels of anxiety.If you are trying to cut back on these substances, be around people who do not trigger you.


You may need to take a break from certain friend groups for a bit and make new friends.
If you want to keep these friends, say to them. “I’m making certain life changes to help me stay healthy. Please support me in making these changes.”

, Playing with a pet can help you feel more relaxed and calm. Because animals live in the present and do not worry about the past or present, they can help you enjoy each moment in a mindful manner. If you feel anxious, being near your pet may help calm your worries.If making new friends feels too daunting, you may opt to adopt a pet as a first step.


Walking your dog can help you meet people and “break the ice.” You may notice another person walking a dog and stop to chat. It’s easy to meet people at the dog park or on walks.
Check your local shelter to see if any pets tug at your heartstrings. For more information, check out How to Adopt a Pet from a Shelter.
 Exercise has numerous benefits for physical and emotional health, and can help reduce stress and improve sleep. It can also help improve your social life.The social benefits of exercise groups is that they meet regularly and you can offer to do something afterward with people who also attend classes.


Join an exercise class at your local gym, a yoga studio, or crossFit to blend exercise and making friends. You can also join a local sports league like baseball, basketball, or soccer. Or, try a new activity such as indoor rock climbing or surfing.
 Volunteering is a great way to meet other people who have similar interests as you do while contributing to a worthwhile cause. It is a great way to connect with others and make friends while practicing your social skills. Choose an activity that appeals to you and that you want to become involved with locally. Volunteering with other people with similar interests can create in instant bond.If you want to volunteer but don’t know where to start, check your local community for opportunities, such as within your library, senior center, and animal shelter. If you belong to a spiritual community, ask if there’s a volunteer role for you at your mosque, temple, synagogue, church, or stake.
 Find something you’ve always wanted to do and go do it. Maybe you want to learn to sew, do yoga or martial arts, or learn to dance. It can be easier to meet people and make friends when you all have something in common bringing you together. Hobbies can help you do something you enjoy and help you manage stress. Choose a hobby that is social and not one that isolates you.Look for classes or workshops in your local community to get you started on your new hobby. You might want to learn a new language, try sailing, or learn to make cakes.
 A support group is an informal gathering of people who share a similar issue or struggle. It can be helpful to join a support group for anxiety to meet other people with similar struggles, share advice, give and receive comfort and support, and improve your coping and adjustment.To find a support group near you, ask your local medical doctor, therapist, or mental health clinic. Some support groups exist online and can be found with a web search.
 Group therapy involves a structured group that meets regularly to help people cope with a certain aspect of mental or emotional health. Groups are generally led by psychologists and meet for 1-2 hours each week. Participants can explore ways to cope with stressful situations or manage anxiety more effectively. Group therapy helps you stay accountable for your actions while also providing a supportive environment.Ask your physician or psychologist for any group therapy recommendations for anxiety. You can also reach out to a local mental health clinic.
 Taking a class aimed to help you succeed socially can help you feel more confident and decrease your social anxiety. Feeling more comfortable around people can help you relax in social situations. You can also make friends with other people who attend the class. You can learn ways to start conversations, ask meaningful questions, and interact more comfortably with others.


Check if any classes are offered at your local mental health clinic. Some classes at held at community colleges or adult education centers.To get started on your own, check out How to Improve Social Skills.

