 No one can force you to have an abortion, not even your parents.Your boyfriend can’t, either. Although your boyfriend may also be the child’s parent, he doesn’t get a say in whether you have the baby or not. Accordingly, you should feel confident in your right to give birth, even if you are a minor. Make sure to always tell people that you don’t want an abortion but want to give birth.


For example, if your parents drive you to an abortion clinic, tell the workers there that you don’t want an abortion.
Don’t sign any papers given to you. The clinic can’t perform an abortion without your consent.Refuse to give either verbal or written consent.;
, Now that you know you have a right to give birth, you need to identify how you will protect that right. Basically, you can bring a lawsuit in court and ask the judge for an “injunction” against whoever is pressuring you to get an abortion. A “restraining order” is a type of injunction.


An injunction is a court order to stop doing something. It can also be an order to do something.For example, you can get an injunction ordering your ex-boyfriend to stop harassing you. You can also get an injunction ordering your parents to pay for your medical bills during the pregnancy.
There are penalties if the person under an injunction violates it. For example, your parents might ignore the injunction and not let you use a car. In this situation, you can bring a “contempt” proceeding in court. The judge can fine your parents to get them to comply. In extreme cases, the judge could also put your parents in jail until they agree to abide by the injunction.
 Your parents or your boyfriend may be trying to intimidate you into getting an abortion. You need to document the harassment. It can take many forms, including the following:Taking away your car or preventing you from using transportation.
Preventing you from using the phone. For example, they could have taken your cell phone away or not let you use the landline at home.
Threatening you. You should write down any threats made against you. Write down the date and what was said.
 You will need help filing a lawsuit. Even though you are a minor, you can get an attorney. However, the biggest hurdle will be finding one. Look for legal help in the following places:


The phone book. Attorneys still advertise in the phone book. If you don’t have a phone book at home, then check your school library.
The Internet. More and more, attorneys now advertise online. You can find an attorney near you by typing “your town or city” and “attorney.” Look at each attorney’s website and check whether they practice family law.
Legal aid organizations. These organizations provide free legal services to people with little or no money.You might look for a Christian legal aid organization in your area. A Christian legal aid attorney helped a Texas teen win an injunction against her parents.
Local or state bar associations. Bar associations are organizations made up of attorneys. They often provide referrals to their members. You can find your nearest bar association by visiting the American Bar Association’s website.Court-appointed attorney. You can try to file the lawsuit yourself and then ask the judge for an attorney. Since you are a minor, the judge might appoint an attorney to represent you.
Court personnel at a self-help center. Some courts have self-help centers or family law facilitators. These people can answer basic questions and help you figure out a plan of action.
 The most important thing you can do is get professional legal help, so gather your courage and pick up the phone. Remember also that the attorney must keep your confidences, so be honest when describing your situation. He or she cannot call up your parents and tell them what you talked about.


Not every attorney can represent you. Don’t be discouraged or upset if the attorney declines. Attorneys decline to represent people for a variety of reasons—they are too busy, they don’t know the relevant field of law that well, etc.If the attorney can’t represent you, ask if he or she could recommend someone who would. Often, attorneys are a good source of referrals. The first attorney you speak to might not be able to help, but they can connect you to someone who can.
 Your lawyer will start the lawsuit by filing a “petition” (also called a “complaint”). This is a legal document that contains important information, such as why you are suing and what you want the judge to give you (an injunction). Many courts have printed, “fill in the blank” petitions you can use.Check the court’s website.


As the person filing the lawsuit, you are the “plaintiff” or the “petitioner.” The name depends on the court.
The person you are trying to restrain (your parents, boyfriend, etc.) is the “defendant” or the “respondent.”

, Family courts are special courts designed to handle family law issues. Your attorney will probably file your lawsuit in the family law court for the county where your parents or boyfriend lives.In some situations, the attorney may need to file in regular civil court. He or she will know where to file.
 You need to give the defendant/respondent notice that you have filed the lawsuit. You can provide this notice by sending them a copy of your petition and a “summons,” which your lawyer will get from the court clerk.You can’t personally hand over a copy of the petition and summons to your parents. Instead, you will have to follow your court’s rules for providing notice.
Generally, your lawyer can hire a private process server to make hand delivery for a small fee.
Alternately, your lawyer might pay the county sheriff or constable to hand deliver the papers to the right party.
 If your boyfriend or parents disagree with you, they can file a response to your lawsuit. The summons will tell them how much time they have, which generally varies depending on your state. In Florida, for example, they get 20 days to respond.Your parents don’t really have a legal argument for forcing you to get an abortion. For this reason, you should expect them to argue instead that they aren’t harassing you.
After your parents file their response, they should send your lawyer a copy.
 The judge will hold a hearing to determine whether to issue an injunction. Your attorney will prepare you for the hearing. You may have to testify and explain the harassment or intimidation you have faced.


You have the burden of proving that you will be “irreparably harmed” if you don’t get the injunction.This shouldn’t be difficult. Being coerced into an abortion qualifies as irreparable harm.
The judge should determine whether to grant an injunction at the end of the hearing. If so, your attorney will get a certified copy. Your parents or boyfriend will also have to get a copy so that they will know what the judge has ordered them to do.
 Until you give birth, you should check in regularly with your lawyer. Let him or her know how well your parents are complying with the judge’s order. If they stop complying, then you will need to head back to court to file a contempt proceeding.It is probably best to call your lawyer when you are at school or away from your parents. That way, they can’t monitor what you are saying.
 You will need to show the judge proof that your parents aren’t following the judge’s orders. This type of proof can take many forms, depending on the circumstances. For example:


Get a copy of a cancellation notice if your parents cancel your cell phone.

Obtain a copy of a police report if your boyfriend shows up at your home and starts harassing you.
Write down the dates you wanted to use your car to go to a doctor’s appointment but your parents wouldn’t let you.
Save copies of medical bills your parents refuse to pay.
 You enforce the injunction by filing for “contempt.” The process differs depending on your court. Often, however, the court should have a printed form you can use. Download it from the court’s website. You generally have to tell the judge the following:The date you received the injunction.
The substance of the injunction (what it ordered the other party to do or not do).
How the other party has failed to follow the injunction.
 You have to file the motion for contempt with the same court that gave you an injunction.Your attorney will file it for you. Always make sure to keep a copy for your own records.


Just as you gave your parents or boyfriend a copy of your petition, you also have to notify them of any contempt proceeding. Serve a copy of the motion on the other party, using the same method you used to serve a copy of your petition.
 The judge will need to hold a contempt hearing after your parents or boyfriend responds to your contempt motion. At the hearing, you will have the burden of showing that the other party has not complied with the injunction.You should prepare for the hearing by doing the following:


Talk with your attorney about whether you will testify and what questions the judge will ask.
Show your attorney evidence that your parents have not complied with the injunction. For example, they might have cancelled your cell phone. Get a copy of the cancellation notice.
 Your parents cannot decide to stop supporting their children, even if you give birth. An exception exists only if you get married. As part of the injunction, the court can order them to pay for your medical treatment and continue to let you live in their home.


Legally, your parents have to support you until you are 18.As a practical matter, however, your parents might make living in their home impossible.
 You may have to move out of your home simply to protect your physical or mental health. If so, try to find a safe place to stay instead of in a shelter. Reach out to other family members first, such as your grandparents, aunts or uncles, or adult siblings.
 Your state also provides financial benefits for mothers with children. You should sign up for these benefits as soon as possible. You can find information and helpful links to your state’s benefits by visiting the Benefits.gov website.


Click on your state to read more about their programs., Fathers are legally obligated to support their children, generally until the child reaches age 18. You will have to work with your attorney to get a child support order in place. Your attorney will have to file a form in family law court.


Alternately, you can contact your state’s Child Support Division, which is usually part of the Attorney General’s Office. They can help get a child support order in place.
Under federal law, the father’s parents are legally responsible for paying child support if the father is under 18 and you receive government benefits. They must pay until the father becomes an adult.