 It's as simple as that! The goal is to burn more calories than you consume in a given day.


One pound equals 3,500 calories, meaning you will have to burn 3,500 calories more than you consume in order to lose one pound. Reduce your caloric intake by cutting portion sizes. Be sure to read the labels on everything you eat so that you can keep track of your calories.
Eat small meals and snacks throughout the day. This will keep your metabolism fast and prevent your body from storing extra fat.
Do aerobic exercises like running, hiking, swimming and biking. These will help speed up your metabolism and burn calories.
Remember that exercise burns calories, but cannot alone make you lose weight. You will absolutely have to eat less in order to lose weight. ;
, Your metabolism slows down dramatically while you sleep, so it will take longer for the food to digest. Plus, eating early on in the day will give you the energy you need to go about your daily activities.
 Skipping meals will force your body into starvation mode, causing it to store extra fat.


Think of your metabolism as a fire, and food as its fuel. If you want to keep the fire strong, you will have to keep adding twigs, newspaper, and logs to it. If you stop adding these things to the fire, it will eventually die out. Similarly, if you starve yourself, your metabolism will get weaker and weaker over time.
It is better to eat four or five small meals throughout the day than to eat two or three large ones, because your body will have more time to digest the food.
Consider eating smaller meals with snacks in between. This will keep your metabolism working throughout the day. Try these healthy snacks for in between meals: a piece of fruit like a banana or apple, a cup of Greek yogurt, a nutrition bar, some carrots and hummus, or a small salad with light dressing.
 Did you know that the human body often confuses hunger and thirst? If you are craving food but are not actually hungry, then chances are that your body is dehydrated.


You should drink a minimum of 8 cups of water each day.
 These foods are nutrient-rich, giving your body the proper nourishment it needs without filling up on extra calories.


Switch from white bread and rice to whole grain.
Cut out empty calories that come from bread, pasta, alcohol, and sugary foods.

