 St. John’s Wort is the alternative medicine that has some effectiveness in milder forms of depression.It has not, however, shown to be much more effective than a placebo in large-scale studies. This medicine can be purchased at natural health food stores.


Be sure to follow directions on the package for proper dosage and frequency.
Be sure to buy herbal supplements from a reputable seller. Supplements are only very loosely monitored by the FDA, and as such, levels of purity and quality vary from manufacturer to manufacturer.
Do not take St. John's Wort with medications such as SSRIs. This can cause your body to have too much serotonin, which can be life threatening.
St. John's Wort can make other drugs less effective when taken at the same time. Drugs it can affect include oral contraceptives, antiretroviral medications (e.g., drugs to treat HIV), anticoagulants (e.g., Warfarin), hormone replacement therapies, and immunosuppressant medications. Work with your doctor if you are on other medications.
Because of the lack of evidence supporting the effectiveness of St. John’s Wort, the American Psychiatric Association does not recommend it for general use.
The National Center for Alternative and Complementary Medicine recommends caution in using homeopathic remedies and encourages open discussions with healthcare providers so that treatment can be coordinated and safe., Another alternative supplement is S-adenosyl methionine (SAMe).SAMe is a naturally occurring molecule, and having low levels of SAMe have been linked to depression. SAMe can be taken orally, intravenously (an injection into a vein), or intramuscularly (an injection into the muscle) to boost your SAMe levels.


The preparation of SAMe is not regulated and the potency and ingredients can vary among manufacturers.
Be sure to follow directions on the package for proper dosage and frequency.
 Acupuncture is a part of traditional Chinese medicine that uses needles inserted at specific parts of the body to correct energy blocks or imbalances in the organ.Locate an acupuncture practitioner by searching online or asking your doctor for a referral.


Check with your health insurance provider to find out if acupuncture is covered by your insurance.
Evidence for the effectiveness of acupuncture is mixed.One study has shown a link between acupuncture and normalization of a neuroprotective protein with an effect similar to Prozac.Another study has shown effectiveness comparable to psychotherapy.These studies lend some credibility to acupuncture as a treatment for depression, although more research is needed.