 Before telling your parents about your need for privacy, you should make sure they know how much you love and respect them. This will help them understand that your reason for asking them to call is not that you don’t want to see them but, rather, that you need privacy for your relationship or marriage to flourish.You could tell them:


“As I start my new family, I have really started to appreciate the amount of love and hard work that you put into raising us. It couldn’t have been easy. I just want you to know how much I respect the job you did as parents.”
“Although I’ve been busy with work and my new relationship, I just wanted to let you know how much love and respect I have for both of you. Thanks for being amazing parents.”

, Tell your parents that you are at a stage in your relationship where you need privacy for things to move forward. Tell them that there are a lot of things that can get in the way such as work obligations, social events and even family obligations. For instance, you could say:


“We’re having a hard time finding privacy in our lives. There are a lot of demands on both of us right now. And there are always so many social and family events on the calendar. I just wanted to let you know that we’re trying to cut down on social and family events so that we can have more time together. If we say no to an invitation, that’s the reason.”

, You should plainly tell them that you would appreciate a ring before they come over. If they ask for an explanation, you could tell them that it helps you and your spouse maintain some privacy. For instance, you could say:“It would be great if you could just give a ring before coming over. That way, we know when to expect you and can prepare for your visit.”
“My partner, Joyce, and I are trying to find more time together these days. We tell people to call before stopping by. If you wouldn’t mind doing the same, it would be much appreciated.”

, If your parents disrespect your privacy by dropping by unannounced, you should let them know. Try saying:“It is flattering that you want to see us and the baby all the time. However, I should let you know, we were actually trying to have a night for just the two of us when you dropped by unannounced the other day. If you can avoid that in the future, we would be so grateful.”

