 From this, you can start selecting other features of a ring.;
, Psychologists say that depending on which finger a person wears a ring on, they can judge the nature of an individual. For example, a ring on a little finger accompanies a creative person, as well as reports of a girl’s wayward, original and even capricious nature. Speaking of an index finger, psychologists call it "the finger of power". It is not surprising, because many politicians and monarchs graced their index fingers with fine rings. Middle finger, from the point of view of psychology, is responsible for beauty.
 When you make a decision about metal (yellow gold, white gold, black hills gold, and platinum) of which you are planning to buy a ring, you need to decide what color in this case would be optimal. Color choice often depends on individual taste and preferences, the colors of the existing jewelry, fashion trends, etc.


Yellow golden ring - a classic. It’s very popular with brides and grooms. White gold is popular among the young. It looks stylish and modern. Platinum is a durable metal, symbol of eternal and enduring love. In addition, platinum rings are not scratched and they are the most expensive. There are also rings which are made of combination o different metals.If you need a ring in yellow then you need to select between gold 585 and gold 750. Gold 585 costs less than gold 750. Besides, it is also harder. But the yellow color is not as bright as that of gold 750.
If you want white metal, then it will be more difficult to choose. Although platinum and white gold are very similar to each other, they are still different. Platinum is more expensive, a little bit softer and more malleable than white gold while white gold is very strong and a little scratched, but it has a brownish or yellowish color, which eliminates the application of rhodium. Over time, coverage goes, but it can be restored easily, giving thus a completely new type of product.
Rhodium is the brightest and shiniest metal of the platinum group. Rhodium is harder and whiter than platinum, and does not wear out as quickly as the gold plating. Because of this it is often used to coat gold and platinum jewelry.
 As to the design, choose a product of your girl’s taste and preference. It all depends on her status, character, image, as well as lifestyle. Ornaments are divided into classic and evening wear. Among other precious stones diamonds remain unwavering popularity, thanks to the excellent quality of cut and nobility - white, one-off, yellow, gold, etc. The elegance and beauty of nothing can compare to a diamond ring. As the saying goes, girl's best friends are diamonds. No wonder, because diamond is one of the most valuable and precious stones. Jewelers love to use these stones to encase rings, pendants, necklaces, bracelets. It’s better to buy a ring with tone stone in a product, but a little more, even if it is not very clean, than several small ones.

