 Every time you complete a successful raid, EXP is gained. This EXP is split between all the heroes you put on the battlefield. Use strategies to ensure a three flame victory in order to gain more EXP at a time. Place your best or your worst heroes on the battlefield, depending on if you want to make your best heroes even better, or get your worst heroes started on becoming stronger.


The higher level the person is that you attack, the more EXP you will gain. Attack bases that are high level in might, but have low enough heroes and buildings for your heroes to defeat. This will also make it a sure chance that you will win three flames, and prevent your heroes from dying so that you don't have to waste gems or time trying to revive them.;
, Sweep the highest dungeons you have already done before or do a dungeon you never did before, gaining more EXP faster and easily as well. Make sure you can actually defeat the base. Consider sweeping dungeons instead. After the Castle Clash update, 25 more dungeon chances were added, meaning 30 sweeps would give more EXP then just 5 chances to gain EXP. At the same time, this would allow you some extra chances to do some higher dungeons manually.


Battle in boss battles. At the last stage of every expert dungeon, a boss is on the battlefield as well. Fight in these dungeon stages as they usually give the most EXP.
Take out all your heroes on the hero bases except the one(s) that you want to level up. This will cause all the EXP gained to go to that one or those hero(es).
Use dungeon cards. This will give you another 5 chances in order to gain EXP faster.
 Just like the dungeons, Here Be Monsters is 5 waves of monsters and heroes attacking your base. When you successfully defend the base in one of the stages, you will gain resources and other items, as well as the access to sweep the stage of 5 waves. Battle in higher stages to gain more resources and EXP. Sweep ones you have already done to get EXP and resources quicker.


Use Here Be Monsters cards to gain more chances to sweep stages. This will allow you to gain EXP and resources faster.
 This is similar to Here Be Monsters except that there is the same of one hero attacking your base at once. Each stage has one wave, but each stage increases the number of the same hero attacking your base. Sweep or battle in these stages to gain EXP, resources, and in rare cases, win a purple legendary hero, making you even stronger.
 Claim rewards once you've completed them, and try saving your gems. These rewards include tomes, which can be used to level your hero up. The best tome that is easiest to get is Tome 3, which provides 20,000 EXP for a hero.


Quests also reward shards. Shards can be used in other ways to improve your heroes.
 In some days of the calendar, blessed tomes are rewarded, which can only be rewarded through the daily rewards. The collection of these tomes include Blessed Tome 1 (100,000 EXP granted), Blessed Tome 2 (500,000 EXP granted), and Blessed Tome 3 (2,000,000 EXP granted). Even though these may seem like a lot, as said before, your heroes will require a lot more than this much. Save up tomes like these and use them only when actually needed, as they come in short supply.
 Shards are used to buy essences. Essences can be useful in feeding to your heroes, allowing their skill levels to get higher. Perform HBM (Here Be Monsters) and HBD (Here Be Demons) waves and stages to gain shards. Battle in dungeon stages to occasionally get shards every few battles. Try out Storm Mesa rounds with buddies, random players, or guild mates. Sometimes, shard packs could be rewarded, usually in Storm Mesa 1 and Storm Mesa 4 rounds. Use shards to buy essence in the hero's altar.
 Use all your shards until they're finished. It's okay if you use all of them at once, since there are many easy ways to gain shards each day quickly. Feed the essence to your heroes once they're bought. Save up as many shards as possible however - this will allow you to buy legendary essence, gelatinous champion. This is the highest essence type you can buy, and it provides up to 3000 EXP. Level your heroes' skills as much as possible, easily using this type.
 After a few updates, new essences were added into the game. They now provide a lot of more EXP for your heroes, which makes a huge difference. These essences can only be gotten through the daily rewards. Make sure to log in every day in order to claim your reward. The collection includes the Mystery Essence 1 (15,000 EXP granted), Mystery Essence 2 (30,000 EXP granted), and Mystery Essence 3 (150,000 EXP granted).


Consider saving up these essences. They come in short supply - it would be best to use them only on the very strong legendary heroes, and only when it gets harder to level their skills up.
 Roll heroes with honer badges or gems (gems is most recommended since honer badges are used for leveling up the hero as well). Level up the elite and ordinary heroes using green and blue tomes. Get them up to at least level 40 or 60, and then feed them to your hero. This will give EXP to your legendary hero's skill level. This can also be done for other ordinary or elite heroes, but legendary heroes are usually the best type hero to do this for.
 Do quests each day, collect the daily reward each day, and complete achievements. These are the easiest ways to gather gems. It takes 300 gems to roll one talent. If you get a good talent that is 5/5, you got pretty lucky. A list of good talents are:


War God
Revive
Revitalize
Self Destruct
Bulwark
Tenacity
Corrode
Psyshield
Heaven's Wrath
Condemnation
Berserk

, Put the correct best talents you have or got on the correct heroes. Make sure they match the hero as well for the best strength.
 Buy runes with fame, in which you can earn from the Lost Battlefield. Defeat players in the Lost Battlefield and use runes to level your hero's talent up to 8/8 instead of 5/5. Gain the correct type and amount of runes in order to level each hero's talent to the max. From then on, you will be able to possibly evolve your hero.
 Complete as many battles as possible and gain red and blue crystals, as well as several types of rewards. Blue crystals are great for inscriptions for your heroes, and red crystals for creating new crests and talents for your heroes. Gather as many blue crystals and mana as possible - these are the main resources needed in order to inscribe your hero.
 Raid constantly and battle in the Lost Realm to collect these resources, and use them to make your hero stronger. Get your inscription to at least level 21 in order to allow your hero access to a second talent. Increase it up to level 100 in order to ensure the best strength for it.


Inscribe other elite and ordinary heroes, and feed them to your legendaries. This will make your legendaries have even better skills.
Inscribing your hero is always the surefire way to make it stronger in battle. Get your inscribe level to at least 21 in order to place crests in it. Crests allow your hero to have 2 talents and one ability at once. The max inscribe level is 100. Level the inscribe level as much as possible - once it's up to 100, your hero will almost seem invincible in every battle.
 Win as much starting crests as possible from the Lost Realm, and then use them to make even better ones. You might even get a really good talent, and for free as well, using no gems. Place crests on your heroes, allowing them to have an even better strength.
 Honer badges can be used to level up your hero to the max star level - level 10, which will set your hero's max level to 200 (if you do level the rest of the last 20 levels). Battle in the arena frequently and try to win as many as possible - depending on your ranking in the arena, you automatically gain honer badges each hour. Get a high ranking in order to increase the number of honer badges you gain.


Fight in raids and dungeons as well as battle the boss in order to gain honer badges easily. Use extra gems to buy 1000 honer badges from the shop if you are no longer saving them up, or will continue to later on.
Raid as much as possible in order to gain gold. Use these resources in order to level up the star level. Level your hero to the max level, and repeat until you've reached the max star level.
 Not only do you need gold and honer badges, but flames are important as well. Flames can be collected in dungeons. If you get a three star victory, you get three flames. Two stars equals two flames, and one equals only one flame.
 Level your heroes to the max before trying to level the star level - this way, you'll easily get your hero to be stronger.
 Green and possibly blue tomes are not very useful when your heroes are at high levels. Sell unneeded blue and green tomes for honer badges, in order to upgrade your heroes' star levels. Sell blessed tomes and purple tomes only when you really need honer badges, and you don't really need them. Blessed tomes give massive amounts of honer badges when sold. Consider saving some for leveling and some for honer badges.
 In order to evolve your hero, you need/it must be:


Level 10 in star level
Level 180+ in regular level (preferably to the max for more strength)
1000 red crystals
1 evolution rune
Another duplicate hero/20,000 shards

, Even though you could be less than level 200 to evolve the legendary hero, it is suggested to do so in order to gain maximum strength.
 Use the fame to get evolution runes. Try to save them up in order to use them for other future evolutions (the max number of evolutions possible is 4 times).
 Press the evolve button and follow the instructions that show along the way. Claim the blessed tome rewards after and level your hero to the max once again (Your hero will be evolved once now and change appearance, but they still can be evolved 3 more times. They will leave off and star level number 4, in which you must use the books to level them up again.).


Use the books to sell for honer badges if needed. Make sure you actually want to do this - books like these could be used to level up the hero again after quickly. Consider saving some for the leveling, and some for selling.
 Your hero should have maximum power now that you have done everything possible to make it strong. Repeat this process with other legendary heroes until you become strong enough to take on any base.

