 Choosing the right clothes depends on where the clothes will be donated. If you live in a hot climate and are donating to a charity that will keep the clothes in the area, a snowsuit might not be the most useful donation.


Similarly, if you are donating to a charity that will sell the clothes for profit, donating items with holes and tears doesn’t help their cause.
 Most charities are excited to get whatever donations they can, but make sure you are donating items that are safe and in decent condition.


Clothes don’t have to be brand new, but if they can barely be worn or if they cause a safety risk with lose items or unsafe construction, don’t donate them to charity.
 Many charities have limited resources, so it is helpful to clean and organize the clothes before you donate them. Other charities only accept items that are washed and in good condition.


Simply wash the baby clothes in a load of laundry with baby-safe detergent, such as Dreft or All Baby. Because you don’t know if the baby who will receive the clothes is sensitive to chemicals and dyes it is wise to use baby-safe cleaning supplies.
 Choose a good container to hold your donations, such as a cardboard box or large garbage bag. You most likely won’t be getting this container back, so choose wisely.


Organize the clothes by size, gender, and season and fold them nicely into the containers.
 If you are donating a large amount of items, take an inventory of the items and their approximate worth so you can write-off the donation on your taxes4. Be sure that your chosen charity has the correct tax classification (this shouldn’t be an issue with reputable charities) and keep a file with the value of your donation, the charity, and the donation date.


All of your donations can be lumped together for tax purposes at the end of the year. The approximate value of the donation can be the original cost of items if they are relatively new, or a slightly lesser amount if the items are worn.
 Most charities accept donations at their warehouse or office, but only during certain hours. Other charities have drop-boxes or clothing drives around town on specific days. Call or look online to find the details for your chosen charity and follow those instructions for your donation.


If you plan on writing off the donation on your taxes, be sure to get a receipt for the donation.

