 2 liters (0.5 US gal) is about 8 glasses of water. Having a container that size may help you remember to drink enough water everyday.If you have an empty 2-liter soda bottle, fill it with water and put it in your fridge. Drink the entire bottle of water over the course of the day.
If you are not drinking the entire bottle of water each day, you may not be getting enough water.;
, Train yourself to drink a glass of water every morning when you first wake up, a glass when you get home from work or school, and a glass every evening right before bed. That's three of your eight recommended daily glasses. You can make a daily water chart to help you get started, and after a while the practice will feel like second nature.


Drinking water in the morning also helps jump-start your metabolism, and is a refreshing way to wake up every day.There are also water bottles on the market with counting systems worked into their design. For instance, some bottles have a little dial that is turned each time 8 oz is drank. This encourages more water consumption.
 Another habit to cultivate is sipping a glass of water while you're doing other work, whether on the computer or watching TV., There are many apps available for your smartphone that can help you keep track of how much water you've drank, or give you reminders to drink more. Many are free, but if you pay for one, you might be more motivated to use it on a daily basis., Carry your bottle everywhere you go. Not only will it reduce the number of disposable water bottles you go through, it may also motivate you to use your new bottle.Remember to use a water bottle that not only looks nice, feels nice and keeps your water cold, but also one that is BPA free and easily washable.
 Health professionals will often advise you to drink more water than usual (which can mean more than 8 glasses a day), depending on environmental factors. If you live in a hot, dry climate, you'll probably need to drink more water than someone who lives in an arctic climate. And if you're exercising, you'll need even more water to stay hydrated.Don't wait until you're thirsty to drink water, especially if you're engaging in physical activity and/or if the weather is hot. By the time you feel thirsty, your body is already dehydrated., This will make you fuller before you eat, and may even stave off cravings, as thirst is often mistaken for hunger.