 The list of items can be found at the bottom of this article in the "Things You'll Need" section.;
, Get as close to the water as you can to build it because once it is complete, it will be very heavy and difficult to move.
 Keep 2 sides of the square on the inside so that you construct a perfect 8-foot-by-8-foot (2.54-by-2.54 m) square. Place your 4-by-4-inch (10-by-10 cm) pieces inside each corner to ensure 4 perfect right angles. Don't screw in the pieces yet in case you need to make adjustments.
 Make sure all plugs are tightened, and apply a layer of silicone caulking over and around the plug to prevent leaks.
 Measure, and find the middle of the square. When you have found the center, place an 8-foot (2.4 m) long 2-by-4 support there.
 Lay a barrel on its side on top of the support pieces. Shift them left or right accordingly until a barrel can sit between 2 boards without touching the ground but still can grip the curve in the barrel. Mark that point, and screw in the 4 boards. Do this for both sides.
 Place the barrels on the bottom supports and measure where they end. Place a top layer of 2 of your 8-foot (2.4 m) long 2-by-4 perpendicular supports here. Screw them in securely.
 Attach L braces at each of the support intersections.
 Put 2 on each side of each barrel. Lay down all 4 of your barrels between the supports that have eye hooks, and tie down the barrels with rope. Tie a knot to the eye hook on the end, string the rope across the barrel to the eye hook next to it on the other side, lace it diagonally to the opposite eye hook, across again, and finally to the last eye hook. Tie a final knot to secure the rope against the barrel. Repeat for the remaining 3 barrels.
,, Lay out your 8-foot (2.4 m) long, 1-by-6 pieces, and make sure they sit nicely with a little space between each board. Avoid having ends hanging over the edge. Hammer the boards at both ends into the support layer. It should be stable enough to stand on.
 You can adjust how far out in to the water it goes by increasing or decreasing the length of the rope you tied it down with.








