 The whole point of a wine bouquet kit is to get you thinking about past wines you've tasted and making associations between different flavor notes. To record these thoughts, have a pen and notepad handy. You can take notes at any point during the process and record any wine-related observation that occurs to you.;
, A wine bouquet kit should include a list of aromas or a set of cards that have tasting notes for each aroma. Reading through this list will give you an idea of what you will be smelling. Aromas will vary from fruity notes like peach, apple, and currant to spicier notes like vanilla, cedar, and even tobacco.
 Open the first small bottle of aroma and waft the scent gently towards your nose. Think about whether or not you enjoy the scent and about which wines you have tasted before that the scent reminds you of. Take notes if anything comes to mind. Smell each bottle of aroma in turn, taking notes as you go.
 After smelling each bottle in turn, mix them together and open them again without looking at the label. This time around, try to identify each scent by relying on your previous notes and observations. Being able to identify each scent when presented alone will help you to pick out aroma notes when tasting a wine.
 Open a bottle of wine with a lot of character - maybe a big, spicy Zinfandel or a buttery, woody Chardonnay. Pour the wine into your glass, swirling and smelling its aroma. Try to identify the individual aromas in the wine, continuing to take notes.


Remember that aroma and taste are both aspect's of a wine's flavor, so don't be afraid to take a few gulps of each wine. See if you can determine which aroma notes carry through the wine's taste and finish.
Continue this process with as many wines as desired, noting of course that having friends and family around will help avoid letting the opened wine turn dull before consumption.
Look for parallels between different wines. Perhaps you will be surprised to find an aroma of fresh strawberries appearing in both a young Rosé and a Pinot Noir.
 After having built some experience identifying distinct aroma notes, make sure that you give each new wine you try a pause for contemplation before consumption. This will help build your ability to understand and appreciate a wine's complex and nuanced flavor profile and bouquet.

