 Do you feel defined by your partner or the relationship? Everyone changes during the course of a relationship; however, if you feel like your relationship stole your sense of identity, it’s common to feel held back.


This can be an easy fix. You can develop separate interests and pursue new friendships to regain a sense of self in the relationship; however, if your partner stands in the way of this, this could indicate a bigger problem.Pursue your individual hobbies and make sure you both have friends outside of the relationship. You may want to plan an evening each week in which you each hang out with your own group of friends (sometimes this is in the form of a "girls night" or a "poker night").
 Has being in a relationship caused you to think small? Did you once have wild dreams that have now disappeared? During the course of a relationship, it’s normal to modify your dreams and goals to run parallel with your partner’s. But, if you have given up your personal aspirations for the sake of the relationship, you could be being held back from reaching greater heights.Or, ask yourself if you have put aside your own aspirations to support your partner's dreams. Do you want to write a novel, but you spend all your free time going to your partner's shows to support their musical career?

, A clear sign that your relationship is holding you back is letting go of dreams and no longer trying to progress in certain areas of your life. If you feel hopeless that things will get better, or you have to convince yourself of the light at the end of the tunnel, your relationship could be a detriment to both your personal growth and your mental health.


A healthy partnership should enrich your life, not make you question “Is this all there is?” Hopelessness can be a sign of depression. If you believe your relationship is making you depressed, talk to your doctor as soon as possible., Losing your identity, giving up on your dreams and feeling hopeless can all make you feel stuck, but these obstacles can be overcome. If you haven’t been communicating your dissatisfaction with your partner, then you can’t justly blame your relationship for your unhappiness.


Have you sat down and clearly communicated your thoughts and feelings to your partner? If you haven’t, then you need to pencil in a time to talk. Your partner may be willing to work with you to make the relationship more satisfying.
If you have talked to your partner about your feelings and there was no change, it may be time to move on from this relationship in order to find greater fulfillment., See if you are confusing being held back with your own complacency or fear. In some cases, you can fall prey to the notion that “the grass is always greener on the other side.” You believe your relationship is holding you back when, in fact, you’re immobilized because you’re comfortable where you are or you’re afraid to try something new.


Assess your expectations. Have you been blaming your partner for a lack of progress in your own life? Are you placing the key to your happiness in your partner’s hands? Keep in mind that you are the only one who can make you happy.You may want to take a solo day or weekend trip to gain some perspective. Ask if you are taking responsibility for your own happiness and fulfillment. A solo getaway provides you with the time and space to self-reflect without the influence of your partner.

