 Is your dog scratching itself more than usual? Is it gnawing at its coat? These are signs that your dog might have fleas.Flea bites can cause itchiness on the dog’s skin. The bites can make small red bumps on the skin and continue to itch for some time.
Some animals can actually be allergic to these bites, making the itching and redness more intense and widespread.
Hair loss and skin infection can also occur.;
, After a flea eats, it will leave dark red-brown “flea dirt,” or excrement, on the dog. Look for flea dirt on the hind quarters, head, and neck, which are the most common areas where adult fleas like to feed on a dog.By using a flea comb (very fine toothed comb) to comb the hair, flea dirt can be brought up from the skin. If you don’t find actual fleas, tap any debris caught in the comb teeth onto a white sheet of paper and wet it with a little water. If the “dirt” streaks the paper red, that is flea dirt.
 Get a flea comb from your local pet store, or online, and use it to look closely at your dog's skin. Pick the area that your dog is scratching at the most. Part the dog's fur with the comb and then pull the comb through a small area of the fur. While you are combing, look for fleas on the skin's surface, as they flee from the comb, or in the tines of the comb.


Adult fleas are red-brown which have a “flattened” appearance from side to side.They do not have wings. Instead of flying, they get around by jumping. They are only 1/8th of an inch long (2.5 mm), so they are hard to see, especially when they jump.Cat fleas, Ctenocephalides felis, are the type of fleas most likely to infest dogs and cats.They use their mouths to latch onto the skin of their victim to obtain blood for nourishment. They spend their time feeding, mating, and egg laying on the dog’s skin.
 Look for evidence of a flea infection. This could include flea dirt, flea eggs, or fleas themselves.They are likely to be in the creases of plush beds or imbedded in areas that are not cleaned regularly.
 If your dog is infected with fleas, then eggs will end up in places other than just the dog's bed. The adult fleas will lay smooth, glistening white eggs, which are no longer than 1/32 inch, on the affected dog’s skin. These eggs will generally fall off the animal and infest the environment. In 2 to 5 days the eggs will hatch into dirty white larva that are about 3/16 inch (3-4 mm) long. They will crawl around and feed on the dried blood and excrement the adult fleas produce when taking their blood meal on the dog.Spotting flea eggs in your home will not always be easy. They are small and can blend into the environment.
After feeding for up to two weeks, they will cocoon and develop into adults.
Larva prefer certain environmental factors in order to develop into adults. This includes 75% relative humidity and temperatures between 70° to 90°F. At these ideal conditions they will emerge as adults in around 18 days. However, in cool temperatures the larva can remain in their cocoons for up to 12 months.
The pressure from walking and/or vacuuming will make the larva emerge from cocoons.
 Sometimes it isn't until the people in your home start getting bitten that you begin to notice a problem. If you are getting small bites, that occur mostly on your lower legs, then the culprit may be fleas.Human reactions to flea bites vary from person to person. Usually, the bites are red, itchy, and hard., Once you see one flea you should assume there are more and that they have already laid eggs. Be proactive and immediately treat your dog and your house to prevent the problem from getting worse.
 There are many products available that will kill fleas on the pet and kill the eggs in the environment.This is why it's a good idea to consult with your veterinarian so they can help you choose the most appropriate product for your dog and house.


Flea medications include dusts, shampoos, topical treatments, and flea collars.Certain dogs can be allergic to flea saliva. To determine if a dog is allergic, a veterinarian can perform skin testing where a small amount of the flea saliva allergen is injected into the skin. If the area around the injection swells and turns red, then the dog is allergic to flea saliva.
 Dogs need to be treated regularly to prevent infestation. How often you give your dog flea treatment will vary depending on what type of flea prevention you are using.


Many topical flea treatments are given once a month. It is important to keep up on these medications in order to keep your dog protected., If you find that your dog has tapeworms, cat scratch fever, or typhus, it may also have fleas. This is because fleas can spread these diseases, so they may have been caused by a flea infestation that you did not know about.Fleas can also spread plague to dogs, as well as humans. This is a rare illness that is treatable with antibiotics, but is a risk associated with flea infection.
 To control fleas, you need to clean up any fleas, or eggs, in the environment. This means vacuuming and cleaning any areas that your infected dog has spent any time in, including laundering all sheets and slip covers.For a bad infection, you may need to use some insecticide in your house to eliminate the larvae living in your carpets and fabric-covered furniture.

