 People will look to your guidance when trying to sell something and they want to see that you have faith in your own abilities and exude an aura of trust. Be enthusiastic, positive and pleasant to be around, so that your customers and clients feel buoyed up.


Relax and be cheerful. People will respond well to a relaxed and cheerful mood.;
, Know what your products are and do plenty of research into the product background and capacities.
 If you falter, change your attitude, or become easily frustrated, you will appear very fake. Consistency is key.
 Look around you for smart people in every direction; you also need to be smart in order to be the best salesperson. If you want to be a smart salesperson, you should be skilled in communicating effectively, listening, having a good attitude and transparency. One very vital skill you should have is the ability to attract your customers by using your other skills.
 People naturally respond to confidence, and it has a great impact on a customer's decision. Let's pretend that a salesman rings your doorbell and tries to sell you an expensive product right away - and, worse, you already have one! The salesman did not ask important questions, attempt to understand the customer, or even give you a reason to buy the product. People will see through this and see it as arrogance; this sort of approach will not make sales.
 The aim of starting a conversation is to engage the person with the kind of questions that will get the person to talk. This presents you with helpful information about what they really want, what they're prepared to spend and how many compromises they will or won't make.
 Just as people respond to confidence, people are put at ease when you treat them politely and with an open, friendly attitude. Convey to them that you are trying to help them, not make money off of them. This helpful attitude goes a long way.
 Start from where the customer stopped by showing clearly how your product will add value to them, addressing what they lack.

