 For both girls and boys, choose comfort-focused items like chunky knitted cardigans and sweaters. These are not only on trend but also a favorite with mums and dads.;
, Coat and jacket fashions include military style jackets (in various materials including wool), parkas and duffel coats. What more could we ask for?

, Items such as hats, gloves and scarves are all available for children in bright cheerful colors, or ‘go with everything’ neutrals. For hats think fake fur deer stalkers or woolen beanies. Fingerless gloves are in fashion a lot these days but so are mittens, providing a warmer alternative. Scarves may be traditional or in the ‘snood’ circular style that make them less likely to get lost on your child’s first outing.
 Jeans and corduroys are popular in straight leg styles for both boys and girls and provide comfortable and practical leg wear during the colder months. In the snow your children will be more than happy to wear some of the trendy salopette style ‘surf’ trousers that can be found in specialist shops if you are able to spend a little more.
 Tweed comes in blazers, skirts and trousers for children and again provides a practical and on trend option.
 For both boys and girls there are some great lace up boots around. Avoid a suede finish as they are less hard wearing and waterproof than leather style man made uppers. Wellies are no longer limited to uninspiring green or black, so encourage your child to wear theirs by letting them choose a favorite color or design.
 Woolen tights or leggings paired with a tunic top provide a gorgeous look for girls this year. Tunics can be found in a range of styles from sumptuous velvet to comfy casual jersey fabrics. Brightly colored macs are also widely available and will provide lightweight protection from the rain all year round.
 Stripey long sleeved t-shirts can be found in a range of colours and look great layered with jeans on both boys and girls. Checked shirts are also big news for boys and look fantastic under blazers.

