 Terrain can have a considerable effect on the effort you expend. Running in sand, for example, will be more difficult than running on firm ground. Cross country running will have more ups and downs, which will be more work than running on a flat track.


If there is an aquatic portion to the course, note this in as well. Running through low level water will require more exertion.
Most obstacle race courses offer a general description of the course. In some cases, the actual location of the course may be listed on the race’s homepage.
If you know the location your race will be run, visit it. This will give you a much fuller grasp of what you’ll be up against.;
, Though the obstacles of a course form a significant hurdle for participants, you’ll also have to run the entire length to finish the race. The shortest race, generally, is a 5 km (3.1 mi), but other common distances include 8, 10, and 12 mi (12.9, 16, and 19.3 km).The overall length of your course can be found on the homepage of the race you are running. In many cases, you’ll have to choose a distance when signing up for the event.
 These will determine the exercises you’ll use to train. For example, if there are a lot of climbing obstacles, you’ll want to focus on developing your climbing muscles, doing things like pullups and chin ups. Although there are many unique obstacles, you can generally divide obstacles into four categories:


Climbing obstacles may have you doing things like swinging across monkey bars, scaling a wall, or climbing across a transverse rope.
Courage obstacles generally require less effort, but more bravery. Some common ones include cliff jumps (usually into water), zip lines, rope swings, and large slides.
Agility obstacles can take many forms. You could be stepping into empty tires for some distance, crawling under a low screen, or balancing on a narrow platform.
Endurance obstacles are rarely difficult to perform, but will usually push the limits of your perseverance. These include things like sandbag carrying, log hauling, and more., Depending on the event you’ve signed up for, the number of obstacles may vary significantly. In most cases, the more obstacles you must complete, the more difficult the course will be overall. While checking the total number, determine the amount in each category.


Knowing how many obstacles are in each category will give you a better idea of where to focus your training. For example, if most of the obstacles are climbing oriented, you’ll want to focus on developing your climbing muscles.

