 Do an online search to find local parks that are near you. Whether it's a smaller local park or a larger national park, a day-trip is an excellent way to spend a couple of hours outdoors with your family. If you have young kids, consider taking them to a place that has activities, such as a playground, to maintain their attention.If there are no parks near you, you can plan a camping trip in your own backyard.
Some of the most popular national parks in the United States include Yosemite, Zion, Yellowstone, and Acadia.Other national parks include Corcovado National Park in Costa Rica, Göreme National Park in Turkey, Pacific Rim National Park in Canada, Nairobi National Park in Kenya, and Skaftafell National Park in Iceland.;
, Instead of going to a theme park or partaking in entertainment that's digitally based, consider going fishing or camping instead. Try to keep the use of electronic devices to a minimum and enjoy the natural beauty with your family instead.Some great nature oriented vacations in the United States include the Grand Canyon, Kauai, Jackson Hole, and Lake Tahoe.Other vacation destinations include Pulpit Rock in Norway, Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania, and the Pembrokeshire Coast Path National Trail in Wales.Search for camping, hiking, canoeing, or fishing opportunities near you.
 Discover which games that your children like to play the most, and make it a habit of playing them outside. Talk to your kids about what sports they like and make sure to get the proper equipment so that your family can all play together.

Outdoor sports and games include basketball, baseball, football, soccer, and lacrosse.
 Determine a time when the family will be together and schedule a time to take a walk with your family. Plan a 20 minute walk and have everyone in the family turn off their cell phones. The more you walk together, the more natural it will feel and it will encourage everyone in the family to spend more time outdoors.A great time to schedule a walk is right after dinner or before you take your children to school.

