 Especially when you're just starting out, a quality pair of running shoes can make all the difference in your new running plan being a pleasant experience, as opposed to having sore and aching feet.Try on several pairs, and work with a salesperson at a sporting goods store who has knowledge of running. You might want to go to a store that specializes in running gear and apparel, if there is such a specialty shop located near you.
Tell the salesperson that you are just starting out, and have them evaluate your feet to find the best shoes for you.;
, Starting a running plan isn't quite as simple as just lacing up a pair of running shoes and hitting the road. Before you start, it can be a good idea to read some books or magazines so you can learn about the running experience.You can find books on running at your local library if you don't want to purchase anything yet.
There also are a number of blogs and websites that provide information about running for beginners. These can be helpful resources.
 It doesn't really matter whether you decide you want to run outside, or inside on a treadmill. However, you do want to keep your running location consistent, at least when you're just beginning your running plan.If you've decided to run outside, look for a location that doesn't have a lot of hills. You may want to use the track of a nearby high school or university.
Choose a location that's relatively convenient, based on where you'll be before the time you've scheduled your runs, and where you'll need to be after.
 If you want to get into a running program, walking is a good way to build your cardiovascular endurance and get in the habit of exercising. For your initial outings, you should spend more time walking than running.For example, you might start by walking for two minutes, then jogging for one minute. Keep your jogging at a slow pace, and try to go for 20 minutes. Set the walking/running ratio that's comfortable for you.
After a week, increase the length of time you jog. You also might start jogging at a slightly faster pace.
Keep alternating between walking and jogging, gradually decreasing the amount of time that you walk and increasing the amount of time that you jog. Keep it up until you can comfortably jog the entire 20 minutes.
 You don't necessarily need any expensive or specialty clothing to start a running plan – although salespeople at sporting goods stores will certainly try to sell you on all the latest designer athletic apparel.Generally, you want to wear clothes that are loose-fitting and comfortable. Move around and make sure what you're wearing isn't going to ride up or get twisted while you are running.
If you have breasts, consider getting a sports bra, which will provide more support and keep your breasts from moving around as you run, which can be painful.
If you're going to be running outside, you do have the weather to consider. During the colder months, you generally want to dress in lightweight, breathable layers. Look for clothes that have vents you can use to cool off once your core body temperature increases.
 Drinking plenty of water will help you recover more easily after a run, and also can help prevent cramps by enabling your body to better flush lactic acid so it doesn't build up in your muscles.Make sure you drink plenty of water both before and after your runs. You also want to have a bottle of water with you so you can sip water during your run.
 It may sound like a simple thing, but you want to make sure your toenails are short enough that they won't cut into your other toes or wear holes in your socks. Keeping your toenails well-trimmed ensures your feet are more comfortable on runs., If you're alternating between walking and running, keep time with a watch so you can maintain timed sets. Because your pace will differ as well, you might want to avoid listening to music at first. The beat of the music can throw your pace off.For example, if you're doing five minute intervals, you would start out walking for four minutes and jogging for one. Six repetitions of that five-minute interval would equal a 30-minute run.
When you're first starting a running plan, you want your focus to be on running, not anything else. Pay attention to your steps, your breathing, and the movement of your body.
 There are a number of running apps designed for beginners that can help you build a regular running schedule. Many of these apps provide additional information as well as rewards and tips on staying motivated.Some of these apps are free, while others may require you to pay a small fee up-front or to subscribe and pay a monthly fee for access.
For example, the UK's National Health Service has a free "Couch to 5K" app with podcasts and social networking features to get you started and keep you on the right track.
 Because you need to get sufficient rest in between your runs, you don't want to start by running every day. For at least the first few weeks, plan on doing a 30-minute walk/run three days a week.Try to schedule your runs at the same time every day so it becomes habit. This may be difficult if your schedule varies from day to day or week to week, but try to find a time when you'll be free every day.
 When you're starting a running plan, it can be easy to overdo it at first – especially if you haven't exercised much in the past and aren't very physically fit. The "talk test" is a good way to make sure you're exercising at moderate intensity.Generally speaking, you should be able to talk while walking or jogging, but not carry on a long conversation. Starting your plan with a buddy can help you measure this because you can talk to them instead of talking out loud to yourself, which you might find embarassing.
 Since you're only running three days a week at the start of your plan, you need to include other types of exercise on your non-running days so that you're getting at least 20 to 30 minutes of exercise every day.Swimming and cycling are good low-impact options that will improve your cardiovascular strength and endurance.
Yoga is another option that will improve your posture, balance, and flexibility – all of which will help you improve your running.
Whole-body strength training will help build muscles so your running plan becomes easier to manage and you don't get too sore after runs. Strength train with lighter weights and do more repetitions.
 Although you really should get some exercise every day, when you start a running plan you need to ensure your bones and muscles have fully recovered from the repetitive stress and impact of running.Keep in mind that if you're a beginner, it will take your body at least 48 hours to fully recover from a run. This is why when you're just starting, you shouldn't run more than two or three days a week.
On your rest days, plan a brief, non-impact or low-impact workout such as swimming, cycling, or yoga.
 Once you get to the point where you're jogging more than you're walking, you can start going on longer runs. Within a couple of months, you'll be at the point where you can comfortably jog for an hour.Keep in mind that at this point you're still jogging at a relatively slow pace. This helps your bones and muscles get used to the repetitive impact.
Each month, double your interval time. If you started with five-minute intervals for 30 minutes, on the fifth week you should start doing 10-minute intervals for 40 minutes.
 When you can comfortably jog at a relatively slow pace for 60 minutes, you're ready to start upping the pace. As with your running and your interval time, you want to do this gradually.You can follow the same interval plan that you did with walking and jogging, but this time you want to jog at a brisk pace during the old jogging intervals, and jog at a slow pace during the old walking intervals.
Follow the same plan, but keep in mind that this may take longer than the initial walk/jog phase of the plan. Have patience and be careful not to overdo it.
Adding some strength training work to your overall exercise program can help you develop more speed.
 Hill training is a good way to build strength so that you can become a faster runner. Start with slight hills and work your way up to steeper inclines. Working against gravity will train your body to run faster on flat ground, much the way a baseball player swings a weighted bat before stepping up to the plate.Do your hill training in intervals, just as you did the rest of the running plan. Run up the hill faster, but when you run down the hill try to run more slowly. Control your movement going downhill – don't simply let gravity pull you.
 Strong technique will help reduce the risk of injury and can keep you from developing problems or conditions later on. When you're just starting out, you may want to work with a running coach who can assess your technique and help you correct any issues.Avoid looking down at the ground or hunching your shoulders. This can cause neck and back problems as well as restrict your breathing.
Bend your arms at 90-degree angles and swing them forward and back to help propel you forward. Avoid side-to-side movement or swinging your arms across your body.
If you lean forward slightly and keep your hips forward, you can prevent low back pain. This also helps you land correctly on the middle of your feet, rather than on your toes or heels.
 Once you've been running for a few months, check with local running groups or nonprofit organizations and find out when the next 5K is being held in your area. A race gives you a goal to reach for.Don't think of the race is a competition between you and the other runners, many of whom likely are far more experienced than you. Rather, your first race will set your baseline against which you'll measure later times.
For your first race, you may want to get a map of the race course and run it a few times before the day of the race so you have a little familiarity and can set your pace.

