 You don't always have time to reflect on yourself and your life when you're with people a lot. Social relationships can be fun, but they take up a lot of brain space. Instead of viewing loneliness in a negative light, focus on what you can learn from being alone.Think about your future goals. Where do you want to be a year? In five years? How can you go about achieving these goals? What could you be doing better?
If you're around people, you can distract yourself from asking these kinds of difficult questions. However, when you're alone, you can force yourself to confront them. This way, you can learn to alter your course as necessary.;
, Many people fail to enjoy loneliness because they spend their time ruminating or stressing out. Do not focus on the fact there are not other people around. Consider all that you can do during your alone time. Work on cultivating a new skill or taking up a hobby.Reading can be a great solitary experience. If you're feeling lonely, find solace in the world of books. Fiction books in particular can take you to imaginary places and may alleviate your loneliness.
Write. Many people find writing to be an excellent solitary experience. If you have to be alone, take time to get some writing done. You can journal your thoughts, work on creative writing, or write to your friends.
Do other artistic endeavors. You can take up drawing or painting for example.
 You do not have to wallow in loneliness. Instead of seeing it as a negative, think about a new skill you could learn. Maybe you wished you studied history in college. Try reading up on history online and watching historical documentaries. You can stave off feelings of loneliness by spending your time learning new things.Try enrolling in an online college course. This can give you something to do when you're feeling lonely. You may even be able to find certain classes or lectures available for free online., Taking care of another living being helps you realize there is more out there than your own worries. Maybe people who are coping with loneliness find comfort in an animal companion. If it's within your budget, consider adopting a pet to care for.If you're allergic to dogs or cats, or if they're not allowed in your building, you can look into getting another type of pet. You could, for example, try getting a fish or a turtle.
 Nature tends to provoke feelings of solitude. If you're feeling lonely, exposing yourself to nature can make you learn to value solitude. If you take a long walk in the woods, for example, you may realize solitude can be invigorating.If you live in a big city, it may be harder to expose yourself to nature. However, you can always go to a park for a day or drive out of the city to a nearby nature reserve.
 People tend to view loneliness as inherently negative. This can make it more difficult to enjoy loneliness. Evaluate how you feel about loneliness. If you can change your mindset a little, you may find it easier to enjoy solitude.Loneliness is not all negative. Keep in mind that many people choose solitude, or wish they had more alone time. You may, for example, envy your married friends, but many of them may miss the personal insight and reflection that comes with alone time.
Think about how you can interact with your feelings. When you're around people, there is always something to distract you from feeling what you're feeling. When you're alone, you have the opportunity to truly experience your feelings. This can lead to valuable insight.
 In the modern world, many people feel bombarded with social interaction. You may feel tethered to a Facebook page or overstimulated in a big city. Try to see occasional feelings of loneliness as a refreshing change of pace rather than a burden.As you get older, you will have more obligations. Marriage and family can make alone time rare. Try to embrace the alone time you have now. You may miss it in the future.
Think about all you can do with your alone time. You can work on cultivating a new skill or invest in a creative project. These things may be harder to do during times when you're not feeling lonely.
 In the past, people were expected to start families very young. In the past, you may be part of a large household as early as your late teens or twenties. Instead of thinking, "I'm sad because I'm alone" think of it more positive terms.For example, "I'm so lucky to have alone time. One hundred years ago, I would probably be responsible for a family by now and not have all this time for personal growth and reflection." You may stop seeing loneliness as inherently negative.
 Loneliness can affect one's feelings of self worth. If you spend a lot of time alone, you may start internalizing feelings of loneliness to the point you feel that you are actually alone. Remind yourself it's normal to feel lonely, but it does not mean you're alone.Everyone feels lonely at times. It's a normal part of the human experience. Certain situations, like moving to a new city, can increase your feelings of loneliness.
Remind yourself that you're not alone. You are experiencing a feeling of loneliness. However, this does not define you. Remind yourself of all the people who care about you and that everyone experiences feelings of loneliness at some point.
 It's easy to get caught up in unhelpful thoughts if you're alone a lot. Loneliness can be enjoyable, but you need to keep aware of your thoughts. Avoid letting yourself slip into unhelpful thought patterns.Challenge unhelpful thoughts instead of succumbing to them. For example, you think everyone is judging you one day. Say to yourself, "Is this really rational, though? Most people probably don't spend a lot of time judging other people."
Every morning, review your thoughts. Scan for unhelpful thoughts. If you notice anything counterproductive, try to question it before you start your day.
 People tend to think of loneliness as a problem that needs to be fixed immediately. This can lead to feelings of inadequacy or weakness when we are alone. Try to remind yourself loneliness is natural. No one goes through life never experiencing loneliness. Remind yourself what you're feeling is natural and inevitable. This will help prevent you from feeling bad about yourself for feeling lonely.You could ask your friends to share their stories of loneliness, as this can help you realize you're not alone.
 Drinking alone or using non-prescribed medications is not a good idea when you're alone. This can be physically dangerous, and make your loneliness worse. You should also not watch too much television, as TV can sometimes become a substitute for socialization.If you're feeling bored, find something productive to do. Go for a walk or clean your house instead of watching television, drinking, or using drugs.

