 Some dehydrators have a thermostat, while others have a simple “On / Off” switch. If your dehydrator has a thermostat, set it to 135 or 140 degrees Fahrenheit (57 or 60 degrees Celsius) and let it preheat while you prepare the tomatoes.If your dehydrator only has an “On / Off” switch, you do not need to preheat it. Instead, simply turn the heat on after you add the tomatoes to the appliance.
If your dehydrator does not have a thermostat, it might be a good idea to set a cooking thermometer in the bottom tray of the dehydrator so that you can monitor the temperature as the tomatoes dehydrate.;
, The tomatoes should be washed, dried, skinned, cored, cut, and seeded.


Wash the tomatoes under running water and pat dry with clean paper towels.
Skin the tomatoes only if desired. Cut an "X" on the bottom of the tomato, just deep enough to slice through the skin. Blanch the tomato in boiling water for 25 to 30 seconds before removing with a slotted spoon and dunking into ice water. Peel the skin off with your fingers.
Use a paring knife to cut a cone shape out of the top stem end of each tomato to remove the core. Slice off a small portion of the bottom end, as well.
Cut the tomatoes into decent sizes. Cherry tomatoes should be cut in half, roma (plum) tomatoes should be cut in halves or quarters, and larger tomatoes should be cut into 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) slices.
Seeding the tomatoes is optional. Scoop out the seeds with a spoon, leaving the pulp behind. You can blot away extra juice with a clean paper towel.
 Spray the dehydrator trays with a light coating of cooking spray or rub a small amount of olive oil over the trays using another clean paper towel.


Greasing the trays will prevent the tomatoes from sticking. The oil can also add flavor to the tomatoes.
 Arrange the tomato pieces on your prepared dehydrator trays so that they are cut-side up and roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) apart from one another.


Do not layer the tomatoes or position them so that they touch one another. Doing so will cause the tomatoes to dehydrate unevenly.
 The simplest option would be to sprinkle the tomatoes with salt. Use as much or as little salt as desired according to your own personal tastes.


You could also use a light dusting of ground black pepper, garlic powder, or onion powder, or an herb blend made with chopped herbs like oregano, parsley, and thyme. Both dried herbs and fresh herbs will work.
 Place the racks in the dehydrator and dry the tomatoes for 8 to 12 hours, or until the tomatoes are smaller, shriveled, and leathery, but no longer tacky.


Keep roughly 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of space in between the racks. Doing so will ensure that there is enough air circulation to reach all the tomatoes.
Check the tomatoes every hour or so as they dehydrate. Rotate the racks if you notice that some tomatoes are drying more rapidly than others.
If some pieces dry faster than others, remove them to prevent them from becoming scorched or burnt.
 Once the tomatoes are ready, remove them from the oven and let them cool completely at room temperature. Pack them in freezer bags, vacuum sealed bags, plastic containers, or jars, and store them in a cool, dark place until you are ready to use them.


Usually, dehydrated tomatoes kept in cool temperatures in an airtight container will last for 6 to 9 months.