 Mixing up these words is one of the most common and easily-fixable usage errors in English. Since there is nothing that stands out more quickly than writing "You're not coming to the dance, are you?" it's important to clear up the difference and never make this mistake again.



Your is used to mean "something you own." Saying "Is that your cantaloupe?" or "Where is your pocketknife?" are appropriate uses of "your." You can always sound it out and try substituting "you are" for "your" in a sentence. If "you are" would make sense, then you should use the other form "you're."

You're is a contraction of the words "you" and "are," and it's used as a replacement for those words in a sentence. "You are an excellent tennis player" can be written "You're an excellent tennis player.";
, If "you" and "your" is a solid first place mistake, misusing these words is a close second. It's also a common spell-check mistake, because spell-checkers won't suggest the right version of the word, necessarily, if you make a typo. It can be confusing, but the difference will be clear once you've memorized the usage rule.



Their means "belongs to them." Appropriate uses would include "Their balloon popped quickly" or "Have you not seen their baby?" The word is only used in this context and for no other reason than to mean "more than one owner."

They're is a contraction of the words "they" and "are," and should be used to replace those words in a sentence. "They are very much in love" could be written "They're very much in love." Despite the fact that a contraction is used, this word does not imply ownership.

There refers to locations and all other uses. "Place the apple over there" or "There is nothing more boring than math" are appropriate uses of "there."

, This is a slightly confusing rule because it goes against the basic rule for apostrophes, but this is just an example of a contradiction in contractions. Quick rule: Substitute the words "it" and "is" to sentences with an "its" or an "it's." If the words make sense in that sentence, you need to have an apostrophe. If not, then leave the apostrophe off.



Use its when you intend to assign possession to something. Though there is no apostrophe, this means that something owns something else. "Its hair was really dirty" or "I can't compete with its power!" would be appropriate uses of its.

Use it's when you want to contract "it" and "is." It would be appropriate to write "It's not that great" or "When it's raining, I like to read."

, This is a common typo, but also a common usage error that many talented writers still make regularly. The differences are pretty easy to get down, however. Quick Rule: Too has two "Os," which can help you remember that it means there's more of something, so you should use the word to compare amounts. If, as in "To be, or not to be," there is no amount being discussed, leave the extra "O" off.



To is a preposition, which should always precede a noun or a verb and begin a prepositional phrase. "I want to visit France" and "I went to France" are both appropriate uses of "to."

Too is used as a quantity or to agree. "There was too much alcohol the party" or "I ate too many ice cream cones" are appropriate uses. It can also suggest degrees or levels of emotion, and lengths of time: "You're way too angry" or "I cried for too long." It's also used to agree: "I want to go to the party too."

Two is a number and should only be used as a number. "I ate two large pizzas" or "There were two pro wrestlers at the party" are appropriate uses of "two."

, This is a big one, commonly misused, but it's easy to learn. One is used to refer to amounts and the other is used to refer to numbers. If you've ever learned about the difference between "count" and "non-count" nouns, that'll come in handy with this rule. When there is "less traffic" that means there are "fewer cars."



Less refers to amounts and non-count nouns. "There was much less water in the pool than last week" or "Much less applause could be heard at the game" are appropriate uses. If you can't count individual units of something, "less" is the appropriate word when referring to it. There is less doubt, less oxygen, and less morale.

Fewer refers to numbers and count nouns. "Many fewer people applauded" or "One more bike, one fewer car" would be appropriate uses of fewer. If you can give a specific number of an object, like marbles, dollar bills, cantaloupes, or video games, the right word is "fewer."

, If you get this one wrong, you're in good company. Learn the rule and you'll never have to worry about getting it wrong again. People get confused because the past tense of "lie" is also "lay," but the difference is something you can learn quickly.


Use "lay" when you're putting something down. "I lay the book on the table" or "Please lay your head on your desk" are appropriate uses of "lay."
Use "lie" when you're resting or reclining. You would write, "I'm going to lie down now" but the past tense form of the word is "lay," which accounts for a lot of the confusion. In other words, you would also write, "I lay down yesterday." Use context clues in the sentence to find the meaning.
 No words are overused and more incorrectly used than these two in English. Learn to use them correctly and you'll win the admiration of English teachers and grammar curmudgeons alike.



Random means a lack of order or coherence in a series or sequence. There should be no pattern in something that's truly random. Often, people use "random" when they mean "surprising" or "unexpected." For example, it wasn't "some random guy" that talked to you after class. You take the same class, go to the same school, and live in the same town, which means there's nothing random about having a conversation with another person you share space with. It's actually quite likely.

Literally should not be used to imply severity, because "literally" means that something actually happened, and was a literal truth. The only time it would be appropriate to say, "I literally couldn't get out of bed this morning," is if you were actually physically unable to move your legs, not because you were unwilling to move your legs. Otherwise, you mean "figuratively."

, When you're writing, don't slip into shortened text speak, or use emojis to replace actual words. A colon and a half parenthetical smiley face should never end a sentence. Those have real uses! Let your words communicate your meanings, and use the full versions of those words.


We all like to text quickly, but it's best to avoid texting spelling like "ur" even when you're actually texting. When you're writing in textspeak, you're training yourself to connect those typing muscles with those words, making you more likely to unconsciously use the wrong spelling in a formal setting.
When you're speaking, it's also good habit to avoid actually saying things out loud like, "OMG" or "lol." If you're laughing, just laugh, don't editorialize it.

