 Many Ulzzang tomboys have short layered hair very similar to the Ulzzang boys. But you don't have to cut all your hair off to achieve the short look, you can tie your hair in a ponytail and tuck it in a hat or tuck it behind the rest of your hair. Many Ulzzang tomboys also keep their hair long at the back and short around the face.


You can style your hair with gels and hairspray. Try keeping it soft and messy with light spikes. It really doesn't matter what colour your hair is but you could dye it a light ginger brown which is very popular with all Ulzzang's.
Remember you don't have to have stick straight hair all the time, as some tomboys like light waves and curls. Keep your hair in good condition and its sure you will look great.;
, Not all tomboys wear make up, but some do to enhance their looks. Its almost always all about the eyes. Use brown or black eyeliner to lightly frame the eyes, you can also make a wing at the end of your eyes to get a more Ulzzang look and maybe some white eyeliner in the bottom water line. You could also try to create Aegyo Sal (the cute eye bags on some Asian Ulzzang's) with white eye shadow, light brown shadow and a very blended brown line around it. Keep it very blended and mixed or you may look silly or tired. Most Ulzzang's apply BB cream to get a smooth and paler looking face and concealer for blemishes.


You can mute out lip colour and make them appear smaller with lip balm and a touch of foundation blended. You may use a black/ grey eyebrow pencil to get thicker neater eyebrows which always looks good on Ulzzang's. Be sure to not cake on the makeup, keep it as minimal as you can't try to get a natural Ulzzang look when you can hardly see your real face!

, Quite a lot of Ulzzang's like to wear circle lenses to get a more wide dolly look. But you really do not have to wear them to look good! Not all tomboys wear them and look amazing without them. If you wish to wear them buy them from a reliable website or shop and clean them with great care. Do not exceed the time you are meant to wear them, you don't want to damage your eyes! Buying black or brown lenses look great and enlarge your eyes more but it can look nice with blue or green ones. Just try to refrain from buying pink crazy lenses. Keep thinking natural. Brands like Geo are recommended.
 For an Ulzzang tomboy look anything can look good. Just don't wear skirts and dresses as it's not very tomboy. Graphic tees, shirts, jeans and boots is a simple idea for a tomboy outfit. There are many videos on youtube which can help you when choosing out an outfit for the style. Do not be afraid of shopping in the men's section you can find some great things in there. Hoodies always look nice. Gmarket and Zipia are great websites for buying and getting inspiration for Ulzzang outfits. You could also try to get your hands on some Mr Rich clothes but it is a very hard task unless you want to bid or go to Korea for them. Don't show loads of skin as it can be seen as quite inappropriate in Asia. Some tomboys bind their breasts for a more boyish look. Websites like T-Kingdom sell good quality binders.
 Accessories can make an outfit! They make it a whole lot more fun and interesting. Buy colourful belts, beanie hats in different colours, belt chains and dog tags, boots and sneakers, wrist bands, boot socks, other awesome hats, ties, glasses. A lot of Ulzzang's wear glasses which look cool. Black retro oversized glasses are very popular. You can pop out the lenses if you don't need them as they can create glare in photos and remove focus on your eyes. Earrings, some tomboys have a few ear piercings which can look great with colourful studs but don't feel you need them. Don't be afraid to accessorize but not too girly, you are wanting to be a tomboy!

, Ulzzang's are popular all over the world because of photos. They want to be seen but of course you don't need to post pictures of yourself all over the internet if you don't want to! Pose for pictures with your friends in different settings and angles. You don't have to look serious in any of your pictures just smile or make a funny or cute face. Make sure you are having fun and don't ever feel you need to always take pictures of yourself as you will just end up looking vain. You can edit pictures to get your desired look but be true to yourself and don't make yourself unrecognizable.
 Being an Ulzzang doesn't have to mean changing yourself completely to fit Korean/ Asian ideals. Any race can be Ulzzang and look lovely. Keep your own personality and don't let yourself become obsessed with everything Korean and Asian.
 Don't put yourself down if you think it doesn't look exactly right. You don't have to stay in this style all the time, mix it up, its your own body and mind!

