 Whether your child is returning to the same school or starting at a new one, it's always a good idea to get the lowdown on any changes at the school.


Is there a new principal?
Who are your child's teachers?
What's going on with the curriculum?
What tests will be administered to your child?;
, As most school districts in the northern hemisphere start in September (or in February in the southern hemisphere), many schools tend to be open up to a month before first term starts. You can call the school directly and speak with an administrator, or visit the school for information. You may also be able to check on a website or webpage for extra info.
 During the summer, staying up late and sleeping in are the norm. But as the start of school draws near, children need to get back into a routine.


About three weeks before school starts, have your child go to bed 15 minutes earlier at night and get up 15 minutes earlier in the morning.
When school is two weeks away, have your child go to bed 30 minutes earlier at night and get up thirty minutes earlier in the morning.
When your child is about to start school in a week, have him or her go to bed an hour earlier at night and get up an hour earlier in the morning.
, In addition, if you're not already doing this, have your child lay out her or his clothes before going to bed. That will teach your child to get organized and be prepared in case she/he (or you) are running late in the morning.
 Regardless of whether or not you're a teacher, we all have knowledge to pass on to our kids.


What were your strengths in school? Reading? Writing? Science? Math? Whatever your favorite subject, use what you've learned in school and in life to go over some of the basics with your child.
 In essence, you can play school with your child. It should be in a room without distractions (i.e. no TV or video games) and geared towards learning (i.e. den, family library or home office). A run-through of the basics should take no more than 30 minutes to an hour and should be done two to three times a week. This is an excellent opportunity to see where your child needs help and to pass that information on to his teachers.
 This will help the child to get a good start, even if he or she is yet to learn the alphabet or how to write numbers.
 Depending on your child's grade level (K0-12), the type of supplies needed will vary. Some schools sends a list out a couple of weeks before the school year. If no such list is provided, what your child needs for school can be determined by a trip to a suitable schools supply store. Every August, these stores often provide free school supply lists for their customers, arranged by grade level.


You can contact the school directly to find out what supplies your child will need.
 The first day of school has arrived. This is a big day for you and your child. This is the time to go with your child on his/her first day and introduce yourself to the teachers. As your child settles into his/her classroom, you can have a quick sidebar with the teacher to find out who she or he is and what your teacher is planning to teach your child.

Be sure to exchange contact information with the teacher. The teacher should provide you with a copy of a lesson plan or syllabus that gives you the gist of what will be taught in class.
Don't be afraid to ask questions of everyone you meet. You and the teachers should work together for the benefit of your child.

