 Leafy vegetables will become soggy and/or slimy when they are spoiled. If left for too long, they will begin to turn brown and develop a slimy coating. Discard any leafy vegetables that look like this, as they are inevitably spoiled.You will also notice obvious signs of spoilage in carrots if they are softer and a paler orange color than before.
Grapes will “deflate” and become mushy and soft.
Mold will appear on citrus fruits when they are spoiled, or they may become soft and have a deflated look.
Tomatoes will become wrinkled and will dry out.;
, It can be apparent when your head of lettuce has gone bad, but not as easy to tell with cruciferous vegetables, such as cauliflower. Examine the surface of the florets (a flowering stem that makes up the head of broccoli or cauliflower). If there are dark brown or gray speckles on it, it is in the beginning stages of spoiling. The speckled sections can be trimmed off and the rest used, since the vegetable does not spoil all at once.If you see dark spots all over the florets, snap off a few.
Cut the floret in half lengthwise.
If there is discoloration throughout the floret, throw it out. Any florets without discoloration are usable.
Throw out the entire vegetable if it has become soft and mushy, or if it has mold or insect damage.
 Mold is a definitive indicator that your vegetables or fruits have spoiled. Mold often looks like a fuzzy white, green, or dark-colored spot or spots. Mold can contain bacteria that will make you sick or can be poisonous. Do not risk it.
 Limp stems are indicative of overall wilting of the plant, which is due to the loss of turgor pressure in the plant’s cell walls. The cell walls collapse inward as they lose moisture, causing the leaves and stems to wilt. If left for too long in this state, they can begin to become soft, slimy, and mushy, thereby making them unsafe to eat. But if caught early, they can be revived.Place the greens or vegetables in a sink or large container of ice water for 15-30 minutes.
Drain the sink or container and pat the vegetables or greens dry.
Store in the refrigerator in a plastic bag with dry paper towels to absorb excess moisture. This will prevent the vegetables from spoiling too quickly.
 Though they are still technically safe to eat, stale foods indicate that it is past its prime. Foods that are stale will not be as crunchy or as soft as they once were, depending on what the food is. Though the quality of flavor has been compromised, it is still safe to eat., Most shelf stable foods are safe indefinitely, but if you notice a change in texture, the quality may be compromised. For example, if you notice that any liquids, such as vinegar or oils, have separated, that product may no longer be fresh and/or usable.


If you are still unsure as to whether or not the food is unspoiled, take a whiff. If you notice an odd or foul smell, you may want to toss that food.
 A can that is bulging or has a broken seal should be immediately tossed. Swelling indicates that the food inside has spoiled.


Check the can for any corrosion, which can indicate a problem with the food inside.
If the food inside looks moldy, or cloudy when it should be clear, toss it. If you notice an unpleasant odor or gassiness inside the can or jar, dispose of it.
Canned food that is spoiled may contain bacteria that can cause botulism, which could be fatal. Exercise extreme caution if you notice anything unusual with your canned food.