 If people think you're fake and only care about keeping up an image they won't like you. It's okay to want to look good because no matter what people are going to judge you for it. But don't think you have to buy a certain style to be popular. People like you a lot more when you have your own unique style. Don't follow the standards start setting your own. Save up starcoins. You'll need the currency to be able to buy the gear you need that will help your popularity. Stop being anticipated at times and go for the ride your not afraid to go on. Decide what you want to buy and save for it (put it on your wishlist if you need it to be easier!).;
, This shows people how good you are with fashion!

, Get a glowing red or light pink lips. Purchase the eyes that you weren't able to see when you first made your character. Pretty Perfect or Glitter Galore are recommended.


Use a color that will go well with any outfits in the future that you might get.
Beware some colors. Do not use big and bold. "Big And Bold" isn't something many people would like - unless they are in light pink or a peachy orange. Instead, use light or shiny looking colors. Remember to go for more natural colors such as red, pink or even light peachy-orange. Do not use neon colors, unless it's for a certain outfit.
 You are beautiful just the way you are. Use colors that are just right for your style or attitude but don't go too crazy though.
 When the movie comes out, walk around in the chatrooms for publicity. Click on specific people and message them personally asking them to watch your movie, be specific using the movie title so they know which movie you're talking about.


Try not to use too many animated characters from the MovieStarPlanet's selection. You could have one if you wanted (none is fine also).
Get your friends in your movie. Make them look nice or the comments will start being mean.
Make sure that the move is long enough. Ten seconds isn't enough. A minute should work well.
Take your time making the movies. If you rush them all, they will seem sloppy and people won't want to keep watching.



Watch high-leveler's movies. For example, try watching Mybeau's movies or even Pumpchkin's movies.
 Don't go looking at movies and commenting things like "Your movies are rubbish," or "You are ugly in that movie". It's not very kind!

, If you seem rude, who is going to want to be your friend and help you out? Just start by saying "hi". Complimenting people on their clothes and boonies is an icebreaker and gets good conversation started. Don't make yourself sound like you're just giving automated responses you have to have good genuine conversations with people.
 We all have flaws so don't bother trying to act perfect all the time that will make you seem stuck up too. So try to seem friendly and get to know people.
, Give diamond rides to people who need starcoins.You don't need stuff for it. It helps a lot of people though. If people auto you give them one back. This goes for views and loves to try to return the favor every now and then.
 Don't just ignore them or they might delete you.
 For example, give them clothes you bought that you don't want anymore. You don't have to keep them if you don't like them.

