 Not only will you enjoy it, it also helps you with your writing! If you already have an idea of who you're going to write about, then you can watch episodes about that pony- or, if you're making an OC, you can watch episodes that help you out with certain character traits! If you ever suddenly feel uninterested in your original plan, you don't have to go through with it. After all, there's always room for improvement.;
, You can find them on fimfiction.net, fanfiction.net, or other sites. Just remember to read what you're going to write about or what you think may be a good idea- but don't plagiarize! No one likes it when you copy, but you can ask permission by the author of a fanfiction you like to say that you were inspired by their fanfiction. Most people won't mind.
 If you sit down to write and then suddenly realize you have no idea what you're doing, you might end up feeling discouraged and quit writing your fanfiction before it begins.


If you want to include your shipping pair, do so, but make sure you know the characters well enough to keep them in character when you're writing.
If you want to write about your headcanon, make sure all the kinks are worked out. But make sure you know what you're writing about- or make something up as you go along!
There are no rules in writing, only suggestions. If you are going to come up with your story as you go, make sure you proofread it at the end to make sure that everything makes sense.
 You should think about the character you're writing about. Is it a main character in the show? A background pony? An OC? If it's a main character, you may have to do a little more research within the show if you get stuck on their personality, but the more you postpone actually writing, the less likely it's going to be done. So if you have a plan, stick with it.
 There's always room for improvement, but there's also time to fix it in the end.


If you're writing one chapter at a time on a fanfiction site, then your readers can give you criticism. If someone says something cruel, don't let it discourage you. If someone suggests a way to improve your writing, take it as constructive criticism and let it help you gain some perspective on what you're writing. Never be afraid to accept suggestions!

, Instead, try to focus on descriptions or dialogue to do the exposition for you, but make sure if it's dialogue that it sounds like something two ponies would actually say to each other.


For example, if both ponies know that Nightmare Moon has returned, would they say to each other, "Hey, Quill, how is it going?" "Not good, Storm. We both just saw Nightmare Moon return and trap Princess Celestia in the sun, and it is clear that Twilight Sparkle and her friends can do nothing."
Also, make sure the dialogue doesn't excessively use the character's names. The characters know who they are, so make sure they use the names in a normal amount.
 At the end of a chapter, you can leave a cliffhanger- or if it's not an adventure story, perhaps a romance, make sure there is still a conflict- perhaps one of characters is too shy to talk to the other because they have a crush and they're shy. Just don't make it a cliche- having the main character's crush suddenly become hopelessly in love with someone else, and they start dating is an example of a love triangle.


If you want to use this sort of story, make sure you do it in an original way. Maybe the character on the wrong end of the love triangle tries to find a way to stop them from being in love with each other and finds a spell to do so. Or maybe the main character finally confesses their love and is met with shock. Then what happens?
MLP might be a little cheesy, but you don't need the climax to be mundane. Even cheesy episodes can be battle related, and as can be your fanfiction. If you don't want it to have a lesson about friendship, it doesn't have to- remember, this is your fanfiction, so do whatever you want to do.
 Endings can be tricky. Make sure you know all loose ends so you can tie them- or keep it a cliffhanger so you can write a second one. Don't feel any pressure to write a sequel if you don't want to, though- sometimes sequels can be hard to do as well.
 If you haven't, then jot down the things you could've done better or you wish you had done and either revise it and find a place for those things, or if the story already feels crowded with what it has, you can just leave those things out and put them in another story.
 If you don't feel comfortable posting your story anywhere, you don't have to. It's all your decision. Some people can just write for themselves or their friends. Maybe you can open your own private blog for your fanfictions that only you and your close friends can read.
 If you do want to post your story, you can post it on any fanfiction site if you haven't already. Be ready to face critics, but know that those who are giving you polite criticism are the ones who care about your story and not the ones who are blatantly rude.

