 Be patient, and remember that acknowledging and validating her feelings do not necessarily mean that you condone bad behavior. Sometimes your daughter may just want to feel that you acknowledge her struggles.For her, it makes a difference to know that you've heard her and that you care.Try saying things like, "I know that you're hurting right now," or "I can see how you might feel that way."

, Make sure your daughter knows that it’s okay to accept whatever she’s feeling. Remind her that ignoring or pushing her feelings aside won’t help, and that it’s always okay to “feel your feelings.”

, It’s important to remain non-judgmental and open-minded when your daughter talks to you. Be open and honest, and try to really hear what she wants to say to you. Remember that an important part of listening is acknowledging her feelings.If you have trouble understanding what she means, try repeating her words back to her to make sure that you’re getting it. For example, "So what you're telling me is that you're feeling worried about your test scores," or "What I'm hearing is that your friend is pressuring you to try a certain drug."
Put your phone away so you can give your daughter your full attention. Make sure she knows that she’s the most important thing to you – not your newest email or text message.
 Try to remember how it felt when you were a teenager and assure her that you can understand a lot of the issues that she may be going through. Give her examples from your own past experiences.


For example, "When I was a teenager, I remember fighting with my mom all the time because she wouldn't let me stay out past 10pm and all of my friends got to stay out until midnight!"
Or, "I remember feeling like the only girl on the planet who had to wear braces and glasses at the same time. It was awful!"

, Some teen girls feel that their parents don’t spend enough time with them. Make it a habit of doing one-on-one activities with your daughter, whether it’s for game night, shopping, exercising together, or just going to dinner or the movies. Spending your time with her lets her know that she is a priority in your life.
 Don't dismiss her concerns just because you don’t think they are important. Things that may seem trivial to you, like not being invited to a certain party or which dress to wear to the dance, may be huge problems in her eyes. Remember that even though certain things may not seem important to you, they may be very important to her. Be careful not to minimize or dismiss her struggles.
 Make it clear that your child knows that no matter what is troubling her, it can always be resolved. Make sure that she knows that there is no problem too big that the two of you can’t handle it together.Tell her that you believe in her and her abilities to handle things.
Remind her that you've been through tough times together before, and that you will get through this, too.

