 Who is eligible to access sealed juvenile records, and the purposes for which access is permitted, are governed by state law.


In some cases, access also is limited by the local court rules.If you think you're eligible, you might still want to call the clerk's office just to make sure.
Keep in mind that regulations governing access to juvenile records varies widely among the states. In some states, anyone can petition to access sealed juvenile records, but must have a legitimate reason for doing so. In other states, access is limited only to those in law enforcement, judicial, or public agencies., Your state will have specific forms you must use to request access to sealed juvenile records from the juvenile court where the proceeding took place.


In some jurisdictions, you may be able to download these forms online. However, you always can find them by going to the juvenile court clerk's office and making a request in person., The form typically will ask who you are, your relationship to the case, and why you want to access the records.


Keep in mind that you will need exact information about the case you want to view, including the juvenile offender's full legal name. Because these records are confidential, you typically won't be able to gain this information by calling the office or conducting an online search.You must provide the court with your relationship to the case or the individual who is the subject of the records, as well as your reasons for requesting access to those records., Before you can request access to sealed juvenile records, the court must have proof that you notified related individuals or institutions of your request.


Who you must notify generally depends on the type of records you're seeking. Typically you must serve notice of your request to the person who is the subject of the records you seek and his or her parents or guardians. If you're seeking access to juvenile dependency records, you also may need to serve the state child services agency., Your completed forms will be reviewed by a judicial officer who will decide whether to grant your request.


You typically can file your request either by mailing it to the appropriate office or by taking it to the clerk in person.Keep in mind that you may have to pay a processing fee, and you also may have to pay a fee for copies to be made.
If your request for copies is approved, you typically will receive those copies in the mail. If you are granted access only to inspect the files, you will have to make another trip to the courthouse to view them.