 If you’re in an unfamiliar area, find out which cab companies are reputable before visiting. To do this, consult travel guidebooks or travel websites detailing the area you’ll be hiring taxis in. Make a note of the companies that are known to provide reliable service and stick with them.You could also ask at the front desk of your hotel which cab companies you should use and which you shouldn’t.
A reputable taxi will have a badge number, a radio, and a meter.
 Mototaxis – a catch-all term that describes a diverse class of taxi alternatives that includes tuk-tuks, auto-rickshaws, and motorbike taxi services – can be significantly cheaper than the cost of a regular taxi, especially if you have strong negotiating skills. Know where you’re going and how much it should cost before agreeing on the price, otherwise you might not save money.Moto-taxis  can be a bit more cramped and rickety than regular taxis, but are useful for traveling short distances.
 Private carsharing  services like Uber and Lyft may or may not be able to access the place where you need a taxi. For instance, they are often forbidden from accessing the taxi port in airports. However, if you can get to a carsharing service, you could save a significant amount of money when compared to the costs associated with a regular taxi.Schedule any carsharing service you wish to utilize at least a couple hours ahead of time. Use the company’s website to schedule service.
If you use a carsharing service, be sure to agree on a price before heading out.
Verify that the car picking you up is the right one by asking the driver what their name is. Make sure their name matches the name provided by the carsharing service. You can also verify the carsharing service by checking the app you use for a message confirming that your ride has arrived.
 Instead of taking a taxi on your own, try to find a taxi partner to split the cost with you. For instance, if you and a friend are both headed to the same place, or even to two different spots that are nearby one another, offer to split a taxi with them.