 Slow cooker artichoke dip is generally considered a pretty simple recipe, but there are a few preparatory steps you need to take before putting everything in the cooker. Get your spinach ready by draining or washing it as necessary, then roughly chopping it.Thaw and drain your frozen spinach, if using frozen. Squeeze it until dry.
Wash your spinach with cold water in a vegetable strainer or salad spinner if using fresh.;
, Cut your artichoke hearts and onions to your desired size, and mince the garlic. The smaller the pieces, the smoother the dip. You can also chill the cream cheese to make it easier to mix.

Chill your cream cheese until firm, then cut into one inch cubes.
Crush your garlic using the blade of your knife, then chop finely.
 You can place the fresh spinach directly into the crock pot, or you have the option to cook it down first. To cook down the spinach, add two tablespoons of oil or butter to a skillet, and then add spinach and cook on a medium heat until leaves are bright green and slightly wilted.Cooking down the spinach enhances its flavor.
To get the most from cooking the spinach, cook the minced garlic with it and sprinkle on some salt and pepper.
 In the bowl of your slow cooker, put in all of your ingredients. Use a wooden spoon or another broad, semi-flat kitchen utensil to gently mix together your ingredients and ensure even distribution around the crock.Do not mix too vigorously. The ingredients should be distributed throughout the slow cooker, but you don’t need a smooth, creamy mixture yet.
Decide if you want to add additional ingredients such as sausage or herbs before you start cooking.
 You can cook your dip on low if you’re looking to focus on other things for a while, or you can cook it on high if you want it ready faster. Cook the dip on low for three and a half to four hours, or for two hours on high.If cooking on high, check the dip every 30 minutes or so and give it a gentle stir to keep it from sticking to your slow cooker. There is no need to check the dip before serving if you are cooking on low.
 Set your slow cooker to warm and allow the dip to stand around ten minutes if you cooked on low or fifteen minutes if you cooked on high. Stir the dip thoroughly so that all the ingredients are well combined before serving.To get an extra creamy dip, you can transfer dip to a bowl and use an immersion blender to mix the dip and break up big chunks.
 Decide what foods you want to serve with your dip. The possibilities are endless, and there really is no right or wrong answer. Popular choices often include fresh cut vegetables, small slices of crusty bread, pita chips, tortilla chips, and assorted crackers.Cut a baguette into ½ in thick slices, brush the bread with a bit of melted butter or olive oil, and toast on a cookie sheet at 400° F (200° C) to make crostini for your dip.
Try cracker flavors such as sea salt and cracked black pepper or asiago to compliment the flavors already present in the dip.
Warm pita in the oven on your lowest setting for ten to fifteen minutes and serve hot and chewy.
 Artichoke dip is best served warm, as this keep the dip from congealing or losing flavor. Set your slow cooker to warm and serve the dip directly from the cooker, or transfer the dip to a microwave-safe ceramic or glass serving dish.If you can’t serve the dip from your slow cooker, make sure to microwave the serving dish every half hour or so for 45 seconds to a minute and stir the dip to keep it warm.
 If you have any leftover dip, store it in an airtight container with the lid fully sealed. Keep the container in the refrigerator, where it will be good for up to three days.

Reheat the leftover dip in the microwave before serving.If you have more dip than you think you can consume in three days, take the extra dip and freeze it in an airtight container. Reheat in the microwave or in your slow cooker on low before serving.

