 Free-to-play games are games that you don’t have to purchase and can be played legally for free. They typically require you to create an account in order to play. Most free-to-play games have online shops where you can purchase in-game items and bonuses for real money.


There are free-to-play games available for almost every genre that you could imagine, from first-person shooters, to racing games, online RPGs, puzzle games, and more.
Some companies offer their game directly from the company website. Others are available through digital distribution platforms such as Steam.
EA has a large selection of free-to-play games on their website and available through their distribution platform Origin.;
, Enter the genre into a search engine along with the words “free-to-play” and browse the results. Check reviews to make sure that the game is fun, as many free games are designed to extract money through cash shops. Some of the most popular free-to-play games include:


League of Legends
Team Fortress 2
DOTA 2
Runescape
World of Tanks
Planetside 2
Path of Exile

, Check the recommended system requirements and compare that to your own computer. This will save you time if you download a game and it ends up not working.
 There are two main types of free-to-play games: those that are played in a web browser with no download required, and those that are downloaded and installed like a typical program. If it needs to be downloaded, you will be given a file that will be installed on you computer


If you are using Steam, you will need to create a free Steam account and download the Steam software. You will then download the game using Steam, and launch it from the Steam program.
 The installation process is different for every game, but in general you can leave the installation options at their default settings. If you are using a digital distribution program, the installation happens automatically after the download is finished.
 If you are using a digital distribution program, find the game in your library and run it directly from the distribution program. If the game was installed like a typical program, you can find it in your Start menu.

