 A blow to the stomach can be devastating if you're not prepared. In the event that a blow comes too quickly, or you are unprepared for violence, your best course of action may be to tighten your stomach muscles and shift slightly so the blow lands off to the side of your body.By shifting, you diminish the force of the blow by not meeting it head on, but also allow your obliques (the muscles on the sides of your torso), to absorb the force as well.;
, This technique can be used if you are taken by surprise or or don't have a chance to block with your extremities. Blocking with your forehead can even lead to damaging your opponent's hand due to its hardness and resilience, leaving you unharmed. Tighten your neck muscles, clench your jaw, and lean into the oncoming blow so that you absorb it on your forehead.Exercise caution with this block; poor timing or placement could lead to a debilitating blow.
 When you feel like you might be in danger of violence, you should focus your awareness on the posture of your aggressor. This is very important because it can serve as an early warning to you. If your opponent has his right foot back, it's likely he will punch with that hand, and vice versa. Knowing this will allow you to prepare for the blow., Trying to block the punch head on is a recipe for disaster. As the majority of the force of the punch will be coming forward, you stand a better chance moving the blow to the side rather than opposing it directly. Bring your hand up to the inside of the oncoming punch to "cover" it with your own hand. Complete the move by guiding the strike to the outside., Similar to covering and directing the punch, bringing your hand up to cover the strike as it's oncoming, continue the motion until your hand is close to the side of your head/crook of your neck and your elbow is raised in line with your assailant's forearm.Keep your stance tight, your neck muscles tensed, and your hand as close to your head as possible. Deflecting the blow in this way can still cause a transfer of force that may knock your own hand into your head, leaving you dazed and poorly protected.

