 Calcium is important for bone and joint strength, both of which are particularly important to keep strong when you have arthritis. The recommended daily intake of calcium is generally 1000 milligrams for average adults.Pregnant and lactating women need 1300 milligrams of calcium daily.Calcium-rich foods include:


Fortified oatmeal
Sardines, canned in oil, with edible bones
Cheese
Milk
Yogurt
Soybeans

, Vitamin D is fat-soluble, which means that it helps the body absorb calcium.Vitamin D can be derived from exposure to the sun, eating a balanced diet and from taking supplements. Vitamin D-rich foods include:


Egg yolks
Liver

, People with arthritis often develop deficiencies in vitamins C, D, B6, B12, and E levels. They also often become deficient in folic acid, magnesium, zinc, selenium, and calcium levels.Increasing your intake of antioxidants by taking dietary supplements may decrease the damage the arthritis causes to your joint lining, thereby reducing swelling and pain.


Your physician should be able to tell you which supplements will best meet your particular needs.
 Arthritis is slowed and its severity is lessened when fish oil supplements are added to your diet.Try to consume at least two to three grams of omega-3 fish oil daily.You can purchase fish oil at your local pharmacy. If you don’t like taking a spoonful of the oil, you can also take a fish oil supplement that you swallow like a pill.
 Staying hydrated can help to keep your joints lubricated, which means that your pain will be reduced. Everyone needs a different amount of water, but average adult women generally need to drink around 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water a day to stay hydrated.Adult men generally need to drink around 3 liters (0.8 US gal) of water a day to stay hydrated., Green, white and oolong teas are full of polyphenols, which are plant-derived compounds that boost your immune system and reduce inflammation. A substance found in green tea (EGCG) might actually stop the progression of arthritis by blocking the Interleukin-1 cel, which is a pro-inflammatory cell that has the ability to damage cartilage.You should try to drink two to four cups of tea each day.

