 Handling a puppy requires quite a bit of time, energy, and money. The first thing that you’ll need to do is to make sure you have all of the things you need to take care of your puppy.At the very least, you’ll need to buy puppy food, food and dish bowls, collar and ID tag, leash, dog bed, toys, and treats.
Make sure to include your puppy’s name and your phone number on your puppy’s identification tag. You may also consider including your home address.
Choose a dog food that is intended for consumption by puppies because these foods are specially formulated for growing puppies who need extra energy.
You might want to get one dog bed for the living room and one for your bedroom if you plan on letting your puppy sleep in your room at night.
You may want to purchase a crate if you plan on crate training your dog. The crate should be big enough for your puppy to stand up and turn around in comfortably. Remember that your puppy will probably grow quite a bit in the coming months, so you may have to purchase several different ones to accommodate its changing size.;
, Start preparing your house for your puppy by putting puppy pads down. Whenever your puppy goes to the bathroom off of the puppy pads, scold it. The puppy should not use the bathroom on the floor.Setting up puppy pads is a great way to start house training your puppy.
 Puppies are cute, but they get into everything. You need to make sure that there is nothing within reach that could potentially hurt your puppy. Spend some time putting all chemicals and food products up out of reach so your puppy can’t get to it.This includes things like cleaning products, hair products, car maintenance supplies, and other food goods that could harm your puppy if ingested.
You may also want to hide all electrical cables to the best of your abilities. You don’t want your puppy to chew on it and get electrocuted.
 Having a puppy is a big responsibility that can affect every single person who lives in your house. Make sure each person is aware of how you expect them to treat the puppy and what each person will have to do in order to care for and train the puppy.


Make it clear that you don’t want to feed the puppy human food from the table because you don’t want to train the dog to beg for food.
Talk to your roommates or family members about letting the puppy outside to use the bathroom whenever the puppy goes near the outside door.
Make sure everyone knows that puppies often bark and howl during the night, but they usually grow out of this within the first couple of weeks.
 Put the puppy pads near the door you use to take the dog outside to the bathroom. When the puppy uses the puppy pads, pet the puppy and give the puppy a treat. If the puppy starts to use the puppy pads all the time. you can start taking puppy pads away one at a time. Soon you can take the puppy outside to let it go to the bathroom outside all the time.Remember to take your puppy outside to use the bathroom regularly. The puppy pads should just be there for cases of emergency when the puppy can’t get your attention. You want the puppy to learn to go to the bathroom outside, not just on the puppy pads.
 If your puppy starts ripping up or chewing on the furniture, spend some time playing with. Destructive behavior usually means that your puppy is full of energy and needs to get it out.Take your puppy for a walk or spend some time playing with it using a chew toy. You can even just chase your puppy around the room.
 When the puppy starts to rip up the furniture, give it a timeout on the dog bed or in a kennel. Over time your puppy will learn that you don’t want them to engage in these behaviors. Taking away your attention will be a good punishment to help the puppy learn your expectations.If the puppy still doesn't listen after the timeout, then put it outside for a while and scold the puppy.
 Use positive reinforcement to help your puppy learn what kinds of behaviors are acceptable to you. When your puppy does something you like, give it a treat or praise the puppy. Pet it and love on it so that you can help build the bond between you and show the dog how to act.Don’t yell at your puppy, especially for something that happened hours ago that you just found out about. Your puppy won’t have any idea what you are yelling at it for.
 A puppy needs a well-balanced diet in order to maintain a happy, healthy life. They usually need to be fed more frequently than adult dogs. Consult your veterinarian for breed-specific recommendations regarding how much you should feed your puppy.6-12 weeks: Puppies this age need to eat food that is specially formulated for puppies to meet their nutritional needs. Feed your puppy around four times per day, with serving size varying depending on the breed and size of your puppy. During this time, you can add a little milk or water to the puppy food to moisten it.
3-6 months: Decrease the feeding schedule to three times per day, but continue with the same serving size, as recommended by your vet.
6-12 months: Begin feeding your puppy twice a day and begin transitioning to adult dog food.
 Regular access to drinking water is one of the most important things you need to give to your puppy. Make sure that there is always a bowl of water that your puppy can drink out of.You may want to have a backup source of water available too in case your puppy knocks over the other bowl of water.
 Puppies need love and affection to grow up and turn into well-rounded loving dogs. Spend lots of time with your puppy so you can build a strong bond between the two of you. Cuddle your puppy and let it sleep on your lap. Show the puppy that you love it and make it feel safe around you.Take your dog with you when you go places – like in car rides around town, to your friends’ houses, or to the park.
But never leave your puppy in a hot car unattended.
 Puppies have a lot of energy, so you need to spend a lot of time expending that energy through exercise. Take your puppy on a walk or to the dog park. You can even just run around your house with the puppy.Taking your puppy to the dog park will also help socialize your puppy with other dogs. This means that your puppy will probably get along better with other dogs as it gets older.
 Raising a puppy requires a great deal of patience and love. Give your dog time to learn how to act and interact in its new home. Try to understand that, even in the most frustrating moments, your dog is not actively trying to upset you.


Try your best to remain calm, even when your puppy doesn’t behave the way you want it to. Remember that the dog wants to please you, but it just needs a bit of time to learn how to fulfil your expectations.
 When you get your new puppy, you need to take it to the veterinarian to get some puppy shots. This will probably require several trips, but it is one of the most important things you need to do for your puppy’s health.Puppy shots help protect your dog against diseases like canine distemper, hepatitis, heartworm, corona virus, parvovirus, and rabies.
Puppies usually need shots at 6-8 weeks, 10-12 weeks, 14-16 weeks, and then annually after that.

