 It’s of the most importance that you choose a plan you can live with as this will be a long term contract.
 This will get boring in no time at all, especially if you often eat the same thing.



You can be sure that a healthy weight loss plan will include fish. So you are bound to have similar meals from time to time. Try to vary the kind of fish, maybe test out different ones. You may find that you don’t like salmon but enjoy sole, or vise versa. Once at the fish counter, be sure to ask them questions. Find out the best way to cook specific fish and ask for small pieces of 2 or 3 different fish, cook them all at the same time and figure out which you prefer. The next time you go, tell them about your favorite and they will suggest other similar ones. And now that you’ve made a new friend, the clerk will always give you tips when he sees you.
 Vary it, between dark and light meat, maybe try different cuts of turkey like cutlets, tenderloin or even roast a whole turkey breast. Use rotisserie chicken when pressed with time, it’s flavorful and handy for quick dinners.
 Ask your fiends or order something different when eating out. While food shopping, ask the clerk or better yet, ask a customer who is picking up a vegetable you don’t know. I often have people ask me about all these different produce I have in my basket. People will gladly tell you about the taste and best ways to prepare produce. Or be adventurous, buy a vegetable you don’t know, make sure to get its name and once home search the internet for more information and how to prepare it. This may be an interesting project if you have kids, let them chose the “mystery vegetable”.
 A lot of people have difficulty drinking plain water and rely on diet drinks that may not be healthy and can become expensive on top of producing a lot of waste products. Get a home water filter of some kind and flavor it. Look for natural essences at the grocery store, like mango, mint, orange and if you want to be super cool add food coloring too.
 As a general rule, if you enjoy the smell of a food, you will enjoy its taste. If you see fresh planted herbs at the store, smell it or pick a leaf if you can. Better yet, if you are lucky enough to have a spice store near by, go in and ask questions and ask to smell or even taste. These people are experts and they will love giving you a “tour” with tips. You can have a little research project - search the internet for herbs and spices’ health benefits. Like this you can expand your kitchen repertoire while improving your health.
 There are a ton of people who don’t like specific foods because of childhood memories like dried out pork chops or meat loaf. Look up the specific meat association’s websites like BeefWhatsForDinner for the best cuts to use depending on the cooking methods. These websites are overflowing with great information.
 So what it’s not five stars, you tried, you’ll tweak it and make it better every time you do it. Haven’t you seen all those food 911 type shows on the Food Channel? Besides wanting Tyler Florence in their home for a day, you can see that people are trying to improve their cooking skills. And if your family asks what it is, just make up a funny name so every one gets into the game. Go on, play with your food. It’s fun, delicious and you may find yourself enjoying it. If you decide to go on a weight loss diet, then you have to do your due diligence and see which weight loss program is right for you.

