 Unlike the original iPod, the iPod Touch, iPad, and iPhone cannot be accessed by your computer as external hard drives. This means that copying music from your iPod Touch to a new computer is not possible without the help of third-party software (or jailbreaking).


You can't use iTunes to import the tracks unless you had previously transferred your iTunes library from your old computer to your new one. Connecting your iPod to a new computer will prompt you to erase everything on the iPod.
Most of the third-party programs also allow you to transfer files from iPod Classics.
 Even though you won't be using iTunes to transfer the files, most iPod management programs require iTunes be installed for access to the connection services. Click here for instructions on installing iTunes.
 There are a large number of programs that will allow you to select music files stored on your iPod Touch and copy them to your computer. Most of these programs cost money, but several have free trials that you can use. Some of the more popular programs include:Sharepod
TuneJack
iRip
iRepo

, If iTunes is set to auto-sync, hold Shift + Ctrl (Windows) or Command + Option (Mac) while plugging the iPod in to prevent iTunes from automatically syncing and erasing any content on it.
 Each one will work differently, but they all share the same basic principles. This guide will provide a general overview, so refer to the program's support page for any program-specific issues.
 Some programs such as iRip will give you the option to quickly import all of the tracks on the iPod into the iTunes library on the new computer. You can also choose to select tracks manually and copy only the selection to the computer.Not all programs will import the copied tracks directly into iTunes. If that's the case, or you want to use the songs in another media player, you'll need to copy them to a location on your computer (such as your Music folder), and then add that folder to your iTunes library.
Sometimes the file names of the songs will be changed when copying them off your iPod. iTunes or other media players will still be able to read the metadata information on the songs and properly label them.
The import process will likely take a while, especially if you are copying thousands of songs.

