 One thing you may want to think about before you talk to your husband about having a baby is any previous conversations you have had about them. This may be information you can use to help your case.


Did he say he wanted children before you got married? Did he say he never wanted children? If he said he wanted children, you can discuss this knowledge with him. If he said he never wanted to have children, you should discuss how you believed he would change his mind after being married for awhile.;
, During the process of convincing your husband to have a baby, schedule a block of time each week to discuss the prospect of a child. This achieves a few different things for both of you.


You both have time to step away and collect your thoughts before you talk again. You can even write down points to make, counterpoints, or new reasons to try to convince him.
Stepping away gives you both a chance to get your emotions and anger under control. This helps you be able to think logically and convince him calmly and rationally instead of getting emotional and angry and pushing him away from the idea.
Talking about it during a set time helps you refrain from nagging him. If you keep pushing him all day every day, you may convince him not to have a baby instead.
 If your husband is hesitant about having another child, ask him about his reservations. Figure out why he is hesitant. His fears may be valid, like if you are not in a financially stable place. Talk to your husband and find out what he’s scared of.Make sure to listen to what your husband says. Though you may want to have a baby, his feelings are just as valid as yours. Don’t dismiss his thoughts just because you want a baby.
If you believe you can have a baby despite his fears, discuss this with him. Come up with ways to make it work for your current situation.
 During your discussion about having a child, you should listen to your husband. While it may be hard to listen when he’s so against something you want, you are both partners for one another. He is one-half of the marriage and deserves to be heard.Ask him why he doesn’t want children. Don’t argue, but listen to his reasons without interruption.
Be polite to each other when listening to each other’s wants and feelings. Be respectful and don’t be judgmental about your husband’s opinions.
It may be difficult to stay calm when you are emotional about having a child. If you get too upset and start crying, that's okay. Take a few deep breaths before speaking. If needed, get up and take a brief walk around the house to diffuse your anger.
 Let your husband know that you have concerns about having a baby. Even if you want a baby, there are still concerns about bringing another member into the family. Sharing your fears may help reassure your husband and make him not feel so alone.Tell your husband if you are worried about how it will change the family dynamic, affect your other children, or how it will affect your finances.
Bring up all the other changes that may happen in your marriage, such as changes in your relationship.
 You need to show your husband that the two of you can successfully have a baby. One thing that may hold people back from expanding a family is finances. When you are broaching the subject with your husband, show him evidence that you are financially sound.


Show your husband that you have looked at your savings and annual income and adjusted expenses to accommodate the new addition.
Bring up your careers. Talk about how you both are in good positions at your jobs. Explain to your husband that a baby won't interfere with your jobs.
 Unlike men, women have a limited amount of time to have babies. For some women, it's longer than others. Explain to your husband that time is a factor where babies are concerned.


Tell your husband what you feel about your age and your biological clock. Do you think you are too old? Do you think there are a limited number of years left for you to get pregnant?
Discuss the difficulties you may have getting pregnant, or the length of time you may have to try.

