 These are the real keys of successful smooth talking and flirting -- a genuine smile and open body language. Some researchers even believe that the single most effective move you can make is to look a girl or guy in the eye and smile.To keep things smooth, also focus on:


Keeping your chin up.
Shoulders back, chest out.
Spine up straight when either sitting or standing.
 There is no script or playbook that you can use every time to be a smooth talker. What actually matters is not what you're saying but how it's said, and that is luckily easy to control. You should:


Use clear sentences. Speak slowly to avoid mumbling.
Hold solid eye contact, smiling, and nodding when listening or talking.
Keep up a slight smile up when speaking, unless the conversation turns to something more serious.
Talk to everyone around you, not just him/her. Confident people happily chat with everyone., Conversation is about finding common ground and building a good relationship from there. Smooth talk is no different -- you just want to take a step back and let him/her show you their interests. Once you know what they are interested in, you can start tailoring your conversation to fit both of your shared interests. In reality, smooth talk for dating is much more about listening than saying anything.


"What do you love to do that is not work?"
"What brings you here?"

, You shouldn't tell everything, but you do need to give a little information to get a little. More than not, this happens naturally, but when you're trying to smooth talk it often gets tempting just to keep on talking. While you should feel free to be yourself and tell stories, try to limit yourself to under a minute of talking at any one time -- smooth talking is about listening, remember. When you wrap up stories, try to turn them into questions:


"Have you ever heard of something like that?"
"That's my embarrassing middle school band story -- did you ever play any instruments?"
"Anyway... that's my job, and it feel really fulfilling. But I want to hear more about you!", The biggest problem when most people "smooth talk" dates is that they come off as creepy, desperate, or for better or for worse, "practiced." Real smooth talkers never appear to want anything at all -- they are relaxed, calm, and in control -- and this is a really appealing quality when so many people use pick-up lines and weird tactics to meet dates. So hold back, focus on the conversation and don't feel like you need to "make a move" or risk losing him or her.


Keep some distance -- you should be able to hear each other talk, but you don't want to press up close right off the bat.
If he or she is scooting closer as you talk, and you feel comfortable moving forward, you should feel free to move closer as well.
 Smooth talking a date is about getting to know her and searching for a spark. But how do you know when you've found it? While everyone is different, and this list is by no means exhaustive, the following cues generally mean you should ask her to dance, tell him that he should kiss you, or offer to exchange numbers. A general feeling of connection or "gut feeling", though hard to describe, does mean something, so trust yourself!


Looking at your lips
Breaking the "touch barrier" by stroking your arm, shoulder, back, etc.
Asking if you've got plans soon, or are free later
"I'm having a really great time getting

