 A common place to find this information is in your driver's manual which comes with the car. You can ask your car care professional. There should also be a button on your dashboard with a picture of a car, marked with the letter "I". If your car does not have a VIC, use the following steps.
 Sit comfortably in the driver's seat, and make sure that your transmitter is close enough to the steering wheel and internal locks. Pull on the internal handles of each door to make sure that they are closed tightly.
 When you put the key into the ignition, do not turn it all the way clockwise. Instead, turn it to the position right before when the ignition would start., This is located in front of the driver's seat, behind the steering wheel. Do this until the display board reads "Relearn Remote Key." If your car does not do this, you may have your key in the wrong position. You can always pull your key out and start again., You will hear a noise that sounds like a chime. This means that your transmitter has been successfully synced. If you do not hear this chime, that means that the sync is off. You will have to repeat the previous steps in order to successfully sync your transmitter., Do this in rapid succession, otherwise your car will go out of sync. If this happens, make sure that you begin the process over again, otherwise you will not successfully sync your transmitters.
 If you do not do this step right afterwards, it could throw the sync of the car off. If you forget to take the key out, or take it out a while afterwards, it is best to repeat the previous steps over again. Otherwise you could potentially have thrown off your transmitters, and not be able to work your Unlock/Lock buttons., Step out of your car and shut the driver's door. Step about 20 feet away and press the Unlock/Lock buttons separately. If the locks seem to work, go back even further and test it again. If the locks do not appear to work, it is best to restart the process for your own safety. If you have tried and tried again, and nothing seems to work, contact your nearest car care professional.

