 There are several companies that offer devices for tracking your dog’s activity patterns and otherwise monitoring their health. These devices usually come with their own collar system, or attach to the collar your dog already uses.Options include Nuzzle, Voyce, FitBark, and Whistle. Expect to pay anywhere from under $100 dollars to over $200 for the system, in addition to a monthly fee for some models.
Factors to consider include battery life of the device and usability of the corresponding app that will upload and package data for your review.;
, The device your dog wears simply gathers data. It is the computer application - usually accessed on your phone - that stores the data and provides you with additional information regarding your dog’s health and activity. In order for the app to work as well as possible, give it as much information as possible about your dog.For example, you will likely be required to input your dog’s age, weight, and breed during setup. All of these criteria affect what will be considered “healthy” in terms of activity, heart rate, etc.
Companies like FitBark may even make it possible for your vet to access your dogs’ information through a separate app.
 Whatever the specific model, these systems usually work by tracking your dog’s heart rate and respiratory rate. In turn, this data can be used to keep an eye on your dog’s cardiac and pulmonary patterns.Most models will provide an estimate of the number of calories your dog burns in a certain time period as well. These stats can help aid specific health management plans.
 In addition to vital stats, wearable dog tech will also record the amount of activity your dog gets. It will also monitor how much your dog rests. Tracking the dog’s vitals at night can also provide you with information about your dog’s specific sleep patterns and even the quality of sleep they're getting., In addition to tracking statistics about your dog’s health and activity levels, the app can also serve as your dog’s private electronic calendar. For example, you can set up reminders through the app to make sure you keep up with regular preventative care measures.Set specific reminders to schedule things likes dental appointments, or to administer treatments to help protect you dog from parasites or fleas.

