 Bejeweled Blitz is a time-limited game. You are only give 1 minute to get the highest score you can achieve.


If your hardware is slow, you may end up losing some valuable time. Dedicate your system’s resources to the game and close all the others applications.;
, Even before getting the word “Go” to signal the official clock, you can already start moving and clearing some gems. These additional gems add to your score.
 This is the most basic move there is in every match-three type of game. Go ahead and match them to clear them out of the board.
 As much as possible, aim to get and clear 4 or 5 gems in a row to get those Power Gems and Hyper Cubes. These will contribute a lot to getting you a high score.


Refer to Part 2 to know more about Power Gems and Hyper Cubes.
 After getting those Power Gems and Hyper Cubes, do not use them right away. Save and collect them until you have plenty on your board. Use them when you have a lot on the board to increase your Multipliers, which in turn will multiply the points you get.


Multipliers appear when you remove 12 or more gems with one move, caused by multiple Power Gems, Hyper Cubes, or a series of cascades.
 Do your matches quickly enough and you will be awarded with a Speed Bonus. Don’t remain idle for too long.


Once you get the Speed Bonus, take advantage of it by continuously clearing more gems on the board. All the matches you make, together with the Speed Bonus, will surely bring you huge points. Think and act fast!

, At the start of every game, you can equip up to three boosters. Do that and use them appropriately during the game.


Refer to Part 3 to know more about the boosters.
 At the start of every game, you can also harvest some Rare Gems for you to use within the next game. Rare Gems can enhance your game play and increase your scores.
 Dedicate your full attention on clearing the board, and don’t mind the clock counting down. You will lose focus and some precious seconds when you do.
 The more you play, the more familiar you get with how the whole thing works. Before you know it, matching multiple gems and generating series of cascades will be second-nature to you.


Play often to get better experience, which in turn will get you higher scores.
 Flame Gems, a type of Power Gem, are generated by matching 4 similar gems in a row, either vertically or horizontally.


Flame Gem, when used, will explode clearing out itself and all the gems adjacent to it.
 Star Gems, a type of Power Gem, are generated by matching similar gems that form either a T or an L shape.


A Star Gem, when used, will zap and clear out both the row and the column it belongs to.
 Hyper Cubes are generated by matching 5 similar gems in a row, either vertically or horizontally.


A Hyper Cube, when used, will destroy all the gems of one color on the board.
If you happen to have that rare situation of having two Hyper Cubes side by side, swapping these two will destroy all the gems on the board. Be sure to take a moment to watch this spectacular show on your screen.
 The Mystery Gem booster adds a random special gem on the board at the start of the game. If you want to try your luck, go for this booster and be surprised with what you get


This costs 6000 coins.
 The Detonator booster detonates all the special gems on the board when used during the game. It acts and works like the Last Hurrah event at the end of the game.


This can only be used once and it costs 3000 coins.
 The Scrambler booster shuffles or scrambles the gems on the board, giving you a fresh board to work on. It’s a good booster to use when you’re stuck.


You can use this twice in a game and costs 4000 coins.
 The +5 Seconds booster adds an extra five seconds on your game play at the end of the game. In a time-limited game like Bejeweled Blitz, five seconds can be a lot.


This costs 4500 coins.
 The Bonus Multiplier booster adds a multiplier gem on the board at the start of the game. Having this in play will significantly raise your chances of getting a high score early on.


This costs 7500 coins.

