 You can copy links from websites, emails, Word documents, and pretty much any other program.


Text links in web pages and emails are often underlined and a different color than the surrounding text. Many links are buttons and pictures.;
, If the link is a picture, right-clicking the picture will provide the Copy option.


If you're on a Mac with a single mouse button, hold Ctrl and click to open the right-click menu.
 When a link is copied, it is sent to your clipboard to be pasted elsewhere. The clipboard can only store a single link at a time. The wording of this option will vary depending on what program you are using. Below are some common examples:


Chrome - "Copy link address"
Firefox - "Copy Link Location"
Internet Explorer - "Copy shortcut"
Safari - "Copy Link"
Word - "Copy Hyperlink"

, Once your link is copied, you can paste it anywhere you can type. Click to place your cursor wherever you want to paste the link.


You can paste the link anywhere you can type, including in emails, Word documents, your browser's address bar, Facebook chats, and more.
 There are several ways you can paste your copied link:


Right-click wherever your cursor is and select "Paste."
Press Ctrl+V (Windows) or ⌘ Cmd+V (Mac).
Click the Edit menu (if present) and select "Paste." Not all programs have a visible Edit menu.
 Some programs, such as blogs, email programs, and word processors, allow you to change the text that displays instead of showing the whole link address. This lets you create a link with a sentence or word:Place your cursor where you want the hyperlink to go.
Click the "Insert Hyperlink" button. This may be below the text form, or in the Insert menu (word processors). The button often has a chainlink icon.
Type what you want to appear in the "Text to display" field. This is what will appear as the clickable link.
Paste the link in the "Address," "URL," or "Link to" field. Click in the field and press Ctrl+V (Windows) or ⌘ Cmd+V (Mac) to paste the copied link.
 If you want to share or save a website you're visiting, you can copy the address from the address bar of your browser:


Click the address in your browser. This may reveal the entire address if parts were hidden while browsing.
Select the entire address if it isn't already. Usually the address will automatically be selected when you click it. If it isn't, press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+A to select the entire thing.
Copy the selected address by right-clicking the selection and clicking "Copy," or by pressing Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+C.
Place your cursor where you want to paste the link and press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+V.

