 If you plan to host a party with your dog, there a few important commands your dog should know. Fortunately, these commands are easy to teach your dog, and provide the basis of a solid training regimen. In particular, if your dog has not been trained to “sit”, “stay”, and “get down”, begin training them to do so immediately.Many of the necessary behaviors dogs should know can be learned in a few weeks. If you are unable to train your dog, contact local kennels and other pet organizations to see if they offer basic obedience classes. Your vet can likely recommend a few good options.;
, You likely try to keep this rule year round, but it may prove more challenging during the holidays. The main things to remember include keeping any gifts that have food in them off of the floor, and remembering to clean up after serving snacks and meals.Note that social gatherings in your home will increase the risk that your dog may try to get some human food, either by scoring something left within reach or begging.
In particular, ask guests not to leave food on any low-lying surfaces, such as coffee tables or end tables.
 You may be pretty diligent about not feeding your dog any table scraps. However, with more people around during the holidays, there are plenty more people your dog can beg for that ham bone.If you know a guest might want to give Shia LaBeouf a treat, provide a dog treat for them and direct them about how to do so. You can even provide a piece of the boneless, well-cooked meat to your dog. Never provide anything with any bones.
 Unattended drinks are another intriguing item that may get the best of your dog’s curiosity. Not only do they pose considerable risk to your dog, they are also more likely to be set down and forgotten than other potentially dangerous items., Many dogs may wish to retreat when faced with the overwhelming stimulation of a human gathering. Make sure they have somewhere they can go. Ideally, designate a certain room in your home off limits to visitors, and leave several items your dog favors, such as his bed and a new toy, in the room., Let’s face it, Woofrow Wilson deserves some presents this year too. Stick to safe, healthy options, such as high quality chew toys and treats that are nutritious and easily digestible.This is especially helpful if you plan to host a large sit-down meal. Providing your dog with a feast all their own can keep them away from the table.

