 If there is only a slight difference in your breast size, then this is a simple fix to your situation. Bras with a lined cup include a molded bra, contour bra and a padded bra.With these types of bras, the bra maintains the natural shape of the your breast, allowing both breasts to appear to be the same size. For the best results, purchase a lined cup bra that fits the larger breast.


Because there is more than one type of lined bra, choose the type of bra that fits your chest the best. A padded bra is the more popular choice, but depending on the size of your breasts, it may not work for you. Because the padded bra contains the same amount of padding on each side, it may have the unfortunate effect of only making your breast bigger, while maintaining their disproportionate size.
The molded and contour bra may be a better option if there is only a small difference in the size of your breasts.They work to mimic and hold the shape of your larger breast, as opposed to providing only padding.
 You can get a more even appearance by wearing a bra with removable pads. This may work better than a lined cup bra because you can create better padded support by removing or adding pads on either side of your breast. You can the empty space of your bra where your smaller breast is with more padding, and you can also tone down the padding on top of the larger breast by removing some if necessary.
 There are different types of padding available for you to choose from, including silicone, foam, water, and gel pads.Choose your padding based on the size of your breasts and the feel of the pad. Insert double-sided body tape between your bra and the padding to keep it from slipping out.


Silicone, water and gel bra pads are heavier than foam and fabric pads. If your breast size is on the lighter side, consider the foam or fabric pads.
If one breast is considerably larger than the other, don’t double up on the heavier bra pads. They may make your breasts look even in size, but one side will appear heavier than the other.
If you’re going swimming, look for beach silicone pads.
 A bra shop will go beyond simply adding in extra padding. They’ll adjust the cut of the bra and the cut of the padding, and ensure it matches the look you want. For a less expensive fix, you can have a bra shop sew padding into your bra to make it permanent.
 If you’ve undergone a mastectomy, which is the removal of a breast, or any type of surgery to your breasts, a mastectomy bra will provide the comfort your breasts may need, while also helping to make them appear even.Due to the likely sensitivity your breasts may be experiencing, this type of bra comes with inside pockets, which allow you to insert either a pad or a prosthetic breast, and provides the support you need without applying much pressure to your chest.

