 To arrange your pieces in a way to gain the most points by generating "harmonies", and by avoiding the generation of "disharmonies".
 Each player may take one of four moves during their turn:


Play one piece on an intersection.
Move one of the pieces up, down, left, or right to an adjoining intersection, as long as they don't interfere with tile rules.
Use the wheel to rotate the pieces around the wheel clock-wise.
Pass their turn.

- A tile may not end its turn on a point occupied by another tile that it cannot capture.
- A player may move a tile any number of spaces shorter than its maximum movement value.
- Flowers may end their turn on an intersection composed of both red and white spaces regardless of their color.
- Flower tiles placed onto an opposing color intersection by a tile capable of moving other tiles are returned to the players reserve pile.
 Certain flower tiles go along with other tiles (called a "harmony") or they will go against other tiles ("disharmony"). At the end of each game, each tile that is in harmony with the one next to it earns 1 point. Each tile that is in disharmony with the tile next to it causes the owner of the tile to lose 1 point. Pieces must be owned by the same player to generate harmony or disharmony. The harmonies are displayed lower on this page.To form a harmony, the two tiles must be owned by you, and they must be connected by any number of the lines in one cardinal direction. There can be no opposing or disharmonious tiles in between your two tiles. However, there may be boat and neutral harmony flower tiles in between.
 Landing on a tile may or may not remove it from the board. To move one, it must be an opposite tile, and owned by your opponent. The Dragon and Lotus rules still apply here, and all removed tiles are placed into The Pot.
 The game ends when one player is left with only three harmonious tiles, a player forfeits, or a player forms a consistent chain of harmonies around the center point and wins the game.
 At the end of the game, each player tallies the points scored for all the harmonies they completed. Red flowers in red spaces and white flowers in white spaces in a harmony get one extra bonus point. All of a player's pieces that are within 3 spaces of a White Lotus tile gain an extra point also. Each player then subtracts 1 point for each piece that they have on the board. The player with the most points remaining wins.

