 Go to the official Microsoft website and download Visio Professional 2013.;
, Once downloaded, the software will be placed in the "Downloads" folder on your computer in a folder called Visio Professional 2013. When you open the folder, you will find a file with a name similar to the one provided here: "en_visio_professional_2013_x86_x64_dvd_1134691.iso". In order to install Visio on your computer you will need to extract the file first. To do this, right click on the file, choose "7-zip" and select "extract files". When extracted, you will have 2 files in your folder, your original .iso file and a folder with the same name. Inside the folder you will find a series of files and folders that contain two versions of Visio that are available for installation: 32 bit (x86) and 64 bit (x64). Select the best option, depending on your computers settings.
 Once you select the best option for your computer, either 32 or 64 bits, double click on the corresponding folder. Inside you will find 8 folders and 4 files. At the bottom of the list you will find a file called "setup.exe". This is the file you require to install Visio. Locate the setup.exe file and double click on it.
 Once you select and double click the setup.exe file, a pop-up window will appear with the installation options available. For a quick and easy way to install Visio, select "Install Now".
 The installation process will take a few minutes to finish. Once the installation process is complete, Microsoft Visio will give you the option to complete your experience by registering your email address associated with your Microsoft account. You are not required to do this, and if you prefer not to, you can click on close.
 To Open Visio Professional 2013, go to your Main Menu > All Programs > Microsoft Office 2013 > Visio 2013.
 Once Visio opens, a pop-up window will appear and you will be prompted to activate Office in case you didn't when you finished installing Visio. You have the option to activate Visio by introducing a Serial Key or close the window.
 Once Visio open, you will be in the main menu with all the different options to start working, go to the library of options and search and select Wireframe.
 Once you select Wireframe, a pop-up window will appear. You will have the option to select between metric units or US Units, select the one you prefer and click "Create".
 Now you are ready to start creating Wireframes using the stencils open in the left side of your window. There are many options that will help you create detailed wireframes, such as: Quick Shapes, Dialogs, Toolbars, Controls, Common Icons, and Web and Media Icons. As well as the stencil options, you have the regular tools to create text, connectors for diagrams, and basic shapes that will complement your Wireframes.

