 Although it may seem like a small detail, your choice of shoes can have a huge impact on your ankles and feet when doing any kind of exercise. Buying and wearing the right type of shoe for your foot will go a long way in preventing injury to your ankles. Keep some of the following tips in mind when shopping for your next pair of shoes:If you have low arches you will need a shoe that provides front and arch support.
Softer platforms and more cushion can be a good fit if you have high arches or stiff feet.
Cross training shoes can work for multiple styles of sports.
It's best to buy and wear a shoe that is specifically designed for your favorite sport. For example, buying actual running shoes for running, basketball shoes for playing ball, etc.;
, Over time your shoes will wear down, changing the way they support your foot. This changing support can affect how your foot falls when walking or running and increase the chances of you sustaining an ankle injury. Always replace your shoes to make sure they are supporting your foot properly.Generally, shoes should be replaced every six months.
If you run more often, replacing your shoes more frequently can be a good idea.
Check your shoes for obvious signs such as a crushed inner platform or any tears or rips.
 If you are a fan of walking or running exercise, you will want to pay attention the surfaces you are traveling on. Unleveled or uneven surfaces can pose a the danger of injuring your ankle. If your foot falls on an uneven surface it can twist and sprain the ankle. Always make sure your planned routes have level and safe surfaces for you to run or walk on. Roots, gravel, rocks, and holes can all present hazards and increase the chances of injuring your ankle.
Be careful when running up or down hills, as this can increase your chances of injury.Gradually add more hills to your running routes to protect yourself.
 Getting in regular exercise or physical activity can be a great idea for maintaining a healthy lifestyle. However, it is possible that you can get too much exercise. Overtraining will increase the chances of injury and make it more likely that you may hurt your ankle. Avoid training too much to keep your ankle safe.Try cross-training to avoid injury brought on by repetitive motion and exercise.
For example, if you are a runner you might try weight lifting, bike riding, or even walking to reduce repetitive strain and still improve your running capabilities.Take time off if you notice any pain or soreness in your ankle.

