 This Venusian Goddess of Love likes a sure thing. She won't let just anyone get near her. Because of this, you'll need to be patient. She can't be seduced with a meaningful glance and a particularly strong drink. To get this woman, you'll need to put in the time. She'll be worth it!


Don't worry about getting too deep into the friend zone. This is a necessary part of seducing her. You'll need to build a foundation of trust before you get near her bed. Would you really want your woman to be any other way?





;
, This is how you'll avoid the friend zone! Show her you want her in a gentlemanly way. Bring her flowers. Write her a letter. Kiss her cheek upon saying goodbye. Get her thinking about you. Get her all but begging for more. You know that stuff your grandparents talk about? Start taking notes.


When you're bringing her flowers, make 'em good. The Taurean woman likes her nice things. Find out what her favorites are and have them sent to her with a coy note. Spark her interest showing her your maturity, your pocketbook, and your intentions.
 This goddess has a few trust issues, to say the least. She wants a lover that she knows knows how amazing she is and is willing to tell her! So offer her compliments and flattery -- just make sure they're genuine! Letting her know how special you think she is will get her to open up to your faster.


Avoid being negative. You know that cat-and-mouse, hard-to-get stuff that some signs go for? Not Taurus. She much prefers a direct, you're-what-I-want attitude over mind games. And definitely avoid being condescending to make her feel emotionally vulnerable and yearn for your approval. That's an act that will get you booted outta the house.
 Feminine Taurus has a strong side -- she is very reliable, trustworthy, and sticks firm to her principles. If you flake out on her, she won't be having it. If you're running late, let her know as soon as you do. Play nice and she may not stick you with her horns.


And when it comes to your word, stick to it. If you say you'll do something for her, do it. If you say you'll do something for a friend of hers, do it. If you say anything that she might get wind of, do it. She's fiercely loyal to everyone in her circle -- betray their trust and you betray hers.
 This woman loves everything about the arts. She will bounce with energy, passion, and drive if you take her to a museum, the theater, a concert, or even a wine tasting. If there's even a semblance of quality and creativity involved, she's there.


So if you're looking for a good date, look no further. If it requires you to get a little fancy, great. If it involves food, great. If it involves her showing you her expertise in this realm, great. She'll be yours in no time.
 If you really want to be a shoo-in in her book, you'll bombard all her senses with pleasing stimuli. That means you gotta create a moment that's beautiful to her eyes and ears, pleasing to touch, taste, and smell. So cook her dinner, light some candles, and show her your silken sheets. Boom.


That cooking thing? That works for most women, but definitely works on Tauruses. That shows you can provide and have skills. Just make sure you're keeping it simple -- she's not a big fan of new, crazy things, food included.
 If you don't have dollar bills bulging out of your wallet, you may be facing an uphill battle. Ms. Taurus loves her nice things. They don't have to be the most expensive or the most trendy, but they have to be nice. Classic, vintage, or modern -- she loves it all if it's made well.


Bust out your fine china when you're cooking her dinner. Buy her the nicest flowers. Wear your cashmere sweater on your date and offer it to her when she gets cold. And definitely get your car washed before you pick her up.
 Lady Taurus wants a man who's a rock. He has money in his wallet, a nice car, a decent home, a decent job, and is emotionally stable to boot. She's not looking to take care of anyone, that's for sure. Even if you're not thinking long-term, these things are necessary to draw and keep her attention on you long enough to even be considered.


Don't be emotionally all over the place, flirting with her one minute and giving her the cold shoulder the next. She'll take that as you not knowing what you want. Just as much as you'd like her to be gung-ho to get with you, act the same. She may reciprocate!

, This is just good advice. Follow it. Always follow it. When you're finally close enough to kiss her (and she lets you), don't go in for the kill too soon. Keep it PG-13 until she's begging you to make it not-so-family-friendly. When both of you can barely take it anymore, go for it.


You want her wrapped around your finger, don't you? This isn't a one-night stand type of girl. You'll both be coming back for more, so be on your best behavior. If you aim to please, she'll aim to please and you'll both leave happy.
 The other options are Fire, Water, and Air. You can probably guess what it means by doing a little deducing. She's also fixed (as opposed to mutable), meaning that she's firm in her Earthy ways. A typical Earth sign can be described as the following:


Grounded, stable, and resistant to change
Reliable and sturdy and not prone to tempers or large displays of emotion
Not keen on taking risks and likes a sure thing
Known as the "builder" of the zodiac

, If you're looking for her to emerge from your bed claiming you're a sex god, while she may be thinking it, she won't be saying it. She lives in the logical, more rational world and can't get swept up in tears, hysterics, or visible ecstasy. Take this as a good thing -- no drama!


This does not mean she won't get attached to you or won't get mad when you don't call her back. Au contraire, mon ami, she'll headbutt you with those horns of hers. She'll hold a grudge through next Tuesday. She just won't show it. She'll give you the cold shoulder without saying a word.
 Her Earthy ways make most Fire and Water signs think she's rather conservative and, well, sometimes dull. That's not the case! Traditional does not equate to boring. What it does mean is that she's good at what she does and knows what she likes. While she may focus on meat and potatoes, she makes damn good meat and potatoes. Nothing wrong about that!


No, she's not super adventurous and no, she doesn't get caught up in fantasy land. What's wrong with that? She lives in the real world and has real things that matter to her. And if it works for her, she'll stick with it. If it ain't broke, don't fix it!

, So, yes, she is dependable and reliable and nice and sweet and not super emotional -- but that doesn't mean you should mess with her. She's also very into respect, tact, and treating others as they deserve to be treated. So if you aim to manipulate or use, she'll show you the back door, no questions asked. Those horns of hers can be quite pointy! Ow.


If you're looking to seduce her and then put her in a cab, just be honest. You'll get a lot further that way than pretending to be something you're not. She has no patience for liars or hypocrites and is pretty good at spotting them, too.
 Once you've got her, try your hardest to treat her as well as she treats you. She'll be incredibly loyal, patient, and trustworthy. Pay her back by treating her in kind! You'll be the only one in her life, hands down. Now the question is: What in the world did you do to deserve her?


Odds are you went in with the intention of seducing her and found yourself being seduced. Funny how that works, huh? Ms. Taurus can be a long-term type of gal if you're a worthy suitor. Congratulations on taming that bull!







