 Almost all records will have some light scratching and marks on them. These are usually small, whitish scratches just on the surface of the vinyl, and you can tell they don't gouge into the grooves. However, some records will have cuts: deeper areas where you can see the grooves of the vinyl are chipped or scratched. While one or two small cuts may not render a record unplayable, it significantly lowers the price.


Deep scratches can often be felt with your fingernail, whereas smaller ones will be tough to feel.
If a record has a scratch in it but you still really want it, try to sample it first.
If you're only buying the records for decoration, you still shouldn't ignore the record's quality. Finding scratches or defects can help you drive the price down.;
, Records play music physically -- the needle lays on the grooves and translates them into sound. So anything on the record, such as dust or lint, will cause the needle to move when it hits it, "creating" noise. This is where the static and popping noises come from on an old record. While light dust can be removed with a brush, any record that is visibly covered in dust is hard to make playable without a special vinyl vacuum cleaner.


For light dust, purchase a record brush and a little vial of distilled water to clean them quickly., Thinner records are cheaper and degrade in quality much faster than thicker records. They also warp, or permanently bend, much faster. To notice the difference in thickness, pick up an old record in the discount section and a new, nice record. The former will be flimsy and easily bent, but high-quality records are solid, slightly heavy objects. If a record has warped it may still be playable, but it will sound slightly off and may skip.


New records are often printed on "180g" vinyl, which is a great, high-quality weight that will last for some time.
Be especially wary of records that were stacked on top of each other, not side by side, as this is the major cause of warping., The condition of a record and its sleeve will be frequently graded by the seller, and should always be provided when buying online. While this grading process is subjective and varies between sellers, it provides you with valuable information in terms of the record's condition and its appropriate price. A minor change in grade can mean a huge change in price for an extremely rare record.



Mint (M) or Near Mint (NM or M-): These records are near perfect, having been played no more than one or two times (records graded "Mint" have never been played at all). Rare, expensive, and high-quality, with the jacket perfect as well.

Very Good Plus (VG+): Will play perfectly. Other than a few cosmetic defects, such as sticker peeling, light discoloration, and even light warping, a VG+ could be an NM. Occasionally you will see E, NM-, or VG++ to denote the record is slightly better than VG+, but not quite mint condition.

Very Good (VG): Light scratching, some noise when played. The jacket and labels will be generally worn or slightly damaged. However, VG records usually don't have all of these problems at once -- just one or two.

Good (G) or Good Plus (G+): Should still play through without skipping, though were will be noise in the background. The cover won't be in great shape. Still, any record graded G or G+ should still play without major issues.

Poor (P) or Fair (F): These records are cracked, warped, or deeply scratched. Unless it is a very, very rare record, these shouldn't sell for more than $0.50, Even if you can't listen to the whole thing, you want to check out any problem areas you've found and get an idea for the overall noise level of the record. All record stores should have 2-3 sample turntables with headphones attached that allow you to test a record out, and if not you can usually ask the clerk to put it on.


When listening, pay attention to the quiet moments, like the fade in and out. While a little static and some pops are normal, it should be subtle and never overpower the music.
If you see any scratches, test them out by putting the needle just before the scratch and listening to how it handles the noise when it gets there.

