 You must first be aware of your daydreaming when it occurs in order to begin to change it. Once you have identified the purpose, patterns, and consequences of your daydreaming, it may be helpful to start noticing when you are daydreaming in the moment.Signs you may be daydreaming include: losing eye contact with someone during a conversation, having difficulty focusing on your current task, not remembering what was just said in a conversation, thinking thoughts unrelated to the current situation, and having imaginary conversations with people or imagining events occurring in your head.
 Once you have identified that you are daydreaming, stop immediately and write down what you were daydreaming about, as well as the time of day, situation or place you were in, and how long your mind was wandering.This will help you become aware of when you daydream and will help you understand the patterns of your behaviors better.


Question the utility of the daydream. Ask yourself, is this daydream helping me in some way?

, Certain types of daydreaming can lead to negative outcomes. For example, daydreaming about people whom you do not know very well can increase loneliness.However, imagining people who are close to us can increase feelings of connection and satisfaction with life in general. Choose boundaries that, when crossed, signal you to stop daydreaming. Some of them might include intimacy, spending large amounts of money, or extreme violence.
Sometimes when you are lost in your own dreams and it is wasting your time, just look at your watch. Keeping a watch is a reminder telling you that how precious it is for you make the most of this moment because it won't be back ever again!

, Mind-wandering can be used to self-reflect and work toward fulfilling personal goals.Imagery and visualization techniques are common in therapy, especially in the treatment of anxiety and depression. In using visualization techniques, you can focus your daydream on something that will be helpful and relaxing for you.


One example of an imagery exercise is to close your eyes and imagine yourself in a safe place.This place may be a beach, your bedroom, a church or any place that you may feel safe, secure, and relaxed. Imagine how it feels in this place. Notice the temperature, the air, how your body feels, and what other sensations and feelings you have. Imagine what is smells like and sounds like in your safe place. Are there other people in your safe place? What are you doing in your safe place? Stay in your safe place until you are fully relaxed and ready to open your eyes.
Online resources can help guide you through imagery techniques., Right when you notice you are daydreaming, get up and do something active. This serves as a way to get some of your physical energy out, which may in turn, help your mind to re-focus and reduce daydreaming.Try stretching. Reach for the sky as high as you can without feeling uncomfortable. Then spread your legs apart while standing and reach toward the ground (just as far as is comfortable for you).
You can do jumping jacks, run in place, or shake your arms. Try anything active that is safe and appropriate for the place and situation you are in.
 Every time you are able to complete a task without falling into the daydreaming trap, give yourself a reward. This idea is based on positive reinforcement, a component of operant conditioning, and research has indicated that it increases positive behaviors (such as sustained attention).It also gives you personal boundaries (that you will not do something fun until you complete your task), and something to look forward to (the reward).


Try giving yourself something you like such as a piece of candy or another snack.
You can even give yourself a 5 minute break from your work as a reward.Taking appropriate breaks actually increases productivity overall. Use this time to do something you enjoy such as playing a game or texting a friend.
 Excessive daydreaming can become a problem if it causes issues in your personal life such as difficulties in relationships, school, your ability to perform your job, or other daily activities. If this is the case, treatment can be a useful option.Contact a psychologist (PsyD, PhD), marriage and family therapist (MFT), or psychiatrist (MD).

