 ;
, Even if you think you won't be working on some rooms, you may have ideas to record for later, so it pays to make space for each of the rooms you have currently. Divide the notebook paper into the index sections. 

, Place in the back of the notebook. 

, Place into sections, as you will need these for fabric samples and other loose items.
  If you just have a pile of catalogs, tear the sheets out and get rid of that pile.
, Write the notes you have in the appropriate section. Write these notes in the form of a "to do" list", i.e. Bedroom, Living Room, Front Hall, etc. Make a list of what you want to do with the room. 


If you have tear sheets of ideas, glue the items onto the cardstock and file into that room's section.
If you have ideas in your head of curtains, pillows, wall treatments, etc., sketch them out on the cardstock and file in the section.
If you have a floor plan, sketch onto the cardstock or paper. Keep going until you have all existing materials in the book.
 Start with the rooms you are working on. Study the room and write down everything you'd like to do in that room. Write down what you'd like to explore or research. Measure the room and its windows; record in the book.
 Now you have everything organized, filed and placed in your new House Book. Next, go through the book one section at a time and create a shopping list for each room based on your to do list, catalog finds, etc. 


Enter as much info as you can on the shopping lists––budgets, measurements you need to select area rugs or window treatments, or what retail store to purchase from.


When you have completed this step, you are ready to work with this House Book forever.
 Every time you tear something from a catalog or magazine, you have a place for it.  f you don't have a category, say for "Just Cool Ideas" or Misc., etc., just make one. 


You can also create a section for holidays to include menus, shopping lists, budgets, preparation lists, having to do with the current holiday coming up. 
Add/delete as you decide on new ideas, or as you complete tasks. You may complete one room at a time, or you work on several rooms at the same time.
Of course, you can enter all the info onto Word documents, revise and print as you go but often writing the information down and re-writing it truly solidifies ideas and creates an opportunity to think things through.
 The most important thing is that you will feel less stressed about decorating because you have everything in one place. Best of all, it's easy to change the book and make it a tool that works for you.

