 When you blush, you can quickly help fade the redness by relaxing your muscles, particularly in your shoulders and neck. Try to let go of the tension that you are suddenly holding. and if you want to stop blushing it helps if you look at you fingers and count them then rubb your hands together to create friction this eases the pain.Keep your posture upright and your legs balanced.


In order to relax, try:

Remembering to breathe in and out (deeply if you can).
Reminding yourself that this isn't the first time you have blushed and it probably won't be the last time. This can be oddly comforting.
Smiling. Smiling may help as our cheeks naturally redden when we smile; smiling also helps us feel happier, which may destroy any social anxiety.

;
, Many people fixate on their blushing when it happens, worsening their social anxiety. And research shows that the more we think about blushing, the more we blush.If you can find a way to stop fixating on blushing, chances are you'll actually blush less!

, If a person's on a date and they do something incredibly awkward, one way that they'll save the situation is by calling attention to it: "Well, now, that was clumsy. I promise I'm only a klutz half of the time!" By calling attention to the awkwardness and putting it out in the open, they've unmasked it. The awkwardness usually leaves right then and there. You can do the same thing with blushing.


It's obviously not something you can do every time, in every situation, but consider it a tool you can use. Your blushing often gets worse because you're afraid of people uncovering your anxiety. If you defuse the anxiety before other people have time to realize it, you have no reason to blush anymore.
 In order to help you feel both cooler (as in physically colder, but also street-wise) and to distract you from the blushing itself, try several thought exercises:


Imagine jumping in an ice-cold lake. Imagine diving deep down to the bottom of the lake while feeling the cold water wash over your limbs and skin. It'll help you cool down and should relax you a bit.
Imagine people in their underwear. For some odd reason, this public-speaking trick really works. It makes you feel like everyone else is human, and that you're not the only one who makes mistakes. More often than not, it'll make you chuckle.
Compare your situation to other people in the world. You feel embarrassed because you need to get up and talk in front of your class, perhaps. That's a piece of cake compared to fighting for your life, or struggling to find food. Remind yourself of how good you have it.

