 Nature can refer to your behavior, your character, or your personality.Your definition could be similar or something different. If there is something you are looking to alter in yourself, it is important for you to be clear about what that is; and what you want to change. Differentiate your nature from other traits or aspects of your personality.Decide for yourself what you mean when you are referring to your nature.


Are you looking to change the root of who you are?
Are you looking to change your behavior?
Are you looking to change your personality?
Are you looking to find purpose in your life?;
, We often don't know ourselves as well as those who are closest to us. You can learn a lot about your personality, especially the good aspects, by listening to and observing people you interact with.

Also, you can learn about your nature by paying attention to your tendencies, desires, and wishes.

Talk to friends and family and discuss with them how they would describe your nature. Ask simply, "How would you describe my nature?"
Pay attention to people who dislike you and why they may dislike you.
Learn from what you are passionate about and what brings you joy.
 If you believe your nature refers more to your personality, and you have become stuck trying to determine it, take a personality test to help you. Determining Your Myers Briggs Personality Type is another way to shed light on aspects of your personality or your temperament.It can show you where you may have strengths or weaknesses and give you a starting point to off of which you can build your idea of your nature.


If you are interested in taking a personality test, visit a psychologist or vocational specialist. Be wary of fake personality tests, especially those easily found on the internet.
 After you have determined what your nature is, or what you would like your nature to be, create a list or write out what you would like to change and what your goals are. It is important to write down these changes to make sure you are making clear and measurable goals to reach for.This also allows you to be specific and gives you a road map for where to begin. Try these different ways of writing it out.



Journal about your experiences in trying to make a positive change in yourself.
Describe your "ideal you," including qualities you possess and how others would view you and treat you.
Write at least three good things that happened each day as a result of changing your nature.