 You can’t copyright names, colors, or design. For example, you can’t copyright familiar symbols or typographical ornamentation.To qualify for copyright protection, your logo must be sufficiently creative that it could qualify for a copyright as an artwork.


For example, the NFL Baltimore Ravens were able to get copyright protection for the image of a raven, which was found to be sufficiently creative.You also can’t copy someone else’s logo, so research whether the logo has already been registered. Search the U.S. Copyright Office website.Include “logo” as a search term.;
, The copyright symbol is the letter C within a circle. You can also type “Copyright” or “Copr.” Include the symbol on the logo or right beside it., Use the date your logo was first published.For example, if you created the logo in 2015, then use that date.


If you haven’t used the logo yet, be sure to write “Unpublished Work” before the copyright symbol.
 Only the creator of the logo can have the copyright, unless they transferred their rights to you. Include the name of the copyright holder. You can also use an abbreviation or generally known alternative designation.Unless your business owns the copyright, use your legal name.


A complete copyright notice will read like the following: “Copyright 2017 Jill Anderson.”
If the logo was unpublished, then the notice will read: “Unpublished Work Copyright 2017 Jill Anderson.”

, As the copyright holder, you can prevent other people from reproducing your logo or distributing or displaying copies of the logo to the public. However, you must register your copyright with the USPTO before you can bring a lawsuit for illegal copying (infringement) in a U.S. court.This requirement applies to U.S. copyrights.
 It’s cheaper to register your copyright online through the electronic Copyright Office.You’ll pay a lower filing fee and have your copyright processed faster. You can pay with a credit card, debit card, or electronic check.You’ll need to create a user ID and password before you can register online.
You must submit copies of your logo to the Copyright Office as part of your application. Generally, you can do this online, though you may have to mail copies to the office instead.
 You may still register your copyright using Visual Form VA. You can download it from the Copyright Office website.Enter your information directly into the form or neatly print your information.


If you have a question, call 202-707-3000 or toll-free at 1-877-476-0778., Make a copy of your application and submit it along with your deposit copy to Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559.If your logo has been published, include two deposit copies. Only one copy of an unpublished logo is required.


The fee schedule changes regularly, so check the Copyright website to find out the current fee.Make your check or money order payable to Register of Copyrights. All payments must be in U.S. dollars.
You won’t be notified when your application has been received. Send it certified mail, return receipt requested if you want notification.
 Generally, it can take six months or longer for your application to be processed. Electronic submissions are processed about two months faster., In the U.S., copyright protection lasts for the author’s life plus 70 years. After this time period, however, it expires. For this reason, you might want to get trademark protection. A trademark is a phrase, word, symbol, or design that identifies the source of goods or services, and logos may qualify.Trademark protection isn’t as broad as copyright protection. For example, trademark rights won’t prevent other people from using the logo if they are selling different goods or services.The main benefit of trademark protection is that it lasts indefinitely.
 Your logo can’t be “confusingly similar” to an existing trademark. Search the Trademark Electronic Search System database for free.Consult the Design Code Search Manual for which code to search.


Remember that similar trademarks are okay if they are used to sell different goods or services. In that situation, the similar marks won’t create confusion in the mind of the public. For example, “Delta” is used by both Delta Airlines and Delta Faucets.
 The USPTO prefers that you register your trademark online using the Trademark Electronic Application System (TEAS).You can pay the fee and upload a specimen of your logo online. There is a tutorial available to walk you through the process.You aren’t required to register your trademark. Instead, you can gain trademark rights by using the mark in connection with the sale of services or goods.However, there are many advantages to registering. It provides the public with notice that you hold the trademark, and you need to register before you can sue in federal court., If you’ve registered the trademark, then include the registration symbol: the letter R inside a circle. However, if you haven’t registered it yet, then use either “TM” for a trademark or “SM” for a service mark.Use your logo consistently in connection with the sale of your goods or services. If you don’t, you can lose your trademark rights.
 The USPTO will publish your trademark for 30 days in the Official Gazette. If there is no public opposition, you will receive your certificate. Because of the high volume of applications, it might take a year or more to receive approval.