 Ideally, to gain the most possible likes, you should try to post a steady stream of content most days (if not every day.) Posting about two or three photos a day (with at least a few hours between each photo) should ensure that most followers see something new from you every time they log in.


However, you won't want to post too frequently, especially if this forces you to post uninteresting content. Doing this can "flood" your followers' feeds with a high volume of mediocre photos, which may persuade them to unfollow you or

, You should try to avoid posting photos at a time when your target audience is fast asleep. A good policy is to try to post in the morning, during lunchtime, and/or around the end of dinner, as many people like to browse their social networks before their daily activities or during their downtime. This will usually ensure that you get the most exposure possible.


It's also a good idea to avoid posting on Friday or Saturday evenings, as most people are usually busy with their friends or family at these times.
If you're popular internationally, keep in mind that your followers abroad will usually have very different schedules than you due to time differences.
 Having a good theme or "schtick" can make it much easier for your Instagram to get popular and start racking in likes. Ideally, this theme should be something you're interested in — for instance, if you're involved in the world of muscle cars, car photography might be your thing, whereas if you're a dog trainer, you might make a name for yourself by posting cute pet videos. Your theme is not necessarily something you need to stick to 100% of the time, but having a theme is a good way to immediately create a potential audience for yourself.
 Why rely only on your Instagram presence to get likes for yourself? Posting your Instagram content to other social media sites you're active on is a great way to get it noticed fast and capitalize on the online presence you've already built up elsewhere.


Best of all, this is quite easy to do — just take a picture or video as you normally would, then, when you get to the page where you can write a caption for your content, simply click the buttons under the "Share" header to cross-post your Instagram content to other networks. If it's your first time doing this, you may need to supply your login credentials for these other sites.

