 There are numerous reasons why taking medical levels of cinnamon might not be good idea for you. You should always speak to your Doctor first for advice. You should also ask if there is a potential negative reaction to any other medications, both prescription and herbal, that you are taking.Although some evidence suggests that cinnamon can help to regulate blood sugar levels for those with type two diabetes, it should never be used as a replacement for insulin., Cinnamon is an unproven treatment, and as such there are no cast iron rules for the amount you should take in order to experience the potential health benefits. Recommendations vary from ½ a teaspoon a day, up to six teaspoons a day.If in doubt err on the side of caution and consume less. Large doses of cinnamon can be toxic, so in no instances should you go above more than one teaspoon or 6 grams a day.As ever, you should consult a Doctor before regularly consuming cinnamon for health benefits.
 Given that there is uncertainty about the regular use of cinnamon as a health supplement, there are certain instances when it is not recommended to be used in this way. It should not be taken as a supplement by children or pregnant women. Women who are breastfeeding should also avoid it., You should not eat a lot of cinnamon if you take a blood thinner. Cinnamon contains small amounts of coumarin, which can cause blood-thinning in large amounts. The coumarin content is higher in Cassia Cinnamon than Ceylon Cinnamon.Too much cinnamon can also cause liver problems., Seal cinnamon in a tightly sealed glass container and store in a cool, dark, dry place. Ground cinnamon can be kept fresh for up to six months. Cinnamon sticks may stay fresh for up to one year. You can extend cinnamon’s shelf life by storing the spice in the refrigerator in a well-sealed container.


Smell the cinnamon to check for freshness. Make sure it has a sweet smell — a true indicator that it is fresh.
Choose organically grown cinnamon to ensure that it has not been irradiated. Irradiating cinnamon may lead to a decrease in its vitamin C and carotenoid content.

