 If you have been a long standing patient at your dental office or if you have a payment history at the dentist that shows you can pay your bills on time, you may be able to arrange a payment plan with your dentist. In this arrangement, you would have to pay for a portion of the dental work up front as a down payment, usually one-third to one-half of the total bill. This will ensure you cover the dentist’s fixed costs, such as the dental lab bill and the overhead expenses for maintaining the office.You can then arrange to pay the remainder of the bill in monthly fixed payments. Your dentist may set a repayment time frame, usually several months, depending on the cost of the dental work.
You should also discuss if your dentist is going to be charging you interest each month on top of the payments. “No Interest” payment plans are typically offered if you have a short time period to pay off your balance, between six to eighteen months. You will be required to pay the minimum balance once a month and pay off the balance within the allotted time. Otherwise, interest will be added.
“Low Interest” payment plans are typically arranged when you have a longer term to pay off the bill, usually up to five years. You should try to pay off the monthly payments on time and as fast as possible to avoid paying interest.
 If you are able to pay for your dental work upfront with cash, you may qualify for a cash discount. Ask your dentist if he can offer you a tax-free amount if you can pay your bill in a lump sum on the spot.Often, paying in cash can allow your dentist to avoid processing costs or third party costs via dental financing. Your dentist may be more amenable to a cash discount if you present the cost savings for the office that are involved.
 Go over your treatment plan with your dentist and prioritize the most necessary dental work first. Look at treatments that are urgent or required and treatments that may be nice to haves or not as necessary. You and your dentist should schedule the required treatments first, such as a treatment to prevent further deterioration of your teeth or gums.Focusing on the most necessary dental work first will help to spread your dental costs over a longer period of time and ensure you are able to get essential treatments out of the way. You can then work to save for other dental work at a later date.
 If you feel your dentist’s rates are high, you may want to consider shopping around before you make your next dental appointment. You should also look at payment plans offered through other dental offices and compare them to the payment plan offered by your dentist.If you feel your dentist’s interest rates are high or his payment plan window is shorter than other dental office plans, you can negotiate with your dentist for a better plan. Your dentist may agree to meet you halfway if you show you have done research into other dental office plans and have found a more competitive rate.

