 You may love a character, and think you could cosplay her perfectly, but if she’s not very well known, you’re not likely to get much of a response from other people. The best characters to cosplay as are iconic and distinctive. They don't need to be the most well-known characters, but you will want at least a fraction of convention attendees to know who you're playing as.


If being seen as attractive is your priority, think about which characters members of the fan community are most attracted to, and which ones you find most beautiful.;
, Cosplay means costume art to some, but truly dedicated cosplayers act out their character. This requires having a solid knowledge of the character's motivations, history and psychology.Look into the source material and give yourself a crash course in the character. Ask yourself questions and try to answer them yourself. What is her darkest secret? How would she react to a stranger? What hobbies does she have? These may not have a big effect on the character's personality, but it helps you get into the proper mindset.


For example, if you're going as Rei Ayanami from the Neon Genesis Evangelion universe, it helps to watch the show closer to the date of the convention. Observe the way she is animated, and pay attention to her character arc. A good cosplayer might simply act shy and mysterious, but the best cosplayers will try to get into the actual mindset of the character.
 To be a great cosplayer, you should be able to capture the essence of your character in a single pose. Without movement or talking, frame your body in such a way that expresses something of the character's personality. Practice some poses in front of the mirror and see if something sticks. If you're having a trouble finding one that really works, try looking up artwork or promo photos for the character you're cosplaying as and copy it.


For instance, an action-based character like someone from the Kingdom Hearts series may suit a battle-ready stance. On the other hand, a schoolgirl-type character from the shojo manga Love Hina. Anime characters are often boldly characterized, so it shouldn't be difficult to pinpoint the dominant mood for the character you're going as.

Poses are best-suited for photo ops. If your costume is impressive enough, you're bound to get a lot of attention. Having a few good poses will maximize how good you look in photos., Dressing up as an attractive anime girl can be an open invitation for some of these less desirable types. If someone like this approaches you or makes a comment you're not comfortable with, the best thing you can do is ignore it and walk away. Nothing breaks character like genuine stress, and you don't want negative feelings to get in the way of your convention experience.


If someone is persistently harassing you, it's a good idea to contact security.
 Cosplay if ultimately about expressing yourself, and the best way to do that is through confidence. If you're confident about what you're doing, the cosplay act will come more naturally. Of course, this may be easier said than done for a lot of people. Confidence is not the sort of thing that happens overnight. Nonetheless, you should pat yourself on the back for the fact alone you are putting yourself out there via cosplay. Cosplay takes courage, and simply being interested in doing it means you've got what it takes.
 One of the great things about cosplay is that it is a communal activity. Chances are there are others who have cosplayed as the same anime character you've chosen. Looking online at sites like Cosplay.com and Kotaku will yield lots of inspiration.Take a look at the details in costumes you see. Are there any liberties taken with the source material? Any effective makeup techniques? In the end, you want to be your own attractive anime girl, but it doesn't hurt to lean on the innovations of others when you find yourself stuck.


Some cosplayers combine characters for a hybrid cosplay. This is only recommended if you really know what you're doing., Find some pictures of your chosen anime character for reference. From there, you should be able to break down what you need for the costume. Some costumes are easier to put together than others. Many anime characters use a "schoolgirl" aesthetic; the clothes for costumes like this can be purchased at stores. More elaborate designs will require sewing on your part. If you want to have an attractive costume, it's important that your costume shows off your figure. This doesn't necessarily mean wearing a high-cut skirt, but it does mean you should do without costumes that blanket your figure.


If you're in a bind, the Japanese "schoolgirl" outfit is a great pick. Even if you don't end up representing a character in particular, you'll definitely fit in with the crowd.
 While it's still recommended you base your costume choices around a certain character, wearing a skirt is a standard look for the Japanese schoolgirl. Many anime girls match this look. Luckily, skirts of this sort can be purchased from a department store, or ordered online.
 Boots are a bold type of clothing, and will make your costume more attention-grabbing. Boots already fit into a lot of anime costume designs, but you should choose your footwear to suit the character you've chosen.


If you're going for a schoolgirl look, boots may be too assertive.
Cosplay costumes can get incredibly expensive. When you're first starting out, it's recommended you try to keep costs to a minimum. This will make sure you are able to afford other costumes as time goes on. Only seasoned cosplayers should let themselves settle into a single costume.
 How you go about making a costume depends on how skilled you as a seamstress. To get a more specific costume for your anime character, you can sew, cut and hem existing pieces of clothing to fit your costume. In most cases, the clothes you use for this purpose will be permanently changed, so it's best to use old clothing you don't normally wear anymore or go shopping at a thrift store., Fabric that is flimsy, stretchy, or shiny tends to be very difficult to sew, which can lead to extremely unflattering costumes. Unless you are an extremely confident sewer, avoid these fabrics.Plain and medium weight fabrics are the easiest for beginners to sew with. Look for natural fabrics like poplin, cotton broadcloth, and lightweight wools.Darker prints make it easier to hide imperfect seams.If you're using patterned fabric, go for a small pattern rather than a large one. A large pattern will need to be matched up at the seams, which is much harder to do., Detailed costumes are great, but if you're in a pinch, you can usually do something simple to make your costume distinctive or recognizable. Depending on your knowledge of anime, you may be able to think of ways to spruce up your look. Even if you only have a schoolgirl costume, adding a Pokeball (from the Pokemon universe) will signal to everyone that you're playing as someone from that world.
 Anime is a very distinctive animation style, and the most distinctive thing about it is arguably the way in which eyes are exaggerated. Cosplaying as an anime girl, you can get these bigger eyes with makeup.Pencil your eyes with a white eyeliner, and extend the frame of your eyes using a light-shaded eyeshadow. Eyeshadow should be used to create a new, wider shape for the eyes. Lightly smudge it where the eyeshadow ends for a blended look.


While this is more eyeshadow that you may be used to wearing, the rest of your eye makeup should be kept mild. This will make the bigger eyes more believable. Exceptions should be made if your character suits a different kind of eye makeup.
 Because eyes are so important to the anime drawing style, you want to bring as much attention to the eyes as possible. Contact lenses are a quick and relatively affordable way of spicing up your look.Study the design of your character's eyes, and make a judgement call whether you think coloured contacts would fit her loo.
 Female characters in anime tend to be very stylized. Many anime girls look like dolls, and makeup should be used to get that look. Blush can get used to get the reddened cheeks of anime characters. You may also want to make your face paler using foundation and concealer. Watch the anime your character is based in if you need specific inspiration for the look. The best cosplays are specifically based around the details of a character.


Makeup is a less important part of cosplaying, so you shouldn't worry about it too much if makeup isn't your forte.
 It is recommended that you try to style your hair based on a character. With that said, straightening your hair will give you a more Japanese look. Bangs are also a staple hairstyle in anime. It's recommended you find a picture of your favourite anime character and get a hairstylist to match your hair to it.


Wigs are also a possibility. Suitable wigs for your costume should be available at a costume store.
 Cosplay has a very passionate and inclusive community. If you don't already have friends that are into it, it's a good idea to meet some fellow fans. Because it's such a popular subculture, cosplay groups are quite easy to hook up with online.Look for public groups on social media sites like Facebook. If you join up with one of these groups, you can begin making friends by listing some of your favourite animes.
 Depending on where you live, some travelling may be required. Cosplay conventions range significantly in size and scope. At first, it is recommended you choose a smaller one. They're less overwhelming, and it's easier to make friends with people when there's less chaos.Conventions usually cost around $20-60 USD to attend per day.
 While doing a cosplay project on your own is perfectly fine, many cosplayers find it more enjoyable to go as a group. If you're planning on going to a convention with some friends, you might decide as a group to dress as characters from a certain anime. Theme groups tend to leave a much bigger impression at conventions than individual costumes.


Groups are also safer to go in. Conventions sometimes come with the risk of guys who harass attractive cosplayers. If you're in a group, it'll be easier to keep them at bay.
 Some of them may be interested in taking your picture. Although it's usually to be taken as a compliment if someone asks to take your picture, it's ultimately up to you whether you're comfortable for that or not. Politely decline and move on if you're not okay with it.


If you're worried about harassment, going in a group can help alleviate the pressure. It's usually recommended you have a friend there to look out for you in the slight chance there's an issue.
 You might not think so at first, but cosplay conventions can be physically exhausting. Walking around and posing all day can have an effect on anyone's fatigue. It's recommended you prepare for a convention day by doing 5-10 minutes of light stretches and warming up before heading in.Stretch out your arms and legs to make sure they're limber. Neck and arm rolls will ease the risk of strain throughout your day.
 The most important thing at any convention is that you enjoy yourself. Preparing for a convention can be stressful, and conventions themselves can feel overwhelming at first. Once you get past the worst of it however, they can be a ton of fun. There are many things you can do to maximize your enjoyment of conventions:


Take your own photos.Why wait for others to photograph you? Take photos of yourself and other cosplayers. It's a great way to immortalize the memory.
Check out anime booths. There's often a lot of interesting fan merch for sale. If you're a fan of anime, you'll find plenty to love. Taking some money with you to purchase souvenirs can be fun.
Socialize and meet people. Everyone at the convention is ultimately there because they share a love of the same artform. This can be the foundation to meet new lifelong friends. Even if lasting friendships don't come out of it, it can still be great to talk shop about common interests.

