 Regular veterinary check-ups will help you to keep your boxer as healthy as possible. If you do not already have a veterinarian, find one and make an appointment for your boxer to have a check-up. Having a veterinarian will make it easier to find help if your boxer ever encounters a serious problem.


Ask about having your boxer spayed or neutered. If you do not plan to breed your boxer, then get your dog spayed or neutered. Spaying and neutering help to keep the pet population down and can also help prevent behavioral problems.
Make sure that your boxer is up to date on vaccinations. Your boxer will need to have vaccinations when he is a puppy and then continue to get boosters to protect him throughout his life., Boxers are more prone than other dogs to certain conditions, so make sure that you watch for signs that something may be wrong. Take your boxer to see a veterinarian right away if you suspect that something is wrong. Some common conditions to watch out for include:Heart defects including boxer cardiomyopathy. Boxer cardiomyopathy can cause an irregular heartbeat, fainting, and shortness of breath. It may also cause sudden death. If you boxer seems lethargic, breathless, or if he faints, then take him to see your veterinarian as soon as possible.Cancer of the skin and other body parts. White boxers are at an even higher risk of developing skin cancer. If you notice any unusual spots or lesions on your boxer’s body, then take him to the vet to have them checked.Eyeball ulceration. This condition results in a deep ulcer of the cornea that causes redness, watery eyes, squinting due to light sensitivity, and discharge. If you notice any of these symptoms, then take your boxer to see a vet right away.Gingival hyperplasia. This condition causes excess gum tissue to grow in the mouth. The tissue may have a lumpy appearance and usually needs to be removed due to the risk of cancer. Take your boxer to see a vet if you notice excess gum tissue in his mouth.Snoring and difficulty breathing. This is due to the boxer’s small nose and pushed in face, which can make it hard to breath. If you notice that your boxer snores or wheezes, then take him to see a veterinarian.
 Boxers have short hair so grooming them is quite easy. You can just brush your boxer a few times per week to keep his coat glossy. As you brush your boxer, check for things like lumps, lesions, or tender spots. Tell your boxer’s veterinarian about anything that you find as these may be signs of a problem.
 Brushing your boxer’s teeth is essential to protect him from gum disease and tartar buildup. Brushing your boxer’s teeth once per day is ideal, but even a couple times per week will help to keep his teeth and gums healthy.Make sure that you get a special dog toothpaste to brush your boxer’s teeth. Do not use human toothpaste for your boxer because the fluoride is toxic to dogs.
 When your boxer wants to sleep, he will need a designated spot to lie down. Make sure that you provide your boxer with soft bedding, such as a dog bed or a couple of folded blankets. Wash your boxer’s bedding once per week to keep it clean.
 If your boxer is not yet house trained, then you will need to put some time and energy into teaching him these habits. Some good things to remember when house training your boxer include:



Maintain a regular schedule for your boxer. Take your boxer outside at set times throughout the day, such as first thing and after he eats his meals. Your boxer should have a chance to go potty about once every two hours.

Designate a spot in the yard for going potty. Decide on a patch of grass in your yard and take your boxer to that spot every time you let him out.

Praise your boxer for going outside. Give your boxer some praise and a treat for going potty outside.

Do not punish your boxer for going potty inside. If you notice that your boxer urinates or defecates inside the house, do not hit, yell at, or otherwise punish your boxer. Just clean up the mess and take your boxer outside.

Watch your boxer for signs that he has to go. If you notice that you boxer is pacing or acting like he has to go, then take him outside right away. You may even want to keep your boxer on a leash when you are home in order to be able to monitor him and take him out as needed., Crate training can be an effective way to provide your boxer with a safe space to retreat to if he becomes overwhelmed or just needs a bit of down time. You can also use a crate to house train your boxer or to prevent him from chewing on furniture. If you decide to crate train your boxer, keep some things in mind.


A crate should never be used as a way to punish your boxer or it will not be an effective training device. The crate should be a safe, pleasant place for your dog.
Your boxer’s crate should be large enough for him to stand up, turn around, and lay down comfortably. It should not be too small or too big.
The crate should have some soft bedding, such as a towel or blanket. Keeping a favorite toy in your boxer’s crate is also a good idea.
You should keep your dog’s crate in a high traffic area of your home, such as the living room or kitchen.
When you are home, keep the door open so that your boxer can retreat to the crate as desired.