 Open a new browser tab or window and visit the Google Docs home page.
 Under the Sign In box, type in your Gmail email address and password. This is your one Google ID for all of Google’s services, including Google Docs. Click the “Sign in” button to proceed.


Upon logging in, you will be brought to the main directory. If you already have existing documents, you can see and access them from here.
 Click the large red circle with a plus sign on the lower right corner. A new window or tab will open with a blank document of the web-based word processor.
 There’s no native template in Google Docs. However, you can add some add-ons that contains the templates that you need. For this example, you need an attendance or signup template. Click the “Add-on” option from the main menu bar then on “Get Add-ons.” The Add-ons window will open.
 Look for “template.” Type it in the search box on the top right corner of the window, and view the results matching your search.
 Click the “Free” button right beside the selected add-on. Most of them are free. The add-on will be installed to your Google Docs.
 Click the “Add-on” option from the main menu bar again. You will now see the add-on you just installed here. Click on it, then click on “Browse Templates.”

, Click “Attendance” from the template gallery. The names and previews of all available attendance and sign up sheet templates will be displayed. Click on the one you want to use.
 The selected template’s details will be displayed. You can read its description to see if its purpose meets your needs. A bigger preview will also be displayed so you can see it better. When you’ve decided on this, click the “Copy to Google Drive” button on the window. The template will be created as a new file under your Google Drive account.
 Access your Google Drive account. You should see the file for the signup sheet you’ve just made as part of your files. Double-click on it to open it on a new window or tab. You now have your signup sheet.
 Now all you have to do is edit the template according to your signup needs. When you’re done, just close the document window or tab since changes are saved automatically.