 The dress code for teaching in China is relaxed. You definitely don’t have to dress in business attire or even business casual attire. In fact, the students appreciate that you don’t. Jeans and a shirt will do for most days, but it is advised that you don’t wear flip flops or sandals to class.;
, As you will see, most of the students will dress in the same clothes for two or three days.
 appearance.
, The RMB (RénMínBì) currently fluctuates around ¥6.40 for every $1.00. The average salary for a contracted teach ranges from ¥4,000 - ¥7,000 ($625 – $1090) per month. The average salary of a contracted Chinese teacher is around ¥2000 ($375) per month. It is true that foreign teachers do get paid more than their counterparts and with the cost of living in smaller cities, the money does in fact go a long way.
 The western food chains will cost about ¥20 - ¥30 per meal. Vegetables and fruits are very inexpensive while meats are a little higher priced at the market/grocery store.
 Mobile phones can range from ¥100 – ¥5,000 depending on the quality. Most of the international mobile phone companies are in China. The mobile phone service will cost about ¥10 - ¥50 per month depending on usage.
 Clothing is very inexpensive to buy clothing due to the shear volume that is produced.
 Beers at a bar ¥10 - ¥20, beers at the market ¥3 - ¥5. There is usually never a cover price to get into a bar/dance club and in fact, these places love when foreigners come in. If you make friends with the owners, drinks might be free.
 Train or bus ticket for 3 hours will cost ¥35 - ¥50, taxis start around ¥3 - ¥6 then it’s about ¥1.8 per k/m, and local city buses are ¥1 - ¥2.
 Tickets are usually priced around ¥40 - ¥65 although sometimes there are pre-sale tickets that are half priced just outside of the building. Most theaters will get a majority of the new American releases.
, Before you depart, it is best to have travel insurance even if you have been healthy for fifteen years. If something does happen, the medical bills could be costly. There are numerous policies out there to choose from but we recommend Travelex Insurance. They make it easy to find a quote then you can choose which policy fits you best. Most schools will provide you with medical insurance during the length of your contract though if you decide to travel outside of the city, having extra coverage is settling.
 It is important to visit your doctor 6-8 weeks before departure for advice of the necessary vaccinations. Not having the correct vaccinations might prevent you from entering into China. We also suggest visiting the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for further information.

