 Plant an ornamental herb such as silver thyme to fill in cracks or round out what might look like severe corners or edges in your plants.


Use herbs that grow in a bushy formation. The silver thyme does this, and it can be pink or lavender. Be sure it gets plenty of sunshine and is planted in soil and mulch.;
, For example, oregano comes in an ornamental blend that blooms purple and pink. It also blooms for a long time, usually from spring until late autumn.


Focus on ornamental herbs that bloom repeatedly. Catmint is a popular ornamental herb that blooms into a lavender blue color. If you prune it, there are many repeat blooms to enjoy. Catmint can grow into 18-inch (45 cm) blooms, so it makes a lovely flower for a vase.
 Ornamental herbs can be instinctive, and they can move around to accommodate the needs of your garden and take up any empty spaces. For example, Roman Chamomile is not only beautiful, it spreads out in your garden on its own. Sweet woodruff can also work well.


Allow self-sowing herbs to become ground cover. They rarely need much attention. The Roman Chamomile gives off a pineapple scent and is yellow and white.
 You can use herbs that resemble heart plants and have many foliage. Sage bushes can serve this purpose, as well as Evergreen Rosemary, which looks like a small evergreen tree.
 Ornamental herbs can offer variety to your garden, and an herb such as Cardoon is arching, statuesque and bold. It almost looks like a fern and will provide a visual element to your garden.


Look for soft and shiny textures as well. You can try lavender, with its soft green leaves with serrated edges. Bay laurel has even, glossy leaves that might complement other textures.
 You can use ornamental herbs that climb up trellises or other fixtures in your garden. Scarlet runner beans will bring you bright red blossoms and blue podded peas will burst with color as they grow.
 Ornamental herbs look beautiful when potted on their own, placed around your yard, your patio or even inside your house.

