 Do your research and figure out what animals you like most, or what animal you identify with. There are tons of animals out there to choose from, including reptiles of all kinds, avians (birds and anything with feathers), amphibians, horses, goats, skunks, and thousands of other species out there. Don't be afraid to venture out from the idea of just sticking to a cat or dog. You can even mix animals together, use a fantasy creature, or even make up your own. If you can't decide on just one, you're also free to make a hybrid, or have multiple fursonas.
 This can be as natural looking or as crazy as you want it to be. You could have anything from a simple grey-colored wolf to a turquoise phoenix to a yellow komodo dragon with red stripes and a black tail! Your fursona can also have tattoos, piercings, patches of different colored fur/feathers/scales/skin, even extra tails if you'd like! It's completely up to you., Do they wear clothing? Do they have anything interesting or noteworthy? Does your fursona have feral (quadrupedal) proportions, or is it more anthro, with human-like proportions? Come up with details like these when making your fursona.#* Sketch out what your animal looks like. This can help you decide on the certain character traits you want your fursona to have. If you can't draw too well, search up bases on FurAffinity or deviantART and color on them. (Just make sure to credit the base artist.), If you're only making this fursona to have a representation of yourself as an animal within the fandom, you're already done. If not, think about new traits for them, such as what they like and dislike, their good character traits and their downfalls. It may be tempting to create a perfect and cool character, but a fursona with both positive traits as well as shortcomings is more interesting and can be related to., This could be your own name or you can pick a name that you find interesting. Nobody can claim a fursona name, so don't feel pressured to make a "unique" name if you don't want to. If you're having trouble coming up with a name, feel free to search through baby name sites, think of words (or even words in other languages) that reflect something about your character or ask the community for help.