 Can other devices on your network connect to the internet? If the answer is yes, then the problem is likely rooted in your computer's settings or hardware. If no other devices or computers can get online, then the problem is likely with your networking hardware or network configuration.;
, This may seem like a useless suggestion, but restarting your computer is often the easiest way to fix a vast majority of the issues you may be having. A simple reset will clear out bad settings which could be causing your connectivity issues, and if it doesn't help, it only took a minute.
 There's always a chance that the website you are trying to visit is currently down, or the program you are using is having server problems on its end. Try another website or online program to see if you can connect.


Try another web browser if possible as well. For example, you may be having a problem with Chrome, but Firefox will work. If just one of your web browsers is at fault, see the articles below for instructions on repairing it:

Chrome
Firefox
Internet Explorer



, If your internet connection was working fine and now it's not, the most likely culprit is your network hardware (modem and router). Resetting these devices is a quick and easy fix that will solve most networking problems.


Unplug your modem and router's power cables.
Wait about thirty seconds.
Plug your modem back in and wait a minute for it to completely power on.
Plug your router back in and wait a minute for it to power on and connect.
Try loading a web page on your computer. If the problem persists, move on to the next step.
 Many laptops have a switch or button that turns the wireless adapter on and off. If you've accidentally pressed the button, your computer will disconnect from the network. Press the button or toggle the switch to turn your wireless adapter back on.


You may have to hold the Fn button in order to be able to press the Wi-Fi button.
 There could be a software problem on your computer causing the connectivity problem. Both Windows and Mac have built-in repair tools that you can use to try to fix the issue.



Windows - Open your Network Connection window by pressing ⊞ Win+R and typing ncpa.cpl. Right-click on your network adapter and select "Diagnose". Windows will scan for problems. Follow the prompts to attempt to fix any problems that are found.

Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences". Select the "Network" option and then click "Assist me". Select "Diagnostics" from the list of options. Follow the prompts to run a diagnostic scan on your network and attempt to automatically fix issues.
 Each piece of networking hardware you add to your home network increases the chances that something can go wrong. The best way to test that your internet connection is working is to plug your computer directly into your modem via Ethernet cable, bypassing the router.


If your computer is able to connect to the internet while connected directly to the modem, then the issue is likely cause by your router.
If you cannot connect to the internet while connected directly to your modem, there is something wrong with the modem or with your internet service in general. You'll need to get in touch with your internet service provider's technical support line to fix modem-related issues.
 When trying to troubleshoot a wireless network, network security can add unnecessary complications. Disabling the security while you're troubleshooting will make your life easier, and then you can secure your network again after fixing the problem.Click here for instructions on enabling and disabling wireless security.
Make sure you don't leave your network unsecured for any longer than you spend fixing it.
 If the problems you're experiencing are signal-related, it usually means that interference and distance are the main cause. There are several things you can do to help minimize interference and increase your network's range.



Click here for instructions on adding a second router as a network extension and booster.

Click here for instructions on improving your computer's wireless signal reception.

Click here for instructions on making a cheap directional "cantenna" for your wireless adapter.
 A problem with your router's configuration may be causing your connection problems. You can reset your router by pressing and holding the "Reset" button on the back for about thirty seconds. You may need a pen or other pointy object to reach the button.Resetting your router will erase any changes you have made. If you've configured a custom network, all of your settings will need to be redone.
 Viruses and other malicious computer infections may be hindering your ability to get online. Viruses can be tricky to get rid of, but you're computer will be much more secure and stable once you do.



Click here for detailed instructions on removing viruses.
 Sometimes your device is too far away from the checkpoint to connect. Move your device closer to your modem and try to connect again., Doing this will cause the connection to reset. Sometimes it takes about 1-15 minutes after resetting for the modem to get everything up and running., Sometimes the best way to repair your internet connection is to have a professional fix it. Tell them about the specific issues you are experiencing, and request someone to come and investigate the problem. Be as calm and polite as possible, and do not take out your frustration on the company.