 There's nothing so interesting as a person who feels consumed by an interest. In this day and age, it's so easy to lose sight of the things that are most important to us. It's really important to make the time for a hobby or creative pursuit. The most attractive men are the ones who don't let their goals get brushed aside for anything.Having that identity outside of your regular job or social life can mean a ton when it comes to a healthy lifestyle.
 Especially as people age, they begin to be associated with the jobs they have. While changing your job may seem impossible, it can totally transform the life you currently have. Think about what you'd always like to do, and take active steps towards making it a reality each day, whether it's building a certain skill or looking at job postings.Make sure your dream has some bearing on reality. Things aren't going to magically fall into your lap, but they will come in time if you set your mind to it.


This isn't so important if you're young. Young adults and teenagers aren't expected to have their lives all figured out. However, it can help your chances with women if you're doing something that's interesting to talk about.
 Even if you love your life, chances are you fall into a fairly predictable day-to-day grind of work, rest and play. It can do you a lot of good to break out of that and try something new.If there's a new hangout that just opened up, check it out. Try a different way to drive home from work. Do something unpredictable. This can require more thinking than you might think at first, but it's totally worth it for the sake of a more attractive lifestyle.


It may be helpful to reflect upon your life as you do this. Try to recognize the things you take for granted. From there, you can see what you can do to shake them up a bit.
 Reading may seem like a boring, passive activity to some people, but a lot of people with the most interesting lives always set time aside for it. Reading can benefit your life in all sorts of ways.You'll learn more, have a better understanding of the world, and have more to talk about in a conversation. All of this can lead to a more interesting life, and it goes without saying that being more interesting will help out your chances with women.
 That includes introverts and shyer sorts as well! If you spend your downtime in the company of other people, you'll end up having a lot more interesting stories to tell before long. In the context of getting a girl interested, socializing lots will increase your chances of meeting someone, and you'll feel more at peace in talking to a girl you really like.
 When it comes to socializing or anything else, it can help to keep track of the things you're doing in life. Try to compare that record with an ideal scheme of the life you'd like to have. For example, if you're shy, make a goal of going out and record each time you do. This same recordkeeping technique works for other things in life as well, such as job hunting and skill building. Consistency is always the goal, and if you stick with a lifestyle pattern long enough, it'll eventually become your routine.


One journal entry may look like this: "For the month of February, I'd like to go out and spend time with people at least 5 times."

