 Create opportunities for others to speak about themselves. Not only will others appreciate the gesture, it will make them feel valued, and make you seem like a master of conversation. The trick is asking the right questions.Ask open-ended questions that allow someone to be descriptive or introspective. For instance, when you find out someone did something interesting, ask them something like, “How did you pull that off!?” or “What motivated you to begin working towards that goal?”
Other great conversation questions include, “What did you like most about that?” or “What was the most memorable part of that experience?”

, Networking is an important aspect of professional life. That said, the internet makes other people more accessible than ever before. When you meet someone for the first time, don’t ruin it by whipping out your card after an enjoyable conversation. This risks making it seem as though you had an agenda, and makes your friendliness seem less genuine.Make sure to remember their name. Using their name and whatever else you know about them, you’re almost sure to be able to find their contact info online.
If you do want to exchange cards, ask if they have a card instead of offering yours. This conveys your interest in them, instead of drawing attention to yourself.
 You can do better than “it was great to meet you.” When wrapping up a conversation, part ways as warmly as you greeted someone. Shake their hand again, or touch them gently on the forearm. Say something along the lines of, “I hope we run into one another again” or “It has been an absolute pleasure to have some time together.”If you know when you’ll next see one another, mention it. For instance, include something like “I’m looking forward to seeing you next Thursday. I’ll catch up with you after the event to get your take on it!”

, Reaching out to people is a sure way to send the message that you were genuinely interested in them. Even if only to reaffirm that you enjoyed meeting someone, shoot them an email. Follow up a specific aspect of conversation, even if you only spoke briefly or in a group.For example, “Hey Jenny! It was fantastic catching that terrifying movie with you and everyone else the other evening. I’ve been thinking about what you said after the show, about the power that horror holds over our psyches. Anyway, hope to run into you again soon, and be sure to let me know of any particularly frightening movies you come across!”

