 Start with your hand at your side in a neutral and relaxed position. Then slowly bend your thumb across your palm and touch the base of your pinky finger. Return the thumb to the starting position and repeat this exercise multiple times with each hand.You can also slowly glide the thumb across the bases of your fingers until you reach the base of the pinky., With your arms out in front of you, hold your hands and fingers extended straight and close together like you are giving a handshake. Keep your knuckles straight and slowly curl your fingertips to your palm. Straighten your fingers and repeat the motion multiple times on each hand., Place your forearm, wrist, and hand on a table with your hand and fingers straight out and together like you are giving a handshake. Without squeezing, slowly curl your fingers into your hand to make a fist and wrap your thumb around the outside of the fingers. Open your hand and straighten your fingers. Repeat the exercise multiple times for each hand., Begin with your hand and fingers straight and close together like you are giving a handshake. Then, slowly touch each finger to your thumb and make an O shape. Start with your index and then follow with your middle, ring, and pinky finger. Repeat the exercise on each hand multiple times., Rest your hand palm down on a flat surface. Move your thumb away from your fingers. Then move your fingers one at a time towards your thumb, beginning with the index finger and followed by the middle, ring, and pinky fingers. Repeat the exercise for each hand multiple times., Place your hands on a tabletop or even on your lap. Then, lift each finger one at a time. As you do this try to keep the rest of your fingers firmly planted on the surface of the table or your lap. Do this a few times with each finger on each hand., You can also build strength in your fingers by using a light resistance band to do finger curls. Place one end of the band under your foot and loop the other end of the band around your fingers near your fingertips. Then, curl your fingers in towards your body. Do several repetitions with each hand.

Make sure that the band does not provide too much resistance or you may strain your fingers.

