 Stir with a fork or small whisk until the cornstarch dissolves. There should be no lumps or clumps. The mixture will be somewhat thick. This will be enough for one color.


If you are muffin tin with shallow wells use 2 tablespoons of cornstarch and 2 tablespoons of water per well.;
, Keep stirring until you get an even color. There should be no streaks or swirls. Try to use washable tempera paint for easy clean up.


If you can't find any tempera paint, you can substitute several drops of food coloring or liquid water color instead. 5 to 20 drops should be enough. The more food coloring you add, the brighter the color will be.
 If you can't find a muffin tin, use a small, plastic cup instead.
 Pour each color mixture into a separate well. You can use whatever color you want.
 You can also use some foam brushes instead. The colors may appear translucent at first, but they will become more opaque once they dry.
 Pour each flavor into a separate well. The drink mix will not only color the sidewalk chalk paint, but also make it smell nice. Set the muffin tin aside.
 Stir the two together with a spoon or whisk until the cornstarch has dissolved. There should be no clumps or lumps. The mixture will be a little thick.
 Stop when the water is about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the rim. This will lessen the chances of the paint spilling when you take it outside.


You will likely end up with some left-over cornstarch water. If this happens, just pour it out, or use it to make more scented sidewalk chalk paint in a separate container.
 Use a small spoon, a fork, or a toothpick to do this. The color should be even, and there should be no streaks or swirls.
 Carefully carry the muffin tin outside. Use paintbrushes or foam brushes to spread the paint onto the sidewalk. The paint may appear a little bit translucent at first, but it will be brighter once it dries.
 Mix everything together using a whisk or fork. There should be no lumps or clumps. The mixture will be a little bit thick, which is fine. This will be enough for one color.


Try to use a bowl or cup that has a little pouring spout. This will make it easier to pour the mixture into the spray bottles later on.
 You will need about 5 to 20 drops. The more drops you add, the brighter your color will be. Keep stirring until you get an even color. There should be no streaks or swirls.


You can also use liquid watercolors instead of food coloring.
You can try using washable tempera paint, but it might make the mixture too thick to squeeze out of the bottles.
 Close the bottle and shake it to mix everything together. If you are having troubles pouring the mixture, try sticking a funnel into the next of the bottle first. Pour the mixture through the funnel.
 If you want to make more colors, mix up a new batch of water, baking soda, and cornstarch. Use a different color for each bottle.
 The vinegar is important. It will react with the baking soda, and cause the paint to fizz. If you are having troubles getting the vinegar into the spray bottle, stick a clean funnel down into the neck, and pour the vinegar through the funnel.
 Open the tip of the squeeze bottle and squirt out some designs onto the sidewalk. The colors may look a little translucent at first, but they will become brighter once they dry.
 The vinegar and baking soda will react with other. They will bubble and fizz, and create a new, foamy design.
 How much water you use will depend on how many colors you want, and the size of your ice cube tray/popsicle mold. Stir the two together with a fork or whisk until the cornstarch dissolves. There should be no lumps or clumps. The mixture will be a little thick.


Try to use a cup or bowl with a little pouring spout. It will make it easier to transfer the mixture into the ice cube tray/popsicle mold later on.
 You will need about 2 tablespoons of tempera paint per 1/3 cup (80 milliliters) of water. Keep stirring until the paint is completely mixed in. The color should be even. There should be no streaks or swirls.


Try to use washable tempera paint for easy clean up.
If you can't find any tempera paint, you can substitute food coloring or liquid watercolors. Start with a few drops, then keep adding until you get the color you want.
If you want more colors, you will need to mix them separately.
 Don't fill the wells all the way. Water expands as it freezes, after all. If you are using a popsicle mold, be sure to pop the stick part back into the mold once you have it filled.


Ice cube trays will allow you to experiment with more colors. They can also come in many fun shapes. Popsicle molds have the benefit of coming with a holding stick. Some kids may find these easier to hold.
 Leave it there for several hours, until the mixture freezes. The larger your mold is, the longer it will take to freeze.
 Once the mixture has frozen, take it out of the freezer and pop it out of the trays or molds. Consider separating the cubes by color into smaller bowls so that the colors don't mix when the ice melts. You can draw with the chalk directly, or you can leave them on the sidewalk and watch them melt.


The colors may be a little translucent at first, but they will become brighter once they dry.

