 Providing an appropriate title for your column will help set the reader's expectations and grab his or her attention.Catchy titles often include numbers, fun adjectives, and a promise to the reader.For example, “Getting Stains Out of Your Carpet” is a title that’s not likely to capture your reader’s attention. However, this title will: “3 Unusual Household Items That’ll Get Red Wine Stains Out.” This title uses numbers, gives the reader a promise, and lures them into reading on to find out what these unusual household items are.
 Make that first sentence count by enticing the reader with your words and ideas. Remember that your opening also lays the foundation for your argument, so make sure it’s relevant.Opening lines that will catch your reader’s attention include dramatic anecdotes, a controversial statement, irony and wit, a major new study, or a statement that turns conventional wisdom on end.In his health and well-being column, columnist Oliver Burkeman begins his story: “About a month ago, to my embarrassment, I learned I’d been tying my shoelaces wrongly my whole life.” This opening line grabs our attention with a catchy anecdote and makes us want to read on to find out what he was doing wrong and what the correct way to tie a shoe is., As you write your article make sure every paragraph can answer the question: “Who cares?” Explain why your topic is relevant to your readers and how it will positively or negatively affect them.For example, if you’re writing against a new tax proposal explain to your readers that this new policy will increase their taxes.
 While you shouldn’t throw all the writing rules out the window, you should avoid jargon, technical language, and complex sentence structure. By writing in a more conversational manner, you’ll be able to communicate your point to your audience more effectively.Try writing in shorter sentences or using contractions to adopt a more conversational style.
Pretend that you’re writing to a friend and address the reader directly.
Try talking in your head as you write and then read it aloud afterwards to see how it sounds., Using active verbs comes across as more authoritative and it’ll help cut down on wordiness. Since you’re trying to convince a reader of your opinion, using strong, active verbs will help you do this.Stating that, “It is believed by the city council that the townspeople were misled by the mayor” is wordy and leaves the author wondering if the city council is an authoritative source. Instead, try writing that, “The city council believes that the mayor misled the townspeople.” You can note how the active voice sentence is more authoritative and straightforward.

