 You'll have a valve on the way to your water filter. That valve needs to be turned, usually so it's running perpendicular to the pipe rather than parallel, but yours may be different. Also, you may need to isolate the water filter globe by turning another valve.Some filters will need to be depressurized. You press a button on top. Use a rag to catch the spillover.;
, You can have several different types of filters. Most paper filters cannot be cleaned, but you can clean synthetic fiber pleated filters and carbon-based filters.With a synthetic pleated filter, you'll likely be turning the clear housing with a wrench (designed for the housing) to remove it and the filter from the system.You might also have an opaque housing system that also unscrews from the top.


Have a bucket underneath to catch any spills. Dump the water from the housing down the sink or outside.
 Some filters (particularly carbon-based ones) have a plastic netting to help keep the paper part of the filter in place. To clean the filter, you need to remove that netting. Use a box cutter to slice around the edge of the netting at the top, just under the first ring. Do the same at the bottom. Also, cut through the paper underneath, going down to the carbon. However, while you want to cut the netting completely off, leave a small strip of the paper attached to make it easier to keep track of., The best way to begin cleaning any filter is to hose off the excess gunk first. With a pleated filter, you can set it in a sink or outside and use a strong spray of water to get as much of the junk off as you can.With the carbon filter, unroll the paper. Spray down both sides of the paper and the carbon underneath, making sure you don't lose any parts., For the pleated filter, shake out as much water as you can, and place it back in the housing. Pour in oxalic acid, and let it sit until clean, about 20 minutes or so.For the carbon-based filter, mix up a tablespoon of bleach in a gallon of water. Use a soft-bristled brush to scrub down the paper, then let the whole filter soak in the bleach solution for 5 to 10 minutes.To make the oxalic acid, mix 62.5 grams of powdered oxalic acid per gallon of water, which you can find online., Once the pleated filter is clean, take it out to rinse. You can either save the acid or neutralize it with a couple of tablespoons of baking soda before dumping it. Once you remove the acid from the housing, also rinse it with clean water. Use the housing to vigorously dunk the filter in clean water for a few minutes before dumping it again and rinsing it one more time., Before placing the pleated filter in the housing, you can add 1/2 an ounce of bleach to a small cup, and fill the rest with water. Pour it in the housing. This step helps clean some of the bacteria in the system.For the carbon filter, roll the paper back around the carbon as tightly as you can. Use zip ties to hold it in place. Place one each on the top and bottom (just under the plastic rings) and a couple in the middle., As you place the filter back, make sure it's centered. Screw the the housing back into the main part of the filtering system. If you have clear housing, burp the air bubble by turning on the water to the filter before turning the valve to the house. Let it fill up with water, then use the pressure button to release the air at the top. Then you can turn the other valve to release the water to the household.If you do use bleach, use the valve bypass to push the water directly into your pipes. Then you can run the bleach out by turning on a hot water faucet in your house, followed by a few minutes on the cold water side.