 If you don’t have a jewelry cleaning kit, you can make your own solutions with many different home cleaning products. You can use regular dish soap to clean the dirt and oils off diamond earrings. Mix together 1 cup of lukewarm water with 1 teaspoon of mild dish soap. Stir the water with your fingers until you see bubbles. Make sure the dish soap doesn’t have perfume or dye in it or it could damage the earrings. Soak the earrings for three to four minutes, so that any dirt or oil loosens up.
Then take a soft toothbrush and wet it in the mixture. Softly brush the diamonds. Let the earrings soak another 1-2 minutes. Then remove the earrings, and place them on a paper towel. Take a bowl of clear water and rinse the earrings off. Don’t rinse them under a faucet or you might lose them down the drain.
 There are many different household products that you can use to clean diamond earrings. Windex works, too. Or you could soak the earrings in mild liquid detergent. Pick one with sodium lauryl ether sulfate.


Spray a toothbrush with Windex. Then, brush the diamonds softly. Be gentle, and use a small, soft brush. Then, rinse the earrings with water and wipe them dry with a soft cloth.
 It sounds like it might be too harsh, but it's one of the most common ways to clean diamond earrings.


Mix one part ammonia with six parts of hot water. Do not use hot water, though, if there are other gems in the setting. It could damage them. Put the earrings in the solution for 20 minutes. Use rubber gloves with this solution.
Next, put the earrings into another bowl with warm water. Add a teaspoon of dish soap to the bowl. Scrub the earrings with a soft toothbrush or jewelry brush. Rinse the earrings in warm water. , You can make your diamonds – and other gems – look brighter if you soak them overnight in club soda.


Simply fill a glass full of club soda, and then put diamonds or other gems (like rubies and sapphires) in the glass. Let it sit overnight.
Another technique involves using a denture tablet to give your diamonds some sparkle. Put the tablet into a cup of water, and then put your diamond earrings into the cup for several minutes. Then, rinse the jewelry. Remove any noticeable clumps of dirt or cloth fibers. Carefully use a toothpick to remove dirt lodged in between the metal prongs and the diamond. Gently remove any cloth fibers that get stuck in the setting using tweezers.
 If you don't have anything else on hand, you can try the obvious: Soap and water.


Combine 1 part mild dishwashing detergent with 3 parts warm water in a small bowl. Dip a soft bristle toothbrush, soft cloth, or cotton swab into the soap mixture.
Gently scrub the stone and the metal backing. Alternatively, you can soak your diamond earrings in this solution up to 30 minutes.
Remove the earrings after soaking them and rinse them under warm water. Dry and polish the earrings with a lint free cloth.
 Soak your earrings in vodka if no other materials are around.


Fill a shot glass with vodka. Drop your earrings into the glass and let them soak for a minute or two. Remove the earrings and rinse under warm water.
Dry and polish them with a lint free cloth.

