 If you have set a boundary, reinforce that boundary by being available when it feels right to you.By being less available, the person may get the idea that you are serious about your boundaries. If the person calls you, you can choose not to answer the phone call. If the person texts you about getting together, you can choose not to answer, wait a few days to text back, or tell the person again about how important your boundaries are to you via text.Next time you see the person, you don’t need to make up excuses where a simple decline will work. For example, “It’s thoughtful for you to invite me, but I’m not up for it tonight.”
There is no need to be rude, aggressive or even passive aggressive such as not answering text messages.
You may feel guilty or bad for setting boundaries with this person, but remember that you are doing this to take care of yourself.
Although continually reinforcing your boundaries in an assertive way can get tiresome and frustrating, it is important to stay true to who you are without resorting to hurtful behaviors as well as gaining the personal space that you need.
 Saying "No" can be difficult sometimes, but it is necessary when dealing with a clingy person. Telling a person "No" is easier if you offer an alternative. The alternative you offer should guide the person in a direction that is better for you.For example, if the person asks you to go to hang out, say, "Sorry I can't. I have homework. Why don't you ask one of your other friends or family to spend time with you?"
She may complain that you said no, but stick with your answer.
 When you set boundaries and create space between you and the other person, you are actually creating new rules for the relationship, and the other person needs time to learn those rules. You want to encourage less clingy behavior and enforce consequences if your boundaries are violated. Be patient; it will take time for the other person's behavior to change.


If the person went to lunch with someone else, tell the person that you are so glad that they went and take interest in the experience.
Encourage the person to meet other people and step out of their comfort zone. Tell the person that you are proud of them for doing things like this.