 Put the spring that goes with the retaining ring in place over the small rod that protrudes from behind the brake shoe. Place the ring over the spring, press in and twist until the ring slides over the rod and locks into place., Now, it is time to begin installing the second brake shoe. Again, you are going to start with the bottom spring., You will need to line it up with the adjusting spring lever., Use the flat end of your brake spring tool to pry the spring into place and hook it at the top of the second brake shoe. This will connect the two brake shoes., Follow the same procedure as you did with the first retaining ring. Place the spring first, then push and twist the ring into place., This screw changes the position of the adjusting spring, which in turn changes the position of the brake shoes. Since the new shoes are thicker than the old ones, you will need to set the adjusting screw to account for that. Use one screwdriver to push the automatic adjuster assembly down and the other to twist the cog that loosens the adjuster., Slide the drum back onto the hub. You will want to spin it and make sure that it has just a little drag. If the drum does not spin then your shoes are too tight and you need to loosen them (using the adjusting screw). If the drum spins freely with no drag at all then your shoes are too loose and you will need to tighten them (using the adjusting screw)., You may or may not have bolts to fasten your drum to the hub. If you do, they should be reinstalled now., You want to tighten the retaining nut that holds the drum in place, and also put the cotter pin back through the hole to keep the nut from loosening., The dust cap should push right back into place. Make sure that it is snapped back into place tightly., You should slide the wheels back onto the wheelbase and thread the lug nuts on tight enough to hold wheels in place while the car is still on the jack stands., Do this slowly and carefully. You do not want the vehicle to drop suddenly., Once the weight is back on the wheels, use a lug wrench or impact wrench to tighten the lugs to the proper torque specifications in your service manual., You should check your brake fluid and add more if needed anytime you do brake work., Before you drive or park your car, you want to be sure that your park brake is working properly. Set the park brake and put the car into drive. The brake should hold the car still, or at the very least provide resistance. Release the brake and make sure that the resistance is gone.