 Use a sharp pair of scissors to cut a small head and body for doll from a sheet of white or ivory cardstock.


The head should be 0.8 inch (2 cm) in diameter. Trace the perimeter of a U.S. nickel if you need help sizing the head.
The body should be 1/8 inch (3 mm) wide and about 2 inches (5 cm) long.;
, Use your scissors to cut a 1-inch (2.5-cm) long piece of 0.6-inch (1.5-cm) wide chiyogami paper.


This strip of paper will become the collar of the doll.
Note that you will need to use the same type of paper to create the "obi" of the doll later on.
This paper should also coordinate with the other two pieces of chiyogami paper you'll be using, but it should not be the exact same pattern.
 Place the collar strip behind the body strip. Fold the ends of the collar diagonally down and over the front of the body.


Fold the collar strip in half before placing it around the body.
The body and collar should be perpendicular when you place the collar behind the body strip.
For the sake of accuracy, fold the collar so that the left end goes under the right. The opposite folding is only used for the deceased.
Use glue or tape to hold the collar in place.
 Take a 2.2-inch by 4.9-inch (5.5-cm by 12.5-cm) sheet of chiyogami paper and double fold the shorter end to create a ridge.


This sheet of paper will form the kimono, and this ridge or edge will become the collar of the kimono.






Flip the paper so that it is wrong-side up. Fold 0.4-inch (1-cm) of the short end up. If the paper pattern has a top and bottom, do this at the top of the paper.






Flip the paper back over to the front. Fold 0.2-inch (0.5-cm) from your previous fold back over to the front, creating a raised edge.
 Center the body paper over the top of the kimono paper. Tape or glue the pieces together.


Turn the kimono paper over so that the wrong side faces up.
The body paper should be centered along the raised edge of the kimono.
Position the body so that its attached collar just barely peeks out above the edge of the kimono.
 Bring the left corner of the kimono paper diagonally down, folding it over the inner collar and the body.


Only crease the kimono paper along the folded edge and just beneath the folded edge. Do not crease it along the entire fold.
 Fold the rest of the kimono's left edge toward the center and over the body paper. Crease down the entire left side fold.


The left side of the kimono paper should be folded into a vertical edge, creating a straight body.
If a corner of the kimono collar extends beyond the rest of the edge, use scissors to trim it off.
 Fold the right corner diagonally down over the front of the doll. Fold the entire right edge toward the center, over the front of the doll.


When folding the right corner, only crease the top of the folded edge.
The right side creased fold should be vertical, making the entire body straight. Trim any excess kimono collar sticking out from beneath this fold.
Make sure that the fold angles of the left and right sides are mirrored and equal.
The right edge should not cover the left edge completely. Leave 1/8-inch (3-mm) or so of the left side visible.
Glue or tape the folded right edge to the body to hold the kimono in place.
 Cut a strip of your 0.6-inch (1.5-cm) wide paper measuring roughly 1.6-inch (4-cm) long.


This strip of paper will become the obi.
Note that this strip should be cut from the same paper as the inner collar.
 Place the obi strip over the front of the kimono. Fold it so that the ends overlap behind the kimono and tape or glue it in place.


The length of the obi should be perpendicular to the body as you place it on top.
The top edge of the obi paper should land right around the angled corner of the kimono edge.
Trim any excess obi paper at the back of the doll before adhering it in place.
 Cut a 1.6-inch (4-cm) long strip of 0.4-inch (1-cm) wide chiyogami paper.


This paper will become the obijime that goes over the obi.
Choose a coordinating yet different pattern of paper for this strip.
 Center the obijime over the obi. Fold the ends so that they meet at the back of the doll, then glue or tape the ends in place.


Place the obijime around the body in the same way you placed the obi.
Note that the obijime should be centered over the obi.
 Glue or tape one side of the cardstock head to the visible top of the body strip.


Note that only a very small portion of the body strip should be visible after you do this. This small portion is the neck of the doll.
 Cut out bangs from the cardstock. Cut out a separate piece of black cardstock to form the back of the hair.


You can design a hairstyle to your liking. Just keep in mind that the bangs and back should both be a little wider than the width of the head.
 Position the bangs on top of the head and glue or tape them in place. Position the back hair piece at the back of the head and glue or tape in place.


Note that the back hair piece should also fall behind the kimono of the doll.
 The paper Hina Matsuri doll is now complete.

