 Try to get Champagne mangos (also called Ataulfo, yellow or baby mangos) or Manila/Philippine or Mexican mangos.









These mangos are oblong-shaped golden yellow mango with very thin skin. They are sweet and not fibrous.
You may need to venture to an Asian or Latin market during the summer months to find them.
If you have trouble finding the right mangos, you can still use any mangos you can find as long as they are nice and ripe!
Make sure you peel your mangos first. Mango skin is bitter, and you don't want this ingredient in your cake.;
, Use a baking pan with a removable bottom for ease in serving. Line the parchment paper along the bottom and the sides of the pan to allow for easy cake removal.


Line the baking pan with a layer of graham crackers. Cut the crackers to fit the pan.
 In a chilled bowl, use a handheld mixer to whip the cream into soft peaks (about 3 minutes).









Add the condensed milk. Continue to mix the cream and slowly pour the condensed milk into the bowl. Whip to firm peaks.
 Pour about one cup of your sweetened whipped cream mixture into your graham cracker lined pan. Use a rubber spatula to evenly distribute the whipped cream.
 Sprinkle an even layer of diced mangos (about 1 cup) over the whipped cream. If you prefer more mangos, you can make this layer thicker by adding another ½ cup of mangos.
 Top the graham crackers with another layer of whipped cream sweetened with condensed milk. Evenly distribute diced mango over the whipped cream. Repeat until you have three layers of cracker/cream/mango.
 Place a layer of plastic wrap over the top of the pan and put it in the fridge for at least 4 hours. Let the cake chill overnight for the best results. Chilling your cake will allow the cream to soften the graham crackers. This will create a sponge cake like texture. The whipped cream will firm up a bit and turn into a rich, luscious frosting.


You can also freeze your mango float for more of an ice cream cake like texture. Freezing your cake will soften the graham cracker but also allow the cream to freeze.
 Gently grab the edges of the parchment paper and lift the mango float out of the pan. Slice and serve.

