 Your cumulative GPA is one of the criteria used to see if you make National Honor Society standards. If you want to be in NHS, work on maintaining a high GPA.


Members of National Honor Society must have a GPA of 3.5 or higher on the 4.0 scale. On a 5.0 scale, this would be at least a 4.375 and 5.25 on a 6.0 scale. On a letter grade scale, this would be at least a B+ and 90% or higher grade average on a 100 point scale.Start working on your grades early in high school. If you start off with a low GPA you'll have to work extra hard to pull it up in the following semesters. Take your studies and homework seriously.
If you're struggling with a particular subject, consider hiring a tutor or asking a friend in class to help you out. Most people do not excel equally well in all subjects. You might be an excellent chemistry student but struggle remembering dates for history class, for example.;
,


Practice good study skills. Flashcards, memorization, and practice tests and quizzes are all great means to prepare for an exam. If your teacher offers any optional after school review sessions, always attend even if you feel confident about your skill set.
 The NHS also has criteria when it comes to standardized testing. In order to be accepted into NHS, you need 1750 or higher on the SAT, a 200 or higher on the PSAT, and a 26 or higher on the ACT.Most bookstores, as well as Amazon, sell up to date study guides for most standardized tests. Many colleges and organizations like Kaplan offer prep courses, which can be taken in person or online. If you're serious about NHS membership, consider asking your parents if you can enroll in one of these courses.
Remember, you can retake most standardized tests if you do not like your score the first time.
 National Honor Society values leadership. The organization seeks out student leaders who convey good problem solving skills and contribute ideas to the world around them. If you want to be an NHS member, you need some leadership experience on your resume.Get involved in your school. Join a club that speaks to your passions and go for a leadership role. You might not be able to be say, president, right away but you can always take a smaller position as a board member or treasurer. Consider running for student council. Being a representative for your class would look great on an NHS membership application.You can also get involved outside of school. If you play sports, being the captain of your hockey or soccer team can convey leadership skills. Consider volunteering to couch little league, taking on the role of coach to kids younger than yourself. If you're involved in any other type of community, you can try to be a leader there as well. Say you take art lessons at the community art center. See if they need volunteers to tutor younger students.
 NHS seeks out students who have a dedication to serving their community. If you want to be in NHS, volunteer for a cause you care about and stick to your service longterm.


There are many ways to volunteer. You should pick a cause you feel passionate about as you'll be more motivated to stick your service out. Love animals? Work for your local Humane Society. Interested in politics? Try doing campaign work for a cause you support. Big reader? Ask your local library if they need assistance.
If you're struggling to find volunteer opportunities, go to a local community center, church, hospital, or coffee shop. People often leave flyers in these kinds of establishments trying to recruit volunteers. You can also ask the school counselor or principal of your school. He or she might be in contact with a variety of local organizations seeking out student workers.
 Character is another category NHS pays attention to regarding candidates. A student with high character adheres to high standards of honesty, is courteous to others, and has a clean disciplinary record. Avoid people and situations where you might get in trouble. Things like recreational drug use and underage drinking look bad on an NHS application., If you want to join National Honor Society, you must be enrolled in a school with an active NHS chapter. You can use the National Honor Society website to find information about your school's chapter of NHS.


Students cannot apply to enter the NHS at the national level, via the organization's website or any other means. All admissions to the NHS are handled at the local level - you must apply to your high school's NHS chapter and no other. That's why it's important to get information about your chapter before attempting the application process.If your school doesn't have an NHS chapter, all is not lost. Try asking your principal, academic adviser, or teacher to establish an NHS chapter at your school. Though students and parents aren't allowed to apply to establish chapters, they are encouraged to share information with receptive school faculty members., Criteria for admissions varies from chapter to chapter. Some schools require an application and resume. Some schools merely require an essay detailing why you feel qualified to join NHS. Figure out what the specific qualifications are at your school and go from there.
 You cannot simply apply to NHS cold. A faculty member at your school must nominate you. Then, the educator associated with your school's chapter of NHS will make a decision regarding your application.


Sometimes, a teacher will simply nominate you without your asking. However, if this does not happen and you feel qualified consider approaching a teacher and asking. Pick a teacher whose class you feel you've done well in and who is impressed by your work and dedication.Your teacher will have to print out and submit a student nomination form. You can find this form for your teacher on the NHS website., Once your teacher submits your student application form, the person heading the NHS chapter at your school will make a decision. He or she will decide whether or not you meet NHS criteria and are eligible to apply.


Remember that individual chapters differ in their precise rules. Some require you to complete an application to even be considered for membership,while others don't require you to apply until after you've been singled out as eligible. When in doubt, always consult your local chapter for precise instructions.
 NHS applications vary from school to school. Whatever your school requires, spend a lot of time on your application. A solid application can increase your chances of being accepted into NHS.


Include all the experience you have related to NHS's core values: scholarship, leadership, service, and character. Include things like work on school clubs, experience with sports, volunteer work, after school jobs, and any awards or achievements.
Many chapters of NHS require an essay as part of the membership application. The essay might be a broad overview of your qualifications or it might ask a specific question, like "If you had to have dinner with anyone living or dead who would you pick?" Spend a lot of time on your essay. Write a couple of drafts and have a friend or family member look it over for you.
If you are not granted membership, you have the right to appeal the council's decision. However, appeals must be made to the local chapter itself - state and national NHS agencies do not hear membership appeals. Do not be discouraged. Continue your service activities and leadership activities and maintain your good GPA. You can always apply again next year.
 Once you're accepted to NHS, you will have to maintain your member status. This means keeping your grades up, continuing to score high on standardized tests, continuing your community involvement, and maintaining a clean disciplinary record. Continue to work hard, even after acceptance, as it is possible to be dismissed from NHS.

