 No matter what you need advice on, you should start by asking someone who you trust to give you sound advice. If the topic is sensitive, be sure to only ask for advice from people you know will not spread gossip.


You should also make sure the person feels comfortable giving advice. Start with a very general description of your issue by saying something like, "Would you mind offering me some advice about how to choose a college major?" or, "I know you and your boyfriend have a great relationship. Do you think you could give me some advice about a problem I'm having in my relationship?";
, The level of experience necessary will depend on the topic you need advice about. Typically, you should seek out a friend or loved one who has handled experiences like the one you are dealing with in a way that you find admirable. For example, if you need advice about finding a job, it will probably be more helpful to ask someone who has recently been successful in finding a job.


If the person has special knowledge about the topic, that can be good or bad. Take into account whether that knowledge might prevent them from giving you the objective advice you need., Everyone has biases, and this is not always a bad thing, but it is important to keep in mind the experiences that your friends and family members have had before you ask them for advice. For example, your friend who is recently divorced is likely to offer more cynical advice about relationships than your friend who just met the man of her dreams.


Make sure that the issue won't somehow offend the person you are asking help from with. For example, if you are having a parenting issue, try to refrain from asking someone who just suffered the loss of a child for help.
Don't limit yourself to asking for advice from like-minded people. It can sometimes be eye-opening to learn from people at completely different stages in their lives or in different career fields., If you feel like you would benefit from multiple perspectives, feel free to ask multiple people for their opinions before making a final decision. Once you're finished talking to a friend or family member, ask if he or she knows of anyone else who may be able to help you with your issue.


Keep in mind that the more people you ask, the more diverse opinions you are likely to hear. This can make it more difficult to make a decision, so don't feel like you need to ask everyone you know for advice.For lighthearted advice, you can create a poll on social media to gather all your friends' opinions.
 Be sure to thank your friends and family members for their time, and let them know that you will be there for them if they ever need advice as well.


Even if you didn't find the advice helpful, show loved ones that you appreciate their input by saying something such as, "Thanks for sharing your opinion with me" or, "I hadn't considered that before. Thanks for the advice."

