 Unless your child asks to be left alone for a while, make it a point to stay with them. This will signal to your child that you are there to support them. Knowing that they have your support will make it easier for them to open up and talk to you., When your child is ready, discuss their feelings. They may be start the discussion immediately, or you may have to initiate it by asking questions. Either way, it is important that your child talk to you or someone else about their emotions., Reading a book about death and grief with your child can help them to understand the situation better and find healthy ways to deal with their feelings. There are many books on death and grief that are appropriate for different age groups. Look into some books for your child and pick one or two up that you can read with them., Your child might not understand how to share or process their grief. Set an example by showing them how you are feeling about the death of their cat. This will signal to them that it is okay to feel sad and express it.You can express your feelings by saying things like, “I know that you are hurting, because I am hurting, too. Our cat was a lovely pet and I will miss it very much.”
You might also say something like, “I’m sad about our cat, and I’ll miss it. I am glad that we got to spend time with such a great pet.”
Be willing to show how you feel as well. Don’t try to hide your feelings because this may teach your child to suppress their feelings as well. It is important for them to know that it is okay to cry if they are feeling sad.
 Asking your child what they need can help them open up to you. They may not be able to express their feelings about the cat, but they can tell you what will help them get through right now. Do whatever you can to help them with any reasonable requests., Everyone grieves in their own way, on their own time. This includes children. Do not expect your child to have forgotten the incident or be back to their normal selves the next day. Let them take time to process their grief and sadness in a healthy way.If your child consistently withdraws from school or extracurriculars, they may be having a hard time with the death.
If your child obsesses about the cat for a long period of time, they may be struggling to let go.
If you see signs that your child is not coping with the death of their cat, you can seek out a mental health professional to guide them through the process.
 Even though your child may be grieving their cat, it is important to keep them in a normal routine. The routine can offer normalcy and comfort. It also keeps them from falling behind in school and extracurricular activities.Keeping their routine can also distract your child from their grief some of the time.

