 Unfortunately, if you are under the age of 13 it is a violation of the Instagram Terms of Service to be on the app. It will not only be harder to get online, it will be difficult to convince your parents that an account is a good idea., Don't talk to them whenever they're busy, or worried, or when dealing with one of your siblings. If you catch them in a good mood they will be much more likely to let you on Instagram. Some good times to consider are:


After dinner
During a relaxing weekend.
Shortly after an accomplishment, like a good report card.
 Many parents are uncomfortable with Instagram because they don't understand it. But Instagram is relatively simple when compared to sites like Facebook or Twitter. Users share photos with their friends, who can like or comment on them and post their own photos. There is an emphasis on photography instead of "status updates." The basics of Instagram are:


Users post and edit pictures on Instagram with built-in photo-editing software.
Users can follow their friends to see their pictures on a photo reel.
While you can like and comment on photos, there is no "chat-room" function on Instagram.
You do not need to provide any personal information, other than a private email address, to join., Think of a reason why you want to get on Instagram other than "everyone else has one." If you can show your parents how Instagram will benefit your life and creativity then they will be much more likely to let you get an account. Luckily, because Instagram is a photography site, it is easy to show your parents the benefits of the site:


You want to practice photography.
You want to explore famous photographers and locations.
You and your friends capture and share special moments together online., Instagram is an inherently creative app -- you get to take photos and edit the brightness, contrast, saturation, cropping, filter effects, and much more. This makes it different from other, more gossipy social media sites, and you should remind your parents of these differences.


Show them professional accounts, like National Geographic or the Food Network, that match up to your interests. There is incredible art and photography on Instagram that your parents may not be aware of.
 Knowing that this conversation is taking place in living rooms across the world, Instagram has put together a helpful guide for parents to help them and their children navigate the service. The guide discusses what Instagram is, ways to fight common concerns, and the potential pros and cons of the app.


You can find the guide in multiple languages through the Instagram Help Center → Privacy & Safety Center → Tips for Parents., Help them set up an account and let them follow you, which lets them feel like they can be a part of your Instagram and eases their concerns. Many parents won't want to be on Instagram anyway, but this step shows them that you are willing to compromise and have nothing to hide.


This is also a great way to show parents how simple Instagram is to use, which may help them feel more comfortable with the app., Coming into this talk prepared for a fight will just make your parents less likely to see your side of things. Look them in the eyes and invite them to ask you questions. If they feel like you are reasonable and responsible then Instagram will seem reasonable and responsible as a result.Make eye contact.
Keep your voice calm and collected.
Agree with them on certain points, even if you have a "counter-point."
Focus on you and your trustworthiness, not the shadow of "evil" online lurkers.
 If they say yes, thank them and give them a quick hug. Stay true to any promises you made about the account and start enjoying Instagram. If they say no, let them know that you understand their decision, but would love to talk to them a little more about Instagram later. Assure them that the site is safe and ask them if they would be willing to do a little more research -- the Instagram Help Center, for example, has an entire section on "Tips for Parents."


Yelling or getting angry now will only hurt your chances of getting an account later.

