 You can earn money or gift cards by taking surveys on websites such as swagbucks.com.Other sites, such as Pinecone Research, SurveySpot, and Toluna will also pay you to take surveys. In some cases, you will earn points for taking surveys. Once you have earned a certain amount of points, you can then cash them in for money.Join more than one survey site (five or more). You will then receive emails from the survey sites when they select you to take a survey, so be sure to check your email every day.Whether or not a site selects you to take a survey depends on if they need someone from your age group, gender, and race for feedback. Joining more than one site increases your chances of being asked to complete a survey.Before you join a survey site, check to make sure it’s legit. Read the privacy policy on the website to be sure that they aren’t selling your information to companies. Some survey sites may give you free products instead of money. Other sites may enter you into a sweepstakes instead of giving you cash.If you want cash only, be sure to sign up for sites that reimburse survey takers with money.;
, You can make money by selling a service online (such as creating a logo in photoshop, sending someone a letter, or recording a video).Consider what you enjoy doing and create a “gig” for yourself on this website!

, If you have a talent for crafts, you can create an Etsy shop and sell your work online. You could make jewelry, cards, bags, and so forth. One thing to keep in mind is the amount of money your materials cost, as well as the time it will take you to complete your craft project. Be sure you are making a profit!

, You can also sell items on Amazon or Ebay.These might be objects you or your parents have but don’t need (such as books you have already read). You can also make a lot of money selling vintage items online through these websites. You can often find cool vintage items at yard sales or second-hand stores such as Goodwill. As your mom or dad if they have some free time one Saturday to help you hunt for vintage finds in your area.

