;
, Twist heel of left foot outwards (toes point inwards) while kicking right foot sideways.
 Twist heel of left foot to the opposite direction so toes point outwards. Right foot lands at the same time in front of the left foot, right foot is the opposite direction of the left foot. 

, Repeat steps 1 and 2 but change feet (left becomes right etc).
 Do step 3 again but land behind the twisting foot instead of in front.
 Improvisations is allowed and even required. You can swing the non-twisting foot inwards instead of landing.
 On the 1st beat, hop on your left foot while bringing the heel of your right foot backwards to your left butt cheek.
 On the 2nd beat, hop on your left foot again but kick out your right foot in a 45 degree angle.
 Repeat step 1 and 2 but switch right with left and vice versa.
 Swing your right foot in front to the left at a 45 degree angle on the 1st beat.
 Return right foot to original position by swinging it back on the 2nd beat.
 Tap the behind your right foot's heel with the ball of your left foot. You can reach down to your right foot with your left hand. All these happens on the 3rd beat.
 Return to normal standing position on the 4th beat.
 Place hands on knees (bend down a bit but not squat).
 On the 1st beat, bend your knees outwards with your hands following it.
 On the 2nd beat, go back to the closed-knee position (step 1). Quickly put right hand on left knee and left hand on right knee. The right arm is over the left arm.
 Repeat step 2 but with hands in opposite position.
 Repeat step 3 but go back to normal hand position.
 This also allows you to move left and right while performing this move (think shuffling).
 Hence, the dancer should stand upright.
 E.g: Arms by the side while palms turn out when feet face outwards and in when feet are pigeon-toed.
 Bring the right foot to the left butt cheek by swinging it up clockwise. Continue rotating clockwise until you decide to stop. Same for left foot but foot swings anti-clockwise. Note: Only the parts of the leg below the knee move. The thigh remains close to the dancer.
 Hop on both feet while bending knees towards the right in a 45 degrees angle (dancer can face that direction too) on 1st beat.
 Hop back to original position on 2nd beat.
 Repeat step 1 but to the left on 3rd beat.
 Repeat step 2 on 4th beat.
 Kick twice 90 degrees outwards beat with right foot.
 Continue on left foot.
 Repeat and spin a full circle while doing so.

