 Wet your hair with lukewarm water. Pour a dime-sized amount of shampoo into your palm, then massage it into your scalp and through your extension. Be as gentle as possible, since your weave can tangle easily while shampooing.If you work out or sweat a lot, shampoo every 7 days. Otherwise, try to go about 14 days between shampoos.
Opt for sulfate-free shampoos, which are more gentle on your weave and the hair underneath.;
, Mix shampoo and water into a nozzle bottle and squirt the mixture under and around your braids. Use your fingers to massage your scalp and between braids. Rinse out the shampoo, then repeat this two more times.Do not hold your head upside down to rinse, as this can cause tangles., Keep your leave-out hair — the edges, hairline and part — healthy and unbroken by deep conditioning every time you shampoo. Pour a dime-sized amount into your palms and smooth it over your hair. Rub gently with your fingertips, then cover with a shower cap and wait about 20 minutes.If you're having trouble reaching the roots with the conditioner, use a nozzle bottle to help you get into those areas.
Rinse with warm water and follow with a light, leave-in conditioner.
 A tight style, such as braids or locks, will take a long time to dry, making it more likely to develop a moldy smell. To prevent mildew from developing, use an antibacterial weave spray. Use after your shampoo and each day before you head out the door., Working with wet, just-conditioned hair will make combing easier. Start combing at the bottom and gently work your way up until the weft is tangle-free. Be very gentle. If you pull too hard, you can loosen the weft and even damage your natural hair to the point it falls out., Weaves can get moldy and smell like mildew if left damp. To avoid this, be sure to dry your completely any time you get it wet. If possible, let it air dry. If you must use a hair dryer, use the lowest heat setting.Heat can loosen the bond of your weave, so limit the use of heat-styling tools as much as you can., A little bit of light, alcohol-free pomade on your edges will tame frizz and keep your style smooth. Add a small amount of pomade to your palms, then gently smooth it over the edges.Avoid using too much product, which could weigh down your hair and make it look greasy.
 To freshen up between shampoos, apply a small amount leave-in conditioner to your weave each day. Massage the moisturizer gently into your scalp and through your natural hair and weft. This will keep your weave untangled and looking shiny., Visiting your stylist often for professional maintenance will keep your weave fresh-looking. The stylist will trim any broken hairs, tighten loose braids, and make sure the weft is secure and your natural hair is healthy., Because you are only washing your hair every 7 to 14 days, your scalp might get itchy. Don't use your fingernails or a rat-toothed comb to scratch your scalp, since the skin is fragile and you could end up with scabs. Instead, use soothing oils and massage them gently into your scalp with the pads of your fingers. Mix tea tree oil with grapeseed, olive or coconut oils. Use a nozzle bottle to apply directly to your scalp. The tea tree oil will sooth and refresh your scalp. Don't use too much or your extensions will get oily.
 When blow-drying your hair, be sure to use a low setting. Too much heat will harm your extensions. Also, avoid flat irons and curling irons. Styling once in a while is okay, but in general, your weave will last longer if you avoid applying heat and let it flow naturally., To relieve tension on your natural hair, as well as prevent frizz, tie your hair up whenever possible. If you are working around the house, jogging, heading to the grocery or just hanging out, keeping your hair up will allow your weave to look fresher and last longer when you want to wear it down., Wrapping your hair in a scarf at night will prevent it from tangling or getting frizzy and lumpy while you sleep. Any material will work, but many prefer the smoothness of a satin or silk scarf. Using a satin pillow case, with or without a head scarf, will also protect your weave., An easy way to keep your weave wavy or curly is to braid it at night. Once it is sectioned and braided, tie it up in a head scarf to secure the braids in place while you sleep.If you wear your extensions straight, you can simply cover them at night. If you are looking for big, soft curls, use bobby pins to hold pin curls in place under your scarf., Weaves last anywhere from six to 12 weeks, depending on the weave and how well you care for it. When it is time to take out your current weave, be prepared to wait two to four weeks before adding a new one. Your hair needs that break to avoid being permanently damaged.You’ll want to thoroughly condition your hair during this time to get it in the best shape to support a new weave.

