 For many first-time voters, registration dates and deadlines are easily missed. A prospective voter must register at least 20 days before election day. If registering by mail, the elector (the person who trying to vote) must have the registration postmarked 20 days before election day. If the registrant turns in their registration in person, then they must turn it in at least 20 days before the election., In order to request an absentee ballot, simply print out form EL-121, fill it out, and return it to your local municipal clerk.


Form EL-121 is available at http://www.gab.wi.gov/sites/default/files/gab_forms/4/el_121_application_for_absentee_ballot_2016_06_p_51537.pdf. You may indicate on the form whether you want absentee ballots to be sent for one election or all elections for the year.If you have never before requested an absentee ballot, you must enclose a copy of a photo ID along with your application. Acceptable forms of photo ID include a Wisconsin driver’s license or ID card, US Passport, a university ID, a military ID, an ID issued by a federal agency, such as the Dept. of Veteran’s Affairs, a Certificate of Naturalization, a receipt for a Wisconsin driver’s license or ID, an ID from an Indian tribe recognized by the state of Wisconsin, or a notice to revoke a Wisconsin driver’s license or ID.
You may request the absentee ballot in one of four ways: in person at the municipal clerk’s office, by email, by fax, or by postal mail. You must request your ballot no later than 5:00 pm on the Thursday before Election Day. You may find your local municipal clerk’s office at https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/., Once you get your absentee ballot in the mail, fill it out. Take your time. Make sure it is filled out completely and clearly. Most people will elect to mail their absentee ballots in. If that is what you choose to do, the ballot must be postmarked no later than Election Day, and must be received by 4:00 pm the Friday after Election Day. If you choose to send it by private courier, like FedEx, UPS, or DHL, or you hand deliver it yourself, it must be at the clerk’s office no later than 8:00 pm on Election day. , You may also vote early, or “absentee in person.” The procedure here is substantially the same, except the request and the vote all happen in one visit. Early voting takes place for the two weeks before an election during normal business hours, and ends the Friday before an election. The elector must arrive at the clerk’s office before 5:00 pm.