 In particular, think about how the skills you think you will learn at the job will affect future job opportunities, and how you can advance in the company starting at the position you are getting offered.



Ask yourself: Will this job set me on the career path that I want to pursue? Is that something that is important to me?

Ask your potential employer: Does the company offer training programs pertaining to various skill sets? Has there been a history of promotion from the position being offered? What requirements are needed for trainings, promotions, certifications etc. offered at the company?;
, If you want to be challenged and excited by your work, it is important to consider whether the job you are being offered will involve work of that kind. Assess the goal of your job. The more challenging that goal is, the more motivated and upbeat you will feel is you are the kind of person who looks for engaging work.



Ask yourself: Will I be working on exciting projects? Will I be able to apply my knowledge and skills on a daily basis? Does this job offer me a challenge? Are am excited by the prospect of what I will be doing at this company?

Ask your potential employer: Do you find that this company’s goal challenges and excites you? Do you find the work you do interesting? Do you find that your colleagues are also excited by the work?

, Again, this is based on your personal needs. If you are a person who needs flexibility and the chance to pursue new ideas, you want to make sure that your job allows you to have that autonomy. If the job has very strict boundaries and a permanent schedule, you may want to consider looking for a different job.



Ask yourself: How much flexibility do I need to be happy and productive? Do I work well if I have no deadlines, many deadlines, or somewhere in between?

Ask your potential employer: Will I have the opportunity to set my own deadlines? Will I be able to expand my working hours without asking a supervisor?

, Evaluate the culture of the organization in terms of its overall environment. Assess it against your personality. You may consider elements like how focused on a goal the company is, the company’s emphasis on teamwork, professionalism, how fast-paced the environment is, how casual, caring, or creative the company.


Since understanding the culture is a tough task at the interview stage, you may have to talk to someone who is currently working there or who has worked there in the past.

Ask the current employee: Do employees tend to get to work on time and take ownership for their work? Does your employer seem to care about your concerns? Do people work in teams, or is it more individual work? Are new ideas welcomed at this company?

, Some people have a hard time considering working at a low-profile company. This is because they are concerned that future employers won’t know (and therefore won’t necessarily respect) this low-profile company. Alternatively, some people are concerned about getting no recognition in a large, prestigious company.Ask yourself: Am I alright with working at a low-profile company that people might not recognize in the future? Will it hurt my career path to choose a job at a less prestigious institute? Am I alright getting paid less at a job that has prestige?
Rather than asking your potential employer, do some research of your own via the internet and your networking sites to determine how prestigious this company is.
 If you are a person who needs to take a break and relax at least once throughout the day, or have specific physical needs, you may want to consider your potential office space environment.



Ask your potential employer: Is the workplace equipped with a space to take breaks? Is the office safe (ie. are there security guards in the parking garages, etc.)? Will I be sharing an office space or will I have my own office?

, Meet your potential team before hand if possible. Evaluate them not only in terms of how well they fit with the current job, environment and skill profile, but also in relation to your own personality. You should also determine whether or not the team seems like a strong one that will be successful. After all, a successful team has the potential to boost your career.



Ask yourself: What kind of team do I work well with? What is my role in that team?

Ask your potential team: How long have you been working together? Do you feel like you’ve learned a lot while you’ve been working at this company? What has their track record been since they became a team?

