 For example, in the United Kingdom, it's required that you get a license from your local council first. Knowing you have gained the proper permissions for a sale will give you peace of mind and help you avoid a fine, as well as reassure customers you are not a troublemaker.;
, Go through all your rooms, draws and cupboards. If you think there is something you could sell at a car boot sale, then put it into a selling pile. Anything really does go at a car boot sale, so dig deep into your closets for clothing, toys, kitchen utensils, and whatever else you want to get rid of!


When you have a pile with potential items ready, check that everything is in good condition. Would you buy it in its current condition? If the answer is no, try to clean it up or make it more acceptable. If you can't, take it out of the selling pile.
 Bear in mind that most potential buyers are usually bargain hunters, so to get more stock sold, try to lower the price a fraction. This will not only help more stock to be sold, but also earn you a reputation as a great place to go in the future.
 People are not going to come to your sale if they don't know about it. Why not try making some posters, or posting/handing out leaflets?

, There is nothing like getting to your location and struggling to set up your sale. This can be potentially embarrassing and damage your reputation. However, if you are having the sale outside our home, wrapping up products is not always necessary, except for in the event of bad weather etc.
 Be sure to get there early to get a good spot, as well as getting your products all set out nicely. Remember, presentation can make or break your sale. A messy table will not attract as many customers as a clean and tidy looking one.
 This is the fun part, as you are going to make money. Remember to be friendly, but do not be afraid to report trouble makers. Also, keep an eye out for thieves. A place like this can be a heaven for thieves. Keep an eye on your items and hard earned cash at all times!

, Start to pack away any unsold items you may have left over.
 Hopefully you will have made some serious money, which can then help in many ways. Whether it helps paying the bills, buying gifts for Christmas, or even treating yourself, it will certainly help.

