 There are several bacteria which can grow in the intestinal tract and cause a mild to severe and life-threatening illness. These bacteria include campylobacter, salmonella, shigella, e. Coli, listeria, and botulism. Each causes a unique set of symptoms which your physician can diagnose and treat, but prevention is best., Sometimes food and water may become contaminated, so it is important to stay informed to avoid ingesting contaminated food or water.


Listen to the news in your local area for information if there is contamination found in the local water supply. If your find out that your water supply is contaminated, purchase and drink/cook with bottled water and refrain from showering until the water supply is safe again.
Listen to the news for food recalls. Contamination is a common problem, so it is important to stay informed. If you learn that a certain type of food has been recalled, dispose of any of that type of food that is in your home and seek medical attention if you consumed any of it before hearing about the recall.
 Hand washing is an important step in preventing bacterial infections in and out of the kitchen. You should always wash your hands before and after you handle food. It is especially important to wash your hands thoroughly after using the bathroom or changing diapers, before you start working in the kitchen., Washing and cooking your food thoroughly can also help to prevent any harmful bacteria from getting into your system. Wash all fruits and vegetables before consuming them and cook animal products well to help kill off any harmful bacteria that might be in the food.


Avoid eating raw or undercooked meat, poultry and eggs.Do not cross contaminate your food by using the same utensils for raw meat or eggs and fresh fruits and vegetables until those utensils have been thoroughly washed. Make sure you also thoroughly clean sinks, cutting boards, counter tops after handling these items, as contaminated surfaces are often to blame for cross-contamination.
 Do not consume anything that has a foul smell or of the can looks bloated. These are signs of botulism, which is an extremely dangerous bacteria. If consumed, botulism may be fatal. Foodborne botulism is associated with home canned foods with low acid content, such as asparagus, green beans, beets, and corn. Follow strict canning procedures when canning your own food at home.Do not give honey to children under the age of 12 months. It can contain a strain of botulism known to cause infant botulism.