 Don't expect your hosts to cart you around to wherever you want to go. Additionally, your hosts may be not having their vacations as you are and working throughout the day - the last thing they want to do when they get home is drive you places.;
, If they are working during your stay, they may need some time to themselves away from 'entertaining'. Conversely, ask them ahead of time if they have any routines that you should respect while you're in their home.
 If, when you arrive, your hosts have prepared a place for you to sleep and take a bath, do not offend them by refusing their graciousness and sleeping on the sofa or bathing out of the kitchen sink. If they have gone to the trouble to prepare for you, be a gracious guest and take advantage of their preparations. There may be a very good reason they have placed you there. Don't be a martyr.
 do not hum or sing when there is no music playing (especially if others in the room are trying to watch TV or read a book), burp loudly, or walk around in your pajamas all day. Be an observer and learn more about what your child's life is now like.
 Things like spraying yourself liberally with perfume or walking around in underwear may not be acceptable; be a quick learner and follow the rules.
 For example, a recliner is comfortable but there are others in the house that may want to use it on occasion.
 Get up and get your own sodas, cook a meal, take out the trash, do something to contribute to the family. However - before using the stove, oven, washer, dryer, or opening any cabinets to find cleaning products, ask your hosts for permission.
 This is a pessimistic view and not pleasant conversation. Try to not think of yourself the whole time, and try not to monopolize the conversations. Especially, do not get into long 'do you remembers' and goings-on of back home with your son/daughter while other people are present. It makes them feel left out of the conversation and they have nothing to contribute. Find some alone time with your child to reminisce.
 Money is easy to spend and it does not make up for being rude or not following proper etiquette. Your child is a person and deserves respect.
 You had your time raising your children, now it is your son's/daughter's turn to raise theirs.
 If you have a son-in-law, do not verbalize any flaws that you see in him. (This includes refraining from verbalizing your son-in-law's perceived flaws to your own daughter or other family members).
 Period. Your child and spouse already realize that they do not see you frequently. Do not complain about it, do not blame them, and do not bring on the guilt trips and accuse them of not caring. This will only push them farther away and you will see even less of them in the future.

