 If there's something about the stranger's approach that's made you uneasy, it's a good idea to go with your gut and reject. On the other hand, if you feel good and like the attention, don't be afraid to let it continue and see where it goes.


Saying "Yes" because you feel pressured is a bad move.It's a common mistake to make, but you should take care to avoid it in the future.
 Unlike a friend approaching you, where you may care about his feelings, a stranger can be dismissed more easily. The best rejections are done in a few words or less.


You can reject someone through body language as well. If you're in a loud environment like a club, you can simply shake your head. This should get the message across in most cases.
Say something like: "I'm not interested." It's simple, gets the job done, and you're not going out of your way to help or hurt the other person.
 That's why the best way to reject someone is to do it in as straightforward a way as possible.


Giving false hope at the start increases the risk of getting a stalker later on.
 If you're going to lie your way through a rejection, you need to make sure your excuse can't be called out.Whether any of it is true or not, saying you're already in a relationship keeps the other person from feeling personally hurt. This is a very common technique, but it should only be done if you don't think the other person will find out you're lying.


Simply saying "I have a boyfriend/girlfriend" can save the other person from taking the rejection personally.
 Saying something as simple as "Sorry, I'm not interested" is perfectly okay, but apologizing can become a problem if you do too much of it.It ends up seeming like you're being condescending to the other person. Worse still, the apologies may seem like you're unsure whether you really want to reject him or not. No one likes hurting someone else, but apologizing isn't going to make anyone feel better, least of all the person you rejected.
 Everyone wants to have the last word, and this can sometimes result in an argument. If you've rejected someone, there's a good chance he'll have something to say in response. Just listen to and accept what he has to say, and don't feel obligated to respond.


This may be hard advice to accept for some people. If you're the kind of person that loves to have the last word, remind yourself that you only stand to lose from a prolonged confrontation with this person. You can benefit from keeping the rejection short. The shorter it is, the faster you'll be able to go back to enjoying your night.

