 Don't allow a bully to continue harassing someone for being or appearing homosexual. If you see or hear something, do something right away. Don’t wait for someone else to step in, be a leader and step up.Being gay should never be the butt of a joke. Whether it’s true or not, it’s disrespectful to make someone feel undervalued.
You can say, “What’s going on here?” If you’re being bullied, say, “Why would you say that?”
If the person who is being bullied asks you to stand down, then respect the request. Just make it clear that what you observed was not appropriate and that you support the person being bullied.;
, If you hear someone bullying another person or making a joke about someone being gay, let them know you find their words offensive. Let them know that their behavior is wrong and hurtful. If you’re being bullied, you can stand up for yourself, too.Say something like, “It’s not okay to say that,” or, “That’s not the kind of thing you make fun of. Not cool.” If you’re standing up for someone else, say, “Don’t gang up on her like that.”

, If you’re scared, unsafe or are unable to intervene for someone or to stand up for yourself, say something to an adult or authority figure, like a teacher, parent, or employer. Say something right away. Tell them what was said, who said it, and to whom. Ask them for help as soon as possible.For example, say, “Jordan is making fun of Mal and calling them gay. Can you come quickly?”
Make sure someone with authority intervenes or learns of the incident. This might be a school principal or dean. If bullying occurs at a workplace, tell a manager or human resource person.
If the first adult you tell about the incident is dismissive, then find a different adult and tell them.
 Some people use social media to bully others. If bullying occurs on social media, take a photo or screenshot of it for evidence. If possible, report the inappropriate content to the website, your parents, law enforcement, and/or another authority figure who can do something about it.It’s up to you if you want to respond to the remarks. You might say, “Not cool” or, “Please delete this. It’s offensive.”


If you’re a parent, inform the school and/or the bully’s parents of the behavior.

