


It may be beneficial to have generic separation information packets to give to resigning employees. If they come to you with their resignation, they will probably want to talk to you about making the steps required to make the transition out of your company go as smoothly as possible. Offer them professional advice and maintain a structured outline for items such as severance packages, leave notice requirements, provision of a forwarding address for final pay, and final dates of employment.;
, Each resignation is different and involves varying factual scenarios. As an employer, you have to determine when counteroffers are acceptable and when you will simply let the employee go. Some employers have a policy of never trying to retain an employee that seemingly doesn't want to be there. However, a policy that allows for some negotiation may be advantageous, particularly when the employee is valuable to your team.

For example, if the individual that sends a resignation letter is a high ranking officer or executive in your business, you may want to understand his or her concerns and correct them so the employee stays.
 Included in your standard resignation acceptance system should be a reply letter. The letter should state that you regret the loss of the employee, but respect and understand their decision. Inform them of the date you received the letter and date of their final workday. Be cordial and wish your outgoing employee the best.


A sample reply letter might read:
“Dear ,
I regretfully received your resignation notice on . Your resignation has been approved and your final work day will be . It has been a pleasure working with you and on behalf of the entire company, I want to wish you good fortune in all future endeavors. Please direct any questions to this office. Thank you for your many years of service.
Sincerely, .”

, If your company has given an individual access to company credit cards, bank accounts, automobiles, or laptops or other electronic equipment, ensure that these are returned. After they depart, eliminate the employee’s access to the office via security cards and change system logon info.Protecting your company and its property should be at the top of your priority list when considering how to accept a resignation letter.


If employees are required to sign a non-compete agreement as part of the hiring process, review this document with the employee at the time you accept their resignation. This will ensure they are fully aware of their limitations in releasing company information and contacting clients or associates of the company.
 If the resigning employee is in the middle of a project or deal, get them to finish it. If it is impossible for them to complete their current workload before they depart, get them to draft a report outlining what has been done and what has been left undone. Let them know what is expected of them before they leave the company.


Instruct the employee to provide a list of important email addresses, phone numbers, and computer files for their replacement.
Request that the employee provide a forwarding address for their tax statements and final paycheck.
 Usually, human resources guidelines mandate that the employee provide at least two weeks’ notice before resigning. At the end of the two weeks, the employee is free to leave. Based on what you know of the employee’s current workload, you may or may not request to extend that deadline.End dates may vary with the employee’s position within the company; individuals with more responsibilities will typically have to wait longer before officially leaving the company than junior rank-and-file employees.


Different states have different laws regarding notice. For example, in Kansas, an employee does not need to provide any notice when he or she quits.However, some states may require advance notice. Be sure you check your local laws to ensure the established end date is valid.
 The path toward replacing the employee who is leaving with another employee should begin immediately. Search your firm’s roster for an acceptable candidate. Ask the outgoing employee for suggestions as to who they think would be a good fit for the position. If no qualified employees exist within your company, open the hiring process to external candidates. Locating and training the outgoing employee’s replacement in a swift and timely manner will ensure that workflow interruption is minimized.


If you can hire the departing employee’s replacement before they leave, allow them to train under the outgoing employee. This will guarantee a smooth transition.
 An exit interview gives the departing employee a chance to talk about their experience with you and express what they felt worked in their specific department or in the business at large.Encourage your departing employee to be honest in their evaluation of the company, his coworkers, and management during the exit interview. Listen carefully and use their insights as an opportunity to learn how you can best identify their replacement and adjust the expectations for the person assuming the position.


Don’t forget to find out more about why the employee wants to leave when you conduct the exit interview. There will usually be a reason provided in the resignation letter, but it’s a good idea to delve deeper into what could be done to make the employee stay.
 Bargaining with an employee to stay is usually a good idea if you can afford it, especially if they have many years with the company, lots of institutional knowledge, and valuable contacts who may follow him or her to their new position., Use this explanation to decide if the employee can be bargained with. If your employee is leaving because they hate their job, don’t try to keep them around. However, if they are leaving to pursue a better job – with more freedom, better pay, or more prestige – you might consider talking them out of it by making a counteroffer., Often, a counteroffer to retain an employee will not keep them at your firm in the long run. There may be reasons beyond the ones they admitted to which make them want to leave your firm. This is not to say that your employee is lying, but they may actually believe that their current position is worth keeping for money alone. Typically, employees are not leaving solely due to the size of their paycheck.Keeping them around is a temporary solution best avoided., If other employees get wind of the fact that you made a counteroffer to your resigning employee in order to get them to stay, the others may see you as desperate to keep people from jumping ship. Furthermore, they may feel that they should be looking at other work opportunities as well, and threaten to leave in order to get a raise or promotion., If their mind is made up, you will gain nothing by leaning on them to stay. Do not disparage or raise doubts about the quality of the firm your outgoing employee is joining. If the employee is less sure of his or her decision to resign, making them feel stupid, guilty, or selfish by quitting is not only unprofessional and manipulative, but is not in your best interests. This underhanded behavior is unbecoming of a leader.Pressuring the employee to stay is bad for both them and you. Without solving the underlying reasons for the employee’s dissatisfaction, you’re creating a recipe for later disappointment when they decide to leave.
 Do not promise a resigning employee new responsibilities or a change in the office culture if you can’t deliver on it. Such mendacity will needlessly embitter your outgoing employee, and leave them with a bad taste in their mouth when they finally realize nothing will change.Even if you’re well-intentioned, step back and ask what is possible and what is not possible in your workplace. For instance, if your employee wants a job already filled by someone else and it would be redundant to create an identical position, be honest and let the employee know that you cannot give them what they want.
 Handle the resignation professionally.This is especially important when you are handed the resignation letter in person and are receiving the first notice of the employee’s leaving. Do not react emotionally. If you respond negatively, the employee may become offended and lash out at you or their coworkers.


A sour employee can make the few weeks they remain at the company a nightmare.
Responding with sadness, shock, or grief, while understandable, could make the situation even more stressful and difficult for the resigning employee.
Do not add to the employee’s stress and discomfort by asking them to stay (unless you offer an improved salary and benefits as well).
 These should accurately describe what the employee’s responsibilities were. Work with them if they desire specifics in their letter about the work they did for your firm, but be honest and sincere. Keep your letters of recommendation brief and to the point. If the company receiving the letter has questions, they will contact you.Letters of recommendation will vary, but a standard form consists of a salutation (“dear so-and-so”); a description of how you know the resigning individual in which you describe your experience working with him; and a litany of qualities which make the employee attractive to you and, presumably, to another employer. Declare that the employee will continue to excel in their chosen profession. Provide your contact information at the foot of the letter and suggest that if the prospective employer is interested, you are available to speak more about the employee in question.
Provide concrete examples to back up each statement of praise you make. For instance, you might write, “John persistently showed creativity in solving design problems.” Then, you should cite three or four instances in which John creatively solved the aforementioned design problems.
 Send out a memo or email to the resigning employee’s coworkers announcing the resignation. Let them know regretfully that the employee in question is leaving, and on behalf of the company you wish them well in their future endeavors.


An announcement email might read something like, “It is with deep regret that I must inform you that will be moving to another position. Their last day will be . Please join me in wishing him/her well in all future endeavors.”

, Even though you are disappointed to see a good worker (and maybe even a good friend) leave, it is important that they know their work and contributions were valued. Throw a work party at the end of their last day to let them know. If you don’t want to take office time away from everyone, arrange for everyone to meet for drinks after the end of the employee’s last work day. If you think a more intimate send-off is appropriate, have a small team lunch on the employee’s last day., Let them know they will always have a home at your business.


Cultivating good relationships with outgoing employees is good business. When outgoing employees feel their work was appreciated and they were valued, they will act as goodwill ambassadors for your firm and recommend your company to other potential employees and partner businesses or agencies.The connections your employee gains in his or her next position could benefit you as well, and they may send clients or other potential employees your way.

