 Locate and tap the oDesk Mobile app on your phone’s Home screen or via the app drawer at the bottom right side of the screen. Its icon is a green circle with the words “oDesk Mobile” inside of it.
 Tap on the button to open a menu to the right of the page. Tap on the top item, which is the login tab, to load the oDesk sign-in page.
 Tap on the text fields one at a time, enter your username and password into the appropriate box, and tap on Sign In to access your account.
 To do this, tap on the three-line button again, and click on “Desktop View” found at the bottom of the menu to the right of the screen.


This will load the desktop version of the site on your phone screen, right in the oDesk app.
 To get to Settings, swipe towards the right, and you will see the button with the gear icon. Tap the button to load your Profile Settings.
 On the left side of the Profile Settings page are different submenus arranged in a column. Tap on “My Contractor Profile” to open its settings.
 Scroll through the settings until you see the Employment History tab. Tap on the “Add” button right next to it to start answering questions about your work experience.
 It’s the first thing you can add to your Employment History. Just click inside the box, and type in the name of the company you used to work for.
 The second and third boxes are where you type in the location city and the country, respectively.
 The next box is for the job title you held at the company you listed.


For example, “Editorial Assistant” or “Art Director.”

, Next in line is identifying your role in the company you listed. Were you a supervisor or a high-rank manager perhaps? Pick and tick it off from the items listed on the drop-down menu.
 To give the time period that you worked for a company, first find the month and year of your start date on the drop-down menus for the month and year, respectively. Do the same for the month and year that you left the company.


If you are currently still working for this company, just check the box for “I currently work here,” leaving the exit date blank.
 Click on the description box under the date section, and give a concise background for the tasks you were in charge of while employed at this specific company.


Remember, you want to highlight, so don’t be overly modest here.
 Review the information you just added, and click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the screen to save your education history to your profile.