 Adobe Digital Editions is paired with your Nook, and is required for older Nook models without the option of downloading apps. Your computer will function as a mediator between your Nook and online library account.If you do not have a computer of your own, you may be able to use a library computer to complete this process.;
, Using the same email address you used to activate your Nook, create an account with Adobe Digital Editions. Creating an account will help you keep track of your downloads, and will facilitate the transfer of books from your computer to your e-reader.Using an email different from your Nook email may create some difficulty in the download and transfer process.
 Pause at this point in the process and connect your Nook to your computer using a USB cable. Turn your Nook on to make sure it registers with Adobe.
 When you select the format you wish to download in on Overdrive (the program most libraries use to lend books digitally), a window will appear giving you the option of opening the file or downloading it. Select “Open the file with Adobe,” which will automatically pull the book open in your Adobe library., Once you have opened Adobe, select the “library” button in the top left hand corner, which should bring up a list of books you have downloaded or borrowed. Having your library open will allow you to identify and highlight the book you are trying to transfer.
 Highlight the book you want to place on your Nook, and drag it to the middle of the page on the left-hand side, where a small icon reading “Nook” will appear. This will complete the process of transferring the book to your Nook. Check your Nook before disconnecting to make sure the book has appeared in your Nook library., When you have finished your digital library book, plug your Nook into your computer once more, and open Adobe. From your library on your Nook, click “Return Book.”, Open Adobe and complete the return by also clicking “Return Book” inside of the Adobe program. To verify your return has gone through, you can minimize Adobe and check your Overdrive or library account.


If your book does not return, you may need to contact Nook customer service or your library for assistance.

