 Do you find yourself feeling more confident during some phone calls and less confident during others? If so, it may help to build your confidence by starting with phone calls that don’t cause so much anxiety.For example, if you need to make three phone calls—to a friend, to a colleague, and to make a reservation—rank the level of anxiety you feel with each one. Then, start with the least anxiety-provoking, like to a friend. Make that call first to get some good vibes. Then, move to the next one and so on.
 Sometimes phone calls cause anxiety because of the context of the call. In these situations, it may help relieve anxiety to role-play with a friend or family member ahead of time. That way, this person can help you desensitize before the real call and give you feedback about your performance.For example, before a telephone job interview, you might do a “mock interview” with a friend. Have them ask you questions. Then, you can provide thoughtful answers as if it were the real deal. Ask for feedback after the “interview” is over so that you can make improvements.
 The more you force yourself to face a fear, the less power it has over you. Therefore, you can gradually reduce the anxiety you feel about making phone calls by making more of them. Instead of sending a text, call a friend, coworker or family member. If you are planning to email a professor or boss, skip the email and call.As you practice making more phone calls, you’ll likely find the activity doesn’t stress you out as much.
 There’s a classic confidence-building strategy known as “fake it ‘til you make it.” Try this when you’re making phone calls. For instance, even when you’re not feeling so confident, lift your chin, pull your shoulders back, and smile during the call. “Faking” confident body language may actually lead to real confidence., It can be helpful to release anxiety with small movements. When you’re planning to make phone calls, take something in your hand, such as a stress ball, a fidget spinner, or a handful of marbles. Play around with these items during the call to release excess tension., If you’re required to participate in a phone call that is stressing you out, see if you can get a buddy on the call. This person can be silently present on the line to offer you moral support during the call. Or, they can join in on the call to serve as a buffer when you forget what you were going to say or become tongue-tied.For example, if you’re checking in with a supervisor, you might plan to have a team member join you on the call. If you’re calling a distant relative, ask your mom or sibling to talk to them with you.

