 If you are short on time, try painting all but one of your nails (such as your ring finger) with a glitter nail polish. Then, do a special design on your accent nail.








For example, you could do a chevron design on your accent nail, paint it a solid color and then add some decals, or use a nail wrap to add a complex design.
 You can divide your nails into two solid colors for a festive Mardi Gras nail look. To do this, you can either use tape or a nail art strip to divide your nails in half diagonally. Then, paint one half of all of your nails with one color, let it dry, and then paint the other half with the other color.








For example, you could paint your nails half purple and half green.
You could even use a gold nail polish liner pen to draw a line over the diagonal divide between the two colors.
 Ombre nails are popular and fairly easy to do. You can paint your nails green and purple and then use gold glitter nail polish for the ombre effect. All you need to create an ombre look at home is some nail polish and a makeup sponge.









Start by painting your nails with the solid nail polish color(s) you have chosen. Then, allow the polish to dry completely.
Next, use a makeup sponge to dab gold glitter nail polish onto the ends of your nails. Try to dab more glitter polish onto the ends of your nails to get the ombre effect.Use some nail polish remover on a cotton swab to remove any excess nail polish from your skin.
 Mardi Gras is known for its plastic bead necklaces in purple, green, and gold. You can nod to this with your nails by adhering some nail beads to one of your nails as an accent.








Paint your nails and allow the nail polish to dry for a few minutes. Use purple, green, or gold nail polish.
Then, apply a gel topcoat to all of your nails. However, do not wait for the topcoat to dry before applying the beads.
Apply the beads to the nail you want to accent while the gel topcoat is still wet. Try to arrange the beads in a row so they look like they are connected. Then, let the topcoat dry completely.

