 According to the United States Healthful Food Council (USHFC), Americans spend about half of their food budgets on take out.. For some families, this means spending hundreds of dollars per month, not only on restaurant food, but also on prepared foods such as chicken fingers. If the average restaurant or take-out meal costs $13 per person,and the average cost to cook a meal at home is $4 per person,, then a family of four can save quite a bit of money by cooking at home just two times more per week.


Using these assumptions, the average cost of take-out or restaurant meal for a family of four is $52 ($13 x 4 = $52), and the average cost of meal cooked at home for a family of four is $16 ($4 x 4 = $16).
So, the weekly savings from cooking two meals at home would $72 ($52 - $16 = $36; $36 x 2 = $72).
By cooking at home two times more per week, a family of four could save as much as $288 per month on food ($72 x 4 weeks = $288).
 If you are going to make the effort to cook your meals, write out a grocery list and take it with you when you go shopping. Prepare your grocery list based on food category, such as breads and grains, produce, meat and seafood, etc. Purchase only what you need to make the meals on your menu plan. Purchase fresh foods wherever possible. Processed or canned foods are not only less healthy, but they cost more per unit.Avoid bottled water. It would be less expensive to purchase reusable water bottles and fill them with filtered water.Canned, frozen and prepared foods cost more per unit than fresh meats and vegetables., It’s easy to justify splurging on a cool new gadget, a stylish pair of shoes or even a tasty dessert, especially if it isn’t that expensive to begin with. However, impulse purchases add up over the course of a month. Learning to control impulse spending can help you stop spending more than you earn. You can control your impulse spending with a few practical tips.Use cash instead of credit. While it may be more convenient to use plastic for all your purchases, using a credit card can also encourage overspending.People tend to buy and spend more than they want to when they are using a card, because it's convenient and it can make it difficult to keep track of how much you've really spent.Carry just as much cash as you're willing to spend on a purchase. This will stop you from impulse buying, since you'll be very conscious of the fact that you have to go to the ATM to get more of your hard-earned dough to buy that item or upgrade you probably don't need.Impose waiting periods on purchases over a certain dollar limit or within certain categories. Tell yourself that you have to wait five days, two weeks or one month before making purchases that are more than $50 and are not for necessities like food.When you see something that you think you just have to have but it is not a necessity, take a picture of it and hang it on the refrigerator with today’s date on it. If you still want it after your waiting period has expired, then make a plan to purchase the item.Think in terms of hours instead of dollars. As yourself how many hours you would have to work to pay for that $50 item.Avoid shopping trips to the mall and visits to your favorite online retailers. Don’t put yourself in the path of temptation., Get rid of premium cable channels, and opt for internet streaming services such as Hulu Plus, Netflix and Amazon Prime. The average cost of these services is $7.99 per month.Even if you purchase all three streaming services and get basic cable with internet access, you can save almost 50 percent on your cable bill.


The average cost of a premium cable channel that includes ESPN and HBO is approximately $130 per month.The average cost of standard cable (20 channels) plus 15 Mbps internet is approximately $45 per month. Subscribing to Netflix, Hulu Plus and Amazon Prime will cost approximately $24 per month ($7.99 x 3 = $23.97). The total cost of this option would be $45 + $25 = $70.This translates to a savings of approximately $60 per month ($130 - $70 = $60), or a 46 percent reduction of expense ($60 / $130 = .46).
Consider that cable service may include internet access. Examine each cost separately and blended for lowest rate — sometimes an internet/cable package will actually be the most inexpensive option.
 Don’t assume that your local power company is the only source of reliable service. The market is constantly changing, and new companies providing reliable electricity service for less may be popping up in your area. Visit the website powertochoose.org. Enter your zip code to find companies who provide electric power in your area. Compare prices and choose the best option for you.Some communities have deregulated natural gas service in addition to electricity. Investigate your options for natural gas providers in your area.
Know the terms of your current contract. Understanding these terms will enable you to compare with other companies. Look over your bill. Know how much you pay per kWh, whether it is a fixed or variable rate, and when your current contract expires., Late fees and overdraft fees can cost you hundreds of dollars per month. If you are routinely spending more than you earn, then chances are you are paying your bills late and are often overdrawn on your account.Set up auto transfers to pay your bills on time.
Request checking account alerts to avoid overdrafts.
Get rid of overdraft protection. If your bank won’t authorize payments that overdraw your account, then you can completely avoid overdraft fees.

