 Consider getting a massage or some spa services at these other establishments while doing your research.;
, This is just a rough draft of what you want to offer but it will help you determine how much space you need for your day spa. For example, you may want to offer pedicures and manicures, massage services, body wraps, facials, hair styling, spray tanning and a Vichy shower. Note that some services will affect the layout of your plumbing and electrical supply. Also, do some research to find out how much space each room will require.
 You need to be some distance away from any other spas but located in a section of town that has wealthy or upscale residents. At the very least, you need to be easily accessible to the people who will use your services. You may choose to build your own building, renovate an existing building or try to find a building that will work as-is.
 You may need to enlist the services of an architect if you're making structural changes to the building. If you're not building or doing renovations, start decorating and planning out how you will set up your treatment rooms.
 Determine this based on how many treatment rooms you have and what your operating hours will be. Different states require licenses for certain spa personnel, so ensure that your employees have a license as well as liability insurance, as required. Examples include massage therapists, anesthetics and nail technicians. In addition, you may need to get an establishment license for the spa itself and a sales tax ID number if you plan to offer retail products.
 Depending on what you offer, you will need a front counter or desk, computer system with scheduling software, product shelving, hair styling stations and tools, massage tables, pedicure chairs, manicure tables, facial equipment and linens for every room. You will also need relaxing music to use throughout the facility.
 You'll need to think of names for each treatment and set your prices.
 This includes water and sewer, electricity, gas, trash service, phone and Internet.
 Put up exterior signage, set up a website, take out ads, send out press releases, do interviews and pass out fliers and coupons. Do as much as your budget allows.
 You can offer complementary mini-treatments to guests, give out menus, serve light snacks and talk to guests about the value your spa services can add to their lives. Offer a discount to anyone who schedules an appointment while at the party.

