 Make swimming and time in the water seem like lots of fun. Introduce games and activities that help to build confidence and trust in the pool. Just make it clear that playing in the water is fun, only when supervised.


Use pool toys and other fun props to make the pool more interesting and fun.
Try games like "red light, green light" to help get them moving in the water. With games, their minds will be more focused on playing the game, and less on feeling uncomfortable.
 Make swimming class a priority when your child is young. Consider private or group swimming classes. While there are swimming classes available for toddlers, the recommended starting age is around age 4 for classes.Often, the earlier that you teach a child to swim, the more comfortable they will be around water as they get older.Consider finding affordable swim classes through the YMCA or similar youth organizations.
There may be "mommy-and me" swimming classes in your area, too. Think about these classes as a way to bond more with your child.
 Help to make swimming feel like second nature. The more often you spend time around the pool, the more likely it will feel comfortable and normal to be around water.Consider having your young child practice their swimming techniques in the bathtub.
Turn pool time into family time. Make it something that your whole family can enjoy.
The more that you and your child practice swimming, the more it will feel comforting rather than scary to be in the water.
 Create small goals at first that are attainable. Then, as they become more comfortable in the water, increase the difficulty of the goals. When they reach their goals, provide rewards and encouragement.The reward can be as simple as telling them, "Good job" or "You made it this far. Great job!" Gentle and loving words of encouragement, even for small things, can help to build confidence.
Consider providing an incentive such as a treat after swim class. You could also buy a new toy that can be used at the next swim lesson.

