 There are times, such as when you can't eat or drink anything the night or morning before surgery, that you think you're starving – not for food but for just one sip of sparkling cold water. While this should be avoided before surgery, ice chips or ice cubes are the first things they give you when you wake up to help moisten your mouth and quench your thirst. So freeze some water in ice cube trays and put them in a cup or a plastic baggie (for ice chips, carefully break them into pieces) for immediate thirst relief.
 Chewing gum and sucking on hard candies will actually make your mouth produce more saliva, which in turn makes you less thirsty. While you also shouldn't do this before surgery, it's helpful if you are restricting liquids because of dialysis. It's also good for quenching thirst caused by any number of other things. Make sure you buy sugar-free hard candies that you not only enjoy but that also last a long time. The more you use, the more saliva your mouth will produce.Be warned, xylitol is often in sugar-free gum and sugar-free candies, and it can lead to diarrhea or cramps if enough is consumed.Sour candy cranks up your saliva glands, so if you can handle it give it a try, too.
Chewing on whole mint leaves is cooling, refreshing and will also help quench your thirst.
 At times, such as when a person is on dialysis, sucking on frozen fruits like grapes, peach slices and pineapple chunks, can be amazing thirst-quenchers. It helps because it, too, stimulates the production of saliva and has a high water content. Aside from grapes and other berries, all you need to do is cut them up and put them in a bag in the freezer. Or, for something like watermelon and cantaloupe, scoop out balls with an ice cream scooper before freezing.


Lemon is another fruit you can also suck on frozen, or fresh if you like. It is one of the most effective fruits because its high level of citric acid really gets the saliva going., This is another great general thirst quencher and one that is also useful during dialysis and after throat or mouth surgery (not before, for any surgery). Depending upon your diet, make tea or lemonade, or buy some apple juice or diet ginger ale. Pour it into popsicle molds or ice cube trays and freeze it. If you have sticks for the popsicles, wait to stick them in until they can stand up alone. If not, and for the flavored ice cubes, put your frozen goodies in a plastic baggie to hold and to catch what melts. You could also take the drinks and freeze them in plastic cups until they become thick slushies that you can scoop out with a spoon., Try over-the-counter saliva substitutes, especially those with products containing xylitol, such as Mouth Coat or Oasis Moisturizing Mouth Spray, or products with carboxy methyl cellulose or hydroxyethyl cellulose, such as Biotene Oral Balance. Again, too much xylitol can have unhappy effects, so take it slow. If you’re being treated for a health condition that is causing your thirst, talk to your doctor first before using these.