 These include the following: restricting food intake, excessive exercising, extreme fear of gaining weight, distorted body image (feels fat even when underweight), and some anorexics vomit and/or abuse laxatives or diuretics (purging).;
, Health problems associated with anorexia include the following: electrolyte imbalance (potassium & sodium), heart arrhythmia, low heart rate, low blood pressure, cardiac arrest, osteoporosis, loss of periods, infertility, kidney & liver damage or failure, and worse of all, death. By educating yourself on anorexia, you will be better equipped in helping a person with anorexia since you will have a better sense of how to support them. In the end it will help them feel more supported which is crucial to their recovery.
 They have to have the desire to get healthy, or they will never get better. Discuss your observations and your concerns for their health. Do your best to remain calm and non judgmental; try not to put them on the defense. Express empathy, letting them know that this is very difficult and painful for them. Similarly do not tell them that they are skinny enough as they will feel as if they are doing a good job dieting and don't tell them that they are fat either. Try to keep it neutral.
 It is important to make sure that they are medically stable. They will need blood-work done(especially for possible electrolyte imbalance), an EKG, among a complete physical. The person my need to be put in the hospital for medical and/or mental stabilization.
 This professional can help you and your loved one discuss treatment options and levels of care - inpatient, residential, partial hospitalization/day treatment, intensive outpatient, and outpatient.
 Anorexia is treatable, and the likelihood of recovery is increased the sooner they get help. There is individual and group therapy, nutritional consultation, and medications (e.g., antidepressants, anti-anxiety medication, and anti-psychotics). Often times the person is suffering from another mental illness such as depression, anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, and/or personality disorders.
 Remember that the person's body will probably heal quicker than their mind. Many people think that the person is better when they have regained their weight, but there are many symptoms that you cannot see. There will be a time period of grief and mourning over the loss of their anorexia. This sounds crazy to family and friends; however, the anorexia served a purpose in that person's life. It is very difficult to let go of anorexia.
 The person may have forgotten who they are outside of their eating disorder. It has encompassed their thoughts, behaviors, and identity for a long time. Help your loved one to find something that gives them purpose and meaning, and encourage them to follow their passions.

