 If you're tired all the time, and you can't sleep, this can actually impede your weight loss. Many studies have found a link between sleep deprivation and weight gain. Aim for at least seven hours of sleep every night.


Sleeping less than four hours a night reduces metabolism. Cherries contain a chemical that may be able to help you sleep longer., Stress increases cortisol, which is a hormone that can lead to weight gain. Sometimes, mood affects more things than we realize. Weight can be one of them.


Cortisol is produced when you don't exercise, too. , It's linked to weight loss in some studies, but that doesn't mean you can guzzle a lot of it.If you do so, the calories will get you.


Red wine contains a chemical called ellagic acid, which helps you burn fat faster. It's also found in grape juice. Women should only drink about 5 oz or less of wine a day while men should drink less than 10 oz a day., The sense of smell. The sense of sight. Activating these can help you feel less hungry. This might sound silly, but it may help.


Smell peppermint or an apple when you're hungry, and the cravings might go away. , Blue is a color that suppresses appetite. So look at it a lot, and you will eat less. Eat on blue plates or paint your kitchen walls blue., If you brush your teeth after a meal, you'll eat less. That's because you'll be less inclined to put more food or drink in your mouth after you have already cleaned your teeth., This will allow you to spot small increases in weight and take corrective action before you gain much more weight. If you never weigh yourself, you might be way off when guessing your weight., Some studies have found that people who watch less television, weigh less. That's because they do not sit as much, and they are more active. Sedentary people don't burn as many calories.Studies have found that just one hour of television watching each day can be linked to weight gain. , If you are still hungry after a meal, try chewing sugar-free gum. Doing this will make you feel less hungry. It's a quick psychological attempt to trick the brain into helping you not want to eat.Sugar-free gum has about 5 calories per stick, and it can stop cravings. Don't use gum as a substitute for a good diet, though. If you're shoveling unhealthy things in your mouth on a daily basis, chewing gum the rest of the day won't matter.
 Taking pictures of yourself will let you track your progress. This can help motivate you by showing you how far you have come.