 Place the oven rack in the middle position.
 You can also use a 12-cup Bundt cake pan.

You can rub about a teaspoon of butter on the pan before you use it, as it will add an extra layer of depth to the flavor of the cake. You can also use shortening or dab just enough vegetable or coconut oil to evenly cover the pan. Both of these options will prevent your cake from sticking to the pan.Try not to use cooking sprays to grease your pan, if possible. These are convenient, but areas where the heat doesn’t burn the spray off can become sticky or pasty over time, meaning you’ll have to replace your pan sooner rather than later.Coat the greased cake pan with a couple of spoonfuls of flour, enough to create a thin dusting which will prevent the grease from absorbing into the batter when the cake is baking., You can do this in a mixer bowl. If you have an electric mixer, whisk on medium-high speed for 5 minutes., Do this in a medium bowl. Stir in vanilla., Place the saucepan over medium heat., Stir until the mixture is hot but not boiling. You can tell you have reached this sweet spot between hot and boiling when you see small bubbles start to form around the edges of the saucepan. That is your indication to reduce the heat to low.If the mixture does boil, simply lower the temperature immediately. Boiling milk will cause it to curdle, thus potentially affecting the texture of your cake. If you notice that the milk has curdled too much, it may be best to start again - melt the butter once more, then add the milk and vanilla. Otherwise, go ahead and use the milk - it is safe to do so., Do this slowly, alternating between adding egg mixture and adding flour mixture. Keep mixing throughout this process. When you have added both mixtures to the saucepan, pour the batter into the greased pan., Rotate the pan at least once during this hour. Check 15 minutes prior to the end of the hour to make sure your cake is baking evenly.

To test whether the cake is baking evenly, remove the cake from the oven and poke it in the middle with a toothpick. The toothpick should come out clean or with only a few crumbles. Batter on the toothpick means the cake needs to stay in the oven for longer.The cake should be golden when it’s ready.
 You can then transfer the cake to a serving plate to allow it to fully cool down., Great toppings for a hot milk cake include fruit, broiled coconut, or powdered sugar icing.