 This number allows you to dial outside of the country you are calling from. Each country has a different code. For example, if dialing from inside the United States you would use 011 as the exit code while; if dialing from Argentina, you would use 00 as the exit code.


You can find your country code by running an online search with the query “--Your Country’s Name-- Exit Code”.;
, The country code is typically 1-3 digits long and identifies the country to which you are placing a call. The Australian country code is 61., This number can be 1-3 digits long and will narrow your call geographically in the country you are calling. Australia has 5 area codes. You do not generally need to dial the 0 before the number, it is simply put there as a placeholder.Code for New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory: 02
Code for Victoria and Tasmania: 03
Code for Queensland: 07
Code for Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern Territory: 08
Code for mobile (cell) phones (Australia-wide): 04

, This is the direct phone number of the residence, business, or mobile phone that you are contacting in Australia. Australia uses 8-digit local phone numbers for all customers.
 Australia has three standard time zones. In international contexts they are often called Australian Western Standard Time (AWST), Australian Central Standard Time (ACST) and Australian Eastern Standard Time (AEST). These time zones are 13-15 hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time (EST), so it is important to make your call at a time that is convenient to both parties., Once you have gathered the required numbers, dial and wait for a ring to signal a proper connection. The following example represents the dialing sequence of a phone call to Sydney, Australia from New York, USA: (The local phone number has been left blank.) 011612????????

, International phone calls can be very expensive. You may want to contact your phone service provider for information on international calling plans or use a prepaid calling card to offset the cost.

