 You don't need to fake cheeriness, but try not to get bogged down in worrying about the particulars of your relationship. Let your time together be easy, fun, and stress-free. If you and your boyfriend only ever talk about the heavy stuff, he may have formed negative associations around hanging out with you. That said: if you need to talk about these things, you may as well let them out., Whether it's a walk, a trip to the beach, or a movie night – find something that you both can get excited about. Consider what he's into lately, and what he might most want to spend his time on. Think back to where you met him and what the two of you did together at the beginning of your relationship. Find common ground.


If you aren't sure, you might need to take a more active approach. Try as many different things as you can until you find a few that you both enjoy.
Think about what he does with his friends. You don't need to do these things, and you shouldn't cut completely into his friend time – but it might help to understand where his time is going.
 Engage with his thoughts and feelings while still being true to your own. Be considerate, and don't force him to do things that make him comfortable. Don't try to make him jealous or stressed-out just so that he will hang out with you.
 When you are hanging out together, try to strike a balance between what you want to do and what he wants to do. Sometimes, you might have to spend time doing something that bores you in order to be around him. If you do things that your boyfriend likes doing, he may be much more open to spending time with you when you're doing things that he doesn't enjoy.


For example: Say that you hate baseball, but your boyfriend loves it – and you love going to museums, but your boyfriend can't stand them. Make an agreement: if you go to a baseball game, he'll accompany you to a museum!

, Check back in periodically to see if things have improved. If you find your boyfriend spending more time with you in an enjoyable way, then you should keep doing what you're doing. However: if he still isn't spending time with you despite your best efforts, then it might be time to end things. You may simply not have common interests; he may not like you as much as you think; or he may just generally not spend much time with his partners. Whatever the case, he's clearly not giving you the attention you need – so if you aren't comfortable, you might consider leaving him.