 By the time you finish preparing the rest of the recipe, your oven will be fully heated and ready for the cake.
 Line both cake pans with parchment paper, then spray their surfaces with cooking spray., Measure out the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt and place them into a large mixing bowl. Use a whisk or spoon to mix the dry ingredients together., Use your fingers or a spoon to scoop out the dry ingredients in the center of the bowl. This will create a “well” for the wet ingredients. Add the eggs, buttermilk, canola oil and vanilla to the bowl, placing them directly in the "well.", Use a whisk to quickly break up the eggs a bit, then switch to a spoon. Mix all off the ingredients together, making sure that the wet and dry ingredients are full incorporated. Continue to mix until the consistency of the batter is mostly smooth., Pour the freshly-brewed coffee into the batter. Use a spoon to mix the coffee into the batter. Once the coffee is fully incorporated, the batter should be just thin enough to be pourable. Add a little more coffee if the consistency is too thick. Then stir in the chocolate chips., Carefully pour half of the cake batter into one of your round pans, then pour the other half into the second round pan. Try to make them as even as possible, but they don’t have to be perfectly identical., Place both pans in your oven and let them bake. After about 20 minutes, check on them. They are ready to pull out when the tops of both cakes are set and the center no longer wiggles. Let them cool for about five minutes., Line two large, flat plates with parchment paper. Run a knife around the perimeter of each cake to loosen them from their pans, then invert them – one at a time – on the paper-lined plates. Cover the cakes and allow them to cool., Pour the chocolate, cream and peanut butter into a small saucepan. Place the pan on your stove’s burner and set the heat to low. Stir the ingredients frequently as they begin to melt together. The ganache can burn easily, so make sure you are nearby to stir it regularly., Put one of the cakes, flat side up, onto a large plate or cake stand. Sprinkle a layer of pretzels on the surface of the cake. Then sprinkle the chopped peanut butter cups on top. Carefully drizzle about half of the prepared ganache on top of the pretzels., Lift the second cake and place it directly on top of the already-assembled layer. Spread a layer of pretzels on top. Use the remaining ganache to drizzle all over the cake. Sprinkle more of the chopped peanut butter cups on top.

If you like, you can wait ten minutes to allow the ganache to set, but this isn’t necessary. You can serve it immediately if you want to.

