 Locks on all outside entrances and inside security doors should be double-cylinder deadbolts with removable collars. The deadbolt should have at least a one-inch throw containing a hardened steel insert and protected by a latch guard. Padlocks should be made of hardened steel, mounted on bolted hasps and always locked to prevent exchange. Serial numbers should be hidden to prevent new keys from being made.;
, All outside and security doors should be of solid construction, metal lined and secured with heavy metal crossbars. Jambs around doors must be solid. All exposed hinges should be pinned to prevent removal.
 Windows should have secure locks. Burglar-resistant glass treatments are also recommended. An example would be the installation of polyester security film. However, this must be used together with the glass break sensor alarm. Heavy metal grates may be used on windows of high vulnerability (such as rear windows). Check with your area Fire Code Inspector for safety requirements.
 Lights must provide optimum visibility, both inside and out, with outside lights having vandal-proof covers over the lights and power sources. Your entire perimeter must be well-lit, especially around doors and other possible entries.
 The alarm system should be supplied and installed by a licensed alarm company with a central monitoring station. Check the alarm system daily. For an even better self-defense tactic, advertise its presence to deter break-ins with the company’s sticker or yard sign.
 The cash register should be kept in plain view from outside the building so that it can be easily monitored and should be left open when empty and not in use.
 It should be fireproof, burglar-resistant, anchored securely and in plain view. Leave it open when it is empty, and use it to lock up valuables when business is closed. Change the combination whenever someone with access is released from your employment.
 The exterior should be checked including the roof, basement and walls. Secure all openings. Maintain good visibility by not allowing landscaping, boxes, trash bins or cans, vehicles equipment, etc. near your building where they might provide access to the roof.
 The fences need to be adequate enough to keep intruders out, and at the same time allow good visibility of your business by neighbors and police. A good example of fencing would be vertical iron bar or 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) mesh vinyl-coated chain link.
 Keys should be handed out responsibly. A master key system (that is, one key opens all locks) may be convenient, but it may not be the best for security. Code all keys, keep them securely locked when not in use, and do not allow employees to leave them lying around or make duplicates. Change locks whenever you suspect that key security has been tampered with. Marking equipment with ID numbers should be displayed to make this plainly evident to would-be thieves. Also, keeping a record of serial numbers on all equipment may help in recovery.

