 This tree begins as a simple paper cone that can be decorated as simply and elegantly, or as elaborately as you like. These trees can be made any size, and you can use any decorative paper that you have on hand, or decorate plain paper before beginning.


Decorative paper. Use green construction paper for a traditional look, or use a patterned craft paper or gift wrap to create beautiful, modern trees. Avoid using very lightweight paper.
A dinner plate, bowl or other large round object that can be used to create a circle template.
Craft glue, glue dots, or a hot glue gun and glue stick.
Scissors.
Decorations for your trees.
 Begin by tracing your plate, bowl or other circular object onto your desired piece of paper, then cut out the circle. Then fold the circle into quarters by first folding it in half and creasing it, then folding it half and creasing it, again. Now open up the circle and cut it into quarters along the crease lines. Each circle of paper will create four cones.









Use different sizes of plates/templates to create different cones of different heights and sizes.
You can create a larger circle template by using piece of string that is half the size you want your circle to be. Tie a pencil to one end of the string, and hold the other end fast in the center using tape, a pin, or a helper. Then pull the string taut, and swing the pencil around to draw a perfect circle., Hold one of the quarter-circle pieces with the point at the top, and wrap it around to form a cone. Then use the adhesive of your choice to secure the seam.









Be sure to hold the cone in place long enough for the glue to dry.
You can also use tape, or even staples for this step, it just won’t look quite as neat.
 Decorate the paper surface with markers, paints, glitter glue, or rubber stamps. Then use glue dots or craft glue to affix various ornaments and other decorations to the tree.


These paper-cone Christmas trees look especially nice with the addition of a textured or 3D component, so try using buttons, sequins, beads, or craft gems to decorate your trees.
You can also create a star to top the tree using metallic chenille stems (pipe cleaners), or by making a bow out of shiny ribbon. Hot glue works best to affix items to the point of the tree.
 Arrange a row of trees along a mantle, or use a cluster of varying-sized trees to make a beautiful and festive centerpiece.

