 Bella's skin isn't beautiful because it's pale; it's beautiful because she takes care of it. If you have acne, you can get a facial cleanser with salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide in it without a prescription. Also be sure to use moisturizer.;
, Bella follows the iconic dark hair and pale skin look. To attain this look dye your hair darker if you have it bleached or dyed a lighter color. Also, Bella's hair is frequently shown to be straight with a tiny bit of the curly-girl frizz. So straighten out your locks and then for the slightly frizzy effect spritz water onto a hairbrush lightly and brush it through your hair.you can also use a 1-inch barrel curling iron to add some curl to the ends of your hair. If your hair cannot be straightened, that's okay too! When imitating a character, it is more important to have the character's personality, so don't sweat if you can't look exactly like her.
 Bella has very beautiful, eye-catching eyes as a human. To bring more attention to yours, you can apply some mascara. You can also try tight lining your eyes with white eyeliner this makes your eyes appear bigger. Keep your brows well-groomed and research some different eyeshadow techniques here on Wikihow. You should also keep the area around your eyes looking good by applying moisturizer by dabbing with your middle finger and putting something cold against your eyes to reduce puffiness (Cucumbers or cold spoons). If you want to, try out some contacts. Human Bella has brown eyes and black ones as a vampire.
 Bella appears to wear very little makeup try to keep your makeup to a minimum. Wear a little bit of concealer to get that flawless skin look and some mascara to give your eyes a very feminine look. There are many subtle make-up looks you can use: Remember to rely on neutrals like bronzes and greens to give your eyes just an accent of color. Try to use only minimal mascara. If you do use eyeliner, try brown and not black.If you have small eyes use makeup tricks. The internet is full of them.
 Bella is commonly seen wearing long sleeved, light, fitted shirts. Always dress as if it were a very cold, rainy autumn.
 Bella can be seen biting her lower lip a lot. Bella's expressions are subtle or barely expressed. Bella is polite so work on your manners!

, Try to see the better side of things and always be grateful.
 She can cook for herself, dress for herself, she keeps her space clean, and she gets her work done early. These are good habits to have, and very useful if you're living on your own or in charge of a household.
 Bella was in AP classes in Phoenix, so you should try your best in school or work. But be smart in other ways too since Bella can be dumb a lot of the times. Don't make stupid decisions and give up on school like Bella did after she met Edward.
 Bella loves to read, especially classics like Wuthering Heights. You should make it your goal to read at least a couple of books a month. They expand your vocabulary, make you more understanding, and just have a positive effect on you overall.
 Bella Swan can only be your inspiration. If you go too fa, people will think you are a wannabe.You're beautiful the way you are no matter how you look.

