 All hikers should carry lightweight rain gear or at least a poncho in case of rain. If you don’t have these items, try to use what you do have, such as an extra garbage back that you carried just in case or a tarp.;
, Even if you’re trying to stay out of the rain, move around as you wait so that your body stays warmer. For example, march in place or step side to side. Hypothermia can easily set in if you get too cold, so generate as much body heat as you can., Look around you for a place to duck out of the rain, such as a tree canopy, a cave, a cabin, or even your tent. If you plan on camping and have a waterproof tent, you may find that settling in early and riding out the storm is the best solution.If you hear thunder, seek immediate shelter. Staying outside during a thunder storm is dangerous., Rain can cause flooding, mud slides, rock slides, and slippery trails, all of which can be very dangerous. Look for signs such as flowing water, rising tide lines, shifting soil, and a sheen on the surface of the trail. When in doubt, walk away from the questionable terrain., If you’re caught in a lightning storm, the most dangerous places to be include open areas, hills, mountains, trees, cliffs, and waterways. Lightning is most likely to strike these areas, so avoid them.

If you’re in the woods, try to find a small grove of trees that are surrounded by other taller trees. Tuck yourself in the lowest spot you can find.
If you are stuck in an open area, look for the lowest spot, crouch down, and keep most of your body from touching the ground. Ideally, just the soles of your feet will make contact with the ground.
If you have access to a vehicle, stay inside of it but try not to touch the sides of the car., In a lightning storm, trekking poles and long, pointy objects make a great conductor for the lightning and are therefore very dangerous. Protect yourself by laying these items on the ground away from you., Check the forecast before and during your trek, and watch for signs of a coming storm. If winds pick up and the sky becomes overcast, consider changing your route so that you can reach safety before the storm hits. It’s better to cut your trek short and have the storm pass over rather than get caught in dangerous weather.

