 In order to appropriately boost morale, you must understand what the greatest complaints are among your staff.


Keep the survey anonymous and voluntary. You will not get an accurate response if employees are forced to complete it, or if they will fear retribution because of their answers.
Ask about what they like and dislike about working at your nursing home. Include questions about salary satisfaction, work environment, resources available to help them do their jobs, scheduling and staffing, communication with management and relationships with co-workers and the people they serve.;
, A recent study of nursing home employees revealed the frequency of changes in shift rotations contributed to low morale.
 While your hiring budget may be tight, try to keep the number of residents each staff member is responsible for reasonable. This will increase morale in your staff and nursing home residents.
 Whether it is perfect attendance, a compliment from a family member or a career milestone reached, applaud your employees when they do good work.


Send a personal email or note of congratulations and thanks. Copy anyone who supervises or manages the employee, including the nursing home administrator or CEO.
Create a bulletin board where "star" employees are recognized and celebrated. Allow peers, residents and others to leave notes of encouragement or share positive acts that have been witnessed or received.
 Nursing home employees should feel comfortable and encouraged to communicate with their administrators and managers. Be transparent and keep your employees informed.


Create a suggestion box, or something similar, where employees can leave suggestions. This might help empower those employees who are too shy to have a personal conversation with someone in charge.
 Employee morale is dependent on your staff feeling capable and confident in their abilities to do their jobs.
 Bagels for breakfast once a week or a pizza for lunch or dinner will give employees something to look forward to other than their microwaved leftovers or what is being served in the nursing home cafeteria.


Find out if vendors can host these food festivities if you do not have the budget and your ethics policies do not prevent the companies you work with from providing occasional treats.
Organize a potluck once a month. This will help your employees contribute to their team members and give them a chance to eat together while working.
 If you are short staffed or something needs to be done, help out. Nursing home managers, supervisors and administrators who will cover for employees when necessary will earn a more highly motivated workforce.
 Hold contests, do raffles and offer unique learning experiences. For example, help employees learn Spanish by posting one new word or phrase daily, subscribe to magazines that might be entertaining during breaks or designate a wall where employees can post personal pictures.
 Give constant complainers and perpetually negative employees a chance to reform and if they do not, consider terminating them. One bad employee can disrupt the culture of a nursing home and its staff morale.

