 While it may not seem like a big deal, it can serve as an inconspicuous place to store your spy gear. This will give you a good advantage when you spy on people. You will have your gadgets close by your side, and your hands will be free. Do not label it; this will only attract attention to your bag.


Purchase a small handbag to avoid attracting attention. Make sure it is big enough to hold your gadgets. Refrain from using large, clumsy handbags.
To keep your hands free, obtain a bag with a strap that can be slung across your chest.;
, Studies show that women talk about three times as much as men do, which is very helpful to female spies. Simply insert yourself into a group of girls and listen for the information you need. If need be, shift the conversation towards the desired subject. Words and text speak that girls are well known (such as "OMG" or "LOL") can be used as secret code.


Create your own hand signals and codes. Practice these with your fellow agents until all of you know them well. You may also want to make an item with all of the motions to have a quick reminder in case you forget. Do not make it a piece of paper or poster; instead, mark everything on a scarf or the inside of your bag. If you make it a paper, people will want to read it and possibly see your secret.
 Most people believe the quieter people are more likely to be the spies, as spies tend to stay in the shadows. However, the popular, outgoing females frequently receive attention. Therefore, throw yourself in the public eye, and no one will suspect you're a spy.
 Be sure only you and your fellow agents are aware of the location. Have basic supplies stored in there (ex: food, water, medicine, etc.) to use in case of an emergency.
 Keep at a distance from them, and always have a cover story or an excuse at hand (ex: "I'm in a foreign government's embassy because ."). There is always a chance that someone catches you spying, even though you didn't plan for them to.
 The spy gear kit at Target includes: DVD holder, secret compartment, flashlight, darts, periscope, and a motion detector. There are other gadgets too, such as the spy gear ear flashlight and the spy gear camera car. Spend your money only on the basic necessities.


To be a good spy, carry a small weapon (ex: pencil/pen), small purse, global cell phone, extra cash, and appropriate identification.






If you're spotted, hide your face behind a magazine or book. Do not hurry and quickly hide, though; this will seem awkward and make you even more suspicious. You could also pretend to be taking clothes to the changing rooms at a store or browsing a rack of shirts at the mall. Your targets will automatically label you as another girl at the mall.
 To live in a world of spies, one must be a spy. You can no longer behave a regular citizen, and you must always be on the lookout for danger.
 It's safer and more fun to work with agents. It's recommended to allow your trustworthy friends to become your fellow agents, but they must be able to keep secrets. If someone you know is a good friend but has spilled the beans before, you should question yourself before recruiting them.


Have at least one male partner at your side during missions. He may be able to access certain places that you cannot (ex: the men's bathroom). Additional strength can also come in handy. However, he must agree before recruiting.
 Learn to keep your ears open for important information. It may come at unpredictable times. Avoid getting easily distracted, and remember to observe your surroundings. Use peripheral vision to your advantage.
 All spies are masters of disguise. This doesn't mean dressing in camouflage; it means blending into crowded places and fitting in. Your goal is to remain undetected and not stand out from the crowd. Dress appropriately for the place you are heading to (ex: wear a bathing suit when you head to the beach).

When heading out at night, just wear normal clothes.






Several other ideas for disguises are:
Dressing up as a girl from another state or area
Posing as a skateboarder in the park
Carrying bags full of random items to give off the appearance that you went grocery shopping

, If you're a beach girl from the warm parts of America, appear occupied with your cell phone and give off a friendly air by smiling. However, as you follow your target around, change your appearance each time you go to a new place. This way, your suspect won't recognize you.

