 Runny noses are common in cats. If your cat has some nasal discharge around her nose, it may be mucus or muco-purulent, which is mucus stained with pus. These sorts of mucus are often yellow or green in color.Some cats with nasal allergies may have a clear, dripping discharge from their nostrils, but this can be difficult to spot if the cat regularly licks it away.
If you see nasal discharge, look closely to see if it comes from one, or both nostrils. A bilateral discharge (from both sides) is more likely to be caused by an infection or allergy, while a unilateral (one sided) drip could be caused by a foreign body, or infection in one side of the nose.;
, When people have a blocked nose, we give it a good blow on a handkerchief. Cats, however, cannot do this and their way to clear their nose is to sneeze.If you notice that your cat sneezes a lot, you will need to schedule an appointment with your vet to determine the cause. It might be allergies or an infection, but your veterinarian will have to test your cat’s mucus to be sure.
 Cats often suffer from nasal congestion because of rhinitis (inflammation in the nasal passages that produces mucus), infection (including viral conditions such as cat flu) and because of inhaled foreign bodies (such as a grass awn that shot up the nose when the cat sniffed at it).The most common cause of nasal and sinus congestion are viral infections. These viruses include feline herpesvirus (FVR) and feline calicivirus (FCV). These infections also cause swollen, red, and runny eyes along with mouth ulcers and salivation.You can help protect your cat from these viruses by keeping your cat’s vaccinations up-to-date and keeping your cats away from any cats that seem sick. The recurrent viral illnesses in cats suppress your cats immune system so that secondary, opportunistic and very damaging bacteria invade the area and cause more severe disease, discharge, and lack of appetite. Realize also that many times your kitty has 'cleared' the viral illness, but the more 'difficult to clear' bacterial invaders remain. This is why it is vital that you have your pet checked by a licensed veterinarian if any of the above symptoms occur.
These conditions cause breathing difficulties because of the mucus that builds up in your cat’s nose. Just like people with a heavy cold, the mucus blocks the nasal passageways and makes it difficult to breath.

