 If you suspect that your anxiety is more than just normal anxiety, then it might be caused by generalized anxiety disorder. This condition has some common symptoms that may affect you on a regular basis over a long period (such as a few months or longer). These symptoms may include:Feeling restless, on edge, or wound up.
Getting tired or fatigued easily.
Having tense muscles.
Being unable to control your worried thoughts.
Having a hard time concentrating or feeling like your mind has gone blank.
Feeling irritable.
Having difficulty sleeping.
 Many physical changes accompany an anxiety disorder. You may feel dizzy, light-headed, or have a headache. You may tremble, sweat, or experience a pounding heartbeat. You may even feel nauseous.Another symptom associated with anxiety disorders is the need to urinate frequently.
 If you have an anxiety disorder, you may experience an altered mental state. You may feel that you are detached from the situation or your body. You may also experience a disconnection from reality.You may have thoughts that bombard you and keep you up at night or invade your brain when you don’t want them to.
 Your anxiety may make it so you can’t do certain things. You may feel too anxious to go to an event or leave the house. You may also be unable to think clearly or concentrate. Your worries may take up the majority of your time, so you may not complete tasks because you are preoccupied with your anxious thoughts.Your anxiety disorder may make it so you cannot complete work, school work, or daily chores. You may not finish or be able to do normal activities.
You may discover that you start participating in avoidance behaviors.
 Normal anxiety may cause you to feel nervous or cause your pulse rate to quicken, but then the anxiety goes away. If you have an anxiety disorder, you will feel dread, fear, or apprehension often. You may feel jumpy or be startled easy because of the anxiety.You also may be looking for danger or potential threats around you. You may be expecting the worst to happen to you.

