 To be alert in the morning, you need, for one thing, to get deep and restorative sleep. Try to set a routine. Go to bed early and get up at a reasonable hour. Aim for between 8 to 10 hours of sleep every day.To accustom your mind to the routine, do things that calm you and tell your body to become tired. Make your bedroom an inviting place, with comfortable blankets and pillows. Limit the amount of natural and artificial light, as well.
Don’t take naps too close to your bedtime. Catnaps might be causing you to feel energetic until a late hour, disrupting your night’s sleep.;
, If going to bed at the same time is important, so is waking up at a regular hour. Your body will soon get used to rising at 6am or 7am, though you may not feel like it at first. Stick to your schedule. While it’s fine to sleep in some on the weekends, try to keep it within one or two hours of your normal wake-up time., Coffee or other beverages can disrupt your sleep, making you feel groggy the next day. You may not realize it, but a cup of coffee at 4pm might be what’s keep you up at midnight. This is because caffeine remains in your system for up to eight hours. Avoid caffeine beyond 2 or 3 in the afternoon.Alcohol can also disrupt your normal sleep patterns. While you may find that a beer or two help you to fall asleep, the alcohol in those drinks actually makes it harder to get quality sleep. Alcohol-affected sleep is lighter, with fewer Rapid Eye Movement (REM) periods – the body’s most important restorative sleep. You will also wake up more frequently., Make sure you sort everything out for the morning the night before. If you tend to get hungry or thirsty at night – and this wakes you up – eat a light meal or snack or have some herbal tea before going to bed.


At the same time, and as said, avoid caffeinated beverages. Also limit your portion sizes. High-fat meals and large servings prolong the work your digestive system needs to do, and all the gas production and rumblings may keep you awake. 