 Cut red potatoes (or other potatoes of your choosing) into medium-sized chunks, then steam, boil, or roast them until they are soft. Divide the potatoes onto several plates.


Small fingerling or heirloom potatoes may not need to be cut.
 See “Poaching Smoked Haddock” above for details. After the haddock has cooked, remove the haddock from the milk and place a haddock filet on top of each plate of cooked potatoes.
 Keep the milk, but strain it to remove any chunks of seasoning or fish., In the same pan that the fish cooked in, melt some butter over medium high heat. Then add a bit of flour (roughly the same amount of flour and butter), and stir together well, allowing the butter and flour to cook for 2-4 minutes.
 Slowly pour the strained poaching milk into the flour and butter mixture, stirring well as you pour. Continue adding milk until the sauce is the desired thickness.You can adjust the thickness of the sauce by adding additional milk to thin or adding flour to thicken the sauce. Be aware that the sauce should thicken slightly as it cools as well.
 Stir about 1 tbsp of mustard into the sauce, stirring well to combine. Other spices, such as fresh tarragon, may be added at this time as well., The sauce should be piping hot, and will re-warm the potatoes and haddock. After pouring the sauce over the fish, the meal is complete, and should be served immediately.If you are concerned about the fish and the potatoes being cold, you could add them to the pan and toss them in the sauce over the heat, but be careful not to damage the fish filets (they will taste great, but may not look as pretty if they are broken up while tossing in the sauce).
You can top with a bit of parsley for a nice presentation.
 You may also want to add other vegetables to this method. You can place a bed of spinach between the potatoes and the haddock, or you can serve the haddock on a bed of peas in lieu of potatoes.


It is also common to place a poached egg on top of each haddock filet before pouring the sauce over the meal.