 Butch lesbians usually have short hair. Try shaving parts of your hair, and try a mohawk. You can play with the style. Mohawks can be colored, spiked, and styled different ways.You don’t have to go for the typical “mullet” look, although shaving the sides of your hair is a good look for a butch lesbian. You could also try a she-mullet look, although that was more common in the 1970s and 1980s. This look is characterized by a short, shaved look on the top and long hair down the nape of the neck, ending about at the shoulders.
Try a shaved head or superbuzz type cut or a crew cut. Try the “Shane” hair style from the “L Word” television show. This hair style is a short shag with multiple layers that is then mussed up with gel. It’s the “I just got out of bed” look.;
, That means you should toss out high heels, blouses, and anything too feminine.Wear jeans and vests. This will help you get started when it comes to butch fashion. Pull a vest over a graphic t-shirt. Wear colored, skinny jeans, such as in a red hue. Or wear very baggy jeans. You aren’t going to see many butch lesbians in bell bottoms. Wear undershirts and suits.Give flannel a try. Try wearing combat or work boots. You want to avoid anything that looks too frilly. Baggy t-shirts, the grunge or punk look, are good ways to go.Wear a beanie, a hoodie, and boxer shorts. Butch lesbians will also be seen wearing suspenders, Oxford shoes, sneakers, leather jackets, black or gray t-shirts, and leather or letter jackets. Choose sturdy fabrics, not silks., You won’t see many butch lesbians wearing jewelry like you might buy for a female child. They would choose sturdier pieces.


Forget the rainbows, the unicorns, and anything with hearts or flowers. Avoid excessive bling. The Dynasty look is the opposite of what you’re going for here.
Silver jewelry is the best bet, not gold, especially if it’s on leather cuffs. Less is more and simpler is better when it comes to jewelry. Piercings are a better idea – a nose ring, for example, is a great idea. Solid silver or black circles work in the ears.
 Butch lesbians like to rock the necktie look. They wear neckties with more than suits; sometimes you will see them wearing a necktie with a t-shirt.


Try wearing a bow tie to mix it up. A bow tie will show your personality, but it still conveys the butch look. Mix it up! Wear the bow tie with a striped shirt. Show your creativity!Try a clip-on tie if you’re not sure how to tie it. Wearing a tie with a loose knot can be an appealing look for a butch lesbian. However, learning to tie a tie is a good idea.

