 The chassis battery in your RV serves the same purpose as the automotive battery in any vehicle. These batteries can be purchased at your local auto parts stores and usually cost between $50 and $300, depending on the type of battery you choose and the brand. Ask the clerk at the front desk to look up your RV in their system to offer you suggestions about the battery options you have.Some large retailers also have automotive sections you can purchase chassis batteries in.
Make sure to tell the clerk what vehicle you intend to put the battery in, as that’s important to ensure it will fit in the engine bay and provide the necessary power.;
, A chassis battery is sometimes referred to as a “starter battery” in RVs. This battery is used primarily to start the engine that propels the RV when you’re driving and serves the same purpose as the battery in your car or truck. Like cars and trucks, any modifications you’ve made to the electrical system of the vehicle may require further consideration when choosing a new battery.Determine if you have made any modifications that may result in an increased draw from the battery when starting.
 Just like cars and trucks, RVs come with an owner’s manual that can provide specifications about what type of battery you should choose as your chassis battery. It’s important to look for a battery that matches the specifications laid out in the owner’s manual to ensure you purchase a battery with the proper amount of cranking amperage, or the correct amount of initial power output, to start your RVs engine.If you do not have the owner’s manual for your RV, try looking on the RV manufacturer’s website.
RV specialty stores can often look up the proper type of battery for your RV.
Understand that this battery is primarily used to power the starter motor, and likely won’t be involved in powering any of the electrical devices in the RV.
 Wet or flooded cell batteries are the most common types of automotive batteries. The vehicle you drive every day likely came with a wet cell battery. These batteries offer the lowest relative cost and are sometimes even sealed, meaning they require no maintenance beyond regular charging to maintain.A traditional wet cell battery is likely what your RV came with from the factory.
Some wet cell batteries are not sealed and require service from time to time to maintain.
Wet cell batteries offer low cost and reliability.
 Valve regulated lead acid batteries, or VRLA batteries, are named as such because of the internal safety valves built into the battery. These batteries come in two primary types: gel and AGM (Absorbed Gas Mat). These batteries can be more reliable than wet cell batteries because they are designed to prevent any fluid loss. These batteries do not require ventilation as some wet cell batteries may and also do not require any maintenance service.Gel cell batteries maintain a charge well, but do not offer as powerful an initial or cranking amperage as their AGM counterparts.
AGM batteries contain gas instead of gel, and can produce a higher cranking amperage.
 While the amperage required of your battery is determined by the design of the engine, one thing you should look into when shopping for RV batteries is the maximum reserve capacity (RC). This rating is often not provided on the battery’s label and you may need to ask for assistance at your local auto parts store to find the batteries with the highest rated reserves. A battery with a 120 minute reserve capacity means it can operate your electronics for that long without the engine running before being depleted.Because you may want to use some of the electronics connected to the engine’s electrical system while parked, a high reserve capacity is important.
You can find batteries’ maximum reserve capacity information on the battery maker’s websites.

