 Occlusive products work to block the cold, dry air from taking the moisture out of your skin. Look for body lotions, facial creams, and lip balms that contain a combination of nourishing ingredients, such as aloe or cocoa butter, and occlusive ingredients, such as jojoba oil, shea butter, or beeswax.Petroleum jelly also provides a durable barrier against the wind and the cold, and can be used in thin layers to protect areas such as the lips, the skin under the eyes, or fingertips during cold-weather runs, skiing, or other outdoor activities.
If you are looking to undertake an intense or extended activity outdoors in cold weather such as cross-country skiing or running a marathon, consider purchasing a specialty anti-frostbite product, which may be available from sporting goods stores or a dermatologist.
 Once you are done in the cold, look for a hydrating and nourishing product to help your skin recover some of its lost moisture. Body oils and specially-formulated facial oils often work well for this purpose, as well as water-based lotions and moisturizers.Those with sensitive skin or who are prone to acne may want to avoid oil-based products and instead opt for rich water-based creams.
Consult with a dermatologist before introducing an oil to sensitive skin.
Be sure to care for your lips, as well. The skin in this area is extra thin and sensitive, so be sure to use a hydrating lip balm each time you come in from a cold, dry environment.
 Windburn attacks the skin’s natural moisture, so it is important to not do anything that may further strip this moisture away. Opt for taking warm showers instead of steaming hot ones, as this can help prevent dehydration of the skin, and avoid products with drying agents such as retinal and salicylic acid.If you must do something that will lessen the nature moisture of the skin, make sure to replace lost hydration by drinking water regularly and using a lotion or body butter to protect the skin.
It is also advisable to avoid having stripping treatments such as facial peels or microdermabrasion done a week or less before you will be spending extended periods of time outside in the cold.

