 The size of the trap will vary depending on the fish you hope to catch and the waters you plan to trap them in. Minnows or pan fish for bait can be caught in a trap 12 inches (30.5 cm) by 24 inches (61.0 cm), while large catfish, carp and suckers require a much larger trap. You also want to be sure your trap is not taller than the depth of the water if you plan to use it in shallow areas.;
, Many are rectangular, with a 1:2:4 height, width, and length ratio, but cylindrical traps work well if there is not any current in the water to cause them to roll and become fouled.
 In Alabama, where trapping catfish is a long-standing tradition, craftsmen build the finest traps using white oak strips, woven together with galvanized steel or copper wire. Because such traps require considerable skill and time, we will look at building a trap with a wire mesh fabric or poultry netting.


The choice then, is the mesh size, determined by the size of fish you are trapping. For bait minnows, a hardware cloth in 1⁄4 or 1⁄2 inch (0.6 or 1.3 cm) mesh is fine. For suckers or carp, poultry netting (chicken wire) is less expensive.
 You will need four pieces the length of your intended box, four pieces of your intended height and four of your intended width. For example, a trap that is 12 inches (30.5 cm) tall, 24 inches (61.0 cm) wide and 48 inches (121.9 cm) long would require four 12-inch pieces of lumber, four 24-inch pieces and four 48-inch pieces. Larger or smaller traps would require the same amount of longer or shorter lumber pieces, respectively.
 First create two squares with the smaller lengths, with similar-sized pieces parallel to one another. After you nail the two squares together, connect them with the four longer pieces of wood, creating a box frame.
 A 12 inch (30.5 cm) X 24 inch (61.0 cm) X 48 inch (121.9 cm) trap will require a sheet of wire 6 feet (1.8 m) long and 4 feet (1.2 m) wide.
 Create a 90-degree corner around each slat of wood by folding the mesh around the outer corner of your frame.Tie the two edges of the sheet together with plastic "snap ties" or light gauge wire.
 The piece would be a 12 X 24 inches rectangle in this example. Secure the sheet in place with the same ties or wire you seamed the box in the previous step. A larger or smaller trap will require wire fabric equal to its width by its height., Use the same type of wire mesh. The larger funnel opening should be large enough to attach it to the slats of your box, tapering down to leave an opening facing the inside of the box that is just large enough for your target fish to swim into the trap, but not escape.In this example, the larger side of the funnel could be a 12 X 24-inch oval, and the smaller end might have a diameter of only 5 inches, varying based on the size of fish you hope to trap.
 Place an "onion bag", or mesh fruit bag, filled with your bait into the trap, along with a large stone or piece of brick to weight the trap down. Common bait used for catfish is chicken liver, corn or even dog food. Other fish species should be baited with food they find most attractive., Instead of using zip ties, use wire that can be untied later to release or remove your catch, then retied for future use., The line should both withstand its time underwater and be strong enough it can withhold the weight of the trap and any fish inside. You will use the line to pull your trap out of the water when you are ready to check it, so it should be at least 15 feet long., Take the whole apparatus, including the bait inside, to the fishing hole you plan to place it. Then simply drop the trap in the water in your chosen location. Secure the other end of the rope on the bank.An ideal spot for a catfish trap will have little current. Choose a protected spot in a slow-moving river, a large pond, or the edge of a lake., Pull the trap in slowly when you decide to check it, keeping in mind you never know what will be inside it. At the least, check the trap daily to make sure no turtles, otters or other predators have discovered it and either damaged it or gotten trapped inside.

