 Go to http://www.smartstocks.com. Once there, click on "Sign up now!" You will be asked for your first name, last name, primary e-mail address, password, zip code and country of residence.;
, You will see the buttons or links on the left-hand side. These lead you to your portfolio as well as helpful information regarding the site. You can even create an investing game with your friends and family.
 On the left side there are sample portfolios. Many of them are not especially valuable, so you shouldn't copy them directly. However, you can use some of their ideas to build your own portfolio.
 When you have found stock picks you want to try, go to your portfolio and enter the ticker symbols and numbers of shares, and click the "Buy" button. To sell shares, do the same and click on the "Sell" button. To finish the transaction, click "Complete Transaction".


You can look up ticker symbols below the transaction box.
At the top of the website, you can get a real-time quote on any stock.
 Your virtual trades have no impact on the actual stock market, so if you're a high-net-worth investor, you might need to do a bit more analysis. Your portfolio is set up to show your stocks' ticker symbols, shares owned, current price, previous closing price, how much the price has changed since the last close, percentage of change, your original purchase price, your current gain (in dollars and percentage), and current value of all your shares if you were to sell them now. Below your portfolio you will find your gain since the beginning of the month, your percentage gain since the beginning of the month, and the overall value of your portfolio (to compare with the million dollars you started with.
 Primarily look at your gain. If it is positive, you have gained from your investment, and it will be shown in green. If the "gain" is negative, you have lost money, and it will be shown in red. Cash in the portfolio is used to buy shares of stock. If at some point you find that you don't have enough money in your account to buy additional shares, you will need to sell shares to earn cash for reinvesting.
 The point of all this is to test your ability to find winning stock trades. Once you get good at identifying suitable stocks and recognizing the right times to buy and sell them, you may be ready to apply real money to the real markets.

