 Sign into your Google account. All of Google's products are now unified, so you will use the same username and password you use for Gmail.


If you do not use any Google products currently, then you will want to create a Google account. Go to accounts.google.com/NewAccount to enter your information and sign up.;
,


If the prompt does not appear, click on the link that says "Get a Google Voice Number" on the left hand side of the page.



You have the option to set up the Google Voice account with your mobile phone number. That will keep you from being able to use some of Google Voice's features. You can always use your Google Voice number in conjunction with your mobile phone number.
 Click "Next."


If no phone numbers are available, enter a nearby zip code. Some large metropolitan areas do not have local phone numbers available.
If you are starting a Google Voice account in order to make free phone calls within the US or Canada, you can choose a phone in the zip code where your most-called family members or friends live. People who use land lines can call your Google Voice number free of charge, and it will ring on your cell phone number.
 Click on the circle next to the number and choose "Continue."


Remember that you must pay to switch your number in the future, so choose well.
 Write down the number or make sure you can remember it.
 You can set up multiple numbers in the future, but this will allow you to connect your accounts now.
 Select what type of phone it is.
 Click the "Call Me Now" button to verify it. Make sure your other phone is nearby so that you can answer it.


The confirmation allows Google Voice to ensure that you are using a forwarding phone that belongs to you.
 Type in the confirmation number when prompted.
 One of the main advantages of Google Voice is that it offers digital voice mail with transcription so that you can get voice mail messages on your Gmail account.
,, Save your changes.


Call screening makes the person who is calling enter their name. It also tells them that they are using Google Voice. Most Google Voice users prefer a transparent system that users do not know is pulled together using Google Voice.
 This is only necessary if you want to make cheap international calls. You can check the rates for calls to foreign countries before you call.
 Using the app will allow you to call from your Google Voice number, send and receive text messages on your phone and view history easily on your phone.
 You can also import contacts from your phone or other sources.
 If you move, paying the fee will transfer your history and your contacts. It will also keep your old number for 3 months while you transfer new information to your contacts.

