 Learning a martial art can be demanding exercise, so be sure to consult your doctor as you choose an appropriate form of study. Ask your doctor or other medical professional if your heart and lungs are up to the task. Make sure to first seek a professional opinion if you are pregnant or have a history of severe joint issues, osteoporosis, hernia, or other significant medical conditions.Ask your doctor, "Is my heart healthy enough for aerobic exercise? Am I at a higher risk of a heart attack or other heart-related conditions if I enroll in a martial arts class?"
If you have arthritis or a history of joint problems ask, "Will a martial arts class that focuses on stretching and flexibility improve my condition? What steps should I take to modify any movements to avoid pain and worsening my condition?"
If your health and age are concerns, ask your doctor if a class that modifies techniques to make them easier would be more appropriate than a standard class. Ask them if they can refer to you to a good instructor for your physical considerations., Be patient and realistic when you’re setting your goals, and try not to stress yourself out as you decide a form of study. Keep in mind there’s plenty of evidence that suggests learning any martial art at all offers positive mental and physical health effects.You should base your goals on having fun, what you’re most likely to commit to, and what is best for your level of fitness. If you don’t enjoy a particular form of study, class, or instructor, just shop around for another. Don’t be upset with yourself if you’re uncomfortable or have trouble learning a technique.
Studies show that, when it comes to neurological benefits like visual acuity and concentration, it doesn’t matter which form of study you pursue. Learning any martial art form will offer results.Similarly, all martial art forms can be more beneficial for middle aged and elderly adults than other forms of exercise, like walking.The crucial factor is that you find something appropriate for your individual body that you enjoy enough to commit to over a matter of months or years.
 It’s typically best to think of learning defensive techniques as a bonus, rather than focus on self defense alone. Setting goals too high, like expecting to be a defensive powerhouse in a month, can lead to frustration and quitting your studies. Further, if you’re not physically up to the task, taking on a martial art form that stresses defense and sparring can pose serious injury risks., With so many forms of study available, think about what you want to achieve when choosing a class. Make a written list if it helps you order your thoughts better, and consider how you prioritize goals like weight loss, flexibility, concentration, defense, and competition.Ask yourself, "Do I just need a hobby or activity for personal enjoyment? Do I want something easy going and fun, or do I want a class that will challenge me, help me lose weight, and improve my overall health? How important is competition to me? Do I want to be ready for competition within a certain period of time?"
Commit to specific goals, such as achieving a higher belt level within a month, losing ten pounds in six weeks, or competing in a tournament within six months. Talk to your trainer or instructor to help you develop specific personal goals.

