 When preparing to meditate, set aside a reasonable amount of time for your practice. You might want to devote time for meditation in the mornings or before you go to bed. Remove yourself from any distractions such as your cell phone, television, or other people or things that may take your attention. Wear comfortable clothing and consider taking your shoes off. Get comfortable by either sitting or lying down. Begin to relax by focusing on your breathing and lengthening your breath.When doing the loving-kindness meditation, set aside 15-20 minutes to complete it.;
, Think of someone you love and admire. This can be a parent, romantic partner, child, or pet such as a dog or cat. Notice how you feel in your heart when you think of this person. You might feel warmth, tenderness, gentleness, or openness. As you calmly breathe, imagine a golden light extending from your heart and reaching this person’s heart, bringing them peace and happiness.As you extend the golden light, say out loud or silently to yourself, “May you be happy. May you be free from suffering. May you experience joy and ease.” Repeat this phrase again.
While you may want to start with these words, you can say whatever you want to show love and kindness to this person. You may wish to say, for example, “May you be healthy and strong. May you having loving relationships.”

, Once you’ve sent kindness to your loved one, think of a time when this person was suffering. Perhaps this person experienced an illness, injury, or difficult time in their life. Place your attention to your heart once again, and notice how you feel. Do you feel warmth, tenderness, and love? Perhaps you feel sadness or an ache in your heart. Notice these feelings. Extend the golden light once again, imagining that it is easing this person’s suffering.Silently to yourself or out loud, say, “May you be free from this suffering. May you feel joy and happiness.” Repeat this one time.
 Just as you did for the loved one, send kindness and compassion to yourself. If you experience low self-esteem, it can be difficult for you to be loving and gentle with yourself. Stay with it. Think of a time when you were suffering: perhaps you went through a difficult breakup, endured a loss, or experienced failure. Focus on how your heart feels. Do you feel sad, angry, lonely, aching, warm, open, loving, or tender? Just as you wished for your loved one’s pain to end, envision your own suffering leaving you so that you can experience more joy and happiness.As you breathe, focus on building kindness for yourself and your own suffering.Repeat the phrase, “May I be free from this suffering. May I feel joy and happiness.”

, Think about someone you feel neutral toward. This might be someone you sat next to on a bus, a grocery store clerk, a classmate, a server at a restaurant, or a co-worker you occasionally see. You should feel neither positively nor negatively toward this person.Think about how this person may suffer. Perhaps they have arguments with loved ones, struggle to pay bills, or have suffered an illness. Notice, once again, your heart and how it feels. Feel the golden light you extend begin to ease the person’s suffering.


Say to this person, “May you be free from this suffering. May you feel joy and happiness.”

, Lastly, place your focus on an enemy or someone you dislike. This might be an ex-romantic partner, parent, roommate, family member, professor, or co-worker with whom you do not get along. Despite your negative feelings for this person, think about how this person may suffer. Perhaps this person has been ill, struggles to maintain meaningful relationships, or has experienced failure. Notice how your heart feels when you think about this person’s suffering. Does it feel similar or different than when you envisioned your loved one’s suffering? Again, extend the golden light and imagine easing this person’s suffering.Say to this person, “May you be free from this suffering. May you feel joy and happiness.”

, Finally, think of all beings and the suffering they endure. Consider the people across the world in difficult living conditions, animals in the wild whose habitats have been taken over and those in factory farms. Consider all beings and notice the feeling in your heart as you reflect on the suffering across the world. Connect once again with your heart and notice what you feel when you contemplate this suffering.Just like the individuals above, say, “May all beings be free from suffering. May all beings feel joy and happiness.”
You can focus on specific populations as well, for example, all women, children, orphans, political leaders, animals, etc.
 If you’re not sure where to begin in your meditation, consider listening to an audio recording.This can help your mind stay focused and concentrate on kindness and compassion in your meditation practice. While the format stays the same each day, you get some choice as to where to place your kindness and compassion for each item.


You can search for audios and videos online to help guide you through meditations for kindness.
 If you want to meditate but have difficulty finding time or motivation to do so, enlist the help of a friend. You can use an audio or video format to guide the meditation if you’d like. This way, you can be accountable for doing the meditation and have someone to process your thoughts and feelings with afterward.


Find one day each week where you can meditate together. Find a space that feels comfortable and is convenient for both of you.
 Whether you chose to attend a spiritual meditation group or a different kind of group, you can increase your awareness and compassion in this setting. It can feel uplifting to gather with other people for a similar cause. While it can be difficult to make time to meditate on your own, it may be easier to commit to a meditation group once or twice each week. Having accountability can help increase your practice.Find a meditation group in your community that focuses on kindness. This kind of group can also help you put into action your new skills and nicer persona.
 You may want to start a meditation practice by reading certain scripts to help you focus on being nice and kind. You can follow a script to go at your own pace instead of following the pace of an audio recording or group setting. Like all other meditation practices, you’re encouraged to set aside some quiet time, get into a comfortable position, and relax before beginning the meditation., Once you’ve gotten the hang of the loving-kindness meditation, practice it in your day-to-day activities. For example, if you’re interacting with someone you dislike, imagine extending the golden light toward them and feeling compassion for their suffering. If you feel like not being nice to someone or responding to someone in a rude way, feel in your heart the way you feel during meditation.


If you come across someone that irks you, include them in that day’s meditation!

, As you meditate, keep a journal about your feelings. For example, if you practice the loving-kindness/compassion meditation, notice how it feels to send compassion to an enemy. It may be difficult at first, but notice how your feelings change over time. Do you find it easier to feel compassion for this person? Does it affect how you treat this person in real life? Has it changed how you treat other people? Write down your feelings and see how your feelings change over time. Journaling can be useful in working through feelings and solving problems.Find a journal you like and begin a practice of writing. You don’t have to write every day; instead, aim to journal every week or every few days.
 If you want to be nicer, start spending time with people. If you struggle to get along with people, notice if your interactions change. If you’re ready to practice your skills and want to build friends, get out into your community and make some friends. Having friendships can help to improve your happiness, decrease stress, strengthen your health, and prevent feelings of loneliness and isolation.For more information, check out How to Make Friends.
Some ways to make friends in your community include volunteering, taking a class or workshop on a topic you have interest, and attending community events such as concerts, lectures, or museum openings.

