 Shoulder cuts have rich, dark meat that packs a lot of flavor. Because this cut is naturally high in fat, it's perfect for braising. However, you can also pan cook it regularly, so long as you tenderize it first.


Due to the fact that this cut is rich in fat and other connective tissue, moist, high heat works best when cooking.
You may be more familiar with the shoulder cut by one of its other names: the blade chop, blade-end pork loin chop, or pork steak., The rib chop comes with a large eye of loin meat, but lacks tenderloin meat. There will be a bone running along one side of this cut that is often covered in a thin layer of fat. This cut will be relatively lean and have a mild flavor.Since rib chops are a leaner cut, quick cook methods work well to seal in moisture in the meat. These include grilling, broiling, sear-roasting, and more.
You'll find that rib chops are among the more tender cuts of pork chop you can buy. If tenderness is your preference, rib chops should be near the top of your list.
 Loin chops require a little more babysitting than other varieties. A t-bone will divide the loin meat from the tenderloin meat, and since these meats cook at different rates, you'll have to keep a close eye on them while cooking. The meat will be lean and have a mild flavor of pork.


This cut of meat, also being on the lean side, will benefit from quick cooking methods like grilling, broiling, sear-roasting.
If you purchase top loin chops, these cuts will not have tenderloin meat included., Some people dislike meat served with a bone. Additionally, younger children might struggle with cutting around bone-in cuts. In these cases, a boneless pork chop will work perfectly. Expect the meat to be lean, and the flavor to be mild.


Boneless pork chop cuts are also known by as an America's cut or a pork loin fillet.
These cuts will have very little marbling, fat, and connective tissue, which means there will be a greater risk of overcooking. For this cut, you should consider brining your pork chop., This cut will have pieces of hip and backbone in it. The meat of this cut is comprised of many different muscle groups. It has a very strong pork flavor and, as the meat can be tough, it should be slow cooked to encourage tenderness.


Slow, moist heat will best break down the tissues in a sirloin chop, softening the tough meat into a delicious meal. Keep this cut in mind for braises and stews.