 The symptoms of mumps usually develop 14 to 25 days after the person is infected.Someone who is infected with mumps is most contagious about 3 days before the facial swelling becomes evident.


Be aware, in addition, that in about 1 in 3 cases, mumps doesn’t cause any noticeable symptoms in the infected person.;
, The most common symptom of mumps is swollen parotid glands, commonly called “hamster face.” The parotid glands are a pair of glands that are responsible for producing saliva. They are located on either side of your face, just in front of your ears and above your jaw.While both glands are usually affected by the swelling, only one gland can be affected.
Due to the swelling, you may have pain or tenderness around your face, ear(s), or jaw. You may also have dry mouth and a hard time swallowing.
 There are several other symptoms you may experience prior to the parotid gland swelling when you have mumps, including:Headache
Joint pain and aches
Nausea and a general feeling of illness
Ear pain when chewing
Mild abdominal pain
Loss of appetite
A high temperature (fever) of 38°C (100.4°F), or above

, If you are a male over 13, you may develop swollen testicles. If you are a female over 13, you may develop swollen breasts. Women who contract mumps can also develop swollen ovaries.
For both men and women, the swelling can be painful. However, it will rarely lead to sterility, or the inability to have children., Swollen parotid glands and the above symptoms are usually a clear sign you have the mumps. However, other virus (like influenza) can cause parotid swelling, though this is often limited to one side. In rare cases, parotid swelling can come from a bacterial infection or from plugged salivary gland(s). Your doctor can confirm you have the virus by checking for these symptoms. Your doctor may also take a blood or urine sample to run tests and confirm the mumps diagnosis.It's also important to report the mumps to your doctor so he or she can let the Public Health Department in your area or country know. This will prevent the spread of the mumps to others. A recent mumps outbreak among college students in the Midwest has raised the awareness of mumps by US Public Health Department.While mumps is not usually a serious disease, it does have symptoms of other serious diseases like glandular fever and tonsillitis. So its important to speak to your doctor if you suspect you or your child has the mumps., Children usually recover from mumps in about 10-12 days. It takes about 1 week for the swelling to go down in each parotid gland.The average recovery time for adults is 16-18 days.
If your symptoms do not improve after 7 days of home care, or they get worse, talk to your doctor., Call in sick to work and rest for at least five days. This will prevent mumps from spreading to others.Your child cannot go to school or daycare for at least five days after the glands start to swell.
In Canada, cases of the mumps must be reported to the nearest Public Health Department.
In the United States, all physicians are required to report any cases of the mumps to the Public Health Department., Ibuprofen or Tylenol can relieve any discomfort or pain around your face, ear, or jaw.For children, ask your pediatrician what the best and safest pain relief options are. Never give aspirin to children under the age of 18.
 This will help to reduce swelling and soothe any pain., It’s important to stay hydrated when you have mumps by drinking lots of water throughout the day.Avoid acidic drinks like fruit juice, as these can irritate your already swollen glands. Water is the best fluid to relieve the mumps.You should also avoid sour foods like citrus fruits as these can make the swollen glands worse., Opt for soft foods like soup, oatmeal, mashed potatoes, and scrambled eggs., You can also apply ice packs or bags of frozen peas on the area to relieve the pain and swelling.If you are experiencing swollen breasts or abdominal pain, apply a cold compress to the area to help relieve any pain.
 Go to the nearest hospital or call 911 if you develop a stiff neck, have convulsions, experience severe vomiting, experience weakness or paralysis, or become semi-conscious or unconscious. These could be signs of a brain infection like meningitis or encephalitis.Some patients with mumps can develop meningitis, which may require further medical treatment.Encephalitis occurs when your brain is inflamed. Left untreated, it can lead to neurological problems and become life-threatening.
 These could be signs of an inflamed pancreas, or pancreatitis., Bring your child to the nearest doctor if he or she experiences convulsions or if you suspect malnourishment or dehydration. These may be signs of a more serious illness or condition., Mumps during a pregnancy can be dangerous, with an increased risk of miscarriage in the first 12-16 weeks., In rare cases, mumps can cause hearing loss in one or both ears. So if you start to lose hearing in one or both ears, speak to your doctor. They can then refer you to hearing specialist., The MMR vaccine is a combined measles-mumps-rubella inoculation. It contains the safest and most effective form of each vaccine. You are considered immune to mumps if you’ve had the infection before or if you’ve been immunized with the MMR vaccine. But a single dose of the vaccine does not offer enough protection during an outbreak. So its important to ensure you receive two doses of the MMR vaccine.The recommendation of the second dose did not begin until the late 1980s or early 1990s. So many young adults may not have received a second dose of the vaccine. If you are an adult, talk to your doctor about the number of vaccines for mumps you have received and ensure you are given both doses.
Two doses of the MMR vaccine are recommended before a child enters school. The first one should be given between 12 and 15 months old. The second one should be given between 4 and 6 years old.
Though the initial shot for the vaccine may be a bit painful, most people do not experience any serious side effects from the vaccine. In fact, less than one out of 1 million doses causes a serious allergic reaction.Despite fairly prevalent internet rumors due to a discredited study, the MMR vaccine does not cause autism., If your doctor runs a blood test and confirms you are immune to measles, mumps and rubella, you do not need the vaccine. As well, if you have already been given two doses of the vaccine, you normally do not need to be vaccinated again. In the case of a severe outbreak, a physician may recommend that you receive a third dose to “boost” your immunity.The vaccine is not recommended for women who are pregnant or plan to get pregnant within the next four weeks.
It is also not recommended for individuals who have a life-threatening allergy to gelatin or antibiotic neomycin.
Check with your doctor before getting vaccinated if you have cancer, a blood disorder or HIV/AIDS. Talk to your doctor before getting vaccinated if you’re taking steroids or other drugs that affect your immune system., When you sneeze or cough, use a tissue to wipe your nose and cover your mouth. Throw away any used tissues to keep them away from others. You should also wash your hands regularly to prevent the spread of germs, including mumps.To prevent the spread of mumps to others, it’s important to stay home for at least five days after you have been diagnosed with mumps.The mumps virus can be spread via surfaces that have been infected, so do not share utensils or cups with someone who has been infected and be sure to sanitize shared surfaces (countertops, light switches, door knobs, etc) with antiseptic cleaners.

