 Hair comes in a variety of textures and thicknesses. Hair can be thick, thin, straight, wavy, kinky, curly, dry, oily or any combination of these qualities. Mousse should be suitable for almost all hair types, however, because of its relatively light "hold," coarser, heavier hairs can be difficult to style with it. Here are some tips to guide your mousse usage if you have the following types of hair:


Thin hair: Apply liberally to roots for added lift and volume.
Oily hair: Shower before applying. Allow shampoo to sit in your hair for several minutes before rinsing.
Thick, coarse, or curl hair: Consider applying a lightweight, relaxing balm to soften your hair and control any unruly frizz.
Fine and/or dry hair: Use a conditioning mousse with extra hold., Not all mousses are created equal. Though an average, well-rounded mouse ought to suit nearly all hairdos, certain specially-formulated mousses offer advantages for a variety of hairstyles. Here are just a few types of mousse you'll encounter if you go shopping at your local hair salon or beauty supply store:


Mousse with extra hold - for windy days or especially unruly hair.
Conditioning mousse - for repairing and styling dry or damaged hair.
Scented mousse - many mousses have delicious perfume scents added - choose the one that smells best to you.
Mousse gel - a hybrid styling product that offers greater hold for your hair without the heaviness of traditional hair gels.
Thermal care mousse - specially designed to work in conjunction with blow dryers or curling irons.
 If you're adventurous, it's very easy to make a good mousse in your own kitchen! Break two eggs, separating the whites into a bowl. Beat the whites with a whisk. At you beat the egg, air is forced into it, giving it a light, fluffy texture. Beat the whites until they're fluffy and form stiff peaks. Now, it's just a matter of styling your hair with the egg like you'd use normal mousse. Rub the mixture in your hair and let it dry briefly, then style to your heart's content!


Don't worry - if you don't like your results or you're grossed out by having raw egg in your hair, homemade mousse washes out in the shower.

