 This can either be sitting up or lying down. The only rule is that you must be comfortable. How you achieve that is totally up to you.


As much as possible, refrain from moving around or squirming while meditating.
You may want to purchase a travel pillow or a blanket to make you more comfortable, if possible.;
, Although the goal is to rest with your eyes open, you'll find it much easier to commit to the meditation if you keep your eyes half-closed. It helps block out distractions and will prevent your eyes from getting tired/stinging from being open too long.
 We’ve all stared into space until our world blurs and we’re not really “seeing” anything anymore. This is the state you want to achieve, so as much as you can, try not to register the objects, noises or smells around you. This may be difficult at first, but the more you practice, the decision to ignore your surroundings becomes more natural and, eventually, second nature.


Try to focus on a single object. Choose something small and unmoving like a crack in the wall or a flower in a vase. You can even choose something with no definable characteristics, like a plain white wall or floor. Once you've stared at it long enough, your eyes should begin to glaze over and just like that, you've shut out external influences.
Another method is to try focusing on your breathing. This practice includes "belly breathing," meaning you draw your breath into your abdomen, not your chest. Rest your hands on your stomach and try to lift them by filling your belly with a deep breath. Then feel them lower as you exhale. This type of breathing (diaphragmatic) can stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system, which can relax you.
 Try not to think about your worries or frustrations, your fears, or what you're excited about doing this coming week or weekend. Let that all float away as you stare as mindlessly as possible at that object.


"Clearing your mind" is not as easy as it sounds, and you may become frustrated if you become fixated on this idea. If you find yourself starting to worry, that's okay. Just gently bring your awareness back to your breathing. This is part of what is known as mindful (or mindfulness) meditation.
 Imagine a quiet and motionless place, such as a deserted beach or mountaintop. Fill in all of the details: the sights, sounds, and smells. Soon enough, this peaceful image will replace the world around you and leave you feeling relaxed and refreshed.There are tons of guided meditation videos and audio to be found online. Try searching for "guided imagery" on YouTube. Pick a video, plug in your headphones, and zone out while you listen (you don't need to actually watch the video).
 Another method of relaxation meditation involves making a conscious effort to relax your muscles. Begin with your toes, focusing solely on their physical state. Try tensing them for five seconds, then releasing. You want them to feel loose and tension-free.


Slowly work your way through each muscle in your body. Move from your toes to your feet, then your ankles, your calves, and so on. Try to pinpoint areas where you feel tense or tight, then consciously try to let go of that tension.
By the time you reach the top of your head, your entire body should feel loose and relaxed.
This is therapeutic technique that can be used to treat anxiety and nervousness.
 It’s important to slowly work your way back to complete wakefulness. You can do so by acknowledging outside stimuli a little at a time (e.g. wind in the trees, distant music).


Once you've roused yourself fully, take a quick moment to acknowledge how peaceful the meditation experience was. Now that you've "closed" your rest this way, you can get back into your day with a new sense of energy and resolve.
 Zazen is a form of meditation that's traditionally done in Zen Buddhist temples or monasteries, but you can try it in any quiet location.


Try sitting in a room by yourself, or positioning yourself outside (if you don't find the sounds of nature too disruptive).
 On the floor, ground, or on a cushion, sit in a lotus or half-lotus position, with your knees bent and your feet resting on or near the opposite thighs. Keep your chin tucked in, head tilted down, and your eyes gazing at a point two to three feet in front of you.It’s important to keep your spine straight but relaxed and your hands folded loosely together over your belly.
You can even sit in a chair as long as you keep your spine straight, your hands folded, and your gaze on that point 2 to 3 feet in front of you.
 During zazen meditation eyes are kept half-closed so that the meditator is not influenced by outside forces but is not completely shutting them out either.
 Focus on fully expanding your lungs as you breathe in and deflating them as much as possible when you exhale.
 "Nonthinkingness" is the concept of remaining in the present moment and not dwelling on anything for too long. Try to imagine the world passing you by slowly and acknowledging what's happening without letting it affect your own sense of well-being.


If you're struggling with nonthinkingness, try to focus only on your breathing. This should help you relax as other thoughts fall away from your mind.
“Nonthinkingness” is similar to practicing mindfulness in that you concentrate on breathing and relaxing without a mantra.
 Some monks practice zazen for extended periods of time, but for yourself, try starting with five- or 10-minute sessions with a goal of building up to 20 or 30 minutes. Set a timer or alarm to alert you when time is up.


Don’t feel bad if you have trouble at first. Your mind might wander, you might start thinking of other things, or you might even fall asleep. All of these are normal. Have patience and keep practicing. Eventually you’ll get it.
 Don't try to snap yourself out of meditation or hop up and get right back to work. Allow yourself to emerge slowly. You can do this by starting to notice outside stimuli (the sound of birds singing, for instance). Bring yourself back into the present moment.


Studies on Zazen meditation and the synchronization of breathing and heartbeat have suggested a high correlation between mediation and your cardio-pulmonary health. Further, these results were observed in patients that have never meditated before., Try sitting in a room by yourself or positioning yourself outside (if you don't find the natural sounds too disruptive).
 On the floor, ground, or on a cushion, sit in a lotus or half-lotus position with your knees bent and your feet resting on or near the opposite thighs. Tilt your head down and let your eyes rest about two to three feet in front of you.Keep your spine straight but not rigid. Fold your hands loosely and allow them to rest on your belly.
You can perform this meditation in a chair as well. Just make sure you sit up straight (again, keeping the spine relaxed).
 Each eye needs its own object. One should be only in the left eye’s field of vision, the other in only the right eye’s field of vision. Each object should also be stationary.Each object should be at a slightly greater than 45-degree angle from your face. This is close enough that your eyes can be in the normal position facing forward while simultaneously being able to focus individually on two separate objects, each unable to see the object on the opposite side.
For best results, make sure each object is two or three feet in front of you so you can sit, eyes half-open and chin tucked in, just as you would in a Zazen meditation position.
 Each eye is fully aware of the presence of the object in its own field of vision. As you become better practiced at this you will begin to achieve a profound sense of relaxation.


As with other forms of meditation, patience is key. It may take several attempts before your focus improves to the point that you empty your mind and achieve a heightened level of relaxation.
 Allow yourself to slowly come back to complete wakefulness. Try becoming aware of your environment a little bit at a time (the smell of someone making coffee in the other room, the sound of a clock, etc.).

