 If possible, put your child’s mind at ease by going with them the first time they visit a new place or meet someone new. Having you by their side can make your child feel less fearful.This works best with young children. Older children may prefer to go new places on their own.
For instance, if your child is anxious about starting first grade, take them to visit their new school and meet their teacher before the first day of class.
 Anxiety feeds on uncertainty, so tell your child ahead of time what they can expect from a new situation. Look for books or videos designed to help your child understand what will happen.For instance, if your daughter is afraid of going to the dentist, explain what the visit will entail and find a picture book about visiting the dentist to read with her.
Emphasize positive things about the event. For instance, tell your daughter that she’ll get to pick a toy from the treasure chest at the end of her dentist appointment.
 It’s fine to support your child in social situations, but don’t step in for them entirely. After helping them make introductions with someone, let them carry their side of the conversation. Only prompt them if they need it.You might want to rescue your child by speaking for them if they are obviously uncomfortable, but this will prevent them from developing the skills they need to talk to people by themselves.
 It is important to watch how you act around your child. If they are about to face a stressful situation, it is important that you remain calm yourself. Show your child through your behavior, actions, and voice how to deal with situations that might cause anxiety.Use a calm voice, and try to express relaxed body language. Do not tense up by squeezing up your shoulders or crossing your arms. If you are calm, it might help your child feel more at ease.
If someone is complaining about your child's anxious behavior, you should still remain calm. As you explain your child's condition, use a soothing voice. This will help show your child healthy conflict resolution skills, and it may prevent worsening the situation.

