 Remove discolored parts and extra leaves, so the flowers are in good shape for drying. Cut the stems down to and or inch 2 (2.35 to 4.7 cm) from the base of the flowers.;
, Choose a plastic container with a tight-fitting lid to use for drying your flowers. Deeper containers work better than shallow ones, since the flowers will need to be completely submerged in silica gel.


Pour a thin layer of silica gel in the plastic container. The gel should completely cover the bottom of the container.
Err on the side of pouring in too much gel to keep the flowers from being crushed against the bottom of the container.
 Take each bloom by the stem and carefully place it bloom-side down into the container. Add as many blooms as will comfortably fit in the container without touching each other or the container's sides.
 Place enough silica gel in the container to completely surround and support the hydrangeas.


Hold each flower steady with one hand and sprinkle the gel with the other until the flowers can stand up on their own and are covering the petals and stems. Fill the container with gel until it rises 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) above the blooms in addition to covering the stem.
If the container is narrow and very deep, you can suspend a flower at the bottom, cover it with silica gel, and add another bloom above it. Just make sure the container is deep enough that the flowers don't touch each other.
 Put a lid on the container. Place it in a corner or a closet to allow the drying process to commence.


Write the date you submerged the flowers on the container, so you know when it's time to take them out.
Leave container undisturbed for 4 days. Drying hydrangeas any longer in silica could result in brittle blooms that could shatter.
 After 4 days, they should be completely dry.


Open the container and slowly pour the contents onto newspaper. Remove the dry hydrangea blooms and gently tap them to remove any loose silica.
Save the silica gel in a plastic container for the next time you want to dry flowers.
 Carefully store the dried hydrangea blossoms in plastic bags until you're ready to use them or place them in a vase.

