 Spending time with your friend sans kids may be necessary if you still want to stay friends but don’t want your kids to experience your friend’s type of parenting. Fortunately, it doesn’t have to be like this forever. You may be able to introduce your children back into the equation once you get over your main disagreements or when the kids get older.


You don't need to tell your friend you are making this decision, but if they ask you why your kids aren’t around anymore, don't lie. Gently explain that although you love your friend, you don’t necessarily agree with some of their parenting techniques.
Perhaps your child was frightened the last time you spent time together because of a punishment your friend delivered to their children. Be honest and upfront about your reasoning and if your friend is a true friend, they will understand., Discuss your parenting style when dropping the kids off for babysitting. Many parents instill the “when you live under my roof, you live by my rules” mentality. This also often holds true for when other kids come into their home. If this makes you uncomfortable, let your friend know about your concerns. However, if you instill this rule, you must be willing to abide by the same rule when dropping your kids off at their home.


When you leave your kids for a play-date or a sleepover, say to your friend, “It seems like you and I have different discipline styles. If my child misbehaves, please call me and I will handle the situation.” This allows you to still stay in control of the way your child is treated, while still letting them interact with your friend and their children., If the stress of your differing parenting styles has become too much, you may want to take some time away from the friendship. Scheduling fewer play-dates and reaching out less often may be what it takes to help your friendship get back to what it used to be. If your friendship is strong enough, your situation will pass and you’ll get back to the relationship you used to have.


If your friend questions why you’re not as close anymore, tell them, “I’m afraid our differences of opinion have put a strain on our relationship. I value your friendship too much to let this come between us, so maybe we can take a little break and see if we can can come to an understanding and compromise.” Although it may be awkward at first, there’s a good possibility you’ll become stronger in the end.