 Cooking burgers on a grill or barbeque is a great way to give your burger a little extra flavor. Be sure to choose a ground beef with your desired fat content, add your desired ingredients and spices, and form your patties before placing them on a hot grill. Depending on how thick your patties are, grilling burgers can be relatively quick. Grilling burgers will also allow you to cook at a higher volume than you would on a stovetop or oven.


Burgers can be cooked to any temperature, but they shouldn’t take more than 10 minutes per side no matter how done they are.
The more fat in your ground beef, the more flavor. Try starting with 80/20 fat to lean meat ratio.
You can even grind your own beef for burgers. Some butchers will even grind specific cuts for you.;
, Grilling steaks can be a great addition to a barbeque or cookout. Almost any cut of beef can be grilled on a barbeque and cooked to perfection. Choose whichever cut you prefer, from bone-in ribeyes to skirt steaks, season them with your desired spices and herbs, and place them on a hot grill.Cooking times on grill vary, especially between gas grills and charcoal grills. Use a meat thermometer in order to be certain of what temperature your steaks are.
Steaks will be medium rare at 145F, medium at 160F, and well done at 170F., Kebabs are great dishes to be served at parties. Kebabs generally consist of cubed meat and a series of vegetables all skewered and grilled. You can use wood or metal skewers when making kebabs, although metal skewers will retain heat and wooden skewers may burn. Choose a cut of meat or purchase beef that is already cubed. Cubed beef is often top sirloin cut into small pieces, but feel free to experiment and use any cut you like. Simply place the meat on the skewer, add vegetables if you wish, and season with your desired spices before placing them on a hot grill.


Kebabs will cook relatively quickly due to their size. Be sure to keep an eye on them so they don’t overcook or burn. You’ll generally only need to cook kebab meat around 2 minutes per side on a hot grill.

