 Try not to walk into an agency and say " I want to go _______ sometime in April, May, or June..." This is the surest way to get onto your agent's bad side! The programs that are used to find your all inclusive vacation/flight/train tickets require your agent to enter ONE date--each time a new date is suggested they must once again wade through all of the results to find something that you may like. In short: try to find a date range of four days to a week that work for you and your traveling companion(s) and try to stick to it.;
, If you want to backpack Europe it is not necessary to bring a day-by-day itinerary to your agent, but having an idea of the city(s) that you want to visit is key. If your only requirements are a beach, a beer, and a cheap fare, let them know. Also, after your agent asks you questions s/he will almost always suggest a destination to you if they think that it is more suiting to your tastes. For example, someone who walks into an agency asking for Mazatlan has quite a few options--but if you are looking for clear water and copious amounts of diving, then your agent will most likely suggest Cozumel or Hawaii as a more suitable destination. If you honestly have no idea where you want to go, call the agency at least ten minutes ahead and try to schedule an appointment with an agent before coming in. This will allow the agent a little bit of prep time to best serve you.
 Remember that it is generally not possible to enjoy Champagne on a beer budget. Sometimes great deals do come along, but Last Minute Deals are a thing of the past! LMD's, or as the industry calls them Sell-Offs, are a money loser for companies. You are generally not going to find a genuine five star resort in Cancun at any time of year for less that $900 plus taxes for one week all inclusive. Now, there are exceptions to this, but for the most part in order to get quality you have to pay for it.
 Mosquitoes, hurricanes, travelers diarrhea, poor taxi drivers, lost luggage....these are, unfortunately, a part of travel no matter who you are or who you book with! Everyone gets frustrated, and agents get that (maybe more than you know!) but try to remember that they didn't call the airline and request that your luggage be delayed, nor did they use their magic want to direct mosquitoes/hurricanes/diarrhea towards you. Please try not to swear at them or blame them. They are just trying to help.
 Your friendliness (or lack thereof) towards your agent will directly impact how much your agent will want to help you!

