 Even the best players in the world work on their 'touch' consistently. This is your feel for the ball and your ability to control it quickly first touch. To begin working on other areas of your game, you need to have a great first touch first. Individually, kicking repeatedly against a wall and controlling it (although simple) is extremely effective. However small possession games like 2 Vs 2, 4 Vs 4, or even 1 Vs 1 with small cones as goals using a '2 touch rule' is ideal. In small possession games be as 'creative' as you can. Even if you think it looks stupid, do it. Creativity is the centre of a striker's game. For creativity and effectiveness, you need constant movement from teammates.;
, Improving speed, strength, and agility. As a striker, it is critical to keep moving (in different directions). As a striker, you must annoy and confuse defenders. Next time you play a game with your back to goal, try running circles around a couple of defenders before curling out for a run or check out before you come in to receive the ball and hold it up. You always have the edge if you are constantly moving. Don't make yourself easy to mark, as it will also give you less time on the ball. The number one rule is not to run straight, but always curl your runs. This will also allow you to beat even the most aggressive offside traps with practice.
 Shooting is a striker's number one skill. Technique in shooting is a fine art. Practice against a wall if by yourself by standing about 5 meters (16.4 ft) away and hit the ball slightly with the outside of your foot, just slightly off the instep. Keep doing this although it seems too 'straight' and a bit awkward with no power. After this move 15 meters (49.2 ft) back and start to drive the ball. You want to hit it so it just hovers a bit off the ground (Cm's) with maximum power and accuracy. Most common mistakes are getting "cross footed" which is swinging your leg around too much and leaning back and taking eyes of the ball. Don't be fooled, top corner shots and curling free kicks are attractive but the very best strikers can powerfully drive the ball low.
 Heading is different altogether. Get someone to cross the ball to you and don't be afraid. It hurts when you don't 'go for it' and just let it hit your head. Look closely at the ball (don't close eyes!) and put your head and body behind it. You tell the ball where to go. Don't let it bounce off you.
 Compared to shooting, finishing is a bit of an art. In situations where you have just the keeper to beat or finish a fine passing build-up, you need to have a quick mind and a calm head. Too many strikers try to 'smash it' in these situations where you are more likely to score by 'slotting' it or 'placing' the ball in the net. The only way to practice this is by putting yourself in these situations. Game practice is essential. Good touch is so important again.
 If you master these general concepts entirely, you will most definitely improve. Everyone has their own strengths.
, Self technique is crucial. It very important for you like when you face enemy defender and you can use your self technique to 'duke them out'. For self technique, don't do dukes and dribble like a robot. Do each one the way you feel natural doing it. If the same duke is done differently each time, then the defenders will be in awe whenever you get past them.

