 If your vet has diagnosed your dog with cardiac disease, you will need to decide how you want to treat it. Medications are effective at treating cardiac disease in older dogs. As you discuss the treatment options with your vet, ask some questions:


How long will my dog need to take medication?
Will the medications have bad side effects?
How much will the medications cost?
Will my dog’s heart get better?
How often will my dog need to come back to the vet’s office?;
, Your vet will likely prescribe several medications for you to give your dog. Each medication will have its own set of instructions. Follow these instructions carefully. If you have any questions about how to give each medication, ask your vet.


You will likely give the medications by mouth.
 In older dogs with cardiac disease, a valve on the left side of the heart (mitral valve) is most commonly affected. When the mitral valve stops working well, fluid can buildup in a dog’s lungs. To get rid of this excess fluid, your vet will prescribe a medication called a diuretic.Diuretics cause a dog to urinate more frequently. Increased urination will remove the excess fluid., Cardiac disease often leads to high blood pressure in older dogs. Several types of medication, including beta blockers and ACE inhibitors, slow the heart rate and lower blood pressure.By lowering the blood pressure, blood is able to move through the heart more easily.
 Other medications, called positive inotropes, help the heart muscles contract more strongly to move blood through the heart more efficiently.They also slow the heart rate so the heart doesn’t have to beat so fast to pump blood., Once your dog’s blood leaves the heart, it needs to flow properly through the body’s blood vessels. Medications called vasodilators will help blood flow more easily through these vessels.Vasodilators also help blood flow through the heart more easily., Along with coughing, breathing problems are a common sign of cardiac disease in older dogs. With medication, you should notice your older dog breathing more easily and slowly.With less fluid buildup in the lungs, your dog will also start coughing less.
 Cardiac disease gradually gets worse. As your dog’s mitral valve function worsens, your vet will need to make changes to your dog’s medications.For example, your vet may need to increase the dose of certain medications.

