 If you already see a therapist, tell them about your symptoms. If not, look for a therapist who works with people who have bipolar disorder. They can help you find ways to cope with the sensations caused by fibromyalgia without getting overwhelmed by them., Be aware of which situations tend to make your fibromyalgia symptoms flare up. Think about how you can avoid those situations or handle them better when they do occur.For instance, if you experience more pain when you’re tired, put extra effort into keeping your sleep schedule regular. If you know you’ll have to be up late one night, avoid scheduling anything the next day in case you don’t feel well.
 If you are able to recognize when your fibromyalgia is at its worst, you can give friends and family a heads up so they can help you cope. Others may grab or touch you unexpectedly and exacerbate your pain. It may be a good idea to let them know that you are particularly sensitive, so they can minimize touch whenever possible.


You might say "Hey, guys, I'm really sensitive today. Everything that touches my skin hurts. Can you give me some space until my symptoms let up?"
It may also help to minimize your activities on such days. Get as much rest as possible. Snuggle up on your couch with a soft blanket and relax until the symptoms fade., Stress makes you more vulnerable to mood episodes and physical hypersensitivity from fibromyalgia. It also makes you less able to handle these situations when they arise. Set boundaries in your life to avoid stress as much as possible.For instance, if you need a couple of quiet hours to unwind in the evening, avoid taking on any responsibilities during that time.
 Fibromyalgia symptoms may strike when you’re not expecting it, so be prepared. Brainstorm ways to make your life easier when you’re in pain or otherwise not feeling well.For instance, if the sensation of water on your skin bothers you sometimes, you might want to keep a bottle of dry shampoo in the bathroom and a stack of paper plates in your cupboard.
 Sometimes there’s nothing you can do except wait until the hypersensitivity symptoms of your fibromyalgia pass. Stay as comfortable as you can, and give yourself a break if you need to leave an event early or skip one of your ordinary tasks.Avoid stressing about your symptoms if you can. This can make it worse.

