 Typical administrative errors that lead to inventory shrinkage include Universal Product Code (UPC) ticketing errors, point of sale (POS) ringing errors, return processing errors, and inadequately trained staff. By being aware of these common errors, you can be more mindful of avoiding them in the future.


Avoid UPC errors by ensuring that items have the correct barcode, and that items are being scanned and logged appropriately. Creating clear labels for items, bins, and shelves will create an organized system that will cut down on human scanning errors., The goal in auditing is to know where every piece of inventory is located. The most efficient method to audit inventory is to conduct cycle counting, where you count a small amount of inventory each day until you’ve cycled through the entire lot.You should conduct at least two complete audits, per location, per year.
Another method for tracking inventory is through barcode scanners or mobile devices which track inventory from the dock to the register, but thieves can find a way around this.
An additional method is to count each piece of inventory by hand.
For more on keeping inventory, see how to keep inventory.
 By using software to track inventory, you are able to standardize the system, and able to more accurately track information. Not only does it help prevent fraudulent activity, but it also makes inventory adjustments easier since it is done outside of the accounting system.For instance, a system like in Flow Inventory is able to provide an overview of the entire inventory process, and allows you to create an audit trail of all transactions (even down to separate user accounts).
 Try to limit the amount of inventory that goes to waste by ordering the proper number of items during purchasing, and ensuring careful handling of items in the store’s stock room. Occasionally, you will receive spoiled or broken items from the warehouse. Be sure to validate shipments and to carefully inspect items that are said to be damaged or spoiled to avoid scams.