 Classical, jazz, and pop piano styles are all different. If you or your child wants to play a specific song, work by a specific artist, or a specific style, it is beneficial for you to find a teacher who offers the subject matter you or your child wants to learn.
 Is the goal for you or your child to become a concert pianist, or are you taking piano lessons for a hobby? A teacher who has focused on similar goals as yours can show you what it takes to achieve them.For example, if you or your child intends to be a concert pianist, look for a teacher who actively performs, as they ought to have connections to performance groups and performance opportunities.
If you or your child intend on applying to a music school, a teacher who has a degree from a music program understands what it takes to audition and can help you prepare.
 All styles have pros and cons, but the wrong one will, at worst, prevent you or your child from learning and ruin your motivation. Regardless of the method, most teachers will begin with basic finger placement and notes.

Some teachers start with music theory. This is meant to establish a foundation based in musical science or scores and works well for visual learners. Both children and adults may find this boring and unable to promote technical proficiency.
Other teachers adopt a tactile approach and encourage playing. The purpose is to capitalize on the positive feeling of evoking sound to encourage learning through motion. Evoking sound may be fun and convince you or your child to continue with lessons, but you may also miss out on written and auditory instruction.The Suzuki Method, which considers music a language, is an auditory style used especially on children. It involves listening to selected music, constantly repeating it, and group lessons. Critics say this can lead to poor sight-reading and lack of personal expression., If you think long enough, you’ll come away with a list of what you want out of a teacher. Some of these can prove helpful, but keep in mind that no teacher will fit neatly into a list of check marked boxes and too many expectations will hinder your search.

Characteristics such as age and gender will come to mind first. Unless you have a legitimate concern, be willing to compromise. For instance, a beginner may end up getting along better with an older teacher than a young one fresh out of school who has never taught a beginner.
Do refer back to your goals. If the intention is to apply to colleges, for instance, a teacher who has a degree can help the student prepare. If public performance is the goal, look for a teacher who has performing experience and connections to opportunities., Sometimes a teacher that seems ideal will require some driving. This has an effect on your budget and time commitment as well as your motivation, since you'll have to make the extra effort to transport yourself or your child to the lesson.

If you live in a rural or under serviced area, you may have to compromise and choose a teacher with different or less qualifications or multiple specialties beyond piano.
If you can find any in your area, home teachers are an option. You'll still have to be wary of their credentials and the convenience factor often means they charge more per lesson.
 How much money are you willing to pay for lessons? Price isn’t necessarily indicative of quality, but being asked for more than you can handle is a sure way to ruin your relationship with your teacher.

A teacher who charges more may not have as much to offer you as one that costs less, and going outside your budget won’t bolster your enjoyment of piano lessons.
Some teachers also offer half lessons at different rates, so consider this in deciding whether piano lessons fit into your schedule and budget.
 Lessons take time, but so does practice. Practice is an important part of learning. Every teacher will ask you to practice in order to solidify the lessons and improve your ability to play. A teacher who demands more time than you can give is one with which you’ll be at odds., Local word-of-mouth references are the easiest to collect. Chances are your friends, your church group, or others in the community have insight as to where you can find a quality teacher., Music departments are good places to find references. The teachers there often have strong ties to the community and local groups. Most will be more than willing to guide someone interested in music.When speaking to someone who teaches high school or lower or school band directors, ask them for community references. They'll know the area and have teachers to which they've referred their own students.
At a college music department, ask an educator or program administrator where they refer their students.
 These stores are gathering spots for teachers and students buying music-related materials. The employees are likely to have connections to the community and can help guide you in the right direction.

Describe what you’re looking for in a teacher and ask the employees or other guests if they know of anyone who can help you. For instance, ask, “Do you know where I can find someone who teaches jazz piano nearby?”
If the employees don’t know offhand, ask them if any teachers have left advertisements. Some locations have community boards or will hold onto advertisements for referrals.
Check and see if the store offers classes. Some stores can provide you with their own knowledgeable teachers.
 Many countries have organizations with databases that contain teacher information. Examples include the Music Teachers National Association, the Piano Teacher’s Federation, the Suzuki Association of the Americas, and Takelessons.com.

Check review sites such as Yelp. Schools and some teachers list themselves there. You can get a sense of the teacher from discussions and ratings by students.
Some teachers have their own websites and you can use this to gain information on their background and teaching experience. If they have recordings, listen to them to get a sense of their style.
 This may not always be possible, but it does give you a chance to gauge the atmosphere. Does it feel friendly and supportive? Compare this to what you or your child want to get out of this education.

This is a chance to speak to students and parents. Ply them for information about the teacher’s style, attitude, and their satisfaction with lessons.
You may have a chance to ask questions to the teacher. Keep in mind that they have a lot to take care of during these events, so they may be preoccupied and less than welcoming of the scrutiny. Give them another chance in a private session.
 Feel free to collect information from multiple teachers before making a decision, but inquiring gives you a chance to sit down and see how you or your child get along with the teacher on a personal level.

Inquire about the teaching methods used by this teacher. This will also provide an indicator of personality. Are they rigid in their methods? Can they explain how they provide insight to students?

, At the very least, it is a good idea to choose someone who is qualified to teach and knows how to play the piano. A wrong choice here can mean the difference between growth and either forgettable lessons or the start of bad playing habits.A part-time teacher with no proof of educational or performing credentials is troublesome unless you have no other options. Someone who teaches for extra money may not truly be proficient with the piano.
Teachers who claim to teach many instruments is also a warning sign. Someone who doesn’t focus exclusively on the piano may be spread too thin between students or have limited knowledge of the piano.For an additional check, ask to hear the teacher play. This is a way to judge whether or not they have a high level of ability, and both prospective children and adult students are bound to feel inspired from proficient playing.
 Children and adults have different learning styles. Many teachers do have a wide variety of clients, but not all are equipped to handle these different needs. A good teacher will be able to reach the student and tailor lessons to their strengths.Adults choose to learn piano and are physically, mentally, and emotionally developed. A teacher can be more straightforward in teaching complex concepts and yet still be respectful of an adult’s busy schedule.
Children benefit from a teacher who makes lessons feel fun. The teacher should be able to look the child in the eye, draw them out of their shell, and make them laugh.
 It’s important to know what policies the studio has. The studio should be well-run and regulated, ensuring that lessons go smoothly, but without compromising the air of patience and comfortability. If the student is a child, find out if the location is child-friendly.Some teachers will come to your home. Be wary of teachers that don’t have reason to be in your neighborhood, as their teaching and piano-playing credentials may be lacking.
Other traveling teachers may charge more per lesson, so if staying home is important factor that into your budget.
 Even if you believe you have found someone that would be a good teacher for you, the cost can still be an issue. If you can’t manage, half lessons may be available., The right teacher won’t overload you or your child with work, so it’ll help to know what the teacher expects out of a student. A teacher who is serious about making concert pianists, for instance, may push someone who is learning for personal satisfaction too hard.

You can ask, "How fast do you expect me or my child to progress in each lesson?" to find out whether the teacher demands a more serious pace or is comfortable slowing down for the student.
"For every lesson hour, how much time do you expect me or my child to practice at home?" is an appropriate question to judge the teacher's expectation of practice.
 You may find an opportunity to engage a teacher for free, but most likely you’ll have to invest in an initial session. Consider this part of the interview process too, as you’ll get a hands-on chance to experience the teacher’s methods.You may ask if the teacher will allow you to sit in on a lesson given to another student. Although this would allow you to observe the teacher in action, most sessions are private and your presence would be disruptive.
If you have some piano experience, one possibility is to bring in music with which you are familiar. You may have the teacher play and observe their playing style, or you can play and familiarize yourself with their teaching style.
 It may take several lessons for student and teacher to feel on the same page, but consider the teacher’s enthusiasm and their approach to teaching. An effective teacher maintains passion in the piano by enabling you or your child to look forward to the next lesson.When the student gets along with the teacher, the learning process will be a positive experience. Interactions will feel natural and filled with insight. If this doesn’t occur, you or your child will lose enjoyment and struggle to learn, even if the teacher is a proficient player.
Parents should sit in on the early meetings. An effective teacher will listen to your child and allow them to have fun learning to play.After the lesson, consider how it went. Adults can judge for themselves, but a parent should ask the child how they felt, if they were comfortable or confused, and if they would like to see the teacher again.
 Disinterest from the student or the teacher is a sign of a bad fit. The lesson plan should be designed to challenge you or your child to improve, and the teacher should make an effort to set goals with you and encourage you to practice.Lessons should be tailored to the need of the student. They should never feel routine. If lessons become dull, it may show that the teacher doesn’t know how to engage the student or worse, shows a lack of respect towards the student.If the teacher routinely breaks commitments or kills the student's motivation, it is time to move on.
 Whether you or your child find the initial connection nonexistent or the lessons unfulfilling, don’t be afraid to make the change. Repeating the search process can be frustrating, but the right teacher means blossoming your love of the piano rather than squashing it.