 Before you feed your frog, you should feed its prey. Crickets are the primary food source for captive red-eyed tree frogs. One or two days before you feed your frog, feed the crickets a mix of dried and fresh foods to ensure that they are full of essential nutrients. Some good foods for crickets include crushed dog or cat food pellets, commercially produced cricket feed, mixed seeds, alfalfa, lettuce, broccoli, carrots, and fruit.For adult frogs, dust their prey with reptile calcium/vitamin D3 supplements once a week. For younger frogs, you may have to do this every day. This will ensure that your frog is receiving all of its proper nutrients.The crickets you feed your frog should be no larger than their head. For young frogs, make sure that they are no bigger than a quarter of an inch long.;
, Red-eyed tree frogs are insectivores, which means that they eat bugs and insects such as grasshoppers, crickets, and moths. You can buy live crickets from a pet or reptile store. Feed your frog around fifteen live crickets every two to three days.Red-eyed tree frogs will occasionally eat worms as well. Wax worms are recommended for this. Do not feed them meal worms. Not all frogs will accept worms to eat, however., A wide, shallow water dish will allow your frogs to drink and hydrate. A water dish is essential because it will allow the frog to cool down if they are too hot or wash down if they become too dry. It can even increase the humidity in the terrarium.A heavy plastic or clay water dish will prevent spills.


Water should be changed every day.If you have many frogs in one cage, you might want to have multiple water bowls.
 Red-eyed tree frogs need a humidity of around 90%.To help maintain the humidity, spray the terrarium with a water-filled spray bottle twice a day. Spray the walls, substrate, and furnishings.If your frog’s skin is looking dry, you can even spray them. Be careful not to spray them in their face.
You can also invest in an automatic misting system. These are expensive, but they will handle the spraying process to ensure that your frogs are properly hydrated.

