 People who are in relationships for long periods of time mentally and physically affect one another. To move on, you have to recognize the impact that your partner had on your daily life and force yourself to maintain healthy habits, which do not include going on drinking benders and eating ice cream for every meal. When you see your ex, or even photos of him or her, your brain reacts like you are experiencing physical pain. That explains why your body feels so beat down after you end a romance.
Your brain can respond to a break up similarly to a person withdrawing from cocaine use—no lie. If you feel unfocused and generally out of control, that’s why.
Spending so much time and sharing a bed with another person impacts your heart, body temperature, as well as how you sleep and eat. Don’t belittle yourself for having an extreme reaction to your partner’s absence. Give your body time to adjust. ;
, Shedding some tears will be therapeutic because tears from crying contain high levels of stress hormones. Crying also spurs parts of your nervous system. Therefore, after a bout of sobbing, you will feel calmer and your body will actually be more in tune.There is no shame in crying. Doing it in front of supportive people can be even more beneficial., Remind yourself that he or she was not perfect, even if you were not the one who initiated the break-up. No one has to read your journal or poem, so use them to vent about your ex, and to soothe your brain, which is off kilter right after a relationship ends. , Maybe you dabble in art, writing, or playing music. Perhaps photography is something you used to love doing, or designing with Photoshop. Whatever it is, do as much of it as possible to occupy your time and mind. , Hopefully, you were in continual contact with your loved ones while in the relationship. If not, however, or if you just didn’t spend as much time with them as you wanted to, now you can. , Maybe there is something new you would like to try, like learning a new language or picking up some culinary skills. Community colleges offer low cost courses on any subject imaginable or you can take free classes online sometimes. Check into it! 