 Yogurt contains live bacterial cultures (probiotics) that create the right environment for your digestive system to stay healthy and run on a regular schedule. Try adding a cup of yogurt to your daily diet.The bacteria in yogurt are thought to alter the microflora in the gut. This reduces the amount of time it takes for your food to be digested and move through your system.
Check the label to make sure the yogurt you buy has “active cultures” of live bacteria. Without live cultures the yogurt will not have the same effect.
Other fermented and cultured foods such as kombucha, kimchi and sauerkraut also contain beneficial bacteria that may aid in digestion and relieve constipation., Processed and “fast” foods can contribute to chronic constipation. These foods are often high in fat and low in fiber and do not offer much nutrition. Foods to stay away from include:Processed or “enriched” grains. White bread, pastries, many pastas, and breakfast cereals often include flour that has been stripped of much of its fiber and nutritional value. Look for whole grains instead.
Junk foods. Foods with a high level of fat and sugar can cause constipation. Your body will try to get its calories from fat first, which will slow digestion.Sausage, red meat, and luncheon meats often contain a high level of fat and salt. Look for lean meats such as fish, chicken, and turkey.
Potato chips, french fries, and similar foods do not offer much nutrition and have very little fiber. Go for roasted or baked sweet potato “fries” or air-popped popcorn instead.
 A lack of exercise may cause weakness in your intestines, making it hard to pass waste regularly. Sedentary lifestyles can affect digestion and cause constipation.Get moderate exercise at least 3-4 times a week.Walking, swimming, jogging, and yoga are all great options. Even 10-15 minutes of exercise a day can help your body stay regular.
 Your body will tell you when it is ready to have a bowel movement.There is a wide range of what is considered “normal” for bowel movement frequency. Many people average 1-2 bowel movements per day, but others may go only 3 times a week. As long as your body feels comfortable, there’s no need to worry about how often you have a bowel movement.Constipation can be caused or aggravated by not having a bowel movement when you feel the need to. If you frequently delay your bowel movements, you could cause your body to stop sending the signal to go. Delaying a bowel movement will also make it more difficult to pass later., Overusing laxatives, especially stimulant laxatives, can cause your body to become dependent on them. Do not use laxatives every day. If you have chronic constipation, consult your physician for alternative treatments.Laxatives containing polyethylene glycol are usually safer for long-term use than other types.