 Smooth jazz is slow and sometimes good to dance to. If you only apply smooth jazz and jazz music instead of the music that is influenced right now, you could be a very calm person.;
, When things happen in life, you have to realize that they will pass on. Don't freak out at all when things happen. Instead, you could walk away, ignore, etc. There is normally a way out of things. If not, try relaxing your way out of situations.
 Accessories should probably be red, orange, green, and purple. Wear tank tops, t-shirts, leggings, ballet flats, maxi skirts, capris, and trench coat. Carry around with you a hobo bag and wear stud and hope earrings. They say that when you wear only black, it makes you look slimmer. So try wearing black a lot, but not appear as a goth. You should have at least 3 pairs of black tank tops. Also, wear a beret and fedora if you can, preferably black.
 If you have nappy, definitely wear it in an Afro.
 If you do try to wear makeup, try wearing only red lipstick.
 You could even doodle if you want. Write poems about anything on your mind. It doesn't even have to rhyme. It could be a free verse poem.
, Let your hair out. One style that would be perfect is to wear an Afro if you can.
 Have at least 2 lava lamps in your room, one purple and the other green. Your walls should be a light brown and your bedding should be a cheetah pattern. You should have a black rug also.
 Try reading somethings you like at first, but then grasp for another genre of books that are out of interests. This can make you curious.
 Decorate with stickers of saxophones, pianos, trumpets, and music notes.
 If you can't find them, then you must be unique.
 Go to Starbucks and read a book there or go to Barnes and Noble and go to their Starbucks cafe there. It's a cafe inside a book/music store, which is perfect. You can get to enjoy your coffee and pastry with your book.
 Don't ever shout out. You are in school to learn, not to talk. Focus on school! But, if the teacher isn't talking and you're done with you work, you could write more poetry.
 They will probably be bored with their 'opinion' and leave you alone.
 You must expose your creativity somewhere, so why not onstage. Remember that the audience will love you.
 Do things that relaxes you in your time. Be a laid back person and yet do something that makes you shine.

