 The liquid that you will be diluting your substance in is very important. Many solutions will be diluted in distilled water, but this is not always the case. If you are diluting bacteria or other cells, you will likely want to dilute in culture media.The liquid you choose will be used for every serial dilution.


If you’re unsure what liquid to use, ask for help or check online to see if other people have performed a similar dilution.;
, These tubes will serve as your dilution blanks.You will be adding your undiluted sample to the first tube and then serially diluting into the following tubes.


It’s helpful to label all of your tubes before you begin so you don’t get confused once you begin with the dilutions.
Each tube will be a 10-fold dilution starting from the undiluted tube.The first tube will be a 1:10 dilution, the second a 1:100, the third a 1:1000, etc. Determine the number of dilutions you need to do beforehand so you don’t waste tubes or diluting liquid.
 The minimum amount needed to perform this serial dilution is 1 mL of undiluted solution. If you only have 1 mL you will not have any remaining undiluted solution. Label this tube US for undiluted solution.


Thoroughly mix your solution before starting any dilutions., Draw 1 mL of undiluted solution from test tube US with a pipette and transfer it to the test tube labeled 1:10 containing 9 mL of the dilution liquid and mix thoroughly. There is now 1mL of the undiluted solution in 9 mL of the dilution liquid. The solution, therefore, has been diluted by a factor of 10.
 For the second serial dilution, you will take 1 mL of solution from tube 1:10 and add it to the 9 mL of dilution liquid in the tube 1:100. Thoroughly mix tube 1:10 before adding to the next tube. Again, mix the tube 1:100 following dilution. The solution from test tube 1:10 has been diluted 10-fold into test tube 1:100.
 This process may be repeated as many times as necessary to achieve the desired solution. In an experiment involving concentration curves, you can use a serial dilution to create a series of solutions with dilutions of 1, 1:10, 1:100, 1:1,000.

