 In no situation should you respond to the first question without reading others.;
, If it has a formal tone, you should respond in a formal way.


Try to give people the benefit of the doubt, if an email comes across as aggressive or rude. It is far more difficult to convey emotions in email than in a call.
 Try to respond to all important emails within 24 hours.


Use your email program's flagging option to place emails in order of priority in your inbox.
 For more confusing emails, read it 3 or 4 times.


If the email is confusing and the person can be called, pick up the phone and talk to them. Sometimes a short phone call can stop email replies from becoming distorted.
 You should reply to all, and take into account the managers or other departments that will use and see your email.


The more people who are copied in on the email, the more careful you should be when sending a reply. If you were copied in the cc line, you most likely do not need to respond.
 Unless you are close with the person and writing about personal matters that are unrelated to business, you should use a greeting, salutation and signature.
 For instance, if your boss sends out an email to all employees, but you have a specific question regarding it, only reply to your boss.
 It will be easier for the person to understand its importance and find it at a later date.
 People view emails on tablets, smart phones and other devices that do not always take into account formatting decisions. Remove italics, bolding and never write in all caps.
 This can be formal, such as "Dear Mr. Gentry:" or it can be less formal, such as "Hello, Joe:"

, A little flattery can go a long way. Keep it very short.
 Anything that is included in the first paragraph will get the most emphasis.
 If there are more than 3 questions, copy and paste the questions in your reply, then answer them below the written question.


You can place a dash or bullet underneath the question to indicate your answer. Some people use different font colors, but this may not translate to all devices.
 As with greetings, do a formal greeting like "Sincerely" or a less formal "Talk to you soon."

, Many email programs have automatic signatures, but others require manual insertion.
, Email is a short form of communication, and emails should aim to be only a couple of paragraphs, unless you are submitting a report.
 Think of it as a professional communique that will be saved, not a throw-away document. Most company and personal emails are kept indefinitely.
 It does not translate well as humor.
 Use a phone or meeting to bring up personal problems with someone else.
 They are usually reviewed and they can be a reason for job dismissal.

