 You can either open the image in Photoshop and choose "File" → "Save as Copy," or you can click "Layer" → "Duplicate Layer" to create a backup version of the original in case you make a mistake.


While you could turn on the Eraser Tool (E) and start removing, this should be a last resort -- it is a difficult and time-consuming way to remove items in Photoshop.;
, This tool, resembling a brush with a dotted line near the bristles, should be the 4th tool down on your toolbar. If you can't find it, click and hold the Magic Wand button and it should appear. Click and drag the Quick Selection Tool over the item you want to be removed and it will select it for you. If you just want to delete the item without covering it up, hit Delete to remove it.


Use the keys to make the brush smaller or bigger. Smaller brushes will select more precise areas.
If you make a mistake, hold Alt (PC) or ⌥ Opt (Mac) and click on an area to remove it from your selection.
 You have a variety of options available to select items, depending on how precise you must be. If the background behind the object is simple, and the item is well defined (different colors, easy to see lines, etc.), then the Quick Selection Tool will work. But if you want to cut out something precise you can use the following tools:Shaped Selections: The second icon on the toolbar, these are basic geometric shapes that you can use to make selections. Hold shift while clicking to get perfect squares and circles instead of rectangles or ellipses.

Lasso Tools: These tools are mostly for manual selection. You click once and then drag the mouse, and the lasso follows you, making a selection when you join the ends together. Clicking again sets a point down, allowing you to make sharper angles. The Polygonal Lasso is for straight lines only, while the Magnetic Lasso tries to follow the shape of the image.

Pen Tool: The icon resembles an old-school fountain pen. Pen tools make adjustable "paths," meaning you can adjust your selection as you make it. You place points down to form a "skeleton" outline of the object. You can then right-click and choose "Make Selection" to move on.", This will eliminate the item from your image, but create a new layer based on your selection. If you want to save the item you're removing, you can simply click and drag this layer into a new Photoshop Window to isolate it, or just turn it invisible in your original image to erase it for now.If you're not planning on covering over the spot, or are just trying to work quickly, use "Select" → "Refine Edge" to first get your selection as close to the item you're removing as possible.
 Layer masks will delete items while still leaving the picture information (the color, shade, shape, etc.) intact in your photoshop document. As long as you save the photo as a .psd file, you will be able to undo anything erased in layer masks. To use one:


Click the layer you want to erase things from.
In the bottom of the layers pallet, select the square icon with the circle in the center. If you hover over it should say "Add Layer Mask," or something similar, depending on your version.
Click on the white box that appears.
Use the Brush Tool (B) and black ink to "erase" the items you don't want. Anytime you "paint" on the layer mask, it will erase the corresponding image on the layer.
Color the mask back in with white to undo your changes.