 In order to get the most out of your core-strengthening regimen, take a moment to find the transversus abdominis (your deepest core muscle). Once you've found it, you'll want to keep that muscle contracted and tight throughout the course of your workout.Force yourself to take a deep cough. You should feel a muscle in your abs contract, which is the transversus abdominis.
The transversus abdominis runs deep in your core and extends from your belly button to your rib cage.Now that you've found the transversus abdominis, practice flexing and tightening the muscle.
Engage your transversus abdominis every time you work on your core, no matter which routine or muscle group you're focusing on.;
, Segmental rotations (rotating your core along the spine) can help work a variety of core muscle groups with relatively little strain. Begin by lying flat on your back, then bend your knees and pull your feet as close to your buttocks as you can comfortably get them. Keep your shoulders pinned to the floor, and focus on only moving your lower body.








Tighten your abdominal muscles and slowly drop both knees towards the floor on one side. Only go as far as you comfortably can - you should feel a strong stretching sensation, but it should not hurt.
Hold the position for three breaths, then return to the starting position. Switch your knees to the other side, hold for three breaths, and repeat.
 The superman focuses on working your lower back's core muscles. Start out by lying flat on your stomach. Slide a rolled up towel or a small throw pillow under your hips to help support your back. If you'd like, you can also put a folded towel under your face to help support your head.








Tighten up your abdominal muscles and lift one arm at a time, holding each arm elevated in the air for three breaths. Then switch to the other arm and repeat.
Tighten your abdominal muscles and lift one leg at a time, holding each leg for three breaths. Then switch to the other leg and repeat.
If you prefer, you can stretch out both of your arms and legs at the same time; however, if you're just starting out you may want to focus on one limb at a time to develop a proper routine.
 The bridge works several muscle groups in your core, making it a highly-effective exercise. Begin by lying on your back and bending your knees. Plant your feet right in front of your buttocks as though you were about to do a sit up and keep your back as neutral as possible (not arched, but not pressed down either).








Tighten your abdominal muscles and raise your hips off the floor. They should now be aligned with your knees and shoulders in a straight downward line pointing towards the floor.
Hold the position for three breaths, then return to the starting position and repeat.
 Planks are a great exercise for building strength in your core. Start by lying on your stomach and lifting up onto your forearms and the tips of your toes. If you can't get onto your toes you can balance your weight on your knees and your forearms.








Keep your forearms and knees or toes on the floor and try to squeeze your elbows and knees towards one another.
Keep your abdominal muscles tight and your shoulders lined up straight above your elbows.Make sure your neck and spine are in a neutral position. You should be looking down at the floor and your back should not be arched or bent at all.
While in position, tighten your abdominal muscles. Hold the position for three breaths, then return to your starting position and repeat.
 The side plank is similar to a regular plank, except it works the core muscles that line your sides instead of your abdominal muscles. Start out lying on your side and balance yourself on either the forearm or hand on that side of your body (whichever you're more comfortable with).








Make sure your shoulder is above your elbow and aligned with your hips and knees.
Tighten your abdominal muscles while you're in position and hold it for three deep breaths. Then switch to the other side, rest, and repeat.

