 Telephone credit card processing offers several advantages. You can process all Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover from your phone. If you take your business to trade shows, or have a mobile business, telephone credit card processing is a useful solution, as you will not have to lug a terminal with you or find a secure connection. Because of this, It is perfect for contractors, delivery, craft shows, seasonal businesses, food service, home based businesses, and other small, mobile businesses., There are a number of processors that offer telephone processing. Some of these, like TransFirst Dialpay, work by calling in to a number, while others, like Flint, are smart phone apps that work through scanning the card in with the phone's camera.Search online for telephone payment processors to find several options to investigate further.
 Contact your chosen processor and work with them to set up an account. Depending on the processor, you may be required to set up a merchant account, which allows for your payments to be processed and the proceeds transferred to your business bank account. Your qualification for the account might be dependent on your credit history or sales volume. Again, this all depends on your chosen processor.


When you get your account, you will be given a phone number to call in to so that you can enter your credit card information.
 Dial the phone number you were provided on any functioning phone and enter your merchant ID and your customer's credit card information (number and expiration date) and amount of sale using the keypad of your phone., While processing a payment over the phone, make sure that you carefully follow the automated voice commands, and also record the approval number for future reference. After the verification of all the information and payment particulars at the other end, you will receive an approval confirmation.


You will not receive a receipt to give the customer from the processor. However, you can use a cheap credit card imprinter to manually create a simple receipt for them., There is no hassle of sales slips, or deposit slips. You can receive the details of all your completed transactions at the end of each month in your statement. In addition, daily sales activity can be followed anytime using your phone.