 It became popular shortly after the Second World War- people had thought WWI would end all wars, and instead they had just been through the most brutal war yet seen in history. Having seen the worst of war, and the violence that humans could and would inflict on other humans, it is understandable that people started to think that life was meaningless, and question the veracity of ideas like God and former philosophies that posited a just universe.;
, Earlier philosophies, and many religions, posit that there is an ideal human form or some inherent human nature that exists above or before the individual, to which the individual should strive. Existentialism posits the opposite- there is no higher purpose or 'essence' to existence, except what we make of it. In other words, we make our own purpose. Existence preceding essence assumes that there is no God or higher being that brings some form of Just Order to the cosmos- it is generally an atheistic statement.
 Realize that existentialism posits that there is no sort of 'karmic' reward system, and so everything that happens is chance and bad things can easily happen to good people. Again, this probably stems from the social context of post-WWII. This inherent meaninglessness is sometimes exaggerated in Absurdist theatre such that nothing makes any sense- the characters don't understand one another and the environment doesn't follow the usual laws of space and time. This can be comedic to watch, but also depressing as it is supposed to reflect the inherent lack of justice or karma in the real world.
 With no higher power or philosophical Truth governing the world, we have the ability to make our own meaning for ourselves. Existentialism posits that we are defined by how we act, not by how we are supposed to act, so to a great extent you choose who you want to be.
 The feeling of waiting at a bus stop with nothing to do might help you relate to Waiting for Godot, while remembering a time when you were punished for a good deed or rewarded for a bad one will help you understand how people can believe the universe is amoral.
 Even if you are religious or believe in a higher order, try to put yourself in the shoes of someone who doesn't believe, and see how existentialism helps them to continue living in a world that is inherently amoral.

