 Sometimes, relationships can be unhealthy without being abusive. If you feel so wrapped up in your significant other that you can’t imagine your identity without him or her, this could be a sign of codependence, which isn’t healthy for a relationship.You should be able to spend time with friends, relatives, and coworkers. Your life should involve loved ones other than your spouse or partner.
It’s important to spend time on your own and develop your own interests, even in the healthiest and closest relationships. If you don’t feel comfortable being alone, it could be a sign that you’re focusing too exclusively on your partner.
If you or your partner experience this type of exclusive focus on each other, consider seeing a couples counselor or therapist. Counseling can help you learn how to achieve a healthier relationship dynamic that honors each of you as a unique individual as well as your couple partnership.
 Failing to have productive discussions together or compromise isn’t necessarily a sign of an abusive relationship, but it is a sign that there’s room for improvement.You should feel comfortable sharing your needs and desires with your partner, and vice versa.
Both of you should be willing to compromise when necessary.
Even if one of you generally makes the decisions in a particular area, both partners should have input. You should not keep secrets from each other.
 All relationships have their ups and downs. However, if you consistently feel sad, ignored, or neglected around your partner, your relationship likely has issues that need to be addressed.Couple counseling can be helpful for these issues.


You may not feel as though your partner listens to your needs.
You may not feel adequately emotionally supported by your partner. This could be because your partner doesn’t know what you’re feeling or what you need. Try sitting down and communicating clearly and honestly about what you feel and what you need.
You may feel dismissed by your partner. This can happen when one person’s needs or desires are the focus of the relationship, rather than achieving a balance between both partners.
You or your partner may get defensive when criticized. Criticism may be harsh or unproductive, such as “You never remember to take me out on dates” or “You don’t understand me.”

