 Meanwhile, prepare a baking dish by lightly coating the bottom and sides with nonstick cooking spray.


If you have a large, heavy-bottomed, oven-proof skillet, you do not need to prepare a separate baking dish. The entire meal can be prepared in this oven-proof skillet.
 Add the oil to the skillet and heat over medium-high until it becomes notably smooth and glossy. This can take a minute or so.
 Sandwich the cut steak in between two layers of wax paper or parchment paper. Use a meat tenderizer to pound the steak until it reaches a thickness of about 1/4 inch (6.35 mm).


Tenderizing and flattening the beef helps the final product to have a less chewy, less tough texture.
 Mix the flour and salt in a large resealable plastic bag. Place the ingredients in the bag, zip closed, and shake quickly to distribute the salt evenly throughout the flour.


Alternatively, you could combine the flour and salt in a wide bowl with shallow sides. Make sure that the bowl is shallow enough and wide enough for you to place a piece of steak in. Sift the ingredients together to ensure that they are well-combined.
 Add the steak to the flour and salt in the plastic bag and seal the bag closed. Give it a good shake so that all sides of the beef are coated in flour.


If using a bowl instead of a bag, add the steak pieces to the seasoned flour in the bowl and turn them over a few times, dredging all the sides completely.
 Add the coated steaks to the hot oil and cook for roughly 3 minutes on each side, or until each side turn brown.


Remove the steak from the skillet once brown. Place it on a plate with a slight rim, to collect any juices it loses, and keep warm.
 Add the three vegetables to the pan drippings and cook for about 3 to 4 minutes, stirring frequently.


When done, the vegetables should be tender-crisp. They should be soft enough to bite into but should still have a little crunch.
 Pour the ingredients in the pan and bring to a boil. After the contents reach a boil, drop the heat to medium-low and let simmer for 5 minutes.


After this addition, you should stir the contents of the pan to loosen any browned bits and pieces stuck to the bottom. These bits are valuable because they contain a lot of flavor.
As the mixture simmers, keep the skillet uncovered.
 Place the steak in a single layer in your prepared baking dish and pour the contents of your skillet on top.


If using your skillet for the oven portion of this dish, as well, simply return the steak to the skillet and ladle some of the vegetable mixture on top of it.
 Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 60 minutes in your preheated oven.


Slow baking in liquid is another ideal cooking method for round steaks, which tend to be fairly lean and not very tender. The slow cooking process helps the meat break down more, and the liquid prevents the beef from drying out.
 Uncover the dish and sprinkle the beef with the cheese. Return it to the oven and bake for another 5 minutes, or until the cheese is completely melted.


You could add more cheese than the recipe calls for, if desired, but adding more cheese may increase the amount of cooking time since a thicker layer will require more time to melt.
 Pull the finished steak out of the oven and transfer to individual serving plates. Spoon the vegetable mixture on top.

