 A bucket list has become a popular way to put on paper all the exciting, challenging, or fun things that you hope to do before you die (or "kick the bucket," hence the name). Creating such a list, and then actually doing the things on your list, can add variety to your life.


Your list should contain at least a hundred things, so get to writing! Also don't be afraid to add new things to the bottom of the list as you think of them over the next few weeks, months, and years.
Be sure to list both big and small things-- not just expensive or dangerous things like visiting Russia or skydiving, but also those littler things you always wanted to try but just haven't yet-- like trying that little restaurant downtown, singing in the rain, or getting a facial or pedicure. Remember to set some goals that will be hard, and others that are easily attainable; otherwise you might get discouraged.Be sure your list includes things that are free or cheap as well as things that cost money. If you're at a loss, search the internet for ideas-- there are thousands of things you could include!
Include places to visit, things to see, experiences to have, achievements you like to make, people you'd like to meet, things you'd like to experience with a friend or loved one, skills you'd like to learn, goals you'd like to meet (such as health, financial, or personal), things you'd like to say (perhaps to specific people) and people you'd like to thank., First create categories that make sense for the things on your list, then put everything on the list into a group.


Make categories for expensive things, relatively affordable things, affordable things, and cheap or free things (depending on your budget, these will vary; but one idea is a column for things that are $1000 or more, things that are $500-$1000, things that are $100-$500, and things that are less than $100).
Make categories for things that can be done spontaneously (like trying a new restaurant in town) versus things that require advance planning (like a trip to Greece).
 If you're feeling very ambitious and/or you have the time and resources, you can up it to every week. By adding in a totally new experience every month, you automatically keep life from being too overly repetitive.


This is why it's so important to be sure there are items of all types (expensive, cheap, free, difficult, easy) on your list-- but avoid the temptation to just do the easy items first! Challenge yourself and mix things up.

