 Another way to practice sitting on a regular basis is to play games with your baby. For example, sit your child on the floor on your lap so that you are supporting her sides and back. Make sure that the hands are free. The idea is to encourage the child to play while holding herself up.Use colorful toys to entice the child. Place toys out front so that your baby will try to grab them. While the child will first need both hands to keep steady, in time she will be able to free one hand and then both to play.
When your baby has free hands, start to offer more toys to play with. This way the child learns to sit properly while focusing on the toys.
 You might also try using a cardboard box. This is another good technique for practicing and encouraging sitting. Just find a small, open box and place your baby inside – with pillows for support at first – and make sure the length of the box is slightly more than the width.Place your baby inside in an upright position. The box provides a support structure and will help to hold the child upright. You can then provide toys to play with inside of the box.
You might also position a dowel, ruler, or short broom handle over the box with some toys attached. The presence of toys in the box and overhead should give your baby a strong incentive to sit upright.
 Be hands-on in encouraging your baby to sit upright, too. Help the child get used to sitting upright and to build the muscles to do so even more. You can go about this in a few ways, but in all cases the baby will need a little lift from you.Lay your baby on the back, for starters. Then, gently hold both hands and pull the child up from the back to a sitting position.
Try using a small mirror to entice the child to sit up. While your baby is lying on their back, hold the mirror just a little too high to see – and then assist the child to sit up for a look.
 Still another muscle-building exercise is to prop your baby up by holding your hands under the child’s arms. While your baby won’t be able to stand upright yet, this position will build up more strength and balance.Put your hands under your baby’s arms and gently lift up. Hold the baby so that you are supporting most of the weight but the child’s feet are on the floor.
Let the child bear a small amount of weight. You will need to do most of the work, but that little weight will help the child develop core muscles and more balance.

