 Get out the dough ingredients you will need to make this recipe. Setting out the tools and ingredients will help you know what you have and will make it easier when you bake. It can also help you bake faster. You are welcomed to scroll up for the ingredients list and scroll down for the things you'll need list.;
, On a stove top, heat the milk and butter in a large bowl until the butter melts. Insure the butter is not softened because it can overheat when melted. Cool until warm, about 110 degrees Fahrenheit or 45 degrees Celsius.
 In a smaller bowl, stir the yeast and water together with a spoon until fully combined. Add the wet yeast mixture in with the melted butter mixture. Mix well with a whisk.
 Slowly pour the sugar and beat the eggs in on low speed to blend fully. The mixture should be a light yellow and will be a watery liquid from the eggs, butter, and warm water. This is normal. The mixture will turn doughy once the flour is added.
 Sprinkle the salt and pour only two cups of the flour into the large bowl. Mix at medium speed until blended. The mixture should start to look like cake batter and will get a little stiff. After mixing, switch to the dough hook as this will get really gooey and messy. The dough will get stuck on the dough hook so please switch it. See variation in the Tips below if not using a mixer.

Dough hooks look like a spring and are a little curved or bent. Its job is to make air bubbles in the dough and make delicious, chewy bread. , Add 1 and ¼ cup more flour and knead at medium-low speed. Add more flour sparingly if the dough sticks to the side of the bowl. Mix well and have the dough hook do it's work. You may have to wait a bit for the dough to form and for all the flour streaks to disappear. It should take about three to four minutes depending on your mixer.
 Turn the dough onto a floured work surface. If the dough is sticky knead in up to ½ cup more flour to form a soft, elastic dough. The dough is about rise and you want the it to be as soft as possible for baking.
 Transfer the dough to a very lightly oiled bowl, then rotate to oil all sides. Oil can help give the cinnamon swirl bread a better texture when eating it, and also helps it soften. , Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a towel and let the dough rise until it has doubled in size, usually taking about two hours. If you are having trouble making the dough rise check out the article on how to fix dough that won't rise.
 Turn the dough onto a floured work surface making sure you do not to fold the dough over. Let the dough rest for about ten minutes, getting it ready for the filling go inside.
 Grease the bottom and sides of a 9 x 5 loaf pan. Use a good loaf pan that can withstand high temperatures and will fill in the right amount dough.
 In a small bowl, mix the cinnamon and sugar with a spoon. Cinnamon is the big key to this bread so you want to make sure you have the correct one. Avoid using spicy or hot cinnamon packets as they give your bread a not so sweet taste. , To add the filling to cinnamon swirl bread, you need to flatten the dough so you can rub it on. Press the dough into an evenly shaped rectangle with the short side facing you. Roll the dough with a rolling pin into a 18 inch by 8 inch rectangle. Brush the dough liberally with milk. so the sugar mixture can stick on the dough.
 This is the fun part when making cinnamon swirl bread, adding the filling! Sprinkle the filling evenly over the dough, leaving a border on the far side.
 Starting at the side closest to you, roll up the dough. Pinch the dough gently with your fingertips to seal it. When you finish rolling the dough, pinch the seam together.
 With the seam side up, pinch the ends of the dough together. Place the loaf seam side down in the prepared pan; Press lightly to flatten. Cover the top of the pan loosely with plastic wrap or with a towel and set aside for it to rise.

Let it rise until the dough is 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) above the top of the pan, about 1 ½ hours.
 As the dough nears the top of the pan, adjust the oven rack to the center position and heat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius).
 Gently brush the top of the loaf with the egg mixture with a pastry brush.
 Bake until the loaf is golden brown and an instant-read thermometer inserted at an angle from the short end just above the pan rim into the center of the loaf reads 185 to 190 degrees Fahrenheit or 85 to 88 degrees Celsius. That will usually take about 35-45 minutes depending on your oven.
 Remove the bread from the loaf pan and have it cool on its side, laying it on wire rack until room temperature, at least fifteen minutes.
