 However, some are indeed bacterial (called "bacterial pharyngitis"). The first step when it comes to treating your sore throat is determining the cause, and this cannot be done based on symptoms alone. You will also need to receive a throat swab from your doctor.


A throat swab can identify the presence of bacteria.
It can also inform your doctor of what bacteria specifically is present, causing your sore throat.
Throat culture has fallen out of favor due to delay in diagnosis, and rapid antigen detection tests have become popular. Rapid antigen detection tests also know as “rapid strep test” is favorable because they are quick and have up to 90% sensitivity.;
, The antibiotics will be tailored to the specific bacteria. For a Group A Strep infection, the most common treatment is Penicillin, although there are other choices of antibiotics that may be effective as well.


It is key that you complete the full course of antibiotics prescribed to you by your doctor.
One of the main reasons to take antibiotics in bacterial pharyngitis is to prevent complications from the illness.
Other medication that can be used in the treatment of strep throat other than penicillin include amoxicillin, ampicillin, clindamycin. cephalosporins, and macrolides. For patients with hypersensitivity to penicillins, use cephalsporins for treatment.
 It can be purchased over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore. The usual dosage is 500mg every 4-6 hours as needed.


Acetaminophen can ease the pain of a sore throat by blocking pain receptors in the brain.
Acetaminophen can also reduce fever.
 If you do not notice an improvement, or if new or worse symptoms begin to appear, book a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Most people recover completely from bacterial pharyngitis within a week.


Bacterial pharyngitis that goes untreated poses the risk of complications, such as kidney problems and rheumatic fever.Therefore, it is key to have your infection promptly treated with antibiotics.
Treatment is usually for 10 days; however, response to therapy usually take on a few days of time. Make sure you take the antibiotic as prescribed, and do not stop treatment early.
 Therefore, it is key that you drink plenty of water and stay well hydrated. At least 8 cups, or 64 ounces, of water per day is recommended.


You can also consume other beverages such as hot tea, or fruit juices.
Hot water with a mixture of cinnamon, honey, lemon juice, and apple cider vinegar has been shown to be helpful in soothing a sore throat.
 In addition to speeding your recovery, adequate rest can decrease your chance of complications following bacterial pharyngitis.


Take time off work while you recover, and cancel any social commitments you may have.
Staying away from others (i.e. not going into work, or canceling social engagements) also prevents others from catching bacterial pharyngitis. Never go into work sick. You will only make other more at risk and susceptible to contracting your illness.
 Some lozenges actually have numbing anesthetic properties, further helping to ease a sore throat. Lozenges can be purchased at most grocery stores, or at your local pharmacy or drugstore.
 Gargle the solution for several seconds in your mouth, and then spit it out. It is not meant to be swallowed. Repeat this process as much as needed to ease your sore throat.
 The hot steam from taking a shower may also help. You may wish to put a humidifier in your bedroom when you fall asleep at night.


For more information on at-home methods to soothe a sore throat click here.
 Therefore, if you have bacterial pharyngitis, the best way to prevent others from catching it is to stay away from others as much as possible.


Take time off work if you are allowed sick days.
Cancel social commitments with others to avoid spreading your illness.
 Wash for at least 30 seconds with soap and warm water. Another option is to carry an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with you for use throughout the day.
 Also clean any shared surfaces, such as doorknobs, kitchen appliances, TV remotes, and phones, after use.

