 Ask your doctor about whether you should take a zinc supplement to improve your immunity. There is a range of research on the role of zinc in the immune system. Although much of this research is ongoing, there are some studies showing that zinc lozenges can reduce the length of a cold.Your doctor should be able to weigh the evidence and suggest an appropriate plan of action.


Dietary intake of zinc depends on diet, age and disease status.Your doctor will need to take these things into consideration when deciding whether you should be taking zinc.
The research on zinc supplementation is currently inconclusive with regards to whether the potential benefits outweigh the risks. One of the risks is a decreased sense of smell and the benefits are not yet clear in terms of how well it can reduce the severity of a cold.If you do not have insurance, try visiting a doctor at a community health care clinic to find out about boosting your immune system with zinc.
 If you have trouble getting enough zinc in your diet, you may need to purchase a zinc supplement. Prior to purchasing a supplement, you should make sure you are actually deficient in zinc because excessive zinc is also bad for your health.Some research suggests that taking zinc supplements for at least five months can help to prevent colds.Zinc is commonly contained in multivitamin supplements.
Zinc supplements are available in a variety of dosages depending on your needs.Zinc supplements may use a variety of zinc forms such as zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate and zinc acetate; however, none of these forms has been determined as superior to others.Taking zinc for more than six weeks can lead to copper deficiency., Research has shown that taking zinc lozenges or syrup within 24 hours of a common cold will reduce its duration and severity.When you begin to feel an itchy throat or a runny nose, go to a drugstore or health food store and buy a package of zinc lozenges. Take the lozenges for the first few days of your cold.


Avoid taking zinc lozenges for more than five days during a cold. Some side effects from taking zinc lozenges include upset stomach, an irritated mouth and a lingering metallic taste.Avoid zinc nasal sprays. Animals appear to lose their sense of smell when using zinc nasal sprays, and there have been reports of humans also loosing smell from nasal sprays. The FDA has warned people to avoid using nasal sprays containing zinc.