 The exact symptoms of bipolar disorder vary from person to person. For some people, depression causes the most problems, while for other people manic symptoms are the main concern. Despite this variation, sufferers of bipolar disorder can be categorized into one of three groups, depending on the severity of their symptoms.



Bipolar Disorder I: This is the most extreme form of bipolar. Mood swings which cause significant difficulties in work, school and in relationships with other people. Manic episodes which can be severe and dangerous.

Bipolar Disorder II: Bipolar II is less severe than bipolar I. It presents with an elevated mood and frequent irritability. It may affect work and home life to an extent, but generally, sufferers can carry on with normal daily duties. Instead of a complete mania, you have hypomania - less severe form of mania. Periods of depression typically last longer than periods of hypomania.

Cyclothymia: Cyclothymia is a mild form of bipolar disorder. Hypomania and depression can be devastating, but the ups and downs are not as fierce as in other types of bipolar disorder.
 The signs and symptoms of a manic or hypomanic mood phase of bipolar disorder may include a combination of the following:


Euphoria, exaggerated self-confidence and extreme optimism
Rapid speech and racing thoughts
Aggressive behavior, agitation or irritation
Increased physical activity and decreased need for sleep.
Engaging in risky behavior
Increased drive to perform or achieve goals
Increased sex drive
Inability to concentrate
Frequent absences from work or school
Delusions

, Signs and symptoms of the depressive phase of bipolar disorder may include:


Feelings of sadness or hopelessness
Suicidal thoughts or behavior
Increased anxiety and irritability
Feelings of guilt
Sleep Problems
Loss of appetite or increased appetite
Fatigue
Loss of interest in daily activities and problems with concentration
Chronic pain with no known cause
Frequent absences from work or school
Poor performance at work or school

, Unfortunately, bipolar disorder cannot be cured. With the right treatment and medications, however, it is still possible to live a normal, fulfilling life. Therefore, it is important to seek treatment for bipolar disorder as soon as possible so that you can get the condition under control.

