 Try wearing converse instead of plain school shoes. You could also wear sneakers. You could get these with either laces or Velcro. If you can find flats or sandals that you like and fit your image, go ahead and try them. Get your shoes in black if necessary. Otherwise, get them in colors like blue, yellow or gray. You could also get them in cool patterns.;
, You could wear your shirt fully tucked in, half tucked in or you could just leave it out. Don't buy very tight or very loose shirts. Go for shirts that make you feel comfortable. If you want to, you could leave the collar button open and pull your collars to both sides. You could do the above with Polo shirts too.
 Don't wear very long or very short skirts. Opt for ones that fall till your knee or just above. If your skirt is really long, roll it up at the top. If it's very short, take it to the tailor's and have it lengthened. You could also wear black or cool patterned half-leggings underneath. You could also crumple your skirt before wearing it to create a cool 'I don't care' look.
 If you wear pants, then make sure that they cover your legs. Don't go for pants that are 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm) too short. You could either buy very tight pants for a cool skinny jeans look or you could wear it very loose for a baggy trousers look. You could also wear it normal if you feel comfortable like that.
 There are many different ways to wear ties. You could wear it formally with the tie put on properly or you could go for a more cool look by leaving your collar button open and wearing your tie very loose. Don't wear ties that are very short and don't go for those extremely long ones. A desirable length would be till the middle of your stomach. Make sure the tie doesn't choke you if it's tied on tightly. Go for ties in dark colors if they are allowed.
 If you have to wear belts, go for ones that fit perfectly around your waist. Don't wear really thick belts. Go for medium sized ones that you are permitted to wear at school.
 While wearing a jacket/blazer, you could either leave it closed or go for a more cool look by leaving it open. You could also roll up the sleeves till your elbows.
 If you have to wear stuff like chains with crucifixes on them, go for it. When it comes to earrings, keep it minimal. Wear studs, small hoops and such. If you want to, go earring-less. A great way to pull any outfit together is with the help of watches and wristbands. You could get a wristband with your favorite singer's or band's name on it or you could go for a normal or a digital watch with medium sized straps in colors like blue, red and black. You could also go for patterned watches. You could also wear a baseball cap or a fedora if you are permitted to.
 If you feel comfortable wearing makeup, feel free to express yourself. Make sure to limit how much you use, especially for school. Concealer is useful for blemishes, and eyeliner can create a cool punk look. .
 You could tie your hair in a high, low or side ponytail if you have long hair or you could just comb through with gel or create spikes if you have short hair. Don't leave your hair open because it's kind of girly and you might sweat a lot in the neck area.

