 Click the "Windows" key or the "Start" icon, then click on "Control Panel".


If you are using Windows 8, you can move the mouse up to the top right-hand corner of your screen to show the "charm bar," then click on "Control Panel". Alternately, hold down the Windows key while pressing C and click on "Settings".
 Under Network and Internet—if you are viewing by category—click on "Network settings, network adapters", then click on "View network status and tasks". If you are viewing by icons instead of by category, click on "Network and Sharing Center".
 Now, right-click on the highlighted WiFi connection and click "Disable". This should block the computer from accessing this particular WiFi network, but it will not block any others unless you disable them as well. This setting should not stop any other computers from logging onto the WiFi network.


This process is reversible. If you want to enable the network connection later, you can do so by right-clicking on the WiFi connection and clicking "Enable".
You must be logged on as an administrator or a member of the Administrators group in order to complete this process. If your computer is connected to a network, network policy settings may also prevent you from disabling the connection.
 For a more advanced disable on Windows, go to Start>All Programs>Accessories, right-click Command Prompt and select Run as Administrator, grant the prompt if necessary, and type "mmc compmgmt.msc" (without quotes) and press enter. Wait for it to load, then click Device Manager in the left-hand frame. Open the Network Adapters subtree, right-click all devices listed there, and select Disable. Now restart for good measure (this is optional).


To undo this, simply repeat the process but instead of selecting Disable, select Enable.
 You can also disable access to the Internet using third-party parental control software. These programs allow you to limit the sites that a computer can access, and they also allow you to completely block a computer from using the Internet. You need to install the software directly to the computer in question. You may need to pay a small user fee, depending on the program, but you will be able to rest assured that your child is not using the Internet in a way that you haven't approved.


On Apple OS X, you can configure the built-in parental controls to disable access to the internet for certain accounts.

