 It is one thing to buy a turtle from a pet store or adopt a turtle from a rescue society, especially if you intend to take good care of the animal. Taking a turtle from its natural habitat, however, removes it from access to mates, food, and space to wander. Think about whether the turtle would be better off

, Look along the banks of small ponds, lakes, and slow-moving streams. Turtles like damp areas with a lot of rocks and hiding spots. Turtles are especially active at dawn on rainy days, and they move around a lot in the heat of late May and June.Know that turtles love to dig. A turtle may bury itself up to its shell in the loose mud of a sandy bank, and it may be hard to spot unless you keep a sharp eye out. Try poking gently in spots where the bank has shifted. If you feel something solid, it might be a turtle shell.
Keep your eyes out for turtles in the open: in yards or parks, or crossing the road. If you find a turtle in an unsafe space or an inhospitable environment—such as a road, a hot parking lot, or a very dry area—consider at least moving it to the nearest pond., If the turtle is small and easy to reach, then you can simply pick it up by its shell. Expect the turtle to recoil into its shell when you reach for it. Be careful not to shake the animal or injure it in any way. As soon as possible, place the turtle into an open box with water, a bit of lettuce, and plenty of fresh air.


Be aware that turtles can bite, and that some can cause serious damage! Do not try to pick up a snapping turtle. It can be done, but it is a risky move., Consider making a basic turtle trap if you are trying to, say, catch a turtle that's been living in your garden. First, dig a hole deep and steep enough for the turtle to fall into. Alternately, prop up a shoebox on a stick such that the turtle will knock over the stick and trap itself in the box. Then, bait the trap: use leafy greens, or a smelly fish like tuna. Leave the trap overnight, and check it each day until you catch the turtle.


Make sure to poke air-holes in the shoebox! There is no sense in killing the turtle.
Place your trap close to where you've seen the turtle. If the turtle is in a pond, make the trap near the shore of the water.

