 It's not like they're invincible or anything. They're weapons don't fire faster or have more damage. They don't have better perks.*However I tend to think they do. So don't worry about their rank or anything, do whatever you can to not be intimidated.;
, Look for those players, ignore all the other players. However don't go and get yourself killed by ignoring other players or getting less kills by just going after the higher ranked player.
 If you have a microphone headset, tell the level 55 that your coming after him.
 If your wanting to get the level 55 player then be sure to use an assault rifle(best to do with overkill where you can carry two weapons{ex. sniper rifle and M4}). Usually a sniper rifle isn't the best matching rifle to hunt someone of a level 55's stature. Reasoning behind this is because when you're in a game with a good 55, chances are you will not be seeing them a lot, so a sniper rifle is a no no.
 If you have the thought in the back of your mind that they are level 55 and that you're gonna get stomped; specially in cage matches then your most likely going to get beat, or it'll be close, unless they aren't as good as you might be. I always have confidence, cause I have beaten a level 55 that was way more experienced than me in a cage match before. So be sure to have confidence in yourself.
 Being scared of an opponent isn't a good thing. Just keep reminding yourself that you can do this, and that it's not that hard.
 Be sure that you don't just play abnormal. Remember what all you've learned through your online campaign. Instead of going through, guns blazing, revert to stealthiness and aim. It'll get you much, much, much further and a higher score.
 The main focus of Call of Duty is intimidation. A player who is intimidated, is in a 1/6700 chance to not playing their best. So make sure at the first games, your finishing at the top of the final scoreboard(preferably 1st of course).Basically you want to take Step 5 and have them not follow it. You want the opponent to have that nasty thought in the back of their head, on that you are too good for them.
 Headshots win the game for snipers. Aim for the head.
 Stealth is the key to the game. If a player can't see you or hear you, then they can't kill you.

