 Try switching to a toothpaste designed to help with sensitive teeth.


Toothpaste containing arginine has been shown to be more effective than sensitive toothpastes that use potassium as the active ingredient. ;
, Make sure to use a toothbrush with soft bristles. Harder bristles can damage tooth enamel and cause gums to recede, leading to sensitive teeth. Also be careful not to press too hard when you brush - this can also damage gums and enamel.
 Gels designed to numb tooth pain are sold over the counter and can also be applied in the dentist's office or as a prescription.


However, many dentists and the Food and Drug Administration warn against using numbing agents like benzocaine, especially to treat sensitive teeth in small children. , If your sensitivity is caused by grinding, you can wear a protecting guard during the night. Your dentist can make a custom-fitted mouth guard for you. They are available over-the-counter as well, but because they are not fitted to your mouth specifically, an OTC guard may cause more harm than good.If you do notice yourself grinding your teeth during the day, position the tip of your tongue between your teeth. At night, hold a warm washcloth against your cheek, near your earlobe. These both relax your jaw.Try massaging your jaw and sticking to soft foods until the pain subsides.
 Acetaminophen and ibuprofen can help reduce the pain of sensitive teeth.


Don't use this as a long-term solution, however, as pain medications have side effects. , While numbing agents and special toothpastes may temporarily ease the pain of sensitive teeth, you won't be able to truly resolve tooth pain unless you know the underlying cause — whether it's due to dry mouth, grinding your teeth, acid reflux, acidic food and drink, etc. Consult your dentist about your tooth pain so she can help you properly diagnose the issue and choose the best treatment.


Tooth sensitivity may be cased by brushing too hard, dental decay, tooth fracture, dry mouth, diet, brushing too hard, acid reflux, gum infection, and more.
Your dentist can offer treatments such as a fluoride varnish, a fluoride tray, prescription toothpaste, and/or a mouth guard.

