 Not everyone who is offered a low rate interest credit card qualifies for the advertised interest rate. Your interest rate is dependent on your credit rating.;
, Financial experts caution that if you aren't disciplined enough to cancel your high interest credit card after the balance is transferred and make consistent payments on the new card, you shouldn't transfer debt from 1 card to another.


Create a repayment plan prior to transferring a high interest credit balance and stick to the plan.
 Add up the balances on your credit cards. Determine if it's possible to transfer all of your credit card debt onto 1 low interest rate card.
 Each company has different terms. Unless otherwise stated, all companies will charge you a transfer fee. The transfer fee is based on the amount you are transferring.
 Prior to transferring any credit card balance, call or email the companies in which you are interested. Ask the following questions to protect yourself.


Find out how long the introductory rate lasts before the interest rate increases.
Determine what the interest rate will be following the introductory period.
Question whether the introductory rate applies to all purchases during the introductory period, or only to the transferred balance.
Research all the fees for the card, including the annual fee, late fees, balance transfer fees and over the limit fees. By researching the different fees charged by the credit card company, you will make a more informed decision.
Analyze what happens if you make 1 late payment. Some cards will immediately raise the low introductory rate to the standard higher interest rate when 1 late payment or non payment occurs.
 If your credit card balances are higher than what's allowed for 1 card, transfer the balances onto 2 different low interest cards.
 If you don't make the payments on time, your interest rate can rise without notification.
 It can take several weeks to transfer card balances, so you don't want to miss a payment while you are waiting for the transfer to occur.
 To protect yourself, don't stop making payments on the high balance card until this verification is complete.


Contact the company and talk to a customer service representative. When you verify that the balance has been transferred, write down the name of the person you spoke with, along with the date of the call. To protect yourself, keep the information until you receive credit card statements from both companies reflecting the transfer.
, This will prevent you from paying the high interest rate on the balance.
