 Talk to your doctor first if you are looking for a cosmetic surgeon for whatever reason. Your doctor knows you as well as the surgeons and clinics operating in your area so will be to give you a good idea of what is available. You should always talk to a doctor if you are considering any cosmetic surgery so you can get a clear picture of the potential risks as well as benefits.


Your doctor may be able to advise you on alternatives to surgery, depending on your situation.
Your doctor will know the reputation of surgeons and clinics locally.;
, Your doctor may give you some leads and recommendations to follow-up, but you can broaden your search by looking through the online database of the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons (BAAPS). This is the professional body that all reputable surgeons should be signed up with.The Association’s website has a useful tool which you can use to search for surgeons by region: http://baaps.org.uk/?Itemid=200

You can also search for specific surgeons by name.
 Once you have drawn up a list of potential surgeons, you should arrange to visit some clinics and hospitals to have a look around and talk to some people there. The purpose of your visits should be to find out as much information as you can about the place, the procedure, and the surgeons who will carry it out. Ask lots of questions, as a reputable clinic or hospital should be happy to give you full and frank answers. Some questions you should ask include:


What qualifications and experience does the surgeon have?
How often has the surgeon carried out the procedure you want?
What care can you expect to receive after the operation?
How much will everything cost?, You will probably have already checked to see if the clinic and surgeon are registered, but when you go in to talk to staff at the clinic and hospital you should make sure that whoever you talk to is registered too. You might talk to a doctor or nurse, but whoever it is they should be registered with the General Medical Council (GMC) or the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).It’s important that you know the person who gives you information and advises you about the surgery is a fully qualified and registered professional.
 When you are considering different clinics and hospitals, it’s recommended that you find out about the variety of surgeries that are performed there. The BAAPS suggests choosing a place that houses a variety of different surgeries, not just cosmetic surgery.


A hospital or clinic that performs a variety of surgeries will have more extensive and comprehensive facilities than one that only does cosmetic surgery., You should carefully consider the relative advantages and disadvantages of choosing a clinic or hospital that is local to you. You may have preferred a clinic that was quite a distance away, but think about how you will feel after the operation. Generally you won’t want to travel far to get home after the operation., When you have narrowed down your shortlist of clinics and hospitals you should check that the centres are registered with the Care Quality Commission. The CQC is the independent regulator of health services in England. You can ask the clinic or hospital to show you their registration certificate, or look them up on the CQC website’s database of providers.


Access the CQC directory here: http://www.cqc.org.uk/content/how-get-and-re-use-cqc-information-and-data#directory

If a clinic cannot provide proof of its registered status, the CQC advises you not to use them.
Once you have found the clinic or hospital on the CQC directory you can check the inspection reports., Before making a decision you should always hold a full consultation with the actual surgeon who would perform the surgery. The clinic or hospital should offer this to you so be sure to take them up on the offer. Go to the consultation with a list of questions that you want to ask the surgeon.You should ask at least the following questions about the procedure:


How long will it take?
What anaesthetic will be used?
What pain can you expect?
What are the risks?
What are the potential complications?
How long will the results last?
How long should be recovery period be?You can also ask to speak to people who have had the procedure with this surgeon previously.
 When you talk to the doctor you should also take the opportunity to find out more about their credentials and record. You should ask how many times they have performed the procedure, and how often they perform it.Ask if the surgeon is an NHS Consultant in the relevant speciality. This is not an essential qualification, but it is an indication of a high-level of expertise and experience.Check the surgeon holds a Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons (FRCS).
Check he is registered with the GMC and BAAPS., Once you have all the information on your surgeons, give yourself a few weeks as a “cooling off period.” In this time you can consider carefully whether or not you want to go through with the procedure. If you have doubts or are still unclear on any aspects, don’t rush into a decision. Make sure you can answer the following questions before committing to a decision:


Do I completely understand what the procedure will do to me?
Is my expectation sensible?
Am I expecting reasonable improvement or perfection?
Do I completely understand the risks and what might go wrong?
If it did go wrong, could I cope?