 If you're issued a traffic ticket for a moving violation in one of the five boroughs of New York City, it includes instructions on how to get a court date.In New York City, criminal moving violations such as driving while intoxicated are handled by criminal courts. All other moving violations are heard by Administrative Law Judges who work for the DMV's Traffic Violations Bureau.The ALJ is an attorney with particular expertise in New York City traffic law, and has the authority to set fines or suspend your license if you are found guilty. Although the hearing may be somewhat less formal than a full traffic court hearing in other parts of the state, you still may present witnesses and evidence and may be represented by an attorney.The TVB doesn't handle parking tickets. If you have a parking ticket, you must request a hearing within 30 days of the date your ticket was issued if you want to dispute it.You can request a hearing by mail, online, or in person at a New York City Finance Business Center.;
, You must plead not guilty within 15 days of the violation date to get a hearing date.If you don't answer your traffic ticket by the deadline, your license will be automatically suspended. You can remove the suspension by answering the ticket and paying an additional $70 fee to terminate the suspension.You can respond to most tickets online at https://transact2.dmv.ny.gov/pleadnpay/. If you plan to plead not guilty, you can use the online service to schedule your hearing.To reply by mail, check the "not guilty" box on your ticket and include the information requested on the ticket. Then sign your ticket and mail it to Traffic Violations Plea Unit, P.O. Box 2950-ESP, Albany, NY 12220--0950.If you need an interpreter or are hearing impaired, you should indicate this on your ticket when you mail it to Albany. The DMV will provide an interpreter for your hearing free of charge.You also can respond to your ticket in person by visiting the nearest TVB office and schedule a hearing. If you decide to answer in person, make sure you bring your driver's license as proof of identity.The DMV has a list of TVB office locations at http://dmv.ny.gov/tickets/find-tvb-office-locations.
 If you respond to your ticket by mail, the DMV will send you notification of where and when your hearing is scheduled.If the date of the hearing isn't convenient for you, make sure you contact the TVB as soon as possible to have it rescheduled, particularly if you are mailing your rescheduling request., Any TVB office in NYC can provide information or answer any questions you might have about your hearing.If you lose your letter and don't know the date of your hearing, you can visit any TVB office in New York City or call (718) 448-5710 to find out your hearing date.Follow the same procedure if you need to reschedule or postpone your hearing. However, keep in mind that if you need to reschedule your hearing, you must do so at least one day before your hearing is scheduled.You also may request a new hearing date by writing to the Albany, NY address on your ticket and making your request. Mailed requests must be received at least 10 days before your scheduled hearing date.Since hearings are open to the public, you might want to consider watching a few hearings before yours is scheduled so you know what to expect.