 This is a do-it-yourself method of waxing made with natural ingredients.It is much cheaper than going to a salon to have the waxing done professionally.


Lemon juice (2 tablespoons)
Raw sugar (1 cup)
Water (2 tablespoons)
Non-GMO cornstarch or arrowroot powder

, Once you have all of your ingredients, you need to gather the materials that will help you to make it. You will also need materials to help you do your own waxing.Medium-sized cooking pot
Stainless steel bowl
6” x 12” strips of cloth

, Stir the ingredients together, and then slowly bring the mixture to a boil. Next, reduce the heat and simmer the mixture until it turns a golden color and becomes smooth., When the wax is in the stainless steel bowl, allow it to cool for several minutes.The color may become darker as it cools.
 While the wax cools, you need to prepare the body part(s) you want to wax. Wash and exfoliate the area, which helps to remove dead skin cells prior to the waxing. Dry your body when you are done.Areas of the body you can wax yourself include legs and arms.Waxing the bikini area, underarms, and facial areas are not recommended as the skin is more sensitive. See a professional if you would like these areas waxed.A family member or friend could do back or chest waxing at home for you, if that is something you would like done., You do not need a lot of powder; just sprinkle a thin layer over the area.This helps with the wax removal.
 Knead the wax until it is smooth, and then spread it on your body part.As you spread it on, always move in the direction of your hair growth. You should not apply it against the hair growth.
 Lay the cloth strip over the waxed area and press it down. You will need to wait a few moments for the wax to cool to your body temperature before removing it., When the wax has cooled to your temperature, very quickly grip it and pull it up against your hair growth. You need to do this fast, as doing it slowly will actually be more painful and likely not remove all of the hair., Continue to work until you have waxed the entire area.
 When you are done waxing, gently rinse off any of the wax that might be still stuck to your body. Then, moisturize the area.Jojoba and grapeseed oils are recommended options for moisturizing and reducing redness.
 You do not want to wax again immediately, because your skin will become too irritated. If you missed any big areas, then wait a few days before repeating this method.

