 Medications are an integral part of treating childhood schizophrenia and are used to manage symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, and changes to motivation and emotion. Discuss what to expect with your child on medications.Some psychiatrists specialize in treating children. Schizophrenia can be a complicated diagnosis, which is why it is important to work with someone who has knowledge and experience in childhood disorders.A child psychiatrist will be sensitive to the specific needs of children, including growth and development.


Ask your pediatrician for a recommendation.
Find a child psychiatrist who specializes in childhood psychosis.
Phone your local mental health clinic, children’s hospital, or insurer to find a child psychiatrist in your community. You can also do a search online through the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.;
, Ask how to monitor side-effects, when to change the dosage or switch medications, what other medications and/or supplements may interact with the medication, and how often you need to make appointments with the psychiatrist. Before ending your appointment, make sure you have a clear understanding of what taking medications will look like. As with all medications, side effects may occur. Weight gain is a common side effect of many psychiatric medications. If your child’s behavior or mood drastically changes, contact your prescriber immediately. You may need to discontinue or choose a different medication.


The same medications used to treat adults are often used to treat children as well. These include antipsychotics (like haloperidol) and atypical antipsychotics (olanzapine and clozapine).Some treatments include antidepressants or anti-anxiety medication. Your psychiatrist will choose a medication best suited for your child.
 All antipsychotic medications involve a possibility of side-effects and potential health risks. Children may have difficulty communicating changes due to medication, so it’s important to monitor behavior, eating and sleeping habits, and performance at school. Report any negative side-effects or changes in behavior to your child’s psychiatrist as soon as possible.Some common side-effects include feeling drowsy or dizzy, blurred vision, rapid heartbeat, sun sensitivity, skin rashes, and weight gain.Talk to your child’s teacher at school and ask if he or she has noticed any behavioral, academic, or social changes since beginning medication.
Ask your child questions. Say, “Are you sleeping through the night? How does your head feel? How does your body feel? Does school feel the same to you?”
You may not notice a change in symptoms or behaviors during the first few weeks.
 Continue making regular appointments with the child psychiatrist. Schizophrenia needs to be treated long-term and careful approach may be necessary as treatment can be tricky.Especially as your child grows, he or she may need changes to dosage or need to switch medications. Stay in regular contact with your child’s psychiatrist and attend all appointments regularly.


Be in contact with your psychiatrist and alert him or her to any changes you notice in your child.
 Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is used to help children cope with symptoms and reduce symptoms severity. It can also help reduce the risk of relapse. Therapy focuses on teaching coping skills and communication skills that often lack in children with schizophrenia.The therapist can help your child change unhelpful thoughts and behaviors. Learning to test the reality of thoughts and perceptions and learning how to ignore or not listen to the voices are included in treatment., Family therapy can be helpful to educate members of the family about childhood schizophrenia, how to cope, and what to do if symptoms intensify. Family therapy can help support the family and help during crises.Many therapists offer evening hours that can accommodate the family.
 A support group can offer a safe place to share with other families going through similar experiences. A support group can serve as a place to share experiences, challenges, tips, and coping strategies from others who have “been there.” It can also be an invaluable place to gain resources and recommendations.You can join a support group for families, children having schizophrenia, or a group meant for parents of children having mental illness.
 When symptoms are severe, hospitalization may be necessary. Hospitalization ensures that your child is safe and that he or she receives proper psychological care. Your child will have a psychiatrist and therapist during hospitalization, and all needs (sleep, nutrition, hygiene) met. If symptoms are severe, hospitalization can help to control them.Partial hospitalization and residential care are options for less-severe symptoms or as a step-down from hospitalization.
 Sometimes Schizophrenia co-occurs with another disorder, such as anxiety or depression. Ask for a thorough evaluation of your child when diagnosing and treating your child. You may want to work with a psychologist, as he or she can perform an extensive evaluation to rule out other disorders or contributing factors.


Ask your therapist for an evaluation. An evaluation can assess your child’s functioning, moods, social capabilities, and ability to perform at school., Your child may need to take medications at school. Arrange where medications will be stored, who is responsible for the medication, and who will be in charge of medications during field trips.Plan ahead with your psychiatrist, school nurse, and school faculty for safe-keeping of your child’s medication.


You may want to meet with the school nurse and arrange a medications schedule or protocol for taking medications at school as well as discuss any side effects that they should watch for.
 Some children may need school accommodations to help them succeed at school. In the USA, plans such as an individualized education plan (IEP) or 504 plan are set up to help children with disabilities or special needs. Meet with the school psychologist and discuss the school accommodations available for your child. These plans and accommodations are free.


For more information, check out Obtain an IEP for a Student.
 Many schools offer groups to help struggling children with certain skills. Social skills groups are common and include children from many grade levels to come together and build skills together. Social skills groups occur during school hours and involve taking the child out of the classroom once each week to meet for group. Skills focused on may include maintaining eye contact, choosing topics of conversation, creating a checklist for hygiene, and managing everyday tasks effectively.Talk to your school psychologist or school faculty to inquire about a social skills group your child can join.
 Children with schizophrenia have improved symptoms when they live in a stable environment.If possible, don’t make big changes like moving across the country, or changing schools. Keep your home environment peaceful and predictable.


Keep plans and schedules predictable. Create a daily schedule for the child, perhaps by using a visual chart with pictures. Have a daily routine for waking up, going to school, and going to bed. If the child has a doctor appointment, field trip, or other disruption, talk through it and prepare the child.
 If your child has a meltdown or emotional outburst, address it right away.Learn what triggers the emotional outbursts (such as changes in routine or certain foods) and make changes to avoid future outbursts. When your child does have an outburst, remain calm and talk your child through the situation.


If your child has frequent outbursts, talk to your therapist about how to manage these outbursts and bring them under control.
 Anticipate what may cause distress to your child and safeguard against it when you can. One way to manage and prevent stress is by practicing relaxation techniques. Find ways that your child enjoys relaxing and do this every day.You may want to enroll your child in yoga classes or do meditations together.


Aim to practice a form of relaxation with your child every day for 30 minutes. You may want to do guided visualizations, go for a walk, write in a journal, listen to music or read a book.
 Your child’s doctor may be able to recommend a special diet or supplements for your child that may help to keep your child healthy. Ask your child’s doctor for recommendations based on your child’s specific needs.