 Even though you have your identification card with you in the event that you need emergency services, it’s a good idea to let your roommates or family know that you’re going out for a run and when you’ll be back. That way, if something happens and you don’t come back within a reasonable amount of time, they will know to contact the authorities.If nobody is around when you’re on your way out, shoot your friend or family a text, or leave them a quick note on the kitchen table so they’ll know where you are when they return home.
 Invite friends and family to accompany you on your runs. Not only is there safety in numbers, but it’s also a great opportunity for bonding with your friends and family.If you can’t run with others, or don’t have a route that keeps you within range of neighbors, try running at the gym or think about investing in a treadmill for you home.At the very least, run with your dog. Assuming you have a large dog with the endurance to run along with you, your dog can be a great companion and discourage would-be predators from harassing you.Stay alert and aware of your surroundings.
 When running, you might encounter smart-alecks who have nothing better to do than offer rude comments about the way you look or what you’re doing. If you have the misfortune of encountering individuals who verbally harass you, ignore them. If they follow you and continue to harass you, contact the police and let them know the situation., It’s a good idea to wear a fanny pack and put your phone inside just in case your route takes you away from people who can help you. You should also pack a whistle to attract attention if someone is attacking you. Bring pepper spray, too. Use your pepper spray if anyone tries to intercept or abduct you. Finally, carry an identification card with your name, phone number, and blood type. That way, if you’re injured and/or unconscious emergency personnel can provide appropriate medical care.Many people put the card with their essential information on it inside the sole of their running shoe.