 Your fixtures might have accumulated a good amount of dust over time. Dust on a regular basis and you can space out your deeper cleanings further apart. Get a microfiber cloth or duster and run it over the fixtures, applying a light amount of pressure as you go. Select a clean cloth for each new fixture.Try to avoid touching or wiping chrome fixtures with any abrasive cleaning pads, such as steel wool. This will only create scratches on the surface of the fixture.;
, Dryer sheets are soft and they also contain a mild cleaning solution. Get a few dryer sheets and run them over the surface of your fixture. Apply even pressure and gently scrub on any problem areas. Dryer sheets are especially good at removing set-in soap scum.If you are looking to save money, you can use either new or used dryer sheets, too. The used sheets still retain their cleaning ability after one cycle through the dryer.
 Get a cooking spray made from vegetable or olive oil. Holding the can close to the fixture, apply a light coating of spray over the entire thing. Make sure to get the back of the fixture as well. Let it soak for a few minutes. Wipe it down with a damp microfiber cloth. Repeat as necessary.Make sure to get all of the oil off of your fixture or you could end up with an oily sludge in some areas. Use a cotton swab to get in the cracks, if necessary.
 Get a microfiber cloth or sponge. Wet it down with warm water and wring it out until damp. Wipe this over the surface of your chrome fixture. Repeat as necessary. This can be especially helpful for fixtures that are not in regular contact with water, such as the top arms of showerheads. If the fixture regularly encounters water, it will be less effective., Place dish soap into a bucket and add water until you have a soapy mixture. Dip your cloth or sponge into the mixture and apply liberally to your fixtures. Keep dipping the sponge or rag to remove any accumulated dirt and to gather additional bubbles.You can also use a toothbrush with a bit of dish soap applied to the head to scrub difficult to reach areas or stubborn stains., If you leave moisture on the fixtures, you will likely create water spots or residue. To avoid this problem, use a dry microfiber cloth to wipe over the surface of the fixtures. Continue until all moisture is gone. You can also keep rubbing in circles until the fixtures take on that trademark shiny appearance of chrome.