 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (176 C). Get out a few baking sheets and set them aside. You'll also need a few wire racks set up so you can cool the baked cookies. Get out mixing bowls and measuring cups. Let 3/4 cup (170 g) of butter come to room temperature.You don't need to grease the baking sheets for this recipe since there's so much butter in the cookie dough. The baked cookies should come off of the pan easily.;
, Set the softened butter in a large mixing bowl and add 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Beat the mixture on medium speed until it turns light and fluffy. This should take several minutes. You may want to stop and scrape the sides of the bowl if your beater doesn't scrape against the sides.Creaming the butter and sugar will create volume. Since these cookies don't have any leaveners (like baking soda or baking powder), it's important to beat the butter and sugar until they're light.
 Stop the mixer and add one large egg and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract to the mixing bowl. Turn the mixer on to low speed and beat the dough until the wet ingredients are completely combined.Avoid mixing in the egg on high speed. This could cause the egg to fly out of the mixing bowl.
 Keep the mixer on low speed and slowly beat in 2 cups (240 g) of all-purpose flour. Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides and bottom of the mixing bowl. Pour in 1 cup (125 g) of chopped pecans or walnuts and 1 cup (6 ounces or 175 g) of mini-chocolate chips. Stir the dough until the nuts and chocolate are incorporated.You can refrigerate the dough at this point or shape it into balls for baking.
If you don't want noticeable chunks of nuts in your cookies, you can grind them in a food processor until they're finely textured., Scoop the cookie dough into 1-inch (2.5 cm) balls. Roll them gently between your palms to get a perfectly round shape. Set the balls of dough on the ungreased baking sheets.


Ensure that the cookies are about 2 inches (5 cm) apart on the sheets. This gives them space to expand as they cook.
 Put the cookies in the preheated oven and bake them for 15 to 20 minutes. They won't turn very dark or golden, but the bottoms of the cookies will be lightly browned when they're finished baking. You should smell the cookies once they're done. Remove the sheets from the oven and let the cookies rest for 2 minutes.


Don't worry that the cookies are pale. This will just make them look more like snowballs.
 Once the cookies are cool enough to handle, roll them in a dish of powdered sugar. Each cookie should be completely coated to look like a snowball. Set the cookies on wire racks to finish cooling.


If the powdered sugar isn't visible, you can always roll the cookies in powdered sugar a second time.
This recipe makes about 4 dozen chocolate chip snowball cookies.
