 Meditation can be a helpful way to relax before bed and clear your mind. Try to practice meditation in the hour leading up to bedtime. You can incorporate it into existing rituals to help you fall asleep faster.


Meditation techniques vary, but studies show regular meditation helps people better manage stress and anxiety. Training yourself to meditate nightly can help you learn how to turn your brain off after a long day. You can find meditation instructions online or through reading materials at your local library.Deep breathing is a popular form of meditation. This is when you take deep, steady breaths, inhaling into your chest and stomach, and pay attention to each breath you take. By focusing on your body and its rhythm, you can direct attention away from worrisome thoughts that may be a distraction from sleep., Body scan meditation is a form of meditation where you take stock of every part of your body from your head to your feet. Moving from, say, you shoulders close your eyes and experience every part of your body. Do not visualize these body parts, merely take stock of how they feel. Once you take stock of a body part, allow it to fade from your awareness until you feel empty. Once you've scanned your whole body, begin to feel your body parts again and connect them together. Many find the hyper awareness on their body places them in the present moment, clearing the mind and reducing nighttime anxiety., PMR is an exercise that involves moving from one body part to the next, focusing your energy on tensing and then relaxing groups of muscles. Slowly, you move from your toes to your head. Many people find this helpful for falling asleep at night., It may sound strange, but if you're a chronic worrier granting yourself specific times to focus on your troublesome thoughts may help you better manage your anxiety.


Try journaling your thoughts shortly before bed. Set aside 10 to 15 minutes to jot down anything that's bothering you or anything that frustrated you throughout the day. Purging your thoughts on paper before bed can keep them from interfering with you falling asleep at night.It might also help to set aside 20 minutes shortly before bed to go over what's been bothering you. Allow your mind 20 minutes to worry. Sometimes, getting your worries out of your system is more effective than trying to forcibly ignore them., Warm tea can be relaxing before bed, as long as it's caffeine free.


Chamomile tea and passion flower teas are calming for some and may even contain elements to promote sleep. There are teas sold in supermarkets, such as SleepyTime Tea, that are designed to promote relaxation and sleep.Do not drink tea directly before bedtime, however, as too much liquid before bed can result in you waking up and needing to use the restroom multiple times. Such interruptions to a sleep cycle can make it harder to fall back asleep and reduce the quality of the sleep you do get., Many people find hot baths soothing. A warm, relaxing bath before bed can help clear your mind in preparation for sleep.


A hot bath can relax your muscles and it can also raise your body's core temperature. This can help promote sleepiness.You can try adding certain soaps that contain soothing scents to your bath. Relaxing smells like vanilla can help your mind settle for sleep.