 You can do this by typing its name into Finder (Mac) or the Start search bar (PC). If it's on your desktop, simply look for the file's name.
 This will invoke a drop-down menu., Doing so will bring up a list of the file's attributes, including its total size in bytes., It will be to the right of the "Size" heading on both Mac and PC platforms, though you may first need to click General on Mac to view the "Size" heading. Most email providers have a size restriction for files:


Gmail - 25 megabytes

iCloud Mail - 20 megabytes

Outlook - 34 megabytes

Yahoo - 25 megabytes

, If your audio file is larger than the maximum size allowed by your preferred email provider, you'll need to use one of the other methods described in this article., Some popular email providers include the following:


Gmail - Go to https://www.mail.google.com/. You may first need to log in.

iCloud Mail - Go to https://www.icloud.com/#mail. You may first need to log in and then click Mail.

Outlook - Go to https://outlook.live.com/owa/. You may first need to log in.

Yahoo - Go to https://www.mail.yahoo.com/. You may first need to log in and then click the Mail icon in the top-right corner of the page.
 To do so:

On Gmail, click COMPOSE in the top-left side of your inbox.
On iCloud Mail, click the pencil-and-square icon near the top of the page.
On Outlook, click +New above your list of emails in the inbox.
On Yahoo, click Compose in the top-left side of your inbox.
 To do this, simply type your recipient's email address or name (if they're in your contacts) into the "To" field in the new email window, then type in a subject in the "Subject" field below it.

The subject isn't necessary to send the email, but it will help explain the context of the email.
 Doing so will place it in your email as an attachment once you release the mouse.

You can also click the paperclip icon and then select your audio file in the resulting pop-up window.
 Your email will be delivered to your recipient, at which point they will be able to download the audio file by opening the email and clicking the "Download" button or link.