 There are different levels of symptoms that can occur, depending on how bad your aspirin poisoning is or how long it’s been since you took too much. If you think you have symptoms of aspirin poisoning, even a mild case due to the risk of progression without treatment, you should sees medical treatment immediately, and do not hesitate to call 911. The possible symptoms of acute aspirin poisoning include:Nausea
Vomiting
Rapid breathing
Ringing in your ears, which can be high or low pitched, loud or more quiet, and is usually at one tone
Sweating
Impaired hearing with or without ringing
Slight fever;
, There are some symptoms that develop at a later point of aspirin poisoning. These signs indicate that you have severe aspirin poisoning. You should call emergency services immediately. Symptoms to look for are:Confusion
Hyperactivity
Lightheadedness
Fever
Drowsiness
Low blood pressure
Convulsions or seizures
Kidney failure
Difficulty breathing
Rapid pulse higher than 120 beats per minute
Double vision
Difficulty walking
Coma

, Chronic aspirin poisoning symptoms occur over the course of a few days to a few weeks. These can come on gradually and are very severe, especially once you witness them all. If you or someone you know has them all, call emergency services immediately. These symptoms include:Drowsiness
Hallucinations
Slight confusion
Rapid breathing
Dehydration
Fever
Low oxygen levels in the blood
Fluid in the lungs
Lightheadedness
Low blood pressure
Seizures

, There are some normal side effects of aspirin that might happen before you get aspirin poisoning. These may occur at any point, even with a normal dose of aspirin. Although some of the side effects of taking aspirin are the same as those of aspirin poisoning, the symptoms of poisoning will be more severe and accompanied by numerous other symptoms. If you are worried that you might be heading for aspirin poisoning, you can contact your doctor. These include:


Skin rashes
Excessive bleeding
Abdominal pain
Upset stomach
Stomach and intestinal ulcers which can present as acute abdominal pain, or vomiting blood or blood in the stools
Nausea
Cramping
Gastritis
Heartburn
Drowsiness
Headache

