 If you want to look like Katniss Everdeen, one of the first steps is getting your make-up down. To start, apply a basic primer and foundation. This will lay the groundwork for the make-up that follows.


If you're going to a party or convention dressed as Katniss, keep in mind you'll want your make-up to last for awhile. Try using heavy amounts of foundation and primer to keep your make-up solid.Find a type of primer and foundation that matches your skin tone. You might have to try a few different shades until you find one that matches. Apply the primer first. You can use a make-up brush or sponge. If you use a sponge, use a gentle dabbing motion. You can also simply use your fingers. If you do choose to use your hands, however, wash your hands thoroughly first and you do not want to expose your skin to bacteria. When you finish applying the primer, add a layer of foundation across your face.
When you're done, your face should look smooth and your skin tone should look even. From here, you can apply your other make-up.;
, In the movie, Katniss seems to have very defined eyebrows. Therefore, you should look into altering your eyebrows to match.


In the film, Katniss's eyebrows do not have much of an arch. You can use concealer to create a flatter, thinner effect if your eyebrows don't match her appearance.If you're having difficulty getting your eyebrows right with make-up, consider shaving them off and then drawing them on with a brow brush., Once you've done your eyebrows, move on to a basic bronzer. Pick the shade that best matches your skin tone. From there, bronze your cheekbones, the bridge of your nose, and gently outline your face in bronzer. You should use a make-up brush to apply bronzer. Blend the bronzer into your other make-up using your fingers if you see make-up lines. Once again, wash your hands first., Eye liner is important to the Katniss Everdeen look. Katniss does not wear much make-up in the books or movie. She seems to rely on mostly natural beauty unless she's at a ball or chariot scene. Therefore, basic foundational eye liner is your best option for portraying Katniss.


Use a black eye-liner, as it seems to be Katniss's choice in the movies and books. Simply outline your eye using the pencil or brush. Focus first on your eyelid, drawing a thin black line just underneath your bottom eyelashes. There's no need to draw a thick line, as Katniss does not wear much make-up. Just add the eye-liner necessary to highlight your natural beauty.When you finish with the lower lid, move on to the upper lid. Draw a thin line on your eye lid, just above your eyelid. Once again, a thin line is best as you're just trying to highlight your natural looks.If you slip up when applying eye liner, you can always use baby wipes to dab off any smearing. If you don't have baby wipes, just wet a paper towel or tissue and add a small bit of soap. Work slowly to avoid getting soap in your eyes.
 If you're doing a battle scene, you might want to pick an eye shadow that matches your regular skin tone. Neutral shades like browns, peaches, and tans are your best option if you're doing battle-ready Katniss. Apply slowly with a make-up brush and blend excess make-up into your existing foundation and bronzer. As with the eye shadow, the aim here is to highlight your natural beauty so you don't want to look like you're wearing a lot of make-up.
 However, in some scenes Katniss has more dramatic eye make-up. In chariot scenes, and when she's performing, her eye make-up is generally very defined. If you're portraying Katniss from one of these scenes, you can try a smokey eye or make a design using your eye shadow.


To do chariot scene make-up, use eye-liner to outline a curved shape around your eye. Add little tipped arches on the edge of each eye, pointing outwards towards your temples. Fill this space in with black eye shadow. Then, take the black eye liner again. Draw small gold wings stemming from the bend of the tipped arches. Fill in the outlined wings with gold eye shadow.If this feels too elaborate, consider a basic smokey eye. Katniss wears this a lot in scenes where she's dressed up. A smokey eye is made using various shades of gray and black eye shadow. Apply lighter shades of gray around the inner corners of your eye, swiping upwards slightly. Then, use your darkest shade to fill in the remainder of your eyelid., Once you've done the rest of your make-up, start working on your lashes. Depending on how dramatic you want your look, you can use mascara or purchase fake eyelashes from a make up or department store<A light coat of basic mascara is best if you're doing a battle scene Katniss. The goal here is to make your make-up less noticeable, so simply go over your eye lashes once with regular mascara.
If you're doing a chariot or performance scene, consider fake eyelashes. You can purchase fake eyelashes at a department or grocery store. The container should provide instructions on how to put the eyelashes on.
 Katniss wears her hair in a french braid for much of the movie. If you want to look like Katniss, the first thing you'll want to do is work on braiding your hair appropriately. To start, grab a chunk of your hair. From there, separate this chunk into three smaller chunks, roughly equal in size., Once you have your hair ready, begin the process of french braiding. French braiding can be tricky, so if you're new to it consider having someone help. If you're unsure of the process, there are many videos online that walk you through how to french braid.


For simplicity's sake, let's refer to your chunks of hair as group 1, 2, and 3. To start, take group 1 and pull it under group 2.Then, take group 3. Dip it below both group 1 and group 2.Add a small amount of your remaining hair into group 2. Then, bring group 2 under group 3.Add hair to group 1 and then bring group 1 under your braid., Continue all the way down your hair and pull it tightly so it remains in place. Continue to add hair to the different groups, tucking them under the braided group as you go. Do this until you reach the end of your hair. Pull your hair tightly and, if necessary, wrap the end in a rubber band. This will help your hair stay in place., For much of the movie, Katniss wears knee-high black boots. Consider buying a pair of your own if you want to look like Katniss. You should also look into lace-up boots, as these are the type Katniss is most often seen wearing.If you're unsure of your shoe size, you can measure your size when you go to the shoe store. Make sure you take time to walk around in any boots before purchasing them. Your toes should have some wiggle room and the boots should be comfortable, especially if you'll be walking around a lot.
 If you're going to be portraying Katniss in jeans, choose the right kind. Look into black jeans, as Katniss is frequently seen in black. If you plan on wearing jeans with boots, consider bootcut jeans or at least jeans than can be easily stretched or tucked into your boot.Keep in mind sizes often vary in women's jeans. If you're getting skinny jeans or a different cut than normal, your size may be smaller or bigger depending on your body frame. Always try jeans on in the store before making a purchase.
 If Katniss is going into battle, she is frequently portrayed in black. She often wears a black leather vest over a black shirt. Consider this basic ensemble to aid in your Katniss costume., In many movie scenes, especially when Katniss is on TV, she is portrayed in elaborate, sparkly dresses. Make a trip to your favorite store and look into purchasing sparkly, fun outfits for your Katniss costume.Katniss is usually styled professionally before chariot and performance scenes. Therefore, go for a higher quality dress if you can afford one.
Katniss's dresses are rarely simple. Even if you would not normally wear a flashy dress, make an exception if you want to portray Katniss.

