 One way to get over jealousy is to stop dwelling on what you don’t have. In this case, don’t dwell on the fact that you aren’t dating your crush. Instead, focus on yourself. Jealousy makes you feel bad about yourself because you feel like you’re not good enough or that you are lacking something. You should take this time to do things to make yourself healthier in mind and spirit.Meditate if you feel overcome with jealous feelings. Sit in a quiet room and breathe deeply as you focus inward, on yourself.
You may even think about your jealous feelings and then imagine that you are letting them go. Think about them swirling down the drain like water or floating away like wind.
 Your jealousy might make you angry and upset. You may feel like sitting in your room, listening to music, and being sad that your crush is dating your enemy. Don’t wallow in your jealousy. Instead, go out and spend time with your friends. Don’t allow your crush or your jealousy to control what you do or your happiness.Hanging out with your friends can help get your mind off of your crush and your enemy. You can forget about any jealousy you feel by doing other, fun things.
If you spend time with your friends, you probably won’t even have time for any jealous feelings.
 A good way to avoid jealous feelings is not to dwell on them. Find things to occupy your time and stay busy. You can get caught up on things you’ve been putting off or do an activity you haven’t done in a long time. Distract yourself from any jealousy by trying new things.For example, you may want to take up a new hobby, start playing a musical instrument, or take lessons.
You may want to catch up on your reading or movie watching, or beat that new video game you’ve been meaning to.
Doing things that make you happy will help decrease your jealousy and make you overall more content.
 Just because your crush is dating your enemy doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with you or that they are better than you. People are attracted to others for different reasons. Don’t feel jealous that your crush is dating your enemy and feel bad about yourself. Instead, remember that you are a good person with a lot of good traits.You may want to compare yourself to your enemy or think there is something wrong with you because your crush didn’t choose to date you. Don’t think that way. There is nothing wrong with you, even if your crush can’t see how great you are.
For example, you may want to write down a list of your good traits. You can keep this list around when you feel jealous.
You may write down that you have nice hair, nice eyes, or dress well. You may be a good musician, artist, or athlete. Maybe you’re funny, caring, or good at math. Whatever you think is good about yourself, write it down.

