 Pour the oil into a large, heavy-bottomed stockpot and heat it over medium-high heat until the temperature reaches 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).Check the temperature using a candy thermometer, which can withstand high levels of heat.
Note that this cooking method can also be used with a deep fryer, but frying breaded pork chops on the stove is possible as long as you have a sturdy enough stockpot.
 Gently toss together the flour, paprika, salt, garlic powder, and black pepper until the spices appear evenly distributed throughout the flour.
 Add the egg and buttermilk to a shallow bowl and whisk for 30 to 60 seconds, or until a consistent color forms.


If there are still dark yellow streaks of egg yolk in the mixture, keep whisking. The egg and buttermilk must be mixed as thoroughly as possible.



This initial coating of flour helps bind the egg to the meat. You can skip this initial layer of flour, but the final coating is more likely to slide off after you finish frying it if you do not have this extra layer of flour binding the egg to the meat.
 Working one chop a time, dip each chop into the egg and buttermilk mixture, soaking well. Hold the chop above the bowl for a few seconds after dipping it to allow the excess egg mixture to drip off.


The meat and buttermilk help lock in moisture during the cooking process. The mix also helps bind the coating together as it fries in the hot oil.
 Still working one chop at a time, toss each back into the flour mixture, coating all sides once more and shaking off the excess.


This is your final coating, and it will form a yummy, crispy layer on top of the pork after you fry it. If you want something with more crunch, you could coat the pork in a final layer of dried bread crumbs or finely crushed crackers instead of more flour.
 Carefully lower each chop into the hot oil using long-handled tongs. Do not be alarmed if the oil immediately sizzles upon contact with the pork.


You may find it easiest if you only fry one or two of the pork chops in the oil at the same time. If you attempt to fry all four, you could overcrowd the stockpot, which could affect the way the chops cook.
 Each pork chop should take about 6 to 8 minutes to cook.

To accurately determine whether or not the pork chops are safe to eat, check the center of the thickest chop with a meat thermometer. The internal temperature of pork chops must reach at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius) before the pork is safe to eat.
If you do not have a meat thermometer, you can determine if the pork chops are done by cutting into the center of the thickest cut. If the meat is white, it is likely safe to eat.
 Transfer the pork chops over to several layers of clean paper towels or clean brown paper bags. Let the excess oil drain off for 3 to 5 minutes before placing the chops on individual serving plates.
