 Find those people who you think are super mature and mimic their behavior. If you think your softball teammate is totally mature, act like her.


You’ll know you’ve “arrived” when others start reaching out to you for advice or watching how you act in a certain situation.
Relax, you will figure it out.;
, If you are able to land and maintain a real job, people will have to begin to think of you as something other than a little kid. Don’t go crazy with the hours as you should still be focused on having fun. Find something that will bring in a little cash but allow freedom for other personal activities.Babysitting is always a good option. Find out who needs a little help once a week and land the gig.
Think about tutoring a younger student. If you are exceptional at science, find out who needs help and put your talents to work for you. Watch everyone start to interact with you as a mature person, rather than a child.
 You are the company you keep. This means, if your current group of friends aren’t on your level of maturity and aren’t interested in the things you now are, it’s ok to make new friends. Find the group that you mesh with best.


Be careful though as the older crowd may be involved in activities you’re not ready or comfortable with yet. It’s best to start hanging with your new friends gradually and feel them out.
 Only kids complain and moan and groan about every little thing in their life. Buck up. If you want to be seen as mature, start taking responsibility for your actions and outcomes. Plus, no one wants to hear it.Mature girls are self-assured and can handle life as it comes which is what makes them so sexy.


Skip the kid-like conversation and learn to express your emotions as an older person would. Say things like, “I’m really stressed about exams right now and need a break.” Instead of, “My life is over if I don’t get this new iPad.”

, There isn’t one makeup trick or a single outfit that will make you sexy, rather it’s whatever showcases the very best version of yourself.


If you love sunglasses, find a pair that highlights your super-high cheek bones.
Get compliments on your plump lips all the time? Find the perfect shade that makes them stand out.
Purchase that pair of shorts that make your long, lean legs irresistible.
 Change it up a bit. Let the bangs grow out or chop them off to add a little spice to your look. You’ll feel sexy and mature the moment you leave the salon and people will notice the attitude change.
 It will make you look warm, friendly and approachable. Happy people are sexy as they look like they don’t have a care in the world.Scientists suggest that by simply plastering a big grin across your face when stressed or nervous, will significantly reduce your heart rate and help you relax. Try it!

, Rather than wait on others to tell you how sexy you are, create a self-acceptance all on your own. Build a positive body image by finding what you love about yourself and fine tuning your self-esteem.


Repeat a mantra to help create self-hype like Tyra Banks’ “fierceness approach.”Excel at something like no one else. When you know you can kick butt in soccer or create moving poetry, sexiness will ooze from your pores.
 You can speak volumes with just body language. If you want to be sexy and mature, determine what works for you. Maybe it’s a subtly licking your lips, a cute wink or a full blown hair flip., You’ve seen those people that walk around the mall and people stop and stare. Go for that! It’s more of a saunter than a stroll.Perfect this sexy tactic and you’re golden.


Keep your gait short and watch your posture.
Be as natural as possible which may take some practice.
 If you are known for your wicked sense of humor amongst friends, then don’t hold back. Perhaps you’re blessed with an IQ that’s through the roof. Either way, people will think you are sexy because you are secure in who you are and are not pretending to be someone else.


Non-conformity is hot so rock the blue hair., Everyone would like to be the object of another’s affection and attention.If you are mature and sexy, you will have no problem approaching the person you spotted from across the room and striking up a conversation.


Get creative as possible and skip the cliques unless you’re going for comedic affect.
Flattery will get you everywhere. Be direct by telling them exactly what prompted you to approach them.
 Generosity is liberating and has a multiple positive effects. One, It proves that you aren’t self-obsessed and two, it helps someone else in need.Give without expectations. People will see you as a phony otherwise.
 Skip the globs of makeup and tight revealing get-up. They want to see your naturally sexy eyes and shape.


Always keep things age-appropriate. Though you want to be sexy and mature, you can do so without looking like a 35 year old. Your age is the best age and you only experience it once.
 No need to be brutally honest or hurt someone’s feelings, but everyone wants to know where they stand in a relationship (platonic or otherwise). If the person you’re interested in asks a question, be truthful.


Use tact when doing this by softening the answer if you know it may sting. For example, lead with the positive by saying, “I think you’re an incredible person but I don’t agree with your political stance.”
Never lie about your age. Be proud of who you are right now.

