 Obviously, the most important part of this subculture is the music it's based around. Glam punk is a contemporary style of rock and roll with deep roots in several older musical movements, mostly from the 1970s and 80s. The music of all of these bands, as well as their fashion sense and general attitude, should give you a good feel for what glam punk is all about. It also wouldn't hurt to check out some first-wave (1977-1982) punk rock, 70s glam rock (David Bowie or T.Rex, for example) and even some 1980s 'hair metal' (Motley Crue, Twisted Sister, etc). There are countless other bands to discover, of course, but consider these a primer:


The Heart Attacks
Wildlife
Beat! Beat! Beat!
Biters
The Exploding Hearts
Prima Donna
Ravagers
Rock City Angels
Michael Monroe
M.O.T.O.
Dino's Boys
Cyanide Pills
The Soda Pop Kids
The Cute Lepers;
, Glam punk fashion is all about being wild and flamboyant while still maintaining a cool, put-together rock and roll style. If you like what you hear, and you'd like to start dressing to reflect your interest in glam punk, here are a few pointers:


A good place to start is to look at a few prominent musicians in the genre and take note of their style. Nikki Sixx (of Motley Crue), Tuk Smith (of the Biters), and Michael Monroe are all good examples.
Clothing tends to be tight or at least fitted--small sizes and stretchy material that hugs the contours of your body and shows few creases.
Glam punk style takes a lot of cues from classic rock and roll fashion; Leather biker jackets, motorcycle or cowboy boots, western shirts, drainpipe jeans, you get the idea.
Punk rock fashion standbys are also popular: Converse All-Star sneakers, studded belts, animal prints and vibrant colors.
Denim jackets or vests, usually decorated with a few buttons and embroidered patches, are a consistent element of the style.
Band merchandise, like t-shirts, pins, and patches, are a must.
Accessories help compliment the look--bandanas, chains, studded bracelets and other jewelry, etc.
Many hairstyles fall into glam punk fashion, from simple do's like short, spiky blowouts and big, teased-up 80s hair to more complicated styles like Nikki Sixx's signature cut or the classic 70s shag worn by the likes of David Bowie and Cherie Currie. Facial hair of any kind is rarely seen; most practitioners of the style are clean-shaven.
Elements of androgyny, such as makeup and nail polish (regardless of your gender) are common, but not mandatory. This was popular with glam bands in the 70s and 80s, and it's often part of modern glam punk fashion.
 Start going to shows and meeting new people; check out zines and blogs and find out about bands in your area. If your town doesn't have much of a rock and roll community, get one started! Learn to play an instrument, start a band, start a zine, get people interested! You'd be surprised how many people you'll find that are as into the music and culture of glam punk just as much as you are.
 There will always be people, even in other alternative subcultures, who want to ridicule you for the way you dress or the music you're into. Ignore them, strut your stuff and do your thing, even if you're the only one doing it! Eventually the naysayers will either realize how cool you are, or get bored and leave you alone. You've got better things to do than worry about other people's opinions!

