 This way, you will have access to either computers or laptops (or your own, if the school does not provide any) and an educator who can help proofread and overview your contributions.;
, Make sure usernames do not violate the site policies, and that passwords are secure and easy for students to remember. Keep in mind that you can edit anonymously, but it will be much more difficult to keep track of whose edits belong to who and which contributions to credit.
 It may be helpful for teachers to familiarize themselves with editing on wikiHow before beginning the class project. Guide students step-by-step or jump to different aspects of the tour via a projector, for a larger view.
 The following are some ideas to get your class started editing on wikiHow:


Have students come up with an idea for and create a new article. Guide them through the writing process, and once the article is finished, categorize and publish on the site! For an added incentive, offer extra credit should a student's article become featured.
Introduce students to patrolling Recent Changes. They will learn how to use good judgment when reviewing the newest edits made to the site, assume good faith, revert vandalism, and thank editors for their good contributions or warn spammers that their edits are unwelcome on the site.
Find an article in need of proofreading attention, then copyedit it. Have students look for things like personal references and grammatical mistakes, then fix them.
Several more ideas can be found here!

, These can be monitored and tabulated via their user name. Teachers can award points toward a grade (in participation, for example) for certain approved activities.
 You might focus on the social community, the technical aspects (for computer class), or any article you contributed.
 Have a group of students who work together record their collective activities and share it with other classes or the whole school (via a campus newsletter).


Create a large colorful poster of sample contributions and any kudos received in the wikiHow community. Post it in the classroom for inspiration.
 Or create a debate topic on some aspect of wikiHow and use it in your Debate class.

