 It's a black app with an orange carrot icon.


If you don't have any samples to import, you can purchase some from the FL Studio developers' site.;
, You'll see this option in the top-left side of the FL Studio window.
 This is toward the top of the OPTIONS drop-down menu.
 It's at the top of the Settings window.
 You'll see these icons on the left side of the window; clicking one will open a browser window in which you can select your sample folder.
 Depending on the folder's location, you may have to click through a few different folders in the browser window to reach it.


For example, if the sample folder is in your Documents folder (Windows), you might click Desktop, then Documents, and finally the sample folder.
 It's at the bottom of the browser window. Doing so will import your sample folder. You'll see a location with the same name as your sample folder pop up in the column of options on the left side of the FL Studio window--this is where you'll access your imported samples when constructing tracks.
 It's at https://www.image-line.com/. This link will take you to the Image Line home page.


If you aren't logged into your FL Studio account, sign in now by clicking SIGN IN in the top-right side of the page and entering your email address and password.
If you haven't purchased a version of FL Studio from Image Line, you won't be able to download free samples.
 This option is near the top of the page.
 It's to the right of the "Type" heading near the top of the page.
 If you don't want to pay for one, you'll need to find a sample with a FREE SELECTION button in the bottom-right corner of the sample's box.


If you're comfortable paying for a sample, anything on this page is available.
 This will prompt the sample to download to your computer, though you may first need to select a download location depending on your browser.


You can also click ADD TO CART to place a paid version of the sample you're looking at in your cart. Once you're ready to check out, you'll click the cart link to the left of your name in the top-right corner of the screen, enter any necessary check-out details, and then click CHECKOUT.
 Once it does, you'll be able to import the file into FL Studio.

