 Bleaching your teeth can help whiten your teeth, removing stains from food and drinks. You may have noticed bleaching kits at the drug store. However, it's a better idea to have your dentist bleach your teeth. For one, it's usually more effective. More importantly, you can damage your gums at home if you don't bleach your teeth properly.Your dentist will always make sure to protect your gums with special barriers before a whitening treatment.;
, You probably know that smoking is bad for your health overall. However, you may not know that smoking is bad for your gums. Smoking can worsen gum disease, as a well as make it harder for your gums to heal. It can also lead to throat cancer or oral cancer, which usually affects the lip or tongue.Chewing tobacco is just as detrimental as smoking.
 All sugary snacks can be detrimental to both your teeth and gums, as they breed bacteria that cause damage. However, sticky or chewy foods with sugar are even worse, such as barbecue sauce, frosting, or granola bars. These foods tend to stick to your teeth, leaving the sugar there to do its damage.Though you don't need to cut these foods out altogether, try to limit your intake. It's best to eat something sugary in one sitting instead of in several small doses, as eating it over a longer period means the sugar will have longer to sit on your tooth.
Always try to brush or at least rinse your mouth after eating sugary foods to help the remineralization process of your salivary glands.
 While it's tempting to pick up a toothpick after dinner, it's not a good idea. Poking at your teeth with a toothpick can damage your gums. However, when there is nothing you can do to clean your teeth or get food out from in between them, a toothpick may be your only option. Just keep in mind that your gums are soft and sensitive, so it's best to avoid poking them with a toothpick., Dentures sit up against your gum line, which can cause problems if you're not careful. For one, it's important to keep your dentures clean, so you're not pressing bacteria into your gums. In addition, you should take your dentures out at night and clean your gums.To clean your dentures, scrub them gently with a soft cloth or brush. You can use toothpaste or even diluted mouthwash to get rid of bacteria and other debris. Never use hot water, as it can make your dentures lose their shape.
Also, brush your gums with a soft cloth or brush every night, and then rinse your mouth.
 While your dentist can't keep you from harming your gums, they can help identify problem areas, so that you can stop doing things that are hurting your gums. You should visit your dentist at least twice a year, possibly more if you are having gum problems.