 This can be a poster or actual board with pictures on it that show all the steps of an activity in sequence. Especially useful with non-verbal siblings, the pictures on the scheduled will help you communicate by reminding them, through pictures, of what they need to do or remember.A variety of pre-made schedules exist online, for free and through purchase. You can also make your own! Talk with your parents about the materials they feel are best to use.
 The ability to point to pictures that represent their choice will allow your sibling to have some control and tell you what they want.
 Do what they want you to do, even if it sounds ridiculous or embarrassing. It presents a great bonding opportunity. Find a simple activity you can enjoy and bond over.Watch television and film programs with them, and put the closed captions on. Your sibling may want to watch their favorite program repeatedly. Instead of getting annoyed, recognize that they are expressing their comfort and enjoyment with something about the show.
If your friends find out and ask what you're doing, you might have to tell them that your sibling is autistic; however, it will only help you in the long run if your friends can learn about autism in a positive way and help support you in dealing with its life challenges.
 Some autistic children have difficulty with homework and may require help from you. Speak in a gentle tone and don't rush. If they grow frustrated, take a break from homework help and ask an adult to help your sibling calm down.
 There's nothing wrong with taking your sibling aside and explaining that it isn't polite. If they've hurt your feelings, say so. Your sibling is likely to feel surprised and remorseful when they realize they've done something wrong.


Your parents can teach you appropriate ways to handle your sibling during play and in other situations. They want all their children to get along, so remember that your parents can offer advice and encouragement.
Be hopeful. Your parents and your autistic sibling all need your positive energy. Having a religious support has been reported to be effective, but what is important is that you embrace the wonderful and unique perspectives on life that your sibling can provide to your family.
 This is extremely important. Autistic people are often teased because they are unusual.Stick up for your sibling and if they cry, comfort them. Treat them as you would treat your best friend.


If your autistic sibling is slightly older than you, you will probably find their behavior as normal, since you lived with them since you were born. However, other people will feel sorry for you, saying things like "Oh, I'm so sorry your brother is autistic," while others will dote on them, talk over them, or avoid them.
If other people express condolences or say something judgmental, an easy way to make them reconsider is to ask "Why?" For example, "Why are you sorry that my sister goes to the special needs classroom?" is likely to make people realize that they made a rude assumption.

