 Throw out anything torn (unless you like ripped jeans), stained, or that no longer fits nicely. If you don't like it, and want to avoid spending money on new clothes, keep clothes that are outdated, that you might not like, to see if you can incorporate them into a new outfit or repurpose them with sewing tricks. Donate anything you can't use, but make sure it's still in good condition.;
, Examine what you like and make a list. Then decide on a scale of 1 to 10 how much you like it. For example:


Girly: 6; Emo: 3; Hippie: 3; Fancy: 3; Schoolgirl: 4; Punk: 2; Indie: 8; Vintage: 7 - so the girly, indie, vintage look would win out here.
 Pick up things that fit your categories.The higher up it is,the more you need from it. In example above,the person would be mostly indie and vintage clothes, a few girly clothes and a few fancy stuff. Remember that accessories can easily change the style/look of your outfit.
 Maybe you really like emo hair, but dyeing it at your age is not recommended (black hair dye is especially unsafe). Instead you could just get layers. Maybe you really like fancy stuff but you shouldn't spend many dollars on one single dress. Avoid high heels, or showing your bra or underwear, body-con clothes, tattoos, piercings other than ear piercings, mini skirts, short shorts and dyeing your hair.
 If you know how to knit, then you could make a headband. You can patch clothes with them, make a necklace, a bandanna, etc.
 Love those studded black belt, pink tank top, and black skinny jeans? Put them together and add a cute pair of flats for a girly punk look. Just make sure you don't look too tacky. Zebra print with a plaid skirt is a bit too wild.
 You might be wearing the latest clothing, but you'll look awful if you frown, slump, and talk badly about yourself. Instead, relax, have good posture, and smile. Good grammar comes in handy too.
 Making a fashion statement is always cool but you'll look like a poser if you act like everybody else. Be yourself, be unique, be nice, and people will flock to you. Even if they don't, you'll be a strong and confident individual who doesn't need others to confirm your worth.

