 Dehydration can often cause headaches. This is because the lack of water leads to reduced blood and oxygen flow to the brain. As soon as you feel a headache coming on, try drinking a cool glass of water. If the headache is caused by dehydration, drinking water can ease or cure it within minutes.


You should consume roughly about eight glasses of liquid a day to prevent dehydration. However, 20% of this you can already get from from watery foods (e.g. grapes, turkey, watermelon, etc). Drinking water is especially important after the consumption of alcohol, as alcohol causes dehydration, leading to hangover headaches.
 The relaxing properties of lavender products are well known - but did you know that lavender oil can also be very effective in the treatment of headaches? Simply take a bowl of hot water and add a few drops of lavender oil. Lower you head towards the surface of the water and place a towel over your head. Breath deeply, inhaling the lavender-infused vapors.


It is also possible to apply lavender oil externally. Try massaging a few drops of the undiluted oil into your temples for a minute or two, while inhaling deeply.
Bear in mind that you should not ingest lavender oil.
 Rosemary can be very helpful in the treatment of headaches. Try massaging your head with a little rosemary oil (which has anti-inflammatory properties) to instantly alleviate pain. Alternatively, you can drink an herbal tea made from a combination of rosemary and sage to ease headaches.


To make rosemary and sage tea, add one teaspoon of crushed rosemary leaves and one teaspoon of crushed sage leaves to a cup of boiling water. Cover and leave to infuse until the water reaches room temperature.
Drink this tea two or three times a day.
 Cloves can be used in multiple ways to ease the pain of tension headaches. Here are some suggestions:


Gently crush a number of cloves and put the pieces into a sachet bag or clean handkerchief. Inhale the scent of the crushed cloves to gain relief from headaches.
Mix clove oil with sea salt and massage into your forehead and temples. The clove oil provides a cooling effect, while the sea salt intensifies the massage.
 Basil is a strong-scented herb which can be used effectively in headache treatment. Basil works as a muscle relaxant, thus it can be helpful for treating headaches caused by tension and tight muscles. Drinking basil tea twice a day is an excellent home remedy.


Put some fresh, washed basil leaves in a cup of boiling water and allow it to sit for a few minutes before drinking. Sip the tea slowly and your headache should gently ease away.
During mild headaches, you can also chew some fresh basil leaves or massage your head with pure basil oil.
 Ginger helps to reduce the inflammation of blood vessels, and as a result it is often used in the treatment of headaches. Try adding an inch of freshly chopped or grated ginger root to a cup of loose leaf tea and let it infuse for several minutes before drinking. You can add milk or sugar to taste. Amazingly, ginger tea is said to relieve headaches by reducing inflammation just as quickly as an aspirin would.Alternatively, you can boil fresh or powdered ginger in water and inhale the vapor to get rid of a headache.
Chewing a piece of crystallized ginger candy may also help to relive headaches.
 Cinnamon can help to ease headaches, particularly those that strike in combination with the common cold. An easy way to use cinnamon for the relief of headaches is to make a paste from freshly grated cinnamon and a little water. Apply this paste to your forehead and let it sit for ten to fifteen minutes. The headaches should soon ease.


Alternatively, you can make a soothing drink by adding two teaspoons of powdered cinnamon to cup of hot milk. Stir in a teaspoon of honey for sweetness, if desired.
 The calming and soothing properties of peppermint are well known, and it can be very effective in the treatment of headaches. Use peppermint oil to massage your forehead, temples, and even your jaws. Alternatively, apply freshly crushed peppermint leaves to the forehead and leave to sit for ten to fifteen minutes, while breathing deeply.


Fresh peppermint leaves can also be used to make a soothing tea. Simply add freshly washed peppermint leaves to a cup of boiling water and leave to infuse for several minutes.
You can also use a peppermint steam treatment, by adding a couple of drops of peppermint oil to boiling water and inhaling the vapors.
 Apples can help to alleviate headaches. Apples have attributes that can balance the alkaline and acidic levels in the body, thus providing relief from headaches. Try eating an apple (with the skin on) as soon as you feel the beginnings of a headache.


Alternatively, you can add two teaspoons of apple cider vinegar - which has similar properties - to a glass full of water. Drink this solution for immediate headache relief.

