, The most effective rifles for sniping are closed bolt action rifles, such as the .50cal M95 Barret unlock (this gun can penetrate armored glass, which no other rifle can do).


The damage effectiveness for each sniper rifle varies per weapon. The strongest weapon is the M95 sniper rifle. A single body shot from this gun will reduce the enemy's health to 5%. The M24 and L96A1's body shots will only reduce an enemy to 10% health.
 The target range for the Barret m95 is 200 meters (656.2 ft), after that you must use the drop scope, and offset your crosshair ahead of your target. However, the price for the rifles power is accuracy, the U.S. sniper rifle(the M24) and the sniper unlock for the expansion, Special Forces, are extremely accurate. and have much thinner crosshairs than the M95, making longer shots easier to line up.
 If anti-snipers are after you, claymores will provide a kill, early warning, and more opportunity.
, Never send more than three shots at a single target. Rotate fire. Take some time between shots to make it harder for them to pinpoint your position. When going for moving targets, shoot in front of them.
 tank gunner positions,fixed AA,AT,machine gun posts.These are also very easy because the enemy is fixed in place. An enemy killed whilst inside a vehicle cannot be revived either, so it's a guaranteed kill.
 If you do not have a good position on your enemy it can cost you your life and can cost your team points and possibly a loss.When moving to a position try to be as inconspicuous as possible. The best positions are usually going to be out in the open where the enemy will not expect you. Most of the time though you can only take one or two shots from out in the open before you are found. Another good position is on the corner a building this will give you cover from enemy fire. Here are the pros and cons of some other positions:


Roof tops while being good for viewing the battle can be detrimental to your ability to snipe. If you must go on a rooftop do not stay long and make sure that if you know you are going to stay for a few shots make sure you stay behind something on the roof and place a CLAYMORE on the top of the ladder so that an enemy soldier that come up the ladder has a nice welcoming present and this will give you time to exit this location. Roof tops are generally safer further away from active areas. Try to choose one where you still have a good view but is away from the main combat areas.






Cranes are extremely effective places to snipe from, as they are high up, and some people falsely believe they are bad, so people don't always look there. They have some cons, as they take time to climb. Claymore the ladders, and check them often. If spotted, jump(don't forget to use your parachute)!






Hill positions can be very effective especially for long range sniping.try to use trees,bushes,rocks and other items in the terrain to mask your position.






Sniping from vehicles can be done from most transport vehicles where your personal weapon is your defense. Most enemies will not expect a sniper in the back of a Hummer, so if you are in a squad and everyone exits stay in the rear and use it.






Short-range sniping shots are best when standing or kneeling in the game because you will need to quickly take the shot and then move because the enemy will probably hear you and then see your position.


Make sure you take the enemy down with only one bullet. The best way to ensure this is to aim for your enemies forehead or scalp, if you shoot your enemy in either spot you will get a one shot one kill.






If you cannot get a head shot on your enemy, shoot at whatever part of your enemy is exposed usually one shot from a sniper rifle on the body of most units in the game will cause 3/4 damaged to be assessed to your enemy thus making your second shot very simple and a body shot will assure his demise.






Make sure you can quickly switch to your pistol and use the claymores to defend your position, grenades can be used to allow you to escape a fire fight.


Over 100 meters (328.1 ft) the game tries to calculate for bullet drop. The game does not do an effective job of doing so but you will need to adjust for a slight bit of drop due to enemy movement.






Go into the prone position when setting up for a long range shot. Spend a second or two to settle in.






Make sure that you watch your enemy for a few seconds to determine his movement patterns. Remember not to take too long, or your target just might disappear behind an obstacle.






Look for the enemies that are lying down or just standing around. Try to avoid moving targets, they are usually more difficult and you may expose your position. However, don't avoid every moving target, otherwise you will never gain valuable experience. In fact, every time you make a successful shot on a moving target, try a little bit harder to find moving targets, eventually you will be good enough to take almost anyone down, moving or not.






Position the reticle for the long range shot on your enemies head right at the scalp. It will seem like you are adjusting for drop but it is really just because the enemy is so much farther away.
 jumping around running in circles or zig zagging. These are pointless shots and will waste ammo and expose your position.
 Sniping takes a lot of RDR (rounds down range). Practicing against bots may be kind of boring and easy but try to turn it into a fun game rather than just sniping them. Bots are good targets and they move erratically and are dependable when you begin sniping.
 Know that your pistol,claymore and grenades are your only CQB weapons.

Pistol: Aim for the head with your pistol otherwise a decent enemy will finish you off very quickly.






Claymores: Place them in areas that are highly-trafficked by the enemy and use them to protect your rooftop positions.






Grenades:Throw grenades to get your enemy to back off of your position or give you enough time to get back to your friendlies.
, It's an under appreciated weapon. Target their torso, and strafe as you fire.
, If you hear footsteps, and can't see an ally on the HUD then get up and pull out your knife or your pistol.
 so if you get a kill and there is no enemies or little enemies then change your position.
 Get a kill and then switch position.
 when they get into a copter or a jet then shoot them as there engine is warming up.
,, If they are running aim an eighth in front of them.
 Essentially, a sniper is useless against enemy armor. So when a tank decides to run you over for laughs, you can't really do much except make the most of your grenades and claymores. This of course, encourages him to shoot you instead. The spotter steps in to assist the sniper in tight fixes. Or at least provide warning when something dangerous is nearby.


Special forces: They are possibly the best spotters for infiltration. Cover his back against enemy infantry while he plants the all-important C4 charge. If he knows what he's doing, the enemy can be pinned down for over 5 minutes while you pick off infantry and he sabotages vehicles, artillery, etc.






Assault: Not preferred due to the lack of more effective explosives. Still, they are quite good decoys. Just don't stick to them since they just aren't meant for being willingly trapped behind enemy lines.






Support: This is also not preferred. Support units will keep you well stocked on ammo, but they won't be able to do much else. And unlike Assault kits, they have a harder time against medium and heavy vehicles.






Medic: This is ok, but don't stick to him. He'll provide cover in close quarters and patch you up when you get too injured. Just be sure you take a lot of infantry out, as he can't revive you when someone's guarding your corpse.






Sniper: NO. This just increases the number of targets to hit. A good sniper knows that the more spread out they are, the more area their scopes can cover. So two snipers in the same place is useless.






Engineer: They usually have big close quarter guns. And they can sabotage vehicles by putting mines right next to their treads. And when you decide to finally escape, get in a vehicle with him. You're more survivable that way.






Anti-Tank: The second best spotter. Not as efficient in sabotage, but they can save you when confronted with armor. Three cheers for SRAW and ERYX!





;
, The best way to infiltrate an enemy outpost is by flying in a plane and paradropping before you're shot down. The downside is that this wastes the time it takes to spawn 1 plane. And air support is crucial in the overall scheme. Also, if the pilot decides not to jump out, you're stuck without a spotter, making the entire operation useless. Another way is by using a fast, light vehicle like a buggy and sidestepping the entire combat zone. Ditch the vehicle 300 meters (984.3 ft) from the chosen position. It makes it harder to pinpoint where the sniper team is. A black hawk transport also a good way to get behind, but watch yourself. Fighter pilots see a flying black hawk as a sitting duck.
 Just choose one. Read the guidelines above.
 Are you just going to kill a few troops and get out? Paralyze enemy movement? Pin down enemy armor? Maybe take down artillery batteries and UAV trailers? Choose one that suits your spotter.
 This requires the support of your commander. As long as you're holding the line, you'll need a supply drop to keep stocked on ammo, and so will your spotter. God willing, the commander won't drop the crate in plain sight and mark you for dead. Do not stick too close to your spotter throughout the operation, as they aren't wearing camo outfits, and you might get hit by collateral damage. Never go to the crate at the same time. This takes time, but should some creep come up to where he thinks you are and you're both facing away, kiss the op goodbye. When it's time to leave, play to your spotter's strengths. Is he a good pilot? Get a plane. Does he maneuver well? Try a tank. Does he need you to kill anti-tanks while he speeds away? Get in the back of a hummer. Do you have a light vehicle you used to sidestep the map when you got in? Use it then.

