 There are many indicators that can let you know if someone is being bullied or bullying others. Looking out for these signs will help you identify bullying and intervene early on.


Signs that someone might be a victim of bullying:Injuries or bruises that a person can’t, or is unwilling, to explain
Lost, stolen or damaged personal property, such as torn clothing, broken glasses, stolen cell phone, etc.
Sudden changes in interests or a sudden urge to avoid certain people or places
Sudden changes in diet, self-esteem, sleeping, or other dramatic emotional or physical shifts
Depression, self-destructive actions, or talk about harming one’s self or others. If you or someone you know is in danger or is suicidal, don’t wait. Get help now. Resources can be found here



Signs that someone might be bullying others:

The person has become increasingly aggressive, either physically or verbally
Starts getting into frequent physical or verbal fights
Associates with people who bully others
Gets into trouble with authority figures frequently
Can’t take responsibility for his or her own actions and blames others for his or her problems


If you notice any of these warning signs have a conversation with the person. Letting others know that bullying isn't acceptable and that you are there to help can give a victim of bullying the courage to speak up.
 Certain groups may be at higher risk of being bullied than others. It's especially important to pay attention to these groups and watch for signs of bullying.Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) youth
Youth with disabilities
Youth with special needs, either educational or physical
Bullies may also target victims based on race, ethnicity or religion
Dealing with bullying targeted at LGBT youth, youth with disabilities or special needs, or bullying based on race, ethnicity or religion necessitates extra considerations specific to the victim. Information on dealing with these specific situations can be found here.
 Bullying often happens in places where supervision or outside observation is limited or absent, such as a school bus, a bathroom, etc.


Make an effort to check in on these spaces periodically so bullies don't see them as easy places to attack others.
If you are a parent, know where your kids are hanging out online. Be familiar with the platforms and devices they're using and ask to "friend" or "follow" them. If your child feels uncomfortable "friending" you, make sure s/he knows that s/he can always talk to you about issues s/he is experiencing online.
 Discuss what bullying is and ways to address it in your home, classroom, office, etc. Remind people that bullying is not acceptable behavior and there will be consequences for it.


When people can identify bullying they are more likely to take action, so talk about it before it happens.
Encourage others to talk to someone they trust if they are being bullied or know of someone else who is.
Establish rules about safe and appropriate technology use. Discuss what sites kids can and cannot visit, and when and where technology can be used.
Make a plan for safe ways to stand up against bullying for yourself and for others. Who would you talk to if you or someone else were being bullied? What would your first response be? How would this change depending on where you were?

, Respond to others with respect and kindness, even when you’re dealing with a bully. Bystanders will see how you handle the situation and will learn from you. Responding to a bully in an aggressive manner only intensifies the situation and can continue the cycle of bullying.
 Find others who want to prevent and address bullying and discuss prevention and intervention strategies.


Work together to keep an eye on places where bullying usually happens and watch out for signs of bullying in those around you.
Learn about your school or office bullying policy and encourage others to get familiar with it as well.
Let others know what to do and who to talk to if they're being bullied. Encourage others to speak up if they experience bullying themselves or see it happening to others.

