 Applicants must be qualified United States citizens, reside in the state of Texas, and generate low monthly income. Families must meet the following maximum monthly income limits:


One family member: $1,619 maximum monthly income
Two family members: $2,191 maximum monthly income
Three family members: $2,763 maximum monthly income
Four family members: $3,3335 maximum monthly income
Five family members: $3,907 maximum monthly income
Additional family members: $572 per month

, This form can be mailed directly to an office that will process and forward your SNAP application to the USDA for review.


If you do not have access to a printer, request that the SNAP application be mailed to your residence. Go to the Your Texas Benefits website at https://www.yourtexasbenefits.com/ssp/SSPHome/ssphome.jsp, click on “Get a paper form” at the bottom of the page, then select “Ask to have the forms mailed to you.” Alternately, call 211 or 1-877-541-7905 between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday through Friday to request a copy of the SNAP application., You are required to provide personal information for all family members, including names, dates of birth, social security numbers, addresses, marriage and education statuses, and contact information. You are also required to disclose whether your household has any pregnant women or military personnel, and whether any residents need help with job interviews.
 You are required to provide information about existing health insurance policies, medical bills, vehicles owned by family members, bank account information, housing costs, and the amount of income being provided by all family members.
 These sections provide legal information and the Statement of Understanding, which ensures you understand the rules, policies, and benefits associated with SNAP.
 After your application is processed and approved, the USDA will have the Lone Star Card sent to your residential address.


Obtain the mailing address for the office nearest you by visiting https://www.yourtexasbenefits.com/ssp/SSPHome/ssphome.jsp and clicking on “Find office,” or by calling either 211 or 1-877-541-7905 between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday through Friday.

