 Catfish can sometimes have an unappealing "muddy" taste if it's not prepared correctly. Luckily, marinating the catfish helps solve this problem. Remove the catfish fillets from their packaging. Rinse each fillet in water, then pat them dry with paper towels. Put the catfish in a cooking dish, an airtight plastic container, or zip-lock bag. Cover them with buttermilk and hot sauce, plus a few generous pinches of salt and pepper. Mix well and let the catfish marinate in the fridge.


The exact amount of marinating time varies from recipe to recipe. Most recommend at least 1-2 hours.Some even recommend 24 hours or more.;
, Mix the cornmeal, flour, onion powder, and garlic powder in a large bowl. Remove the catfish fillets from the fridge and allow them to sit at room temperature for about 10 minutes. Shake off the excess moisture, then sprinkle each fillet with a pinch of salt. Coat the fillets with the cornmeal mixture on all sides. Place each breaded fillet on a clean platter.
 Set a thick, steep-sided frying pan on the stove over medium-high heat. Cast iron pans are best but any sturdy frying pan will do. Add oil to the skillet to a depth of 1 1/2 inches.When the oil reaches a temperature of 350o (176.6o C), or just barely starts smoking, you're ready to cook.


For best results, use an oil with a high smoke point, like peanut oil, vegetable oil, or canola oil. Oils with low smoke points, like olive oil, will start smoking at lower temperatures and will produce more smoke overall., Add the fillets to the hot oil carefully with a pair of tongs. You may want to use an oven mitt for this — the oil may pop and sizzle unpredictably. Lay the fillets away from you (never towards you) to minimize the oil that can splash back at you.


Flip the fillets when they reach a pleasant golden-brown color on the lower side. This will usually take about 3-5 minutes.
Cook the fillets in batches, making sure there is at least a little space between each fillet. Crowding the pan will cause uneven cooking.
 When catfish is cooked all the way through, it will be completely opaque on the inside. There shouldn't be a translucent or gel-like uncooked spot in the middle.As each fillet finishes cooking, transfer it to a wire rack over a layer of paper towels. This allows the hot oil to drain and the fish to cool. Add new fillets to the pan as the first batch finish cooking.


If you can avoid it, try not to pile catfish fillets in a stack over a paper towel-lined plate like you'd do with bacon. The moisture and steam from the stacked fillets can ruin their deliciously crisp texture, giving you a soggy product.

