 The surface should be completely cool before you begin. Turn the oven off, and leave it off for at least 20 minutes if it has recently run. Higher heat will not help you clean – it usually just dries out the food and causes it to stick to the stovetop.






;
, Using your fingers, a paper towel, soft cloth, or a gentle sponge, get off as much as you can before you start scrubbing. This will help lower the risk for scratches and pits during the cleaning process.
 For tough, large food debris that’s clinging to the stovetop, use a silicone spatula to loosen it. Rub the spot with the spatula in small circular motions until the food stops coming off the stove.
 Hardware stores and some grocery stores will carry cleaners specifically designed for a glass top stove. Some products are available as a pourable liquid, while others come in a spray bottle. Choose whichever type of product you prefer., Apply the cleaner liberally. Pour or spray the product onto various areas across the stove, focusing particularly on areas where you can see or feel grease build-up







, Use a non-abrasive scrubbing pad to rub the cleaner into the grease and stuck-on food. If you need extra scrubbing power, use the edge of a silicone spatula to scrape at the burnt-on food.
 Use a paper towel or a microfiber cloth to wipe up the excess cleaner and buff the stove. You may need to swap the towel out for a fresh one if it becomes saturated. Polish the stove until it's dry and shines enough for you to see your reflection.
 Create a sudsy, soapy mixture to dip your towel into. Soap chemically reacts with oils to break them up and make them easier to remove, and hot water will help to speed up the process.
 A microfiber towel is gentle enough to clean your glass top stove without scratching the stove’s surface. Let the towel soak until it’s saturated with the soapy mixture. Make sure that the towel is big enough to cover the whole stove, and if it’s not, use two towels.
 You can just sprinkle it over the stained area, or you can sprinkle it across the entire stove top for a more thorough clean.
 Take the towel out of the soap mixture and wring the excess water out. The towel should be damp enough to moisten the baking soda, but not so wet that you create puddles on the stove top.
 The towel should lay flat over any areas with baking soda to prevent it from drying out as it sets into the leftover cooking debris. Wait 15-30 minutes before removing the towel to give it ample time to soak into the most stubborn stuck-on food.
 Once the time is up, scrub in a circular motion for the best results, picking up all of the weakened bits of food on your stove. The baking soda will act as a gentle scrub to remove any remaining residue.
 Use another dry, clean microfiber towel to wipe away any extra residue and to dry and buff your stovetop. If there are still areas with stuck-on food or oil, repeat the baking soda process until they’re gone.
 The longer you allow food spills to sit on your stove top, the more likely they are to harden and become difficult to remove. If you’re worried you’ll forget to return once the stove is cool, set a timer for 20 or 30 minutes once you’re done cooking.
 Create the same soapy solution as above (a bowl of warm water with a few drops of mild dish soap) and use a non-abrasive scrubber to wipe up food and oil.Doing this once a week will help you keep up with the cleaning and avoid grease build-up.
 If your glass stove top has streaks or water spots after cleaning, wipe the stove down with a soft cloth doused with 1-2 tablespoons of vinegar.You can also use a regular glass-cleaning product as well.








