 There are a number of types of hooks, but each type has the same parts.


Eye: The part of the hook the line is threaded through and usually tied to.
Shank: The vertical part of the hook connected to the eye.
Bend: The curved part of the hook. Some hooks feature an offset bend, so that the business end of the hook does not run parallel to the shank.
Point: The sharp end of the hook designed to penetrate the fish’s mouth when it takes the bait.
Barb: A projection running diagonally backward from the point. It is designed to embed the hook in the fish’s mouth once the hook is set. Hooks designed for catch-and-release fishing either have no barb or have been smashed down with pliers to prevent the barb from catching.
Gap: The space between the hook point and shank.;
, Hooks are available as single, double, or treble hooks having 1, 2, or 3 points, respectively.


Single hooks are most commonly used in fishing with live bait like worms, minnows, and grubs. They are also used when fishing lures that simulate worms or grubs, as well as with spinnerbaits whose design resembles an open safety pin. Jig heads are molded and flies are tied around single hooks.
Double hooks can be used with some live bait when extra hooking power is required, and are also used with some lures as a second hook, such as large safety-pin spinnerbaits and some spoons.
Treble hooks are found on artificial lures such as spoons, French (inline) spinners, plugs, and crankbaits. They are also used with prepared baits such as marshmallows and catfish bait where the extra hook points are required to increase the likelihood of setting the hook.
 You’ll want to carry a variety of hook sizes with you. In general, you should never use a larger hook than necessary for the type of bait you’re fishing and the type of fish you’re trying to catch with it.


Number-only hook sizes range from 1 to 32. The larger the number, the smaller the hook.
Number-aught hook sizes range from 1/0 (read “one-aught”) to 19/0. For hooks numbered this way, the larger the number before the slash, the larger the hook. A 1/0 hook is larger than a number 1 hook.
For most freshwater bait fishing, you’ll want a range of hooks no broader than 5/0 or 6/0 to a number 10 or number 12, and probably no broader than 1/0 to number 8.
 Single-point hooks offer the most variety in terms of eye, shank, bend, point, and gap. Each variation is designed for a particular type of fishing or bait.


Aberdeen hooks are thin-wire, long-shanked hooks designed for fishing small grubs for panfish and minnows for walleyes.
Bait-holder hooks feature barbs cut into the shank to better hold worms, grubs, and leeches on the shank.
Circle hooks have a wide bend and a point that points toward the shank instead of parallel to it. They are designed for catch-and-release fishing; the hook’s design allows it to lip-hook most fish just by keeping tension on the line instead of sharply jerking the rod to set the hook.
Kirby hooks feature an offset bend to the left. A related hook, the Reverse, turns the offset to the right.
Octopus hooks feature an extra-wide gap between point and eye and a rounded bend. It’s designed for fishing cut bait for catfish and minnows for bass, walleye, and northern pike. It’s also useful for fishing nightcrawlers harnessed to the hook.
Rotating hooks feature an offset bend with a compound curve that lets the hook turn in the fish’s mouth when it takes the bait so that it can penetrate the mouth tissue from any angle.
Salmon egg hooks feature a turned-up eye and offset bend. Although intended for drift fishing with salmon eggs, they can also be used with grubs and small worms.
Weedless hooks feature either a thin wire loop or a heavier single wire guard to prevent the hook from fouling in weeds or brush. Both single and treble hooks are available with wire weed guards.
Worm hooks are designed for self-weedless rigging of plastic worms (burying the hook point inside the worm body). They feature either a dogleg bend at the top of the shank, near the eye, or a 60-degree bend in the middle of the shank.Snelled hooks come with monofilament leaders pre-tied to them. They usually have their eyes bent at an angle, with the leader tied (snelled) to the shank next to the eye and threaded through it.
 Originally, most sinkers were made of lead, but due to environmental concerns, many are now made of steel and some are made of tungsten.
 Sinkers fall into two classes: those that attach to the line to remain in a fixed position, and those designed to slide up and down the line they are threaded through. Within those classes are several types:


Split shot sinkers are small, round sinkers that clamp onto the line with either finger pressure or pliers. Some split shot feature small burrs on the end opposite the opening to allow them to be removed without cutting the line. Some split shot are identified by size number instead of by weight.
Rubber core sinkers are elongated sinkers with a slot for the line on one side and a twistable rubber core inside to secure the line within the slot. They are heavier than split shot.
Casting, or dipsey, sinkers are teardrop-shaped sinkers with wire eyes extending from them for attaching a line to.
Drop-shot sinkers are cylindrical or long rectangular sinkers with a round tie at the top. They are designed to remain in place when fishing live bait directly below a boat.
Disc sinkers are a disk-shaped variation of the casting sinker. Their shape lets them lie flat in fast water without getting snagged. Weights run from 1/2 to 4 ounces (14.17 to 113.4g).
Pyramid sinkers are another variation of the casting sinker. Their shape lets them dig into soft bottoms in fast water conditions. Weights run from 1 to 8 ounces (28.35 to 226.8g).
Bullet sinkers are sliding sinkers pointed on one end and often have a recessed cup on the other end designed to butt up against the plastic worms they are often fished with. Some fishermen peg them next to the worm by inserting a toothpick into the hole and breaking it off flush with the end of the sinker.
Egg sinkers are oval-shaped sliding sinkers. They are usually heavier than bullet sinkers, but may also be fished with plastic worms, usually with the worm hook attached to a leader and both the leader and line tied to a swivel that keeps the sinker from butting against the lure. Weights run from 1/8 to 1 ounce (3.54 to 28.35g).
Flat sinkers are sliding sinkers with a flat teardrop shape that lets them sink to the bottom and stay put in heavy currents. Weights run from 1 to 8 ounces (28.35 to 226.8g).
Walking sinkers are rectangular sliding sinkers with a slight bend that lets them “walk” by bouncing against the bottom during the retrieve. They are commonly used when slow-trolling or backtrolling live bait for walleye and smallmouth bass. Weights run from 1/8 to 1 1/2 ounces (3.54 to 42.52g)., Sinkers provide both casting weight and weight to take your bait to the desired depth. You need to use only the lightest sinker necessary to cast and take your bait as far underwater as you want. You don’t use sinkers at all in the following situations:


Fishing with heavy, lively baits.
Fishing with artificial lures. For small lures like dry (surface-fished) flies, if you need extra weight for casting, use a bobber that can be weighted with water.
 Bobbers are typically made of either cork or plastic. Plastic bobbers are more common.
 Bobbers are available in various sizes, but mostly in these shapes:


Round. This is the most common shape, available in either cork or plastic. Round plastic bobbers are usually red on the bottom and white on top, or orange on the bottom and yellow on top. These colors are meant to help anglers see the bobber and whether or not a fish has taken the bait by the bobber’s being pulled underwater.
Teardrop. This shape is also available in either cork or plastic. Plastic bobbers in this shape are often clear and include a stopper that can be removed to fill them with water to provide casting weight in place of a sinker but still have the flotation of a bobber.
Oval. Oval bobbers are more often cork, but may also be plastic.
 There are several ways to connect a bobber to your line:


Attached bobbers use spring-loaded hooks. These bobbers are always plastic. You can connect them only on the bottom, only on the top, or at both ends.
Slip bobbers are designed to be threaded onto your line and can slide up and down it as necessary. Some slip bobbers can be held in place with pegs, while others are restrained by tying beads onto your line.
Spring-tipped bobbers have projections on either end, with tiny springs wound around them for the line to be threaded through to keep the bobber in place.
 Although some round bobbers are as large as beach balls, too large a bobber will offer too much resistance for fish who bite lightly to take your bait.You also don’t always need a bobber, particularly not when you want to keep your bait on the bottom. For most lures, other than dry flies and some other surface baits, you don’t need to use a bobber.
When rigging a fishing line for a child who’s fishing for the first time, you may want to use a slightly larger bobber than usual so the child can better see if a fish has taken the bait.
 Swivels are designed to rotate instead of your line, preventing twist that can wear it out. Typically, you use swivels when fishing lures such as crankbaits or spoons and not with hooks carrying live bait or floating surface lures. Swivels come in several types:


Barrel swivels have loops on either end. You tie your line to one swivel end and your leader to the other.
Snap swivels are barrel swivels with either a pointed or rounded snap on one end. This allows you to quickly change artificial lures.
Most three-way swivels have a round ring in the center with three swiveling loops spaced 120 degrees apart. (Some versions, however, are barrel swivels with a third loop perpendicular to the two main loops.) Tie your line to one ring, your leader and hook to another, and another length of leader to a sinker for weight, or tie another leader and hook to fish two baits at once., Leaders can be made of light monofilament, heavy monofilament, or wire, depending on their purpose.


Use a light monofilament leader when fly fishing to aid in presenting your fly. You may also want to use a light monofilament leader when fishing a small bait and hook with an otherwise heavy rig.
Use a heavy monofilament leader in places where a light line would be likely to abrade (rocks, weeds, etc.).
Use a wire leader when fishing for fish whose teeth would saw into and cut your line, such as northern pike or muskellunge.
 The improved clinch knot is a popular and effective knot for tying a hook or swivel to your line. It can be used with either braided line or monofilament.


Thread your line through the hook or swivel eye about 6 inches (15 cm).
Wrap the tag end (free end of the line) around the standing end (the part of the line connected to your reel) 5 to 10 times. (You can also turn the hook or swivel eye this many times.)
Fold the line back on itself in a loop.
Thread the tag end through the space between the hook/swivel eye and the first wrap/twist.
Thread the tag end through the loop you made.
Pull on both the standing and tag end to draw the knot tight. (You may want to spit on the knot before you do this, to lubricate the line.)
Trim the tag end as close to the knot as you can without cutting into the knot itself.
 The Palomar knot is as effective as the improved clinch knot, although some anglers consider it more effective on braided line than the improved clinch.


Turn the last 6 inches (15cm) of your line back on itself.
Pass the doubled line through the eye of your hook or swivel.
Tie a loose overhand knot. Your hook, swivel, or lure should hang from the bottom of the loop.
Taking the knot between your thumb and forefinger, thread the loop over your hook/swivel/lure and slide it above the eye.
Pull on both the standing and tag ends to tighten the knot.
Trim the tag end as close to the knot as you can without cutting into the knot itself., Sometimes called the Grinner knot, the uni-knot, as its name implies, can do the same work as the improved clinch and the Palomar knot, and it can also be used to tie two lengths of line together.


Thread your line through the hook/swivel/lure eye and bend the tag end around to run parallel to the standing end, forming a loop.
Wrap the tag end around the doubled line 6 times.
Thread the tag end through the loop.
Pull the tag end to cinch up the turns. (As with the improved clinch, you may wish to spit on the line first.)
Slide the knot down to the eye, much like pulling a noose taut. You can slide it completely down or leave a small loop to allow the hook or lure to swing more freely.Other knots you may wish to learn include the blood knot, surgeon’s knot, and Bimini twist, which are designed to join two lines together. The uni-knot can substitute for all of these knots, however.
 This is the most common rig for first-time anglers. You can also fish the rig without a bobber.


Find the depth of the water you want to fish.
Place the bobber the same distance above the line as the distance from the surface to the bottom of the water.
Tie a hook onto the end of your line.
Place one or more split shot 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5cm) above the hook. Use only enough weight to bring the bait to the bottom, not enough to suppress its action.
Bait your hook., Also usable for still-fishing, the sliding sinker rig can be used when heavier weights than the split shot are needed without the fish feeling the sinker’s weight.


Use a leader of 18 to 24 inches (45 to 60cm). You can use a pre-made leader or snelled hook, or cut off a length of line to use as the leader and tie a hook to one end and a swivel to the other.
Thread a sliding sinker, such as an egg or walking sinker, to the line attached to your reel. You may wish to thread a bead after the sinker to keep it from striking your swivel or leader loop.
Tie the line to your swivel or leader loop.
Bait your hook., The 3-way rig lets you fish your bait in the same places as the sliding sinker rig, but lets your bait float higher off the bottom. However, it is easier for fish to feel the sinker’s weight.


Tie your line to one eye of the 3-way swivel.
Tie a length of 18 to 24 inches (45 to 60cm) to the second eye. This will serve as your drop line.
Tie a length of 24 to 36 inches (60 to 90cm) to the third eye. This will serve as your bait line.
Tie a drop shot, dipsey, or pyramid sinker to the drop line. (You can substitute several split shot for the drop shot sinker.)
Tie a hook to the bait line and bait it.(You can substitute an artificial lure such as a thin minnow for live bait with this rig.)

, This rig places the hook almost directly above the sinker and is useful for attracting fish suspended off the bottom.


Tie a leader of 24 to 36 inches (60 to 90cm) to a drop-shot sinker.
Tie both the other end of your leader and your line to your hook.
Bait the hook.