 This can be easily determined by calculating your BMI (Body Mass Index). You can either do it online or ask your family doctor. Knowing your BMI is the only way for you to realize if you’re really underweight or that’s just an impression.According to the World Health Organization, a BMI of 22 is the average for most healthy people.However, this can differ from person to person depending on their physical features. The BMI underweight category is anything less than 18.5, and normal is anything between 18.5 and 24.9.
Keep in mind that your ideal weight is not based on your subjective perceptions. It’s scientifically determined based on your sex, age, height and body structure.;
, Being underweight might signal something is wrong with your body, especially if you’ve lost weight very quickly. If your weight is affected by an existing problem, fixing it is the only way for you to reach your regular size. Possible conditions include:


Hyperthyroidism.
Type-1 or type-2 diabetes.
Celiac disease.
Intestinal parasites.
Eating disorders.
Body dysmorphic disorder., Just like your ideal weight, an ideal diet can also differ from person to person due to several factors. An expert will help you determine what is best for you and whether your current diet is meeting your body’s requirements. Perhaps, all you need to do is find out what nutrient is missing and reintegrate it in your daily intake.


Keeping a diary of your daily meals will make you more aware of your dietary habits and help you realize if some nutrient is missing from it.
If you suffer from any allergies or intolerances, make sure you mention that. Your registered dietitian will help you reintegrate a missing nutrient in other ways.
 If you can’t reach your ideal weight, chances are your metabolism is working too much and needs even more food than what you’re having. Increasing your daily intake is the only way to help your body get the right amount of nutrients it needs.


Eating smaller doses more often will help you increase your food intake. If you get full very quickly, try having slices rather than the whole thing.For example, you can have a sliced apple instead of a whole apple. Another example would be eating half of a sandwich instead of the whole sandwich, but then eating the other half an hour later.
Drink beverages half an hour before or after the meal, rather than during the meal. Drinking while eating might make you too full too fast.Choose higher calorie options or look for ways to add calories to meals, such as by having a couple of tablespoons of peanut butter with an apple or choosing a cream-based soup over a broth-based soup.
You might also include a nutritional supplement in your diet, such as Ensure or Boost, if your doctor or registered dietitian thinks this is a good idea. This is usually only recommended if you are under medical supervision for weight gain and/or you are over 65.
 You shouldn’t stuff yourself with junk food. Sticking to food that is rich in good nutrients will help you stay healthy and avoid gaining fat instead of weight. While you increase the quantity of your daily intake, make sure the quality is always at its highest. This could include:


High-protein meats.
Carbohydrates like brown rice and whole grains.
Unsaturated or monounsaturated fats (olive oil, almonds and walnuts)., Eating at irregular intervals or not frequently enough doesn’t help your body process food correctly. Following a healthy diet also means sticking to a fixed schedule. You should have an average of five to six meals a day: some might be smaller, some bigger.


If you’ve lost your appetite or you generally tend to avoid large meals, eat smaller meals throughout the day. You don’t have to stuff yourself, as long as you eat regularly.If you’re not usually hungry or forget to eat, set an alarm to remind yourself that it’s meal time.
 Snacks and desserts are a good way to reward ourselves or enjoy a little meal. These should be healthy rather than pre-packaged snacks: watch out for excessive sugar or saturated fat.These can include:


Dried fruits.
Nuts.
Yogurt.
Trail mix.
Bread with hummus or peanut butter., Fruit variation will ensure a higher calorie intake. However, make sure you do so away from meals, otherwise you’ll get full too quickly. Some examples are:


Apple and berry.
Peach, orange and banana., Whether you go to a gym or exercise at home, it’s always best to ask for advice before starting a work-out plan. Only a trained person can tell you how to best reach your goal and design a personalized plan that suits your age and body type.


Consulting a trainer is especially important before using special machines or taking up weightlifting. If you don’t know how much exercise your body is able to take, it’s easier than you think to do yourself harm instead of good!, This is one of the best and safest ways to build up your muscles and turn your food intake into body mass. Make sure you stick to a regular schedule and stretch both before and after each session.Exercises can include:



Squats.

Push-ups.

Crunches.

Walking lunges.

Tricep dips.
 This will also help you build muscle while remaining healthy. Take it easy when you start: your strength will grow little by little if you exercise regularly.


Remember that good technique and not heavy lifting is your goal as a beginner. You should be able to feel resistance without strain or pain.It's always best to ask a trainer to design a customized plan for you.
 Although you may be surprised, these anaerobic sports can also help you build up your muscles. Check if your local gym offers any programs and enroll. Even in this case, you’ll need someone to guide you through each exercise when you start., You might think these exercises will make you lose weight rather than gain it, but cardiovascular activity is important for you even if you’re underweight: it is good for your heart, reduces stress and can increase your bone density.Plus, it can also whet your appetite! Just make sure you exercise in moderation. If taken to the extreme, cardio activity might make you burn too many calories and start losing weight. You can do any physical activity that increases your heart rate, like:


Running.
Biking.
Swimming.
Working out on cardio machines.

