 Girls who don’t show confidence are taken advantage of. It’s impossible to be passive and be a bad girl. People are attracted to confidence. Bad girls are not afraid to say what they want. They know what they want, and they go for it. Bad girls never ask for compliments. They expect them. , Never beg or call too many times. That doesn’t mean you should be rude. Show manners. If someone texts you, text back. It means you don't always text first, though. Wait a day before calling back when starting out.
Understand when people need space.
 Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis didn’t talk about her secrets. Neither should you. Never let them see you sweat. In the words of the Duchess of Windsor, “Never complain. Never explain.” The screen goddess Sophia Loren was known for saying, “Sex appeal is fifty percent what you've got and fifty percent what people think you've got.”, You have a circle of friends you trust, but you don’t need them with you at all times. You don’t need a partner to make you happy, either. You’re comfortable with yourself, and you know who you are.


Don't hesitate to do things on your own, whether it's traveling or exercising.
Make your own money.
Develop your own interests. Don't become a chameleon.
 At a party, you don’t cling to the wall. You’re the person everyone clusters around because you’re fun. You laugh, but more importantly, you make other people laugh. You’re a conversationalist, and you aren’t afraid to talk to strangers.
 Bad girls don’t tolerate abuse. They don’t let people call them names. They walk away if they’re not being treated right. Bad girls are strong. They are never, ever doormats., Bad girls don’t say they’re sorry. At least not for doing things their way or being themselves. Passive people are always saying they're sorry, and it's usually for being themselves.
Apologize over the big things only.
Be confident in your own actions.
 What are you good at? What do you love? Whether it’s art, music, writing, hula hooping, softball, or something else, bad girls have something they love.


Tracey Emin was known as the “bad girl of art” in the United Kingdom partly because she was perceived as strong and confident “about her work.”
Angelina Jolie’s passion – charitable works – didn’t mar her bad girl image. It just gave her more depth. Some bad girls show a hint of good girl. Passion is always a key part of a bad girl's personality. , Don’t ever tease someone cruelly. But a little flirting and coyness can be great. As the pop star Katy Perry put it, I'm kind of a good girl - and I'm not. I'm a good girl because I really believe in love, integrity, and respect. I'm a bad girl because I like to tease.”


Mae West perfected the art of teasing, especially using the sexy double entendre (words with double meaning). , Bad girls don’t need other people for their money. They make their own successes, and they do it the honest way.


Studies have found that men are attracted to girls with interesting jobs.Bad girls tend to have careers that are exciting and allow them to interact with people.
They might have a non-traditional career, like police officer, pilot, or firefighter. Bad girls prefer independent professions. The Girl with a Dragon Tattoo had a skill. It was non-traditional, and she wasn’t afraid to use it.
 Maybe they were bullied as a kid but that made them tough and empathetic to others. They are survivors. They’ve been through stuff, but you can’t tell. Still, it’s made them more interesting and stronger.


The models who grow up awkward and loser-y and just getting made fun of are the ones with the most character,” says model Binx Walton. “They know how to handle it.” , Bad girls don’t hang back waiting for other people to make up their minds or decide what to do. They know what they want, and others follow. Sometimes they break the rules, but never in a way that’s harmful. Ask someone to dance. Or go out on the dance floor first.
Initiate ideas: Where to go out to eat, a big idea at work. Don't sit back, and wait for others to do it.

