 When rivets go bad on hockey skates they either fall out (yay no removal) or get loose. Test this by trying to put a flat head between the head of the rivet and the blade holder. Only use a small amount pressure, as you just want to make sure it is still holding, not pull extra ones out. Count the number or loose or missing rivets and make note which ones you will want to replace.;
,, The easiest way to remove the rivets is to use wire cutters or bolt cutters and chop the end off from the bottom of the skate (blade side) and the remainder will fall out inside the boot.


If the part of the rivet does not fall out on its own, you can use the new bolt to push it out from the bottom of the skate towards the boot. If you don’t have cutters then you can pry them off with a pair of needle nose pliers but this is much harder.
 Some skates have bolts instead of rivets and the female portion inside the base of the boot loses its traction and needs to be removed (like Graf skates). Here you will need to pry the boot away from the blade holder (it will already be pulling away if they need replacing).


Next you will need to use the needle nose pliers to grab the female portion and hold it while you use the star shaped wrench set (or whatever the bolt head requires) and remove the bolt. If you had to use this method, use Gorilla Glue to glue the space where the female portion of the bolt was.
 Take your bolt and place it through the hole where the rivets used to be, checking all holes to make sure it fits. Some might require some pressure or to be screwed through. This is good as it leaves less gaps or wiggle room for the bolt to move around.


This is where the size of the bolt varies; you can use smaller or larger diameter bolts to accommodate the size holes. If necessary, you can use a drill to widen the hole but ultimately the bolt will hold as long as the bolt fits through.
 As stated earlier, optimally you want to use a washer as large as possible but does not sit on the side of the boot and creates unwanted height and an annoyance you will feel when your foot is in your skate.  Using the larger washer will just hold better than a smaller one and with old skates it will diversify the pressure when skating. If you are using the same size washer throughout you don’t need to measure anything.


Your washer will need to be placed on the bolt then you will place it in the hole from the inside of the boot so the end of the bolt sticks out towards the blade.   To make sure the washers all fit you can either:

A: one by one go over each hole you are going to be filling and figure out which washers you will use where.
B: measure as you replace each bolt. To stay organized, place each bolt with the washer it needs on the insole mirroring where it will be placed in the skate.
 Place the Phillips head screwdriver on the bolt and keep pressure on the bolt the whole time.,, (You might have to switch to the pliers at some point if the blade holder gets in the way of your socket)  ,