 Does your boyfriend spend his free time with you or is he always too busy? Do you feel like you and your boyfriend are living separate lives? Do you not know what is going on in his life, and he doesn't know what is going on in yours?Even if you and your boyfriend have busy schedules, he should make time to see you and talk to you.
Also, notice any changes in the amount of time you are spending together. Did you go from seeing each other four times a week to only once a week with no explanation? This may be a sign that he is up to something.
Talk to your boyfriend about these changes before you assume he is cheating.
 Not only should you evaluate the amount of time you spend with your boyfriend; the quality of that time is important as well. Are the two of you having fun together or do you spend most of the time arguing? Do you feel distant or connected to your boyfriend?If your interactions have gone from fun and pleasant to constant arguing, he may be spending time with someone else or he may be stressed out about some other issues and taking it out on you.
 Even if you are spending time together, your boyfriend may seem uninterested in you and your relationship. Do you get the feeling that he doesn’t really care about you? Is he very nonchalant when he deals with you?For example, do you always have to call or text him first?
Do you always have to make plans and think of date ideas? Does he not give any input when you ask him about things the two of you can do together?
Is he not very talkative or attentive when the two of you are together?

, You may sense that something is not right between you and your boyfriend. You may not be able to put your finger on it, but you know something is up. Do not ignore this feeling.Often times, your gut feeling is the first sign that you need to start looking for other red flags.
 If you are suspicious, you will begin to see signs and assume he is cheating. It is best not to jump to conclusions. If you accuse him of cheating and he is not, it will cause damage to your boyfriend. Talk to him about what you have noticed and listen to his explanations.


You may say, "Hey, you have been super irritated lately and your mind seems somewhere else. Are you ok?"
You may say, "I noticed we have been spending less time together. Is everything ok?"
"Our relationship has been in a rut lately? I really want to work on it. What do you think about this?"
If you catch your boyfriend in a lie, you may say, "You didn't tell the truth about ___. It really hurt my feelings. What's really going on?"

