 Washing less frequently will lead to greasy hair, but washing it too frequently will deprive your hair of it's natural oils. Comb it daily, for a healthy shine. For curly haired people, wash your hair only as needed (product build up, after gym etc.) and use conditioner often. Curly hair loves moisture, if you have naturally curly hair, then do not comb it when dry, because it will make it frizzy.;
, Preferably, visit a professional to see the best shape for your face and how to maintain them.
 Get plenty of sleep to avoid puffiness.
 Always blow your nose before leaving the house and check to make sure there's nothing left. But don't blow your nose until it's raw and dry.
 You can also slather on any moisturizing lip balm. Use a lip scrub once or twice a week to keep them supple.
 Floss at least once a day. Use mouthwash. If you have very crooked teeth, see your orthodontist. Be prepared for braces or perhaps Invisalign. You might not like it, but you'll like the results.
 Everyone gets pimples sometimes. Yes, even celebrities. Make sure to wash your face morning and night, use toner (to remove any residue on your skin and allow your face cream to soak in fully) and an acne treatment. Use an oil free facial moisturizer, and try to use less makeup if you wear it., The colours of your clothes should look good on you as well as look good together. Don't wear any piece of clothing that doesn't fit you. Sizes are just numbers/letters, you're going to look and feel much better in clothes that fit you, even if that means going up a size or two.
 If it's a habit for you, get an anti-bite polish from the drugstore and keep it on all the time until your habit stops. Keep your nails trimmed and filed to a reasonable length. If you don't like coloured nails, use a coat or two of clear nail varnish. If your nails are painted touch them up in the evenings and remove the polish as soon as it gets beyond the point of touch ups. Make sure to take care of your cuticles too - use cuticle oil (coconut or olive oil will do) vaseline or some hand cream.
 Before you go to sleep put on a bit of lotion and then the socks and gloves. When you wake up, your skin will be really soft.
 Wear foundation if you want to. If you're self conscious of your skin, use some light BB or CC cream, or a tinted moisturiser. Use concealer on any spots, a little bit of powder to keep the shine away, and some mascara and lip gloss. You can curl your lashes if you want to. Save eyeshadow, blush, and lipstick for special occasions.
 Just be sure not to overload yourself, if you're wearing big or dangle earrings keep all other accessories to a minimum. If you're going to a special occasion, remove one accessory before leaving the door in order not to go too far.
, Always remember to warm up and cool down! If you don't you'll be so sore after your workout that you might not be able to work out the next time you're supposed to.
 Don't ever bully anyone or gossip about someone. Don't yell at or make fun of people.
 If someone is wearing an amazing dress or you love your friend's new haircut, tell them!

,, There are many books on manners easily available. Pick up and read a few of them.
 Getting good grades will make you feel good about yourself, and it's incredibly important for your future. Get all assignments (school and work related) in on time and study regularly.
, All you need is brown eyeshadow,black liquid eyeliner, lotion, lipstick, mascara, eyelash curler (if wanted) and pencil eyeliner. Be sure to slather some lotion on your entire face, even your eyelids! First for makeup apply the brown eyeshadow under the crease of the eyelid. Then open your eye and apply it to the crease of the lid. Do to both eyes. Now apply your pencil eyeliner to your waterline on both eyes. Apply the liquid eyeliner right next to your lashes. Curl your lashes first before applying mascara because applying mascara first makes your lashes brittle. Apply mascara. Do not open your eyes until mascara and liquid eyeliner is dry! Apply the lipstick now. Remember to use lotion, toner and facial cleanser everyday.

Always remember, no matter what, that you will always be beautiful. You don't need to try to change yourself. You are you, and all that really matters is that you're happy!