 A quadratic equation means that you have at least one variable that is squared. It will typically be written in the formula y=ax(squared)+bx+c.


Graphing a quadratic equation will give you a parabola, which is a ‘U’ shaped curve.
You will need to find at least three point to graph it, beginning with the vertex which is the centermost point.
 If we use the example y=x(squared)+2x+1, then a=1, b=2, and c=1. Each letter corresponds to the number directly before the variable it sits next to in the equation. If there is no number before ‘x’ in the equation, then the variable is equal to ‘1’ because it is assumed that there is 1x.
 To find the vertex, the point in the middle of the parabola, use the formula -b/2a. In our example, this equation would change to -2/2(1), which equals to -1.
 You now know the vertex, -1, which is a point on the x-axis. However, this is only one point of the vertex coordinate. To find the corresponding y-coordinate as well as two other points on your parabola, you will need to make a table.



Place the x-coordinate for the vertex in the top center column.
Choose two more x-coordinates an equal number in each direction (positive and negative) from the vertex point. For example, we could go up two and down two, making the two numbers we fill in the other blank table spaces ‘-3’ and ‘1’.
You can choose any numbers you want to fill in the top row of the table, as long as they are whole numbers and the same distance from the vertex.
If you want to have a clearer graph, you can find five coordinates instead of three. Doing this is the same process as above, but give your table five columns instead of three.
 One at a time, take the numbers you have selected to represent the x-coordinates from your table and insert them into the original equation. Solve for ‘y’.


Following our example, we could use our chosen coordinate of ‘-3’ to substitute into the original formula of y=x(squared)+2x+1. This would change to y= -3(squared)+2(3)+1, giving an answer of y=4.
Place the new y-coordinate underneath the x-coordinate that you used into your table.
Solve for all three (or five, if you want more) coordinates in this fashion.
 Now that you have at least three complete coordinate pairs, mark them on your graph. Draw a connecting them all into a parabola, and you’re finished!

