 This is the key to having success and being satisfied with the outcome of your landscaping adventure. You cannot just decide for landscaping if you do not plan for other important things that you need to do for your outdoor space. Divide your space accordingly and set just enough area for landscaping.


Plan for enough space. Consider things such as the playground for your kids or for your pets, your vegetable garden, your garage and other outdoor space ideas needed.;
, Include the lawn and at least roughly show the location of large trees, permanent structures, and other existing elements which need to be incorporated in your plan.
 Use these to show the slope of the land, noting conditions such as wetland sites, rocky areas, and anything else which will require special attention.
 Low places and wetlands are not suitable for growing most common lawn grasses, and rocky bare hill-tops do not support grass growth well, either, so another type of landscaping may be more suitable for these areas. Areas under deep shade, such as beneath a large, broad hardwood tree might be better suited for some patio stones and a bench or swing, and very steep hills can be covered with vines or small shrubs instead of something requiring mowing or other maintenance.
 Here in the south, we have pecan trees, blueberries, and grapevines which are often used in landscaping and provide a food source for wildlife, as well as ingredients for favorite recipes.


Choose the right plants. It is better and smarter to choose native plants. Although it can also be tempting to go for plants that are uncommon in your place, it is still best to opt for native plants as these kinds of plants are already familiar with the natural habitat you have in your property. It will be easier for you to grow them.
You can actually put other variety of plants, but make sure that you do not overcrowd your yard space with imported plants and always make room for the native ones.
 Look for other areas you can "cut", or take some soil off to spread to these places. Often in large landscaping projects you will find that you have to "import", or haul in additional soil to level out the lawn, and it is best to bring this material in before any underground utilities are installed.
 This is a math problem, and if the area is irregular in shape, try to imagine it as a square or rectangle, multiplying width X length X depth, to give you a cubic volume of material. Large volumes are measured either in tons or cubic yards or meters. If the amount is very large, you will need to hire someone to haul your material in with a dump truck, smaller amounts may be brought in with a pickup truck or utility trailer.
 If you have a large amount to move, you may want to rent a small tractor with a front end loader bucket and a grader blade or box blade to do this job for you. Very large projects may require a bulldozer or other heavy equipment, but this may be too much for the average homeowner to attempt on their own.
 After the landscaping is complete is not the time to build a swimming pool or utility shed!

,,, Large landscaping projects can be overwhelming if they are not broken down into a series of smaller projects.
 If you use an electric mower, leaf blower, weed eater, or edger, you may want a couple of remote ground fault receptacles to eliminate the need for long extension cords. You will need to mount these with weatherproof boxes and covers on posts or attached to some type of structure.
 Use landscape fabric in planting areas to keep the weeds from becoming a problem, and mulch all these areas to conserve water.
 This is often done by dragging a section of fence material behind a lawn tractor or ATV, passing back and forth over the area until it is smooth.
, These are perfect for outdoor activities such as afternoon teas with friends, evening talks with your spouse and weekend picnics with your kids. However, experts advise not to add features that you cannot really maintain as this will only make your lawn look dull and old. Make sure that you can maintain the features in your landscaped lawn.


Clean the benches and chairs regularly as these can get easily damaged especially when they get wet during rainy days. Adding some features in your lawn can really add more beauty to its overall landscape design.
