 It's a free game to download.
 At first run, it will ask you for the region you are living in., If you don't have one, register by tapping on Register.

You can also Sign-in via Facebook or Twitter if you wish.
 Then the game is ready to play!, Super Mario Run is an automatic running game. You don't have to tap a button to run., There are many obstacles to prevent you from completing the level. To jump over the obstacles, tap the screen once.,,, Tap on the screen when Mario touches the wall., This is an important part of the game, and they can be hard to find.

There are normal yellow coins to collect.
There are also pink coins in some levels, which unlock harder-to-catch purple coins in the level.
 These have different effects on Mario during gameplay. For example:


Pause Blocks: When you hit these, Mario pauses, and the clock does, too. It gives you a moment to think about your next move.

Springboards: These are like catapults that propel Mario in a given direction. They can be helpful for getting out of tight spots.

Launch Blocks: You trigger these by tapping the screen as you pass the block. They move you swiftly in the direction given.

Red Rings: These make red coins appear for a short time; they're high in value, so get them while you can!

Super Stars: These turn you into a "coin magnet" so you can collect coins as you run. To find Super Stars, smash hard-to-reach bricks; they're usually hidden there.
'Switches: Use these to control moving platforms.

P Switches:' These turn blocks into blue coins for a short period. Gather them while you can!

Time Extenders: These add a few more seconds to your clock.

Stars: power-up makes you invulnerable and gives you the vacuum effect for longer.
 f you get die while under the effect of a Mushroom power-up, you'll go back to your smaller size. If you don't have a power-up, you'll get captured in a bubble and moved back to the beginning of the level. Tap the screen to pop the bubble and go again.

After three bubble saves, you get a game-over.
 Then you'll face your biggest obstacle yet: the boss., At the end of every world, defeat the boss (Bowser, Boom Boom, etc). You can defeat Bowser by dropping the axe on the bridge he stands on., Each level has a timer on it, and you need to reach the end before the time is up, or you'll have to start over again., Luigi, Yoshi, Toad, and Peach are playable characters in the game, but to unlock them you have to impress them with smart moves.