 A waiting legend just sits and waits there for you (Dialga, Palkia, etc). Roaming legends have you find them, then they run away (Mesprit, Cresselia, Suicune, Raikou, Entei, etc). Item activated Pokémon requires an item from another game such as Wi-Fi connection, Mystery Gift, or hacking (use only as a last resort), for example Shaymin, Heatran, Arceus, Manaphy, Deoxys, etc).


Item activated Pokémon are most likely considered a mythical, or a Pokémon who cannot be captured using only in-game methods, as they require another item. Also, a select few legendaries or mythicals are given out for free, but you don't need to catch these, so if you're looking for one of those, you will not need this article's assistance. You can always find out information like this on the Internet.
;
, Shadow Tag and Mean Look can help out a lot! If you don't have a Pokémon with these moves, some legendaries will move to a new route every time you do, so switch between routes for a bit, and, if (like in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver) you can see where the legendary is, you can tell when the legendary is near, and then go search for it.
 This is very crucial information. Knowing what type the legend is, helps determine what you will need to heal yourself (Paralyze Heal, Awakening, Antidote, etc.) Knowing the level will tell you what Pokémon to bring. Too low a level, and you will be defeated. Too high, and you defeat the legend. Bring a Pokémon that won`t kill it, but can at least endure the battle (if you can, bring a level 100 Pokémon no matter what, so that once you weaken the legend with the other Pokémon you brought to actually battle it, you can put in the lv. 100 so when you try many times with Poké Balls, it can take the attacks of the legend). It is also a decent idea to bring a Pokémon to put your legend to sleep, as this improves your catch rates and gives you a few turns to heal, switch Pokémon, or throw Pokéballs.
 You may not get a second chance to catch it, and if you saved before you defeated it, you can soft reset (L+R+Start+Select) and try again! It is very comforting to have this save, and continuous soft resets can score you a shiny, although the chances are absurdly low.
 It is generally a good idea to use at least Ultra Balls (catch rate: x2). Use Net Balls for water and bug Pokémon (catch rate: x3). You can use Dusk Balls at night (day- and night-times are different for the Pokémon games. You should look that up on the internet.) or in caves (catch rate: x3.5). If you want even higher catch rates you can use Timer Balls (the catch rate depends on the length of the fight: round 1-10: x1; round 11-20: x2; round 21-30: x3; round 31+: x4!). Don't use the Master Ball unless you absolutely need to, because they are extremely rare! An unused Master Ball is a cool trophy! (Every legendary CAN be caught in a Pokéball that isn't the Master Ball.)

, It would be horrible to lose your prize!

