 As the main entryway to your home, your foyer should set the tone for the rest of the house. Though you want your foyer to make an impression, it should also blend seamlessly into all adjoining areas. So, if you have Victorian furniture in the living room, try placing a Victorian table in the foyer.


You can also try blending furniture styles for a unique, less designed look. For example, pairing antique and modern items will help refresh the older items while creating a more comfortable, welcoming atmosphere.;
, If you have a spacious foyer, you can choose from both dark and light colors. However, if your foyer is small, you may want to stick with a bright color to make the area seem bigger. This will also help lighten the space if it doesn’t get much sun.


Try choosing colors that lead well into the rest of the house. A great way to do this is to use a blend of interior and exterior paints. For example, if the outside of your house is gray and the inside is marigold, try using both colors.Or, for a simple, modern look that makes a statement, try combining hues from the same color family.
 This is not only a great statement piece but also a good way to make the room look bigger. Just make sure you have enough room to hang the chandelier or light at least 6’8” above the floor. If you can't, the room may appear smaller and crowded.


If you don’t have the space for a chandelier or pendant light, but still feel like the area is too dark, try a table or floor lamp. You can go with a simple design or choose a decorative piece. For example, an antique, hand-painted, glass lamp is a beautiful addition to any room.
You can also try track lighting, which works particularly well in long hallways. It also keeps everything off the floor so you have more space.
 This is a great way to showcase your personality and display items that are important to you. For example, you can create a photo collage of places you’ve traveled to or use shadow boxes to exhibit family memorabilia. You can also choose singular items like a large portrait, painting, mirror, or wall hanging to display.If you can’t set your mind to one thing, try painting a wall with chalk paint and keeping a bin of multicolored chalk nearby. This way you and your guests and can write and draw as you feel inspired. It's also a great way to change the space with the season/holiday or to leave people welcoming messages.You can even mix all of these items for an eclectic feel. For example, make a collage of pictures, mirrors, and shadow boxes.
 If your foyer is small, a mirror is a great way to make the area appear larger. You can also try hanging two mirrors on opposite walls to reflect into each other and widen the room. Try choosing an oddly shaped mirror, like an oval or wide circle, or one with an intricate frame to add character to the space.


If the room is dark, you can position a mirror to catch sun and bring in light, too.
Adding a mirror or two is also a great idea so you and your guests can check your appearance before coming or going.
 Whether they’re real or fake, adding plants to a room is a simple way to bring in some color and variety. For example, you can choose a large floor plant like a Dracaena or a rubber tree, or you can utilize a console table to set up some small flower pots.


You can also try keeping a large flower arrangement of something like calla lilies or sunflowers in a vase.
If you feel like you don’t have the space for plants, try a wreath. These are easy to change with the season.
 When picking pieces to fill the space, try to find items that double up as containers. For example, a storage bench provides both a place to sit and a spot to put shoes, umbrellas, and other extraneous items.


You can also utilize bins, baskets, or repurposed crates and wood pallets to help declutter the area and stay organized with style.
If you have space, try setting a small table by the doorway for incoming and outgoing mail, keys, and change.
 If you don’t have a large area to work with, getting items up and off the ground can be important. Try installing hooks to get the most out of an area. For example, you can use them for clothing items like jackets, scarves, and hats as well as keys.


To be even more organized, try labeling each hook with the names or pictures of your family so everyone knows where their items should go., This is a great way to lead a person’s eye into your home. It’s also a great idea to protect your floor from mud and wear. Try choosing a rug in a dark color or intricate pattern to reduce the appearance of dirt.


If you don’t want the hassle of constantly washing a runner, you can even paint one directly onto your floor.

