 A scientific study found that people who adopt a dominant, powerful posture have a higher tolerance to pain than those in a submissive posture. To try this, keep your back straight, your shoulders square, and your head raised.Submissive postures are those where you are hunch your shoulders or curl into yourself.
 Being sleep deprived or not getting enough sleep each night can lower your pain tolerance. If you get enough sleep each night, you can raise your pain tolerance and deal with it better.Try to get seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Inadequate sleep more than once a week can lower your tolerance to pain.
 Having more friends and a larger social circle can increase your tolerance to pain. This is due to a higher release of endorphins, which helps reduce the amount of pain your body feels. By strengthening your relationships, spending more time with your friends, and making new friends, you may be able to increase your tolerance to pain.Laughing with friends in a social setting has also been found to raise your pain threshold., The way you think about pain may lower or raise your pain tolerance. Being mentally tough can help you tolerate the pain. Instead of thinking about how bad the pain hurts, instead think about the pain in a different way.For example, if you are working out, you can think about the pain being a sign that you are getting stronger and making your body better.
 Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a type of psychotherapy that replaces negative thoughts with healthier ones. Using CBT can help you learn how to cope with the pain and raise your tolerance. This should be done with the help of a trained psychologist, therapist, or other mental health professional. They will lead you through different CBT exercises and methods to help you change the way you view your pain.CBT helps change the way you view your pain. During CBT, you can put pain into context and realize that it doesn’t lessen your quality of life.
CBT can lessen stress associated with pain, therefore making the pain less of a problem and raising your threshold.
CBT allows you to feel like you are in control of the pain, which can help you feel more positive about the pain and tolerate it for longer.If you suffer from chronic pain, you can trick your mind by thinking, “That pain isn’t so bad” or “The pain is just part of what I’m feeling.”

, A study showed that when people swear, it raises their tolerance for pain. The study found that if you swear, you feel less pain than if you didn’t. The next time you feel pain, try swearing to relieve the pain.Swearing after you feel pain is considered a form of catastrophising, which is a way we change our mindset to deal with pain.
If you swear profusely on a daily basis, the study claims the effect will not be as strong.
 Some people try to deal with pain and increase their tolerance by using pain killers. This may be over-the-counter ones, like NSAIDS or acetaminophen, or prescription pain killers, like opiates. There are many non-medication ways to manage pain and raise your pain tolerance.

