 So if your life or your business is not producing the results you want then take a minute or two to humbly look at what you truly believe.;
, Do I love myself? Do I like myself? Am I resentful or angry about my past? How do I feel about making money? Have I asked for help? Do I waist time in negative thoughts? Do I expect instant success? Am I willing to learn and develop? Do I blame others? Can I change?

, Yes! You can change any time you wish. You can change this very instant. You can make a decision this very moment to open a book, turn off the TV, go for a walk, feel grateful for the many blessing of life, open your mind and listen to your heart.
 You could continue to delay or procrastinate and pretend rather than perform. Remember the idea of having to change yourself is uncomfortable and it is easier to remain as you are. You can choose rest over effort, delay over action, entertainment over education, delusion over truth, and fear over confidence. What will you choose?

,, To do this all you need to do is forget about your past, your past errors in judgment, your past mistakes, your past bad feelings and realize that at whatever point you are currently at in life, it is a result of all of your past decisions and choices. Another helpful thing is to forgive yourself and others for any wrongs that have been done.
 Start out by reviewing your current routine or schedule. What are you doing to better yourself on a daily basis?

, This means that by doing simple constructive things over a period of time you will bring long term beneficial results into your life.
 When you direct your attention to thoughts of love, gratitude, thankfulness, happiness and joy you will be activating some of the most powerful forces in the universe.
 So if you want to bring abundance into your life, begin now and feel that you already have abundance. See yourself as already in possession of your dreams and goals. Believe you deserve to have the best that love and life have to offer. Believe you can be anything you want to be. You can be love, you can be happy and you can be healthy!

,