 If they start to go off in another direction, be sure that you follow them, or ask them where they are going, and be prepared to stop them if they are going someplace they aren't supposed to be going to. If a child is over age 5, allow them to stay inside the house, but only in rooms they know aren't off limits to them. If they go outside (make sure the parents allow this), limit them to within eyesight of you only.


If a child is in another room, be sure that you don't have any TV or stereos up extremely loud, where you won't hear if they need something or if they are crying.;
, If you are at a public place with a lot of people, then be sure that you keep them close to you. Allow them to explore a little if you are at a place such as the park, but always make sure you can see them and know where they are.


Before the parents leave, ask them if you are allowed to go anywhere in public. If they say no, then be sure that you respect their wishes, even if the children really want to go, as the parents definitely said no for a reason, whatever that reason may be.
 If you leave the child in the car and someone finds them, and you, then it is possible for you to face criminal charges. Even if you think you'll only be somewhere for a minute, and the child doesn't want to go in, take them with you, as it is for their own safety.
 If it is another person that the parents are expecting, the parents may have a code word or something similar that they use. Ask the parents beforehand what the code may be if they say that they are expecting someone, and if they do not have a code they will use, ask them for a clear way to identify the person.


If you suspect that there is a dangerous person on the property, then make sure that you and all of the children stay inside and that youcontact emergency services immediately.
 It is possible for even older children to drown. Use the bathroom and do other necessary things you may need to do before you allow them in the pool.


Again, check with the parents before they leave if the children are allowed to swim. If they say no, it is important that you respect their wishes, as once again, the parents said no for a reason.
 If the child sets up something with a friend while you are there that the parents did not know about, although it may not be ideal, you may have to call the parents. They can approve or deny the child hanging out with their friend. If the parents already said no friends before you left, then you yourself can tell the child no.
 Children under the age of 5 are at the greatest risk for choking, although any child of any age can choke. To prevent this, make sure food is cut up into small pieces, and that you closely monitor the child if they are playing with a toy that is labeled as a choking hazard.
 Be sure that the parents have the medicine cabinet clearly off limits, as well as any sharp tools such as knives. If you see the child about to grab something that can be harmful, immediately stop them. If you know that they have swallowed any pills or medicine, then be sure that you contact the poison control center immediately, as they will have information for what you need to do.
 This is important, because even if you need to call an ambulance, if you provide basic first aid, that can be the difference between life and death, if the child has a severe injury or illness.


It is also reccomended that you learn CPR before a babysitting job, as this can be important if the child is choking, or stops breathing for another reason, you can potentially save their lives. This, along with basic first aid, can be learned at a class. Usually you can find classes in your area by doing an online search.
 If they are fighting and get too rough, injury can result. Therefore, discourage any wrestling, or play fighting between the children. If they are actually fighting and getting physical, then seperate them immediately.

