 Consistent use of your cast or brace is necessary in order to allow your fascia to fully recover. Even if you feel better and there is little to no pain when you put your full weight on your feet, it is still necessary to allow complete recovery. No pain and increased mobility does not mean your body has healed 100 percent. You can expect to wear the cast or boot for two to three weeks. Your surgeon will likely tell you to stay off your feet completely except for when eating or using the bathroom for the first week or two.You should also keep the foot and bandage completely dry to reduce the risk of infection., Though you should stay off your feet completely as often as you can manage it, your doctor will provide crutches for you to use when you must get up.Use them consistently to help aid you in keeping weight off your foot.
 Though not highly invasive, the open nature of the procedure will still result in pain during your recovery. Your doctor will likely prescribe pain medication to help keep you more comfortable during the initial recovery time. Take your pain meds as directed when you are experiencing pain. If the pain is unrelieved, contact your doctor.


Your doctor will have you switch to over-the-counter pain medication once your prescription runs out. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen can help manage pain., Your surgeon will schedule follow-up appointments to monitor the progress of your recovery and to determine when to remove the cast or boot on your foot. Make sure you attend these appointments, and do not remove the cast or boot before your doctor gives the okay.
 Once your doctor removes the cast/boot, he will give the okay for you to start wearing shoes again as soon as it’s comfortable for you to do so. Since surgery is a last resort, you will likely already have custom orthotic inserts for your shoes. Continue to use them after the surgery to provide the proper form and support to your foot as it continues to heal., Once your foot is out of the cast, you can also ice it to help reduce discomfort, especially after being on your feet for a long period of time. One method is to place a frozen water bottle under your foot while rolling your foot along it. This stretches the area around your plantar fascia while icing it at the same time., If your doctor sees the potential for complications or evidence that you’ve been putting too much weight on your foot, she may schedule more appointments to monitor your foot. However, you will likely only have to meet with a physical therapist at this point to learn some stretches and exercises to aid in your recovery time.


These types of stretches include massaging your plantar fascia by using a small, hard object such as a golf ball to roll under your foot.Another easy way to exercise the corresponding muscles and tendons is to flex your toes down and in to grasp a towel or even the carpet beneath your feet., Even after you can walk normally without any discomfort, your doctor or physical therapist may recommend easing yourself back into high-impact exercise routines. You’ll want to restrict high-impact running and jumping for as long as three months.Consult them about the best exercises and schedule for resuming your workout regimen.


They won’t stop you from exercising completely, but they will likely suggest low-impact routines such as swimming.

