 This is called 'mindfulness'. By finding mindfulness, you should be able to evaluate what you're thinking about in a nonjudgmental way. No thought you have is 'good' or 'bad', but it simply is. This mindset can cause you to see your thoughts aside from other's opinions on them. Your opinion on someone or something is your opinion, regardless of how they'd feel knowing you have it. Be conscious of the thoughts going through your head. When you feel a certain way, think about it and take a bit of time to evaluate what the thought is exactly. Don't let any thought pass by, but simply take time to comprehend it and move on.;
, As important as mindfulness is, you must be careful not to cope on one specific thing. It's important to move on and register other thoughts, as dwelling on a specific thought means you could invite negative emotions. Focusing on a specific thought often leads to criticizing it, which leads to criticizing yourself.
 Let your brain have a rest, and move yourself to an isolated area until you can begin to process the emotions you felt. Understand the root of what got you upset without judging those who were involved, the situation involved, or your actions. You are not evaluating the situation to place blame, but rather to find out why you're upset and reverse it. Isolating yourself from these thoughts and resting your mind through doing other things or a form of meditation is a healthy way to calm yourself down so you can revisit the event later.
 Think of your thoughts as a thermometer. If the thoughts are uplifting and help you feel hope or happiness in some way, leave them in your mind and focus on them. If they are 'cooler' and do not help you, ignore them and try not to focus on them. If this is not an option, simply isolate the thought as a 'just-is', and something that you cannot blame others or yourself for. Not everything needs or deserves a form of blame.
 Isolate them further, and understand whether or not your negative thoughts are repeating. Figure out whether there is a way that these thoughts are being triggered, and end it. negative thoughts only hurt you and upset your happiness. If the thought is a recurring thought about the future or something about your appearance or personality, find a way to be reminded of these things less and become more accepting of yourself and future. You are your own person with the power to change things, but you must first learn to love yourself. Simply loving yourself can destroy lots of negative thoughts.
 Try to focus your thoughts towards what is currently happening within a limited time span. Looking towards your future often causes you to see the faults in your future, and the same thought process goes with your past. It is better to think about what is going to happen soon, as you can therefore focus on your current happiness and the things you can change at that exact moment.
,,