 Get a shallow basin that when filled with water, submerges up to the ankle. Fill the basin with warm water and a squirt of body wash.;
, Put a few drops of either baby oil or tea tree oil in with the water to quicken the softening process.As an alternative, you can add a splash of distilled white vinegar to deodorize  and sanitize your feet.
 Leave your feet resting in the basin for at least five and up to twenty minutes. The goal is to make sure that your feet are fully softened.Leave them in a bit longer if you have a lot of growths on your feet that you’re trying to get rid of.
 Before using the pumice stone on your feet, dunk it in the warm soapy water that’s in the basin.
 Exfoliate the skin on your feet with the pumice stone and spend extra time on the tougher areas of your feet bottoms, such as the heels.This will aid in removing thick, leathery calluses as well as the dead skin cells sitting on top of your healthy skin.
 Spend two to three minutes on any one corn or wart by carefully rubbing over the growth with the pumice stone.This will keep the skin around the growth from tearing.








Some growths, such as warts, have the potential to spread. If you’re using the pumice stone on a potentially contagious area, be sure to sanitize it completely before moving to another area on your foot.
 After you’ve pumiced your feet, make sure to rinse them with fresh water and gently pat them dry with a clean washcloth.They will be a bit tender, so refrain from rubbing them dry in a harsh manner.
 Since pumicing your feet can be a little irritating for your skin, it’s a good idea to soothe your feet with a plant-based moisturizer. Try rubbing your feet with cocoa butter or coconut oil.
 After each time you scrub your feet with the stone, you should rinse it with clean, clear water. After several uses, boil the pumice stone in a vinegar solution containing four cups of water and two tablespoons of vinegar., To maintain cleanliness, avoid keeping your pumice stone in a location near the bathtub or shower where it can collect moisture. Instead, keep your pumice stone in the towel closet or underneath the bathroom sink.
 Especially if your feet have multiple growths and are feeling very dry, complete this regimen every day until you see a more lasting result.