 In many disciplines and types of work, you may need to draw upon archives to compose your work. This can help you and your readers quickly and easily access the material if you want to revisit it or they want to check your work.Take very detailed notes when you research so that you can include the most comprehensive citation information possible., Many archives have preferred citation formats for their records. This can help you, your readers, archivists and other organizational personnel more quickly locate the material if necessary.Ask the archivists or staff when you visit an archive if they have preferred methods of citation for their documents.
For example, the National Archives of the United States lists the repository as the last item in a citation.By contrast, the German Federal Archives lists the repository as the first item., You will need to give the specific repository, which is the location that holds the archival material, in your citation.This shows your readers where they can find the material, and can help you relocate the material if need be.


Many national archives have multiple repositories, and you will need to also designated this information.
For example, the National Archives of the United States and the German Federal Archives have several locations across each country. In these cases, you would note: National Archives and Records Administration- College Park (NACP).For the Bundesarchiv in Koblenz: BArchK., Most archives are organized into distinct record groups by subject. The overarching record group is the most important pointer to you and your readers about where to find the specific document(s) you cite.Include the record group, even if you don’t note any other information. This information gives credence to your citation.
If you are working at a smaller repository without record groups, provide the best information that you are able.
For example: NACP, Records of the Occupation Military Government for Germany, Record Group (RG) 260.Likewise, BArchK B 106., Depending on the repository and record group, you may have additional data such as series and file units. Provide as much of this information as you are able to help support your work and give other readers the opportunity to consult the same material.Additional types of provenance, or source, information include: subgroups, series, file units, and page numbers.For example: Files 1-D/ 2.1 to 1-D/ 3, Box 10, Records of the Bureau and Consular Affairs Lot File 62-D-146, Central Records of the State Department, Record Group 59, NACP.Likewise, BArchK B 106/ 1659., Record the specific information about the item that you are citing. Not only does this provide your reader context about the document, but it can also make it easier to locate at a later date.Item information comes from the document that you cite. It should include recipients, authors, date, and title of the document.For example, Secret Non-Regional Program US-Escapee Program, undated. Files 1-D/ 2.1 to 1-D/ 3, Box 10, Records of the Bureau and Consular Affairs Lot File 62-D-146, Central Records of the State Department, Record Group 59, NACP.Likewise, BArchK B 106/ 1659 Verzeichnis von Legionsrat von Puttkamer, Auswärtiges Amt an Innenminister Robert Lehr, Bundesministerium des Innern, 05 Januar 1978., Just as with published primary sources, many archives are digitizing non-sensitive material and making it available to the public. If you accessed your archival material online, include all of the aforementioned citation information and the website at which you accessed it.For example, Secret Non-Regional Program US-Escapee Program, undated. Files 1-D/ 2.1 to 1-D/ 3, Box 10, Records of the Bureau and Consular Affairs Lot File 62-D-146, Central Records of the State Department, Record Group 59, NACP. http://xxx.xxx.xxx. (last accessed September 8, 2015).
 It’s very important that you review your archival citations before submitting work. This can help minimize the risk of accusations that you haven’t done the work or incurring difficulties from archives for incorrectly citing their collections.

