 You can make a rich beef broth to have on its own or use the broth as a base for soups and stews. To make the broth, just saute large pieces of the leftover roast beef along with one diced onion. Once the onion is soft, add enough water to cover the meat. Bring this to a light boil and keep cooking until the water darkens.Taste the broth every once in a while to see when it's finished cooking. Once the broth tastes robust, turn off the heat and strain and serve it or use it in your recipe.;
, Heat a little oil or the roast drippings in a saucepan and stir in a little flour to make a roux. Whisk in milk and keep whisking until the gravy thickens. Dice some of the leftover roast and add it to the gravy. Taste it and add salt and pepper until it suits your tastes.Serve this white gravy with fried chicken or biscuits. It makes a great breakfast or simple supper.
 If you're trying to eat a little healthier after a large roast, make a salad. Mix up your favorite salad and add leftover roast that you've cut into strips. For example, you could use the roast in a Nicoise salad, in a Cobb salad, or in a Thai salad. Add the meat cold or reheat it slightly so it's warm.Leftover roast is great in salads with strong flavors. Choose rich dressings or cheese to go with the meat. Try Caesar dressing and Parmesan or blue cheese.
 For a light meal or filling breakfast, dice potatoes, onion, and the leftover roast. Fry the potatoes in a little oil until they soften. Add the diced onion and roast. Continue to fry the hash until the potatoes are crispy, the onions are cooked, and the roast has heated up.


Serve the hash with a little hot sauce or steak sauce. Season the hash with salt, pepper, or your favorite herb blends.
 Dice strips of the roast into small pieces and add them to your favorite quiche or frittata recipe. Consider adding chopped, cooked asparagus and Parmesan cheese for an even richer dish. Cook the quiche or frittata according to the recipe instructions.You don't need to reheat the roast before adding it to the quiche or frittata since the whole thing will bake in the oven.

