 You can use any flat mirrors, whether the frame is rectangular, round, or some other shape. The two mirrors don't even have to be the same shape, but they do need to be small enough to fit into a milk carton.


You may be able to find small mirrors at a craft or art supply store, or from an online store.;
, Find two empty milk cartons, each at least one quart (one liter) in size and wide enough to fit your mirrors. Cut off and discard the triangular top of each one, then wash the inside thoroughly to get rid of smells.


A long, sturdy cardboard tube could also work.
You could use a large, flat sheet of sturdy cardboard instead. Lightly score it with a craft knife to divide it into four sections, then fold it into a box and tape together.
 Use packing tape or another strong tape to tape the open ends of the cartons together, making one long box. To fasten the cartons together more securely, try taping the inside of the box together on one side, then taping all four outside surfaces.


You can tape two tubes or two homemade cardboard cartons together in the same way, to make a longer periscope. However, the longer the periscope is, the smaller the image will be., Place one of the mirrors on one of the vertical sides of the milk carton, about 1/4 of an inch (6 mm) from the end.Trace the mirror with a pencil, then cut on the pencil marks to create a hole.


A craft knife may be the easiest tool for cutting the hole, but should only be used with adult supervision, as it is very sharp.
If you are using a cardboard tube instead of a milk carton, flatten it slightly so you can trace the mirror.
 Use sticky putty or double-sided tape to attach the mirror you traced onto the inside wall of the carton, across from the hole you cut. Arrange the mirror so the whole surface can be seen when you look through the hole, but have it point downward toward the opposite end of the carton at a 45º angle.


To test whether it's at a 45º angle, use a ruler to measure the distance from the closest corner of the carton to where the lower edge of the mirror touches the carton's side. Then measure the distance from the same corner to the opposite end of the mirror, where it touches the carton's top. The two distances will be the same if the mirror is angled at 45º.
Don't use glue yet, since you might need to make adjustments to the mirror's position.
 To find out where to cut, place the carton in front of you on its short end, with the first hole you cut near the top. Rotate the carton so that hole is on the opposite side. The second hole will go on the side that is now facing you, right at the bottom of this side. Trace the second mirror and cut as you did before.
 Just like the first mirror, this should be visible from the hole, and should face the other end of the carton at a 45º angle. At this angle, one mirror will reflect light directly down through the periscope, and the second will reflect it directly through the hole and into your eye. You will see this reflected light as an image of whatever is on the opposite hole of your periscope.
 Do you see a clear image when you look through one of the holes? If it is blurry, or you only see the inside of the periscope, adjust the position of the mirrors. Once both of them are at 45º angles, you should be able to see through the periscope clearly.
 If putty or tape isn't enough to keep the mirrors steady, attach them with glue. Once they're permanently stuck in the right position, you can use your periscope to spy on people, or see over the top of a crowd.


If too much light is coming through the "eye" end of your periscope, making it difficult to see the reflection, tape black construction paper over the outside edges of the hole.

