 If the spam text message has a link to a website, visit it. Often the company name and address available. If not, there's little you can do.;
, Send this first notice signed for or registered.



---your address and the date---

---the company’s address---

To whomever it may concern,

NOTICE OF DEMAND FOR EVIDENCE FOLLOWING UNSOLICITED TEXT MESSAGE

Please read the following notice thoroughly and carefully before responding. It is a notice. It informs you. It means what it says.

I received a text message to my mobile ---your mobile number--- on ---the receipt date--- from ---the number it was sent from--- telling me ---a short summary of the message---

---Briefly explain how you linked the message to them---

Sending unsolicited text messages is acting contrary to the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003. Under section 30 of PECR individuals are entitled to bring proceedings for compensation.

Processing my sensitive personal data requires a valid condition, as stated in the Data Protection Act 1998. Under section 13 of DPA individuals are entitled to bring proceedings for compensation.

It is my position that you do not have and have never had my permission to send me marketing messages, or to process my personal data.

To remedy this situation, I demand that you:

1. Provide evidence of where you obtained my number

2. Provide evidence that at the time of collecting my data I was informed as to how it would be used by you

3. Provide evidence that at the time of collecting my data I was given the opportunity to opt out

4. Provide evidence that I gave prior permission for you to send promotional text messages to my number

5. Provide the name and address of the company you used to have the message sent to a service provider such that it may be broadcast to my mobile

If you cannot provide such evidence, you agree to award me damages of £394. Failure to provide this evidence within 28 (TWENTY EIGHT) days will incur charges of £35 for the construction and preparation of further notices, and make the amount of £429 damages immediately payable.

I look forward to seeing evidence, which can be scanned and returned via email to ---your email address---, or sent through the post. If you cannot provide this evidence, please send a cheque for the sum of £394 payable to ---your name--- within 28 days to the above address.

I trust that small claims court action will not be necessary in this matter. You have not been charged a fee for the issue of this first notice.

Yours faithfully,

---your name---

---screenshot of the message---


, If they don't provide the evidence you requested, reply politely telling them that they need clear and explicit consent to send text messages to consumers and that action will continue unless the evidence you requested is provided. Keep it short and simple.




---your address and the date---

---the company’s address---

To whomever it may concern,

NOTICE OF FAULT AND OPPORTUNITY TO CURE

I am disappointed not to have received a satisfactory response to the notice I sent on ---date of first notice---.

You now owe me the damages of £394. As I specified in my first notice, the preparation and construction of further notices would incur a further £35. I serve notice on you in the sum of £429.

Please note that subsequent notices will incur an additional £35.00. I trust that you will resolve this matter once and for all and that you will review your internal administrative procedures without this need for small claims court action. Please issue a cheque in the sum of £429.00 payable to ---your name--- within 7 (SEVEN) days of the issue date of this notice and I will agree not to take further action.

Yours faithfully,

---your name---


,



---your address and the date---

To whomever it may concern,

NOTICE OF DEFAULT £464.00

I am disappointed not to have received a satisfactory response to my notice sent on ---date of second notice--- in which I demanded the sum of £429.00. You have been given ample time and have failed to provide the evidence I demanded, and you have not responded to the notice of fault and now owe me the damages of £464.00 (which includes a £35.00 fee for the issue of this final default notice).

Unless a cheque made payable to ---your name--- for the sum of £464 is sent within 7 (SEVEN) days from the date issue of this notice, I shall have no option but to issue a claim in the county court.

As I specified in my first notice, the preparation and construction of further notices would levy a further £35 on to the outstanding monies, which now stand at £464. I serve notice on you in the sum of £464.00 (THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR POUNDS). I trust that you will resolve this matter once and for all and that you will review your internal administrative procedures without this need for small claims court action, which will add a further fee of £35.

Yours faithfully

---your name---


, After the stated length of time has elapsed register and log in to MoneyClaim online and make a new claim, filling out the particulars as such:

 


In ---month and year that the spam was sent--- the defendant sent an unsolicited promotional SMS message to the claimant. The defendant did not have clear and explicit permission to do so. The defendant was given ample time to provide evidence that their action was lawful and failed to do so. The claimant claims £394 compensation in respect of a tort committed by the defendant for acting contrary to Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 section 22 and the Data Protection Act 1998 Schedule 2; and £70 for notices sent. The claimant is entitled to compensation under section 30 of Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 and section 13 of the Data Protection Act.
 If they don't pay up, apply for judgement. You should receive a letter telling you that they will pay up. If not, when 28 days have passed since your court action was initiated, apply for a judgement in default. The defendant will receive notice from the court, and should pay up.
 Usually by now you have your damages, but if the defendant has not paid within a reasonable amount of time (a month) write to them stating that they have done nothing to resolve the situation and that they have a further seven days to do so otherwise you will be left with no choice but to issue a warrant of execution, which means bailiffs would visit them.
 If they still haven't paid, log into MoneyClaim and request a warrant of execution.

