


Take a look at the current map. Size, how many players, what type of map it is ( be it urban, open scape, closed hallways indoors), and your play style all must come into play with this.
The heavy machine gun is a great weapon, but only under a select few circumstances. first off, if you're in a free for all map, then you will reign if you find a nice corner and sit down with a hard hitting, fast firing, 200 round machine gun, pounding countless rounds into people spawning and running around corners.
Try using a sub machine gun or an automatic shotgun if you're in a tight quarters map. Pump shotguns are too slow when risking getting more shots off, hence auto shotguns give you the ability to rake down hallways with lead, leaving whatever poor soul is stuck in front of you to be mowed down.
Sub-machine guns are great since in the FPS world, their accuracy at full automatic is relatively the same when you run just as if you are standing still, giving you the advantage of strafing, jumping, ducking, without the loss of accuracy with an assault rifle.
The assault rifle and sniper rifle are top choices for more urban or open ended maps. The accuracy and range of the assault rifle is perfect for blasting people at 60 yards (54.9 m) with 3 or 4 shots to the body or a stray to the face. Also take note that when you move your accuracy goes down the drain, especially when jumping, you can almost always destroy an opponent by standing still or crouching and not moving. With an enemy jumping all over the place you may get hit 1 or 2 times, but with you planted your firing rate and accuracy will be on top of them, pounding them with rounds before they even hit the ground. Moral of the story: plant yourself and let loose that itchy trigger finger on people who want to jump and jive.
The sniper rifle is self explanatory. Just make sure you have a nice vantage point, preferably slightly below your enemy, when people see sniper fire they usually suspect it from coming from top windows and on top of buildings, being dominated time to time from these alley snipers can teach you to do just the same.;
, Most the guides and tips always say explosives are horrible to use, which is not always as true as it seems. Most reasons that people don't like them are because they're cheap. When shooting someone with a grenade, it is surely going to get them pissed, but they can do the same to you. Winning is all you care about, not how you play. Other players can whine calling you a "noob" since you use an underslung grenade launcher or rockets. Hey, free kills, they can cry all they want, but when you're sitting at first place, you can laugh in their face.


Spamming grenades only rarely works, and if it does, it has to be the right circumstance, such as enemy spawns, hallways, and tight buildings. You can always use grenades, they work best for a flush maneuver.
Mines are just as good, just remember where you plant them so you don't step on your own bomb. If you are a sniper and sitting in a house, you should place mines in the entrance of the house, in case an enemy comes in.
Rockets and underslung grenade launchers reign supreme when it comes to explosives. The ability to do heavy splash damage over a large distance is suburb. You can almost always use the underslung grenade launcher in call of duty 4 and battlefield 2. After a few weeks of play you'll be able to hit targets at over 100 yards (91.4 m) in the face with a nice underslung. It's all about practice, remember to stand still when you fire, you get the hang of the distance and the way you fire as you play.
 Here's a few tactics that can be applied and that most of the time let you get the drop on enemies:


The Flush: this tactic is superb when you get an enemy that loves to camp hallways and rooms. It's a simple tactic that, almost always works. First you have to know where your opponent has decided to camp. Next get out a grenade. strafe past the doorway/hallway and let your grenade go behind him, chances are, since they can't see it, they'll move forward, either jumping or sprinting to get away from that 3 second fuse. At that time, as soon as you loose the grenade and are past the doorway, take out your main weapon and charge in firing in bursts, most likely he'll catch the first few rounds in the face and he's trapped between your weapon and the grenade behind him
Baiting: this tactic not only works, but also, it always can grant you a few laughs! And it's extremely simple. Locate a group of enemy's, shoot one or two rounds and let them see you, then slip out around the next corner and wait. Sure they'll expect to see you there, but most players will still be shocked to see a rifle in their face! Pull the trigger for some easy kills. You can rack up 10-15 points a round with this beauty. Consider using a heavy machine gun, just so you don't have to reload and superior fire power. Another effective weapon is the land mine in this situation, just be out of range when it goes boom. You can also go around and get some kills from behind, as they won't usually expect you to go around.
Breaching, is much like the flush, but instead of explosive grenades, you use a flash bang grenade to stun your enemy and blind them. Leaving them most likely to blind fire a few rounds. This gives you the best advantage. Being able to see! Follow the same routine as the flush.

