 Decide if you want to administer a home drug test or have it sent to a facility for testing. You can purchase home drug tests online or at a pharmacy, while laboratory tests require the patient to go to a specialized facility. Lab tests are more accurate than take-home tests and are what you should use if you plan on drug screening potential employees.In a laboratory setting, there will be less of a chance of sample tampering.
Drug tests that evaluate hair and saliva will usually have to be sent to a lab.;
, The three main types of drug tests are urine, saliva, and hair drug tests. Each test varies on how far back it will detect drugs. Urine and saliva tests will only detect drugs taken within the last couple of days, while hair tests will detect drugs that have been taken within the last three months. Choose the test that best suits your needs.A urine test is the least expensive and typically catches drugs that were taken within the last week.
Saliva tests are less intrusive than hair or urine tests but will only detect drugs taken over the last couple of days. They are also most effective to detect drugs that have been consumed over the last couple of hours.
Hair tests go back three months and will still read positive if the person just recently started abstaining from drug use.
 Some home tests will only test for specific drugs, while others will test for a variety of drugs. Read the label on the test you're planning on buying and make sure that it tests for the drug that you suspect they use.Cannabinoid tests are made to detect drugs like marijuana and hash.
Opiate tests will detect drugs such as heroin, opium, codeine, and morphine.
There are also tests made specifically to detect cocaine and amphetamines.
 If your testing a friend or family member, think of ways that you can help rehabilitate the person taking the drugs. If drug use is found, there should be a therapy plan in place that can help them overcome the habit. This may be a combination of psychotherapy or a drug rehabilitation program. If you are screening employees or potential employees, speak with your human resources department and come up with the proper punishment for failing the test.Be ready to sit down and talk with the person about the results of their test.
Regardless of what you decide to do after they fail, make sure that you stick to the plan no matter what.
 There are various state and local guidelines and regulations if you plan on screening applicants or employees of drugs. Many states require employers to use a state-certified lab for drug testing while others require the employer to inform the applicant of the drug screening before offering them the job. Refer to your human resources department to ensure that your testing meets all of these legal guidelines.Some states require the company to give a job offer before they can drug screen an applicant.

