 The design should be roughly the size of your hand.

Poster board works well for this. You can also use cardstock or a cereal box.
 Use the design to trace another identical design on another thin sheet of cardboard. Cut that design out as well.You can cut it out with a pair of scissors, or you can use a craft blade for more precision., The strip needs to be about 1½ inches (3.8 centimeters) wide, and long enough to wrap around the perimeter of your design. If you need to, cut several strips, and tape them together.If your design has an inner shape, such as a doughnut, be sure to cut a strip out for that as well.
 Place several strips of tape around the edges of your first shape, as close together as you can. Flip the shape over so that the sticky side of the tape is facing up. Wrap the thin cardboard strip around the edges of your shape. Secure it with the tabs of tape that are sticking out.If you wish to fill your piñata with candy, leave a 1 to 2-inch (2.5 to 5-centimeter) gap in the bottom of the piñata. If your piñata has a pointy bottom, make the gap on the side.
If you wish to add a hanging cord, poke a hole in the center of the top wall. Fold some cord in half and knot the ends. Push the folded end up through the hole so that the knots are on the inside.
 Place several strips of tape around the edges of the second shape, as close together as you can. Place it tape-side-down on top of the first one. Fold the pieces of tape onto the side walls made by the thin cardboard strip., If you plan on using the piñata as decoration, you do not have to fill it with candy. Choose wrapped, lightweight candy. Hard, non-sticky candy, such as M&Ms and Skittles may also work. Avoid anything that is too heavy or bulky, and do not over-stuff your piñata; you want the candy to rattle inside., If you filled your piñata with candy, you will have a gap in the bottom that needs to be covered up. Cut a 3 by 1½ inch (7.62 by 3.8-centimeter) piece of tissue paper or crepe paper. Place it over the gap, and secure the edges with tape or glue., Don't worry if it looks too long; you will be trimming it down later on.

You can also use crepe paper streamers instead.
For a more interesting-looking piñata, use at least two different colors; three would be even better.
 Fold the strip in half several times first, then cut several, evenly-spaced slits into one of the edges. Unfold the strip to reveal your fringe.How wide these slits are is up to you, but ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) would be ideal., Draw a line of glue around the bottom edge of the piñata. Wrap the fringe around the piñata, pressing the top/smooth part of the fringe into the glue.If you don't plan on breaking your piñata apart, you can use double-sided tape instead.
 Apply your next line of glue just above the first fringe. Press the second strip of fringe into the glue, so that the tassel part covers the smooth part., Depending on the shape you created, your piñata may still have bare patches on the top and bottom walls. Cover these patches with 1½-inch (3.8-centimeter) wide strips of tissue paper. Do not add fringes to these., You do not have to do this, but you can make your piñata look more interesting by gluing cut paper on top of the fringe. Cut some shapes out of construction paper or cardstock, then glue them to the piñata. Do not get carried away here, however; less is more!