 The Tudor name has Welsh origins in the name is traced to the medieval Prince Rhys ap Tewdwr.


Henry VII

Life: 28 January 1457 – 21 April 1509
Reign: 22 August 1485 – 21 April 1509
Religion: Catholic

Henry famously finalised the War of the Roses (two rival branches of the French Plantagenet house that had ruled England since the French-Norman invasion.) and took the crown from the defeated Richard III. Much of the infamous history of Richard is possibly Tudor propaganda which was used to help cement the Tudor dynasty in place and weaken any further Plantagenet uprisings. Henry was overall a prudent monarch, whose greatest wisdom was to learn from the folly and examples of other European monarchs. He placed great pressure on his sons to bear sons of their own, to help maintain the delicate and fragile peace after the War of the Roses and continue the dynasty.



;
, It was in this era there was more (although limited) parliamentary power given to civil servants which is the foundation of Parliament as known today. Foreign policy, the military and many reforms and policies still came directly from the palace however.


The Tudors had a highly defined class system and there was typically little movement between the classes, so the wealthy classes tended to be highly powerful and influential. The wealthy typically were engaged in merchant trade or civil service as the aristocracy revelled in Crown sponsored monopolies in various products which would be the gift of the crown and make fortunes - the average nobility was paid wages between 1500-3000 pounds per year, where the common man might earn between 5-20 pounds a year. The Aristocracy typically was expected to be involved at court and later monarchs, particularly Elizabeth, was known to visit and stay at favourites at their expense, often to their ruin.
Religion was incredibly important as it generally formed the backbone of society, supplied most of the educational resources and controlled many large areas of land. It was the time of Henry VIII that started the Protestant reformation within England against the older Catholic Christianity. Religion in this way became a major source of problems in this dynasty and subsequent dynasties and during the reign of Henry VIII, the monasteries were dissolved and their assets seized by the crown which gave much wealth and power to the ruling dynasty.
Punishments were severe, including (if you were lucky) lifelong imprisonment in the tower of London (not entirely a prison, the tower did have fairly comfortable apartments for wealthy incumbents, the tower was originally a palace), exile or swift beheading. However, for those deemed traitors, the penalty was often being dragged through the streets, hung until almost dead, the stomach drawn open with a blade and the entrails spilled onto a red hot plate. After that, they were cut in quarters with axes, all while still alive, then their head would be placed on a spike over the city or town gates. The Tudors wished to make a clear point about law and order. Alternatively criminals may be burned alive at the stake, sometimes with gunpowder used to speed up the process (which was deemed as merciful). The poor were often hung, imprisoned or executed for small crimes.
England was in a perilous time during this dynasty, not only recovering from a terrible civil war called the War of the Roses between the two rival branches of the ruling House of Plantagenet known as the House of York and Lancashire.
After this came the conflicts of the Protestant reformation, of succession and of royal marriage contracts. The English had long had wars with France and had an on and off relationship with Spain - a powerful nation at the time, but the people of England feared not only the religious conflicts but being embroiled in Spain’s many conflicts. Most monarchs, especially Elizabeth, had large and powerful secret services to spy on their people as well as foreign nationals, this pattern continued right through to the Stuart era.
While the nation at large became very wealthy and powerful during this dynasty, things went from bad to worse for the poor, who traditionally relied on support and charity of the monasteries. During the Tudor period, laws were passed requiring licenses to beg. Poor people were often forced to work in textile, metalworking and agriculture on pains of being whipped or executed on multiple offences.
The role of women in Tudor England seemed to be far more liberal than many of the neighbouring kingdoms in Europe. While it was still a vast way away from the freedoms of today, foreign visitors had noted that at the time the wealthy English women were more educated and cultured than anywhere else in Europe. Virtue, manners and honour was an exceptionally important aspect for both genders.
Tudor currency of the time was highly complex, with many small coin variations and a complex rate of exchange that confused many visiting international traders. Common currency (in no fixed order) included the three-farthing, pence, farthing, halfpenny, half groat, groat, pound, sixpence, half crown, crown, quarter angel, half angel, angel, sovereign, half pound and shillings.


New and popular spices includes cloves, nutmegs, mace as well as medieval spices such as cumin, ginger, garlic and cinnamon. Dried and sugared fruits such as raisins, dates, prunes also found their way into savoury dishes. The people of this era and long before then loved garlic, onions, leeks but as they had a strong fragrance, they were deemed as peasant food and so their use was limited, gradually to the point many centuries later that garlic became a foreign, exotic ingredient.
Meats of all kinds were very common yet vegetables were distrusted for being dirty and peasant-food, people of this era engaged in what’s called nose to tail eating, which involved organs such as tripe, lungs, heart, liver, kidneys, brains, marrow and essentially that was edible was consumed. Fish was very common and as the Navy of the Elizabethan era doubled up as the fishing fleet when it wasn't in active service, eating fish was made mandatory on certain days (Wednesday, Friday and Saturday) to be able to fund the navy.
Water was almost never consumed. Bacterial infections and other contaminants were rife so ale, beer, wine and mixed drinks were consumed instead, although milk drinks were also popular. Tea, chocolate and coffee were not available during this time, so many of today’s favourite beverages and flavourings were not familiar to the diet.
Bread was a major staple for all classes, with Manchet Bread, being a near white bread in today’s standard but certainly an expensive variety in its day, most common people lived off brown bread.
In the Tudor era, salads started to make their way into the diet, after cultural exchange from the Ottoman empire. These salads were often made more of flowers, leafy greens and herbs. Henry the 8th is said to have been fond of a salad made of young lemon leaves.
While not commonly consumed by the wealthy, this era introduced the potato, pumpkin, corn, tomatoes and many of the "new world" vegetables to Europe. Tomatoes, being closely related to deadly nightshade, were originally considered poisonous and was kept as an ornamental.
With the expansion of travel and exploration, many new methods were devised to preserve food for these voyages which also affected the local cuisine. Examples such as cooked beef and meat shredded and preserved with large corns of salt and covered with fat (which is the source of corned beef); dried and smoked fish and meat, clotted cream preserved with extra sugar and other pickles. Pickling became an important preservation technique and even seafood and oysters were pickled.
Sugar was originally reserved as a medicine as it was so expensive, but with sugar cane plantations growing sugar became a major ingredient even while still very expensive, but wreaked havoc with the teeth of the Tudors, so many Tudors had serious toothache and dental problems.
At this time, pies were a very popular meal, usually cooked in a thick pastry layer which was referred to as a coffin. This coffin was sometimes eaten, but often a decorative and inedible) pastry was used as a lid and / or container of the pie and was used and reused many times.
The meal for the wealthy was often finished with a banquet of sweet dishes such as candied fruits, marzipan, (originally called marchpane) and cheese curds.



The people typically followed the fashion style of the monarch, including using makeup called ceruse which is made of white lead and vinegar (lead poisoning being a common problem of the time) and other dress and fashion codes. The makeup was often important to hide scars from smallpox as well as from other diseases that were rife at the time.
The monarch also set strict laws known as Sumptuary Laws in what was and was not acceptable according to your class. With a rising wealth and aristocracy many of them wanted to display their wealth that threatened to outshine the monarchy so this was curbed quickly.
Clothing also identified your class. Purple, gold & silver, crimson, scarlet and bold blue in velvet, fur, silk, lace, cotton and taffeta were only for the royalty and upper nobility.
The poor people were forbidden to wear those types and so mostly relied on wool, hemp, linen and were allowed earthy colours such as brown, beige, yellow, orange, russet, green, grey and light blue. The middle classes (which were a minority) were allowed some décor and trimmings but nothing too excessive unless their fortunes changed.
Wealthy men often wore elaborate hats, corsets, a lot of jewellery (if they could afford it), as well as doublets, hose stockings, belts, separate sleeves and frequently a cloak.
The ideal complexion for men & women was light hair colour and very pale skin, which reflected they were not working classes who spent their time in the sun. Hair die or wigs were popular as well as makeup to accentuate pale skin, blushed red cheeks and red lips.
A fairly unique fashion in this era was the idea of designing slits in clothes to reveal layers underneath, which were often pulled or puffed to be to express a wide range of colours and textures. This was largely because the costumes already had many layers and took much time to prepare so it was popular to reveal these layers as well as to bulk out and accentuate a muscular frame.
The ruff came into its own in this era as while they were certainly known in medieval times, the Tudors made them more elaborate, decorative and large to express elegance and wealth.
Weaponry such as a rapier sword were commonly worn, after all it was the duty of men to protect their honour and their family, wealthy men were often taught fencing and other skills, however it was almost customary to wear the swords as a decorative addition to civilian dress.
 The Tudors loved entertainments, such as music, poetry, dancing, plays and theatre - early Tudor theatre was often quite grotesque in violence, such as Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, but later as England became more wealthy, the standard and quality became much higher and more intellectual leading to the greater literature we admire today. The Globe theatre was a main center of theatre but was burnt down and later reconstructed.


Life expectancy was low, like the medieval era and the average age was 35, child mortality as well as deaths in childbirth and other medical complications was high - as many as 1 in 2 children would die before 16 years of age. Diseases and venereal diseases such as syphilis, smallpox, measles, black death, malaria, typhus and tuberculosis were very common.
Medicine and surgery was rather primitive, which included the use of leeches, cupping and other practices in order to remove impurities from the blood, which was believed to be the source of most illnesses.
The majority of people lived in small villages - the city of London was densely occupied, but nowhere near as densely populated as in the 19th century.
Food pricing in rural areas were set by law, so in harsher times the portion sizes sold of bread and other produce was reduced. Famines tended to be rare and more localised, but when times were tough and the money bought less food, there were frequently malnutrition and disease related deaths.
Most houses had several fireplaces, both for cooking and heating, but smaller houses tended to have simply a hole in the roof to let the smoke out.
Education was limited and if the family was not wealthy enough to afford a private tutor, who typically taught Greek, Latin and other languages, as well as mathematics and classical philosophy they had the local parish church or monastery (until their dissolution) for a limited education. At this time, there was only two universities and students were sent at a young age of 14. School was a long day and teachers were often violent and abusive which lead the wealthy to employ a 'whipping boy' who was paid to take the punishment of the original student.
The poor lived a hard life, as they worked most of the hours of the day on the fields or in industry, the wealthy in their spare time enjoyed hunting including with hawks, bear baiting, fencing, jousting and other activities.
 You can learn from online sources, documentaries, visiting museums as well as from history experts to gain an insight into an empire, culture and its people whose effects can still be felt today within the modern world.

