 Do you want to write in an elegant handwritten journal? Or would you rather create a daily blog? There are benefits to both. A handwritten diary can be easily carried in your purse, backpack, or even in a pocket. An online blog is more interactive, and you can include links to other sites, photos, respond to comments, etc.


Try different formats until you know what you prefer.
Personalize your diary to express your personality, using stickers, drawings, photographs, widgets, or anything else that you might want to include.
 You might sometimes write long entries, and other times just a quote that caught your attention. Include mementos of your day, such as flowers pressed between the pages of your diary, or a special card or paper wrapper. You might want to add a photo of something you saw that day, which may be accompanied by a story...or, it might not.Try cartooning a diary entry. Particularly if you’ve never drawn before, this can be a fun thing to try to make your diary interesting.
Write a daily entry in haiku, or another kind of poem for variety.
 If you write your diary by hand, try writing with a variety of pens or pencils. Writing in colored ink may change the things that you think to write about, or you might try color-coding your thoughts. Writing with a calligraphy pen or a fine fountain pen might lead to new ideas.If you write with a pencil, you can easily include sketches in your diary. Colored pencils can also lend themselves to new and interesting ideas.
Try writing with gel pens, ballpoint pens, felt-tipped pens, fine-tipped or thicker tipped pens.
 If you've never tried creating a diary online, explore some of the free options such as Penzu, Dear Diary, My Diary or Diary.com. Popular blogging programs, like WordPress, Live Journal, and Blogger, can also be set on "private" settings and used as a diary.Digital diaries have many possibilities for personalization, and allow you to be very creative with content. For example, you could include audio clips, or video options.
Consider adding more photographs or other images to express your feelings.
Some online sites allow for more social interaction than others. Remember, you can select what you want to share even on a public blog site.

