 To start concretely planning the dimensions of your crate, you’ll need to accommodate your dog’s size. Measure your dog’s height (from its feet to the top of its head) and length (nose tip to the tip of its tail).
 Once you’ve measured how big your dog is, you’ll need to plan the size of your crate accordingly. Your dog will need enough room to stand, sit, and turn around in this crate. You’ll want to give your dog room to move side-to-side, so avoid making the crate too narrow.For example, if your dog measures 3 feet from the tip of its nose to the tip of its tail, and 1 foot high, consider planning for a crate that is 4 feet long, 2 feet high, and 3.5 feet wide.

Some dog owners may be looking for a relatively small dog crate, in which their dog can sleep. Smaller crates can also be used to contain your dog when guests are over, or if you need to be out of the house for several hours at a time. On the other hand, dog owners may want a larger crate—or even a primarily outdoor crate—that can house the dog for longer periods of time. A large crate can also serve as a place for the dog to sleep.
If you have the time, you could also visit nearby pet supply stores and look at the manufactured crates that the store offers. This will give you an idea of common crate sizes, and you can see which would work best for your own dog

, Most homemade crates are built either out of wood planking or chain link fence, since both of those materials are fairly cheap and can be found at local hardware stores. Both types of crates can be moved, but if you want a crate that you can relocate throughout your house, a wooden crate will better meet this need.

Consider building your crate out of wood if you’d like for it to be located indoors, and if your dog will not be spending large amounts of time (over 8 hours) in the crate. You should not leave a dog unattended in an indoor crate for longer than 8 hours at a time. It can be unhealthy for the animal to go longer without access to food, water, and a place to go to the bathroom.
Consider building your crate from chain link if you plan to keep it outdoors, and if your dog will be spending more substantial amounts of time in the crate. If your dog will be in the crate for over 8 hours, provide it with food and water.
Although it is not technically a crate, some dog owners build their animals large outdoor enclosures—for example, 150 square feet—to give the animal plenty of space to move and use the bathroom.

