 For some of us, there’s no point in thinking about planning for a trip until the hour before you’re about to leave the house. What’s the use in stressing out for three days over packing? Alternatively, others have to lay out every day’s wardrobe in advance, calculating the benefits of every item, until you can be confident that you’ve got everything you need.


If you tend toward procrastination, don't tell yourself you need to change your ways, unless it's getting in the way of your productivity or your ability to finish things on time. If it works for you, it works. Make sure you schedule enough last-minute time to finish tasks, and you'll let those deadlines produce your best work. Simple and easy.
If you stress about unfinished tasks, do them ahead of time to put them out of your mind. Don't abandon the packing half-way because you started early–finish it off and call it done. Simplify by doing it now, getting it done, and relaxing. Simple and relaxed.
 A common source of complication and stress is a messy living space and disorganized methods of handling it. Finding the time to do the laundry, wash all the dishes, cook meals, and take care of other essential chores can be a big hassle if you don't go about it in a simple, organized way. Get together with your family or your housemates and agree on simple ways to divide up the chores and simplify the work around the house.Separate tasks by day. Make everyone contribute to the litter-box cleaning and the laundry-doing, but not every day. Let someone take the messy jobs for a while and switch over to other jobs for a while on a rolling basis. Write up a schedule everyone agrees on and post it in the kitchen for simple, easy access.
Separate tasks by preference. For example, if you just can't stand doing the laundry and tend to let it pile up, strike a deal with your roommates — if they handle the laundry, you'll agree to cook a big meal for everyone three nights a week (when they've got to work late) or to consistently wash the dishes. Find a way to balance things for your situation.
 Nothing gets more complicated than money. If you can, simplify your finances as much as possible by consolidating your debts and creating as few payments as possible for each month. Create a budget, based on how much money you've got coming in every month, and calculate your average expenditures of known and estimated amounts. Stick to the plan and spending gets simpler.


Set your bills up to debit automatically from your account. If you've budgeted accurately, you should never have to worry about paying bills again. What could be simpler?
Make saving money your default. If you're not sure how to approach the task of simplifying your finances, err on the side of saving. The less you spend, the less you're thinking about money.
 Assigning a place for each object simplifies life dramatically. It is a key component in making a space less frustrating, more beautiful and pleasurable.


It creates calm. If keys go in the key bowl by the doorway, it prevents last-minute panics for finding them. This creates calmness and gives you power in a chaotic world.
Your space is more pleasurable. A workbench that has your tools visible, orderly, and organized is more enjoyable to work at than one that requires a massive hunt for the right screwdriver.
Your living space brings more joy to others. For instance, couches are for sitting on, not for holding laundry. Disorganized spaces have a way of putting off visitors; laundry on your couch suggests your pants are offered a better seat than your guests. Organized spaces also make it more likely you will invite others over.
You enjoy and use what you have. If your pantry is a mess, you may not realize you have five pounds of flour, and end up buying more rather than using what you have.
Assigning spaces starts with a single step. Some people can get overwhelmed by the thought of everything being in the absolute perfect spot, and being afraid to be wrong. It is better to just try something rather than do nothing. Besides, there is usually more than one way to organize and simplify...do what works for you.
 The end of a hard day of work is probably not the best time to find yourself wrist-deep in homemade coq-au-vin. Find recipes that are quick to prepare, and search online for quick meals that you can use with the ingredients already in your house. Spend the spare time enjoying the meal and your family rather than over-complicating the cooking process.
 Don't make lunch, don't clean the dirty clothes, don't put the toys away. Expect your children to start doing things for themselves at age-appropriate stages. In the long run it isn't easier to "just do it" for your children, as it teaches your children that you'll always do it and that they don't have to. Do tell your children where they can find the things to do tasks for themselves — show them how the first few times, but then let go.



Create a chore chart for all children to follow and complete weekly. Involve them in its creation and they'll be more ready to buy into using it.
Stop over-scheduling. Kids historically have not been shuttled to after-school activities as much as they often are today. It is OK to have days when your children do not have ballet, ice hockey, Girl Scouts, or oboe lessons.

