 If it was really easy everyone would be doing it!;
, You're going to need to hold your breath at times for a long duration of time, you're going to need to go under the water consistently over and over to get under waves and out to the sweet spot.
 They come in different sizes based on your height and weight. Having the right bodyboard will determine how fast you glide waves, how difficult the paddle out is, and how easy it will be to bust spins and airs.
 They go onto your feet, usually a good pair of fins today costs around 40-60$, but it's a very good investment. You will be able to swim circles around anyone without them, and they help you catch waves and maneuver through the water.
 You're ready to go out now. Before dashing into the water, check out the waves, check out the current, is it low tide? Is it a high tide? Why is there a big group of surfers in one spot, but nothing is going on? What is going to be the easiest way to get where they are, without getting hit by a big swell? How is the form on the waves? Are they taking a long time to break? Are they majority left waves or right waves?

, Usually while paddling you can use 2 methods, keeping your legs together and paddling with your arms, (like you would on a surfboard ), or positioning your hands on the front center of the board almost touching each other and paddling under the water with your fins. This cannot be stressed enough; while paddling make sure your fins are underneath the water, otherwise you aren't going to anywhere.
 So you're moving nicely out towards the water, but uh oh! You see a big wave that's getting ready to crash RIGHT in front of you, you're doomed!...not really. There is a really cool method of getting through these waves no problem and keep going towards the sweet spot, this method is called "Duck Diving".


Duck Diving isn't always the best way to get under a wave. If it's a big wave about to break right on your head, you might want to bail your board and let the leash do the work. However, in most situations, a well-timed, well-executed Duck Dive is definitely the most efficient way. Kick to gain forward momentum. When the whitewash or wave face is about six feet away, quickly grab your board about 1/3 of the way down the rails and do a push-up. At the same time, slide one knee onto the back tail section of your board. Just before the wave hits you, force all of your weight down onto the board trying to sink as much of the board and your body as possible. Keep your face close to the board and wait for the turbulence to pass over, then angle the board upward and pull your knee off the back. Your board should pop up. The key is to be able to sink your board. If your board is too big or you aren't doing the push-up right, you won't succeed, so practice in the flat water and you'll be ready to "dunk" the big ones!

, So you have made it out! It's time to catch your first wave! As the wave approaches, kick hard with your feet underwater! You can also help yourself catch the wave by pushing down on the nose of the board with one hand and paddling with the other. Once you've chosen to go right or left, it's time to get yourself in place on the board. Let's say you've chosen to go right. First, you should have made sure there was no one on the wave behind you coming toward you. If so, kick out right away.
 Slide your right hand to the top right corner with your right elbow planted firmly along the right edge of the board. Your left hand should be around 1/3 down the outside (left) edge of your board with your left arm slightly bent and the elbow in air. Your right hand and elbow are controlling your edge and keeping it in the wave and your left hand and arm are controlling your direction and turning ability. If you go left on the wave, just reverse all the body, hand and arm positions.

