


Before using your home iron to press taffeta, it is important to familiarize yourself with its functions. Most irons will have an easy-to-decipher knob that indicates the available settings. If your iron is older or does not have easily read labels, an owner's manual may provide you with the guidance you need.;
,


Once you have familiarized yourself with the iron, adjust its settings. When ironing taffeta fabrics, it is essential to adjust your iron to a setting that is low, as high temperatures are notorious for scorching this fabric. If, however, you plan to use a pressing cloth, medium heat is acceptable. A pressing cloth is a piece of fabric, typically cotton, that is applied over delicate fabrics during ironing to prevent possible damage.



If you are pressing a small item, such as a child's dress or short curtains, the ironing board should be able to support the entirety of the product. If you are ironing a much longer evening dress or formal drapes, consider using dining room chairs or bar stools to support the fabric. This will prevent it from slipping and sliding during the ironing process.
Place the part of the fabric which is wrinkled over the narrow part of the ironing board. Be aware that you will most likely have to work with small sections of fabric at a time to ensure the best results.



If you plan to use this item, place it over the area to be pressed at this time in the process.



With light pressure, gently move the iron over the wrinkled portion of the fabric. Avoid letting the iron sit on one spot for an extended period of time, as this can cause scorching or discoloration.
If using a pressing cloth, remove the product from time to time to evaluate the taffeta. If further ironing is required, replace the cloth, and continue pressing.
When one area of the taffeta appears to be wrinkle-free, adjust the product being ironed so that another wrinkled section is on the narrow part of the ironing board.
Repeat this process until you've finished pressing the entire item.

