 Middle school aged children are better able to understand politics than elementary aged children, so prepare to have a more intensive conversation with them. Start off by discussing the candidates that you like as well as those that you don’t and explain why, giving the pros and cons of both.For instance, you might say “I like this candidate because he supports healthcare reform, but I don’t necessarily like his policies on gun control.”

, It can be easy to present only your political views, so try to be objective. If you have a problem being objective about an issue, at least present what others believe on the opposite side. If your kids absorb your political beliefs without considering the other side of the issue, they may not be thinking deeply about the issues. If they don't have the ability to see both sides, they may have trouble debating their beliefs and having civil political discussions with people as they grow older.


For instance, perhaps you are discussing the issue of legalizing marijuana with your child. You might not believe that it is moral, but you can still inform them about the medicinal uses of the drug as well as the mass incarcerations of many people of color for selling or possessing the drug.
 Never yell or curse when discussing politics. Don’t tell them that their ideas are stupid or irrational. Instead, ask them why they feel how they feel and explain your own thoughts calmly and strategically.

Help them to understand that others often get emotional or offended when having political discussions. This will help them to engage in civil discussion and avoid fights.
 Your child might have some serious concerns with the political climate in your country. They might have fears that their friends will be deported, that a terrorist attack will occur in your town, or that the country is in danger. Talk to them about these and help to assuage their concerns.

For instance, if they are worried about terrorism you can say “I can understand why that would scare you, especially with everything being discussed on the news. However, statistically, it’s very unlikely and also there isn’t anything that we can do about it.”
Don’t interrupt them when they are speaking.

