 Independent travel is not allowed in Bhutan, meaning that you need to hire one of the 235 officially endorsed Bhutanese tour operators to guide you in your travels. For the independent, adventurous tourist, this can seem like a hassle, but there are a few upsides to this stipulation: once you hire your tour operator, they’ll help you obtain your visa, as well as book your accommodations and transportation.


The official list of approved tour operators may be found at http://www.tourism.gov.bt/directory/tour-operator, but experienced travelers recommend that you take this list with a grain of salt. As many of these tour operators have been known to charge hidden fees and demonstrate a lack of professionalism, consult tourist sites and forums, such as virtualtourist, lonelyplanet, or worldnomads, before booking a tour operator.Be sure to check how your solo status affects your prospective tour operator’s daily rates. Some operators give a discount for parties of three or less, while others charge more steeply for solitary travelers.;
, In order to travel to Bhutan, you’ll need to pay for your trip’s expenses beforehand. This includes a minimum $200 tariff—covering accommodations, food costs, guide services, transportation, and driver—for each day of your visit, as well as the required visa and any additional surcharges your tour operator sees fit to include.Read your tour operator’s list of charges carefully! As one traveler noted, his tour operator bragged of not tacking on additional local fees as other operators do. Upon further review of their policies, though, the bemused traveler found that he could expect to pay an additional $400 throughout his trip on “tips” to operator employees, such as drivers.In addition to covering your trip expenses, the $200 tariff includes a $65 royalty that goes to the Bhutanese government’s education, healthcare, and welfare services.
 Unless you’re a national of India, Bangladesh, or Maldives, you’ll need to get a visa in order to travel to Bhutan. Fortunately, this process involves minimal fuss, as you simply fill out an online form and send a photocopy of your passport to your tour operator. The Tourism Council of Bhutan (TCB) will process your visa within 72 hours after your full payment—made to your tour operator and passed on to the TCB—has been received.The visa costs an additional $40, which you’ll pay for at the same time as you pay for your daily tariff and any additional tour operator surcharges.
 Once you’ve obtained visa clearance, you can purchase your airplane tickets to Bhutan. Drukair flies into Paro airport—about 34 miles (54 km) fromthe capital city of Thimphu—via India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Thailand, and Singapore. Though Bhutan borders China on one side, the border with China is closed, so you can’t fly into Bhutan from there.When planning your trip, be aware that flights into and out of Paro airport operate only during daytime hours.
Due to harsh and wildly fluctuating weather patterns, tourist boards recommend travelers book non-restricted or flexible tickets which allow for passengers to rebook canceled flights or alter plans according to weather conditions.
 Just because you’ve already paid for your accommodations, transportation, guide services, and food, doesn’t mean you won’t need money during your trip. In addition to any tips your tour operator requires, you should expect to pay hefty fees for traditional items, such as Layan headdresses or Bhutanese fabrics.The currency in Bhutan is the ngultrum (BTN), and you should expect to use cash or traveler’s cheques rather than credit cards. Indian rupees are also accepted, but monthly rupee withdrawals are limited to 10,000., Perhaps the most popular cultural attractions in Bhutan are the local Tshechus—festive religious celebrations which take place in every village across Bhutan. In these three-day festivals, villagers don colorful finery, dance and sing with masks and costumes, and consume elaborate feasts of traditional cuisine and drink.You can find a calendar of all the planned Tshechus in Bhutan on the TCB website, but be sure to ask your tour operator to include any specific Tschchus or other events in your itinerary.
Some tourists recommend avoiding the bigger festivals, such as the Thanbi Mani festival, as these tend to be swamped with foreign tourists., Whether you’re feasting at a Tshechu or eating at a tiny, local café, you’ll find that chilis are the invariable trademark of Bhutanese cuisine. They’re so fundamental to Bhutanese cuisine that most Bhutanese natives consider spiciness to be an essential flavor in all dishes and meals. Pair your chili-spiked rice and Momos (spicy pork dumplings) with Ara, the traditional rice wine, and you’ll soon be dining like a local!In larger cities, you’ll also find abundant western and Indian cuisine if you need a break from the peppery plethora of native cuisine.
 Bhutan is home to over forty Buddhist monasteries, many of them set against a stunning natural landscapes and views. The Taktsang Dzong or Tiger’s Nest, for example, dangles precariously from a 3,000 foot cliff, while the Punakha Dzong perches at the scenic confluence of two major rivers.Just be sure to check with your guide regarding photography policies when inside the dzongs—the Bhutanese word for a combination fortress and monastery—and other religious sites. While shots of the exterior and architecture are always permitted, indoor filming is forbidden inside some of these buildings.Double-check your outfit before heading into these religious sites, as long sleeves and pants are expected in dzongs, monasteries, and temples., Bhutan offers a wealth of mountain ranges and valleys perfectly suited to inspiration-seeking photographers and avid hikers alike. To this day, some of their mountain passes can only be reached by foot, so it’s the perfect retreat for the world-weary solo traveler looking to get some quality alone time and inspiration.


Though Bhutan’s jagged mountain ranges would seem a mountain climber’s paradise, mountaineering is actually forbidden. According to local legend, many of the mountain peaks are home to the mountain gods, and it’s considered a sign of disrespect to these gods to climb them., There are more than a dozen languages spoken in Bhutan, with natives speaking such languages as Dzonghka, Lepcha, Nepali, and Tshangla. Fortunately, the majority of the Bhutanese also speak English and are known to be generally friendly and open with curious—and polite!—tourists. Mingling with the locals can be especially easy and enlightening as a solo traveler, so don’t be shy about asking questions and starting a friendly conversation!In any case, your tour operator will provide you a licensed interpreter who can help you to navigate the country and communicate with locals.
While Bhutanese people are typically amiable, they can be touchy about discussing domestic political affairs, such as the attitude toward Nepalese-descended Bhutanese, so be tactful and reserved with your opinions if the talk turns to politics., Most of the towns and popular tourist sites lie below 3,000 meters (10,000 feet), so it's unlikely you'll have to deal with altitude sickness for the majority of your stay. If you’re hiking one of the Himalayan peaks in the country, though, you should be sure to hike gradually and drink plenty of water in order to acclimatize.If you begin to display signs of altitude sickness, such as shortness of breath, dizziness, nausea, or headache, tell your guide immediately and stay at your current altitude for 24 to 48 hours.
 If you’re planning to trek long distances while in Bhutan, your wanderings could take you weeks or days from the nearest medical facility. In the event of a fall or severe altitude sickness, your tour operator can arrange for helicopter evacuation through private companies, but the cost will be extremely high. Cover all your bases and give yourself peace of mind by checking with your insurance company before embarking to ensure that emergency services abroad are covered by your carrier.It’s also possible to contract dengue fever and malaria while in Bhutan, particularly in the southern belt districts and along the border with India. The treatment costs and risk of these conditions are relatively low, though, so simply protect yourself against mosquito bites with repellant and long, thick clothing., The government of Bhutan advises all tourists get vaccinated for tetanus, typhoid, and hepatitis A before arrival, and additionally that any at-risk individuals receive vaccines for hepatitis B, Japanese Encephalitis, influenza, and rabies. Bhutan also faces relatively severe problems with tuberculosis, so you should undergo a TB test before and after your trip.In addition to obtaining the government-recommended vaccines and tests above, you should visit your doctor four to six weeks before departure in order to receive any further preventative treatment or vaccines relevant to your personal health history., Bhutan is a remarkably safe place for the solo traveler, but you should take the same, basic precautions you would take anywhere in order to make yourself less vulnerable to petty crime and common hazards. Take care not to approach potentially rabies-infected dogs, keep electronics out-of-sight and locked-up, and try to avoid wandering alone in the city at night, especially if you’re a solo female traveler.Stray dogs are usually more of a barking, howling nuisance than an actual safety hazard. Bring earplugs in order to sleep soundly while the canine inhabitants of Bhutan engage in their nocturnal noise-making., Tap water in Bhutan is untreated, so avoid ice cubes and water from the faucet in order to prevent the contraction of nasty viruses and bacteria. Be careful, too, about any salad that could have been rinsed in tap water or fresh fruit unprotected by a natural peel.Bottled water is widely available in Bhutan, but check the seal before taking a sip to make sure it’s pure., In 2004, Bhutan took the bold step of banning all tobacco sales within its borders. If you’re a cigarette devotee and can’t see yourself traveling solo around Bhutan without your favorite smokes, you can bring up to 200 cigarettes into the country for your own personal use. Just don’t think of selling to the natives! Foreigners nabbed for such transgressions can be charged with smuggling and given up to a three-year sentence.When bringing cigarettes into the country, be sure to keep your customs receipt. If you fail to produce this document when requested by police, you can be charged with smuggling.
 The export of all antiques in Bhutan is strictly prohibited. You can purchase cultural objects and artifacts, but they must be certified for sale and export by the Bhutanese government.When in doubt, ask your tour operator for clarification. If necessary, they can contact the Bhutanese Antiquities Department.
 As many advocates of ethical tourism and Bhutanese culture have noted, emulating or reproducing the luxury of other countries and foreign resorts means altering the traditional lifestyle and conditions of Bhutan. As a guest in this unique society, you should be respectful of local tradition and do your best to help preserve the customary way of life by accepting frugal conditions rather than asking for standards and amenities expected in your home country. In order to make sure money goes to local entrepreneurs rather than foreign companies, experts recommend staying in locally owned accommodations, asking your guide to take you to local cafes and markets, and buying artifacts from independent, native sellers.

