 Get the family involved too, unless you think they will prevent you from being thorough, and assign tasks to everyone. Suggest a garage sale and the possible cash flow arising from that in return for their assistance!;
, All warehouse hardware stores sell various types. Storing stuff on the floor is the no-no of organization.
 Measure the height of your shelves, and make sure the bins are not too tall for your shelving. These are available at Target, Walmart, or other such stores.
 Action items include items that you have borrowed and need to return, things that need to be taken for repair, and items that belong somewhere else in your home. If you can, use a large trash bin for the trash, and boxes or large trash bags for the charity stuff and the items you want to repair or return to others.
 It doesn't matter if its "good stuff." If you are not using it, it doesn't matter what it's worth. Exceptions, of course, include photographs and other keepsakes. Adopt the rule that it if hasn't been used for 12 months, it is probably not needed (except for very expensive equipment, or if you have been too ill or work-swamped to get to a hobby).


Remove big items, such as work tables, totes, vacuums, etc. for more cleaning space.
Pick up small things, such as tools and decorations and separate.
 Be methodical, as the more things that you can place together in related groups, the easier it will be to see what you want to keep, what you have in duplicate, and what you no longer want or need. You will likely find something that you have been looking for!

, It is easy enough to post items, and you may have something in your garage that is worth more than you might think. Look up a similar item first to see what the potential value might be.
, The goal is to have everything you want to keep in a container on your shelves clearly labeled so that you can see where things are from a distance.
 If they have decided they don't want these items anymore, add them to your Donation/Sell pile.
 Is it going to be worth the trouble and the expense? If not, put them into your Trash bin. If you decide it is worth the trouble, then put that item into your car to take to the repair shop tomorrow.
 Don't let anything just sit around. The objective of this project is to create space and organization, so things you don't want or need shouldn't be in your garage anymore, or anywhere else around your house for that matter.
 As mentioned before, you can use your unwanted garage stuff to have a garage sale, if you are so inclined. Or, you can also sell your things on eBay or Etsy as described earlier.
 And pat yourself on the back. You did it! Congratulations. And enjoy your new space.

