 Different kids will enjoy different types of clues. Usually, the biggest thing to think about is the difficulty of the hunt and tailor it to the right age. Some other considerations include:


The age and gender of the children; you have to ensure that the intellectual level is directly suited to the children participating.
The amount of time the treasure hunt should take; younger children will become bored and irritated easily once they become bored.
Whether or not any of the kids have food allergies, or want special treats.;
, You want enough room to let the kids roam, but not enough to let them get lost. For younger kids, it may help to do the hunt as a group, or with adult "buddies," if you want to move around a wider area without getting confused or lost.


For kids aged 2-4, have the treasure hunt inside a home familiar to them. This should be a small and supervised area.
For kids aged 5-8, have it inside and outside of a home. Again, this needs to be supervised and if outside; separate from the public.
For kids aged 9-12, have it at a location such as a school or park. This allows children to be more independent.
For teens, have the hunt go all around a small town or farmer's market, or a big, wide-open field.
 There’s a lot more to a treasure hunt than sending a bunch of kids off willy-nilly. The most amazing hunts usually have some common thread throughout them -- whether it is a theme, like The Hobbit, or a format, like a cooking hunt where each clue leads to an ingredient or recipe. Of course, there is also nothing wrong with a classic treasure hunt with clues and maps, either!


Themes are good excuses to get everyone in costume, which can make it much more "realistic" for many children. For example, you could buy a pack of cheap eye patches and plastic swords and call it a hunt for pirate's booty.
Do you want additional competition? Split the kids into two teams and have them race to the treasure. This will allow the children to improve their teamwork and better the communication skills. Make sure the kids are old and mature enough to handle this.
Will they go after individual prizes, finding one at each clue, or do you want one big treasure waiting at the end?, A good rule of thumb is that kids' patience will last through about twice as many clues as they are years old. Of course, even older kids may get a little tired after 26 clues. Anywhere between 5-15 is generally a good length, depending on how far apart the clues are from each other.
 The very last clue should lead to some sort of treasure or fun activity, rewarding everyone for finishing. Consider having a prize for the first person or team to get their as well, which will give some competition and urgency to the hunt..


Decorate a box with pictures or construction paper, then fill it with goodies such as candy, coins, or toys.
The treasure doesn't have to be a thing. You can set up a great meal, party area, or a game so that the kids arrive at a fun "secret grove."
If the hunt is for smaller children, make sure there are some consolation prizes -- everyone should find or go home with something., Once you know how it all ends, it's a lot easier to get people there. Each clue needs to lead to the next one, so figure out how to write a clue for your location, then hide it and repeat. Make sure, of course, that the last clue you write (and the first one the kids find) leads back to your starting point!Keep in mind that, though the first clue should be easy, they should increase in difficulty as the hunt goes on.
 Pass out the rules at the beginning, and tell the kids to hold onto them if they are old enough to read and use it. If they are younger, share this with a few parents and chaperones and have them help enforce. This is a good place to put any special considerations too. Some things to consider include:


Any places that are off-limits, or places that definitely have no clues
Where to "turn in" clues, or what do to if you get stuck.
Emergency contact numbers if anyone gets lost.
Any time limit, or time to return to the house, even if you haven't "won" yet.