 If you purchased an older home with minimal upgrades, chances are you have old insulation. You may find a few inches of wood chip or newspaper-like material in your attic. Wood chip and that newsprint-type insulation have an R value of 4 to 8. Your R value should be R50.If you’re not sure if that is what you have, contact a professional to inspect it for you.


Contact an insulation installer and they will blow new, environmentally-friendly, highly efficient insulation into your attic. This will drastically change your energy bill.In the worst-case scenario, you've inherited Zonolite or vermiculite insulation which contains asbestos and will need to be removed immediately.Consider the insulation in your outer walls as well.;
, If you have leaky windows and drafty doors, then you are losing energy. Check the seals on all your windows and doors. If needed, install new weather stripping and caulking.You can find supplies for this at any home improvement store.


If your window frames are warped, beyond repair, or incredibly old, it might be time to install new, energy efficient windows.You may also consider adding energy efficient doors to keep in heat and avoid energy loss.
Placing heavy curtains over some of the windows in your home may also help to prevent energy loss and they can also keep your home cooler during hot months by blocking out the sun.
 Your hot water heater should be set at 55℃ or 130℉. This temperature should allow you a sufficiently high water temperature for showers without wastefully overheating the water.Check the pipes and knobs on the heater as well. If they are loose, it may be leaking water or heat or it may be prone to bursting., Check under sinks, toilets and along the water lines in your basement looking for leaks. If your toilet is running constantly or you find a leaky faucet you should call a plumber to repair or replace them.Use a dye test to test for leaks in your toilet tank. You can purchase the dye at any home improvement store. Drop a single tablet into the tank and wait 10 minutes. If you see colored water in the bowl, you have a leak and need a plumber.Leaking pipes cause mold to develop in addition to wasting water. If you do find leaking pipes, you may also want to get a professional mold inspection.This should have been done prior to closing during house inspection process. It is required for FHA financing
Check underground for leaking pipes as well.
You can also check the water municipality for history of use and external leaks.
 A thermostat you can program allows you to change the temperature in your home automatically. This will allow you to save a significant amount of energy. You can also get a “smart” thermostat that learns to adjust the temperature automatically based on your preferences.During cold months, set the temperature lower at night and when you are out of the house. Adjust the program to turn up the heat at times when you are actively using your home. Reverse that during warm months.
Using an air conditioning unit during hot months may help you to cope with the heat, but it can also be expensive. You can also use fans and humidifiers for comfort during hot months.
 Energy efficient LED or CFL light bulbs are more expensive than incandescent light bulbs. Make the initial investment, however, and you’ll save money in the long run. They have longer lives, burn on less energy, and provide the same amount of light as incandescent bulbs.They can be found at any home improvement store or online.


The energy cost savings of a single lightbulb are relatively small, but when you factor in all the lightbulbs in your home over a long period of time, the savings are significant. An incandescent lightbulb’s energy will cost $201 over 23 years while an Light Emitting Diode (LED) bulb will be $38 over that period., Major appliances like a refrigerator, washing machine, water heater, and dishwasher will usually be included in in the purchase of a new home. If they are not, spend extra upfront to get energy efficient models that will save you in electricity costs over time. You can also consider upgrading older appliances if they are included.


Look for the Energy Star logo on appliances to tell if they are energy efficient. They will include an Energy Guide label to tell you approximately how much energy the appliance should cost you annually.You might also consider installing motion sensors that will automatically turn off lights when no one is in the room.
Your utility company may offer a credit or rebate for upgrading appliances. Contact them for details.

