 Exercise helps strengthen your heart muscles, improves blood flow, and allows your heart to pump more easily with less effort. Find a physical activity you don’t mind doing and add that activity to your daily routine. Start walking, running, cycling, dancing, or swimming, or work with your healthcare provider on developing an exercise routine that works best for you.Keep in mind that the type of exercise you do will impact how much you'll need. In general, try to perform 75 minutes of vigorous exercise or 150 minutes of moderate exercise each week, but check with your doctor first to determine what your heart can handle.If you have existing heart problems, for instance, vigorous exercise may put too much additional strain on your heart; your doctor may advise moderate exercise until your overall health improves.
 Individuals with thick waistlines and a high body mass index (BMI) of 25 or higher often have high diastolic blood pressure readings since their hearts have to work harder at pumping blood throughout their entire bodies. Focus on losing weight by exercising regularly and eating healthier foods, and consult with your healthcare provider about other effective weight-loss treatments.


If you're notably overweight, losing as few as 10 pounds (4.5 kg) can dramatically improve your blood pressure numbers.
Also note that carrying extra weight around your waistline can have an especially strong impact on your blood pressure. As a general rule, aim to have a waist measurement less than 40 inches (102 cm) as a male or 35 inches (89 cm) as a female., Nicotine in cigarettes narrows your arteries, hardens artery walls, and increases your risk for blood clots, heart disease, and stroke. Stop smoking as soon as possible to lower your diastolic blood pressure, and consult with your healthcare provider about effective smoking cessation methods if you experience difficulty with quitting., When under stress, your body releases chemicals and hormones that temporarily narrow your blood vessels and cause your heart to beat faster. Long-term stress increases your risk for major heart problems such as stroke, heart attack, and heart disease. Identify your stressors, and eliminate them from your life to lower diastolic blood pressure.


While there are many ways to reduce stress, some ideas you can start putting into practice right away include identifying and avoiding your stress triggers, taking 20 minutes daily to enjoy a relaxing activity you enjoy, and practicing gratitude.

