 Do you like rock music? Hannah Montana? Football? Choose themes that you've liked for a long time and will continue to love after you've decorated your room.;
, Is there something that you enjoy, but it's something you may not love in a month, week, year or two? It's OK to have fads, but make sure you know what they are.
 Your redecorating may take awhile. On a day you know you're free, take everything out of your room.
 This is one of the only times you can vacuum all of the floor, so it's a good idea to take some time on it.
 Make sure it's a color that will match your personality now and a couple years from now.
, If you love football, consider a new football-shaped chair, drapes or curtains with footballs, a bedspread with your favorite team logo, and posters with your favorite players. Remember that these are long-term investments, and will be expensive if you replace weekly.
 For fads and passing phases, choose small, inexpensive items. A new mouse pad, stickers, pillowcases, small pictures or posters, and figurines are cheap and easy to replace if you decide you don't like them anymore.
 If your interest involves doing something (football, knitting, rock collecting), see if you can use the equipment or the product of that interest as decoration in itself. Get a stand and feature your favorite football or a decorative basket for your knitting. You will feature your interest as part of your style, encourage yourself to use your favorite things, and tackle the storage problem, all at once.
 If you've sewn, built, or painted something, show it off in your room. You can also show off things like awards, photos, and memorabilia. Making your own decorations can also be cheaper and more interesting than buying them.
 If you like to collect something, build or buy it appropriate shelves, display cabinets or racks. Change out older collections for new ones, or rotate which items you display of a larger collection. Displaying a collection in this way keeps it fresh while making it a part of the décor.


Try enclosed storage, such as a covered case, if you hate dusting.

