 This is the first step and perhaps the most important one! While you are looking for hotel websites, give preference to those websites that have a wide range of accommodation options available in the city. You can choose accommodation from such websites according to your requirements. In addition to this, see to it that the hotel website has a commanding authority and varied options available.;
, While you are browsing through a hotel website, make sure that you read each section given on it. Sometimes, there are special offers and packages on some selected hotels that may not be visible on the home page of the hotel website. Therefore, it is mandatory that you scour the site quite comprehensively.
 Frame your London trip budget well in advance, especially the budget for your accommodation. Formulate the projections of both your maximum and minimum limit of your accommodation budget. Other than this, take into account factors like location, facilities, star ratings, and services while framing the budget.
 If you want your hotel in London to be at a comfortable distance from the city centre, then always refer to the map while you are zeroing in on your desired hotel in London.


Mark out your priorities such as whether you want your hotel to be close to Central London or not and stick to them.
 What type of hotel do you want? Do you want a bed and breakfast hotel, or you simply want to book a budget hotel? Find answers to these questions before choosing the accommodation option for your trip to London. Not creating equilibrium between your priorities and your accommodation choice can cause discomfort to you. For example, if you were travelling to London with your family, then choosing a hotel with no family rooms would be extremely unwise.
 While deciding on the hotel options, do keep this factor into consideration. Would you be staying in London for an extended period of time or are you here for a long weekend? Certainly, a long trip will be heavier on your pocket than a short rendezvous in the city. Hence, choose budget hotels or cheap accommodation for a long trip even, if they are slightly farther from the centre of the city. You can always make up for the time, as you are on a long trip to the city.

