 If you show you are responsible and can complete your chores, your mom might be less likely to give you more chores. Prove to your parents that you can work hard.


Make sure to do the chores that are your personal responsibility, such as taking care of your pets or doing your laundry.
Take the initiative to do your chores before your mom has to nag you about it.
 You can impress your parents by getting good grades in school. Parents often give children chores so they can learn the meaning of hard work. If you show your mom that you are working hard in school, she might not think you need as many chores.


You can succeed in school by taking notes, listening, asking questions, studying, and reading., Show up to all your practices and rehearsals and even spend time outside of them working on improving. If your mom sees you caring, trying, and being passionate about your extracurricular activities, she might be less likely to give you chores because she won’t want to cut into your hard work.
 Do your best to stay out of trouble at school and at home. You can do this by being mature. When a sibling or someone at school tries to pick a fight with you, rise above it and ignore them. Be polite to your parents. Clean up after yourself, say “please” and “thank you,” and listen to their rules. If your mom sees you being good, she might be less likely to want to give you chores., Try to have a positive, open relationship with your parents. Sometimes parents can be frustrating, but try to be on good terms with them. You might not agree on everything or completely understand each other, but you should respect and love each other. Ask your parents to do something with you or go out of your way to spend time with them. Having a good relationship with your parents will make asking for fewer chores easier.
 Don’t complain about being bored. If all you do is lounge around the house, whining about being bored, your mom is bound to give you chores. Stay busy and don’t complain. Your parents will be impressed and will probably give you less chores.

