 If you smoke, it recommended that you quit at least four weeks before your surgery. As quitting smoking may be difficult for some people, you may want to try quitting as soon as your surgery is scheduled.If you quit early enough, you can ease off the cigarettes by using a nicotine gum or patch. You should discontinue use of these between one and four weeks before surgery, as nicotine may interfere with the surgery.
Get rid of all cigarettes in your house, car, and office to reduce the chance that you will start smoking again before the surgery.
To improve your chances of success, join a stop-smoking class for support and tips., It is important that your doctor knows all the medications you are taking before you have the surgery, including supplements and over-the-counter medications. Some medications will need to be discontinued up to a week before surgery as they may interfere with anesthesia, blood clotting, or any medication that may be given to you after surgery.


NSAIDs such as Motrin, Aleve, and Ibuprofen should be stopped up to one week before you have surgery. If you take aspirin for a heart condition, talk to your doctor to determine if you should keep taking it or not. Acetaminophen is acceptable to take.Blood-thinning medications such as Heparin, Pradax, or warfarin (Coumadin) may need to be discontinued until you are healed from your surgery.Herbal medications and supplements can also interfere with surgery. Let your doctor know of all supplements, herbal remedies, and treatments that you use.
 If you are having a laparoscopic myotomy, your doctor may advise you to go on a liquid diet up to three days before your surgery. This means that you can only consume clear soups and broths, juice, jello, Gatorade, and coffee or tea without milk. You may not eat any solid foods.If you are having a Cricopharyngeal Myotomy, you may be able to eat until midnight the day before you have surgery. Always check with your doctor first., Some swelling and pain may be normal around the incision site, but most diverticulectomies and myotomies are non-invasive surgeries. You should heal within a few days. If you experience the following symptoms, seek treatment immediately.A fever higher than 101.3ʡF (38.5ʡC)
Chills
Difficulty breathing
Yellow pus coming out of the incision site
A bad smell from the incision site
Worsening pain

, You may be placed on pain medications after your surgery. For the first several days while you are on these medications, you should not drive or work. Ask a friend or family member if they can care for you during this time., After the surgery, you may not be able to eat solid foods until the incisions heal. During this time, you may have to go on a liquid diet, or you may have to soften your foods by pureeing or blending them until they are a slurry.Good liquid foods to consume during this time include beef broth, smooth applesauce, juice, popsicles, and Jello.
Do not drink alcohol until you have fully healed.

