 If you experience stomach pain after eating, then the foods that you are eating may be to blame. One way that you can begin to cure stomach pain is to keep track of the foods that you eat and how they make you feel.Over time, you should begin to notice that certain foods cause stomach pain more than others, while some cause no pain at all. Adjust your eating habits to eliminate these causes of stomach pain.


For example, if you notice that you get stomach pain after eating spaghetti and meatballs with pasta sauce, then that food may be causing your stomach pain.
To determine if the sauce, pasta, or meatballs are causing your stomach pain, try eliminating one component each day. For example, you can eat just spaghetti and meatballs without sauce the following day and if you do not have stomach pain, then you will know that it was the sauce that caused the pain.
 You may also cure your stomach pain by eliminating some of the most common causes of stomach pain from your diet. Common problem foods to avoid include:Caffeinated drinks, such as coffee, black tea, and lattes
Fatty foods, such as French fries, cookies, and pastries
Carbonated drinks
Acidic foods, such as pasta sauce and orange juice
Alcohol
Pasta
Full-fat dairy products

, Keeping yourself well hydrated is another good way to start curing your stomach pain. Water helps your body digest your food and it also helps to reduce stomach acid. Most adults should drink about eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day.


Try adding a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to a cup of water. Apple cider vinegar can help to neutralize stomach acid, which may also help to cure your stomach pain., Consuming a high-fiber diet is essential for good health, but it may also help with your stomach pain as well. Fiber keeps food moving through your system, so it may prevent you from becoming constipated.


Try to eat an apple every day. Apples are a good source of fiber and they also contain pectin, which can help to neutralize acid.

