 Eating will be an entirely different experience after your surgery. You physically won’t be able to consume as much food, but this restriction will not contribute to weight loss if you still eat high-calorie foods.Pay close attention to both what and how you eat in order to take full advantage of the potential positive effects of bariatric surgery.
For the rest of your life, choose a diet that consists primarily of protein, vegetables, a small amount of grain, and extremely limited amounts of refined sugar.
If unfamiliar with the foods you’ll need to be eating moving forward, introduce yourself to new foods one at a time to see how they impact your body.;
, Not only will these contribute to weight retention, they will likely cause considerable discomfort after certain types of bariatric surgery.Avoid pre-packaged and processed foods, especially those with lots of ingredients. If you do purchase a pre-packaged food, read the label.
Only eat packaged foods that have a protein-to-calorie ratio of 10-to-one or better.
Quit the fried food, ice cream, and candy bars.
If you’re unable to kick soft drinks and sweetened dairy products, only consume sugar-free options.
 Emphasize fish, dairy, meat, beans, and other legumes. You will likely have to ease into a protein-focused diet after your surgery, starting with softer options first.Following your doctor’s guidance — likely a few weeks after surgery — start eating meals based on extremely soft protein sources.
Options include protein shakes, egg whites, non-fat cottage cheese, and low-fat yogurt.
Once you’re able to begin eating more solid foods, shift your long-term diet to protein-focused meals that feature lean chicken, lean turkey, fish, or tofu.
 Following your doctor’s orders in the short-term, look to a long-term diet that includes lots of vegetables. During meals, eat protein portions first.Fruit and vegetables that are particularly good options include potatoes, carrots, green beans, tomatoes, squash, cucumbers, bananas, and avocados.
 There are several reasons smaller meals help you lose weight and keep it off. First, you’re literally eating less. Second, your body burns off calories more easily if they are consumed in smaller quantities.Plan regular meal times and do not eat after eight pm. This will help you avoid snacking.
Chew your food more slowly. Chew each bite for at least 15 seconds. There's an app called Baristatic that can help you do so!Wait a full two minutes in between bites to allow your stomach to send signals to your brain about your level of satiation.
Pay attention to how your body feels. You may not feel “full” until your body has the chance to recognize you put food in it. Give yourself and your body time to redefine what satiation feels like!

, Staying hydrated is associated with a myriad of health benefits, particularly following bariatric surgery.


First and foremost, you need to drink more water than usual to help your body rid itself of the waste and toxins that need to be flushed from your system during rapid weight loss.
Shoot for at least 64-ounces of water a day.
Drinking water also helps the stomach feel full longer, which will help you eat less frequently and stick to scheduled meals.
Make a point of drinking water at least 30 minutes outside of meal times, as the reduced capacity of your stomach may lead to discomfort if you try to drink with your meals., One of the drawbacks of bariatric surgery is the diminished ability to absorb nutrients. Know that you’ll need to consume higher-than-recommended doses of vitamins and other nutrients.Pay particular attention to how much iron you are getting in order to avoid anemia, which is a common complication following bariatric surgery.
If you have either a gastric or intestinal bypass (as opposed to a gastric banding), you will definitely need to heavily supplement your intake of vitamin B12 and calcium. Expect to take vitamins as prescribed by your doctors after bariatric surgery.

