 In many states, you can purchase a permanent pass or transponder which affixes to your car’s dash or bumper. This pass gets scanned electronically every time you pass a toll, and the charge is deducted from your running account. Not only do you not have to stop to hand over money, but you also don’t have to worry about keeping change in your car or wallet.


You should be able to find this information quickly and easily online. If you’re having difficulty, contact your local DMV or traffic authority and they can refer you to the proper administrative department.
Some passes function in multiple states and can be purchased at variable rates in different areas. For example, the E-ZPass used on New York highways can be used in fifteen states and is cheaper to purchase in certain states like Massachusetts., Some states or metropolitan areas allow you to purchase a pass online, while others require you to visit a licensed retail location.No matter what your area’s protocol is, the transaction should be relatively quick and painless.


Most toll agencies charge an initial fee of $30.00-$80.00 for the device or tag, and then you are responsible for loading sufficient funds onto the pass via your online account., Check enclosed instructions to make sure that the transponder or pass is displayed clearly on your dash or bumper, as you can incur additional fines if your device is displayed improperly., Once you’ve purchased your device, you’ll need to register online and add funds to the account. Some states offer a pay-as-you-go option which links a credit card or bank account to the device and charges tolls to this account. Other states require you to charge a certain amount to your device ahead of time and then automatically refresh this balance once you get down to $5.00 or $10.00 in remaining funds.Some areas also allow you to load funds with cash, so check out your options ahead of time.
If your credit card is linked to your pass, keep the expiration date in mind and remember to enter a new card or account once this date arrives.

