 Do not hang your painting over a direct heat source like a radiator, hot water pipes, fire, or in direct sunlight, as this can destroy your painting.


Exposing your paintings to heat could create cracking and blistering.
Keep the temperature at 70-75 degrees Fahrenheit (21-24 degrees Celsius)., Avoid areas with high moisture or humidity like a damp basement, attic, bathroom, or kitchen.Damp areas could cause mold to grow on your art which will need to be removed by a professional.
Keep the humidity level between 40% and 60%.Purchasing a dehumidifier can help you regulate humidity in your house.
 UV lights are used to inspect paintings for restoration work, but should not be used over prolonged periods of time.The reflection of the UV light on the surface of the painting can create cracking or lifting.When you're inspecting your expensive painting, make sure that when you're done, you turn off all the UV lights that were used to inspect it.


Certain dyes and colorants used in oil paint will fade and dull over time, if exposed to UV lights., Never screw your painting into the wall using drywall. Use a stud finder to find wooden studs, then use painting hooks to secure your painting to the wall. Make sure that it’s secure and doesn’t tilt or move to one side. The painting hooks will prevent the art from falling, which could damage your art and your wall.


Make sure to use a tape measure and level when hanging art.
Never drill directly into the frame unless you have frame screws.
Do not use nails with your expensive art.
 A glass or plexiglass encasement is an added precaution you can take when displaying valuable paintings. This will preserve them from dust, or any unwanted fingerprints that may occur in an open area.Museum grade glass and certain plexiglass also come with UV filtering, to prevent the painting from being damaged from prolonged exposure to sunlight.Regular glass is heavier and easier to break, but plexiglass is a polymer which may interact with your oil painting over a long period of time.

