 The type of curls you want will determine what size curling iron you should use. Do you want tight bouncy curls, or do you want luxurious waves? Be sure to use the proper curling iron to get the results you want.


For tight and bouncy curls, use either a 3/8" or 5/8" curling iron. These sized curling irons will give you tight spiral curls that will beautifully mimic the look of a perm.
For springy, bouncy curls that are larger near your scalp and tighter near the ends, use a curling wand. A curling wand will give your hair a pretty spiral curl.
For full curls or defined waves, use a 1" curling iron. This size is recommended for shorter hair, and is great for creating beach-inspired hair styles.
For large, voluminous waves, use either a 1.25" or 1.5" curling iron. This is a must have curling iron for every day, body-filled waves., Wash your hair to remove all excess dirt and oil that could potentially weigh your hair down. Use a volumizing shampoo and conditioner to give your hair more body. While your hair is still damp, add a curl enhancing product or a mousse. This will help your hair hold the curls.How you dry your hair will depend on how you'd like your curls to look. If you want natural looking curls, let your hair air-dry before curling it. If you want full and voluminous curls, blow-dry your hair before curling it.
 Dividing your hair into sections will make curling your hair much easier. Pull the top half of your hair up and secure it with a clip or hair tie so that you're able to curl the bottom half of your hair first.Before you divide your hair into sections, plug in your curling iron so that it has time to heat up.
 Once your hair is completely dry, it is time to curl it. Starting with the bottom portion of your hair, grab pieces of your hair one small section at a time. Do not curl your hair by clamping it in your curling iron and rolling upward. Instead, hold the curling iron in place and wrap your hair around it. Starting close to your roots, wind your hair around the curling iron away from your face. Hold the bottom 1/4 inch of your hair in place for 10 seconds. Then, let go of your hair and gently pull the iron away from your hair. Do this to each piece of hair until the bottom half of your hair is curled.Unclip the top portion of your hair, and grab the first piece you'd like to curl. Curl the top of your hair the same way you curled the bottom. Starting near the roots, wind small pieces around your curling iron. Continue until you have curled all of your hair.
 If you want to keep your curls defined, lightly toss your hair with your fingers to give it a more natural look. If you want smooth yet big volume, comb your curls out with a wide-tooth comb.


Let your hair set until it is cool to the touch before you touch or comb your curls. Touching it too soon after curling can cause the curls to fall out.Finish your look by spraying your curls with hairspray.

