 Major airlines tend to overbook their flights to compensate for passengers who may not show up. If more passengers show up than can fit on the airplane, the airline will ask for volunteers to take a different flight. To show their gratitude, they usually offer travel vouchers you can use on future flights. Just wait for an airline representative to announce that your flight has been overbooked, and then head to the counter to ask about being bumped.The voucher you receive will be used on your next trip, and the ticket you already purchased will be used on your current trip.
If you do agree to be bumped for an offer, get the offer in writing. Ask the agent to write it down, sign it and maybe add their identification number. This will help you in case there is any question about your offer.;
, As soon as you arrive to your flight terminal, go ahead and let the gate attendant know that you would be willing to be bumped if necessary. This way, instead of asking for volunteers, they can call your name if they end up needing to bump someone. Always be polite with the gate attendants so they are more willing to pick you to be bumped.Some airlines will ask you at baggage check if you are willing to be bumped, and others have an option at the electronic check-in where you can mark if you are willing to be bumped., Airports are busiest during Friday mornings and Sunday evenings or around holidays. Traveling when airlines tend to be overbooked will increase your chances of getting bumped and receiving airline vouchers.Try to fly to popular destinations and international airports. These flights are also likely to be overbooked. The more popular the airport, the more crowded the flights tend to be., Flights that require you to connect to other flights before your final destination can help increase your chances of either missing a flight, having a cancelled flight, or getting bumped along the way. When this happens, you will most likely be offered a travel voucher.


Pack lightly and avoid checking any bags. This way, if you get bumped to another flight, you will be ready to go. If you do check your bag to a different flight, you may have to wait a couple of days before you get your luggage.
 It is easier to accumulate flying vouchers and frequent flyer miles if you keep using the same airline. By showing your loyalty, you may be eligible for extra perks and upgrades too., Some airline companies offer free or discounted vouchers for flight tickets. To find these deals, you need to look into airline benefits offered by different credit card companies on airline websites.


The Delta SkyMiles Platinum Card offered by American Express offers a free companion voucher each year for their customers that you can apply toward a flight ticket.Watch out for bad deals. Some promotions require you to book through obscure travel agencies. Also, you may end up paying at least double the price of the ticket before you qualify for a "free" ticket.
Watch for deals that have blackout dates and capacity restrictions. You may not want to pursue offers that have too many limitations.

