 Replace your negative self talk with affirmations. Shifting your language will alter your mindset and override negative subconscious actions and thoughts. Replace “I can’t do this!” with “I can do this!” Instead of saying “I fail at everything!” exclaim “I will succeed!” If you catch yourself slipping back into negative self-talk, pause and take a deep breath. Consider why you are telling yourself you won’t succeed. Identify the factors that caused you to become negative. Note that these factors are triggers and recommit to affirming yourself.This shift in your language won’t happen overnight. It takes time and consistency. Remain positive as you work toward ridding yourself of negative subconscious expectations and behaviors.;
, When anxiety or stress arises, calm your nerves and quell negative thoughts by repeating a personally crafted mantra. Consistent use of the mantra will subdue negative thoughts and actions that arise from your subconscious mind. Identify your negative thoughts and accept that your self-judgement is unfounded. Create a healing mantra by identifying the opposite of your self-judgemental claim. Craft two additional mantras that express the same idea; use them interchangeably. Select a spot in your body to ground the positivity. The spot could be your heart or your stomach. Place your hand on the spot as you repeat the mantra. Focus on the action and swell with confidence.If you feel that you are never good enough, your mantras would be “I am good enough,” “I am worthy,” and “I am worth it.”

, Visualizing, or mentally rehearsing, the achievement of your goals is a wonderful way to engage with and train your subconscious mind. Start with visualization exercises that only require you to utilize one to two of your senses. Try to visualize every detail of a photograph or a familiar object. As you master this, work towards visualizing entire scenes of movies or memories. Note the sounds, smells, colors, textures, and tastes. When you acquire the ability to focus and accurately depict details, begin visualizing yourself achieving your goals. It is essential that you visualize yourself as realistic as possible. Don’t dwell on the negatives or envision yourself failing but visualize yourself succeeding and achieving your goal! For example, if you are visualizing yourself giving a speech, picture yourself recovering from a stutter or a skipped sentence instead of moving the crowd to their feet. Visualize specific goals. Be specific about what it is that you want to achieve. Identify the location, time, and circumstances surrounding your success. Go into as much detail as possible!
Don’t envision yourself as superhuman; instead imagine yourself as you really are.

