 It's usually a good idea to get the dog checked out by a vet before bringing it home, particularly if you have other animals and especially if the dog is coming directly from another home. That way, you can make sure your new dog is happy and healthy and doesn't need to be treated for any problems that could make integrating into your home more difficult.


You might consider asking your veterinarian to microchip the dog. This will help to increase the chances of finding the dog again if they get out and get lost.
 When you first bring your dog home, it's a good idea to be home with the dog for the first few days. It helps your dog get acclimated to you and the environment at the same time before you need to return to your normal life. Try bringing your dog home on a weekend, for instance., When you go to pick the dog up, you'll need to have several things on hand just in case, including the leash, tag, collar, and carrier. A dog travels best in a carrier at least at first. Also, the tag and collar are important in case the dog somehow escapes while in transit.For safety reasons, it is important to keep your dog on a leash when you are outside (unless you are in a dog secure fenced-in area). Do this until you are certain the dog will not run away from you.
 The first thing that needs to happen when you get to your house is the dog needs to use the bathroom. Once that's done, take the dog inside, and let it move around the house, exploring. It's going to take some time for the dog to adjust to the new environment, so try not to get in its face right away.If the dog is not house-trained, then you will need to do this as well. Either way, be sure to show your dog where to go potty, such as by taking them to the same spot outside every time they have to go. Let them out to go potty several times per day, such as after their meals, first thing in the morning, midday, and before you go to bed at night.
 It's important to go slowly when introducing your dog to the family. Try introducing the family one person at a time. Always let the dog approach the person, rather than the other way around, as the other way can seem threatening.


Let the new dog explore without other pets around. The new dog wants to see its new territory, and exploring gives it a chance to see what its new place is all about. Have the other pets outside or locked in crates/other rooms while the new dog explores.
After that, do the opposite. Let the old pet explore the house while the new dog is locked up because it gives the old pet a chance to get used to the dog's new smell.Next, let them sniff each other through a door. They can get accustomed to each other's scent. You can also try crate-to-crate. Finally, let them meet face-to-face. If they get aggressive, you may need to keep them apart for longer.
 When your dog first gets to your house, it may want to chew on household items that you don't want destroyed. Providing solid chew toys gives the dog something to chew on, providing a safe, healthy distraction from your household items.