 This is not a super spiritual act, though it could be if you wanted it to be (this is not what we are talking about at the moment though), it is as simple as this: find a quiet place, sit down (make sure you aren't laying down so you don't fall asleep) with your back up straight, keep your head straight, keep your hands either together or on each knee, close your eyes or focus on a spot about a foot in front of you on the ground without moving your head down, and concentrate on the air going in and out of your nose. That's it. Do this for a few minutes before you start your day. It will eventually help you keep track of the thoughts that keep you down. It will allow you to have more mental control, which is the root of the problem mentioned.;
, You can't be happy or enjoy other people if you don't like yourself. Look in the mirror each morning and tell yourself that you are a complete person and that you are awesome. Any time a negative thought comes in your brain, address it quickly and know that it is not true. Put a positive spin on your thoughts, you are in control of your feelings.
 Let yourself understand that you can control any circumstance as long as you have faith in yourself. Don't embarrass yourself and let someone control you.
 Try to stay away from spilling your emotional, financial, physical, relational problems with people you work with or barely know. Keep the conversations light and casual. This way you are not feeding your negative thoughts but you are talking and getting to know the people around you without dumping unwanted info on people who don't know you. Remember: people are drawn to positive folks, don't bog yourself down in pity or negativity and don't bog others down either.
, It can be other things like saving a small amount of money up for someday when its needed. Maybe take up a modest hobby like fishing or biking. Basically, what you want to do is build your confidence in you ability to succeed with smaller tasks. Eventually, with your new found courage of accomplishing things, become a "doer" and not a "why should I". Then move on to bigger achievements. Your self-worth will soar and your independent spirit will flourish changing your old critical self into the person you desire to be. As you find yourself consciously seizing the moments that inspire you, help others to do the same. Really, it's all about people other then ourselves, so when you find contentment, be a dependable, unselfish, inspiring, friend.

