 You know that ugly old lamp you have sitting on that desk in the corner? Don't let it go to waste! Believe it or not, you can resurrect that perfectly good frame from the traps of that old, not-so-trendy fabric.


Some lamps will have one-piece frames and some will have a set of two rings: a washer top and a bottom wire ring, generally. If you're unhappy with what you have at your disposal, new lampshade wire rings are available at some craft supply stores.

This project will be constructing a drum shade--the fancy name for a circular shade. These are generally made up of two separate rings.

;
, Making your own drum shade can be pretty easy as long as you have high-quality, durable materials. Get everything in order before you get started. There will be no last-minute trips to the store on your watch.


Fabric
Styrene
Wire rings
Bulldog clips
Fabric glue
Bias tape
Scissors
Paintbrushes

, Maybe you have all the materials, but are they the right sizes? Check out your lamp rings first; they're the hardest to replace.


Your fabric needs to be at the very least one inch (2.5 cm) wider and longer than the width and circumference of your lampshade. You can either measure the circumference with a measuring tape or use the 'ol handy 3.14 x diameter trick.

For example, if the diameter of your lampshade is 14 inches, 3.14 x 14 = 43.96, the circumference of your lampshade. So, you should be working with material that's at least 45 inches long.


You can choose how far apart you want your rings to be to determine the width . A little more than a foot (31 cm) is standard.
 Once you've measured your fabric, you can cut your styrene to fit it.









The styrene should be 1 inch (2.5 cm) narrower and 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) shorter than your fabric.

Styrene doesn't stick well to synthetic fibers -- use linen, cotton or silk for your fabric.
 This customizes your lamp, hides any old, rusting wire, and coordinates even the inside of the lamp with the room. Be sure to wrap the rings and spokes.









Bias tape comes in different colors and patterns; you can even make your own.

Use quick-drying fabric glue and apply to the rings, not the tape. When you come to the end, just cut it off and adhere.
 Place it on the fabric as you go to ensure it's bubble free and straight.









Leave 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of extra material on 3 sides--both long sides and one short side. Make sure the 4th side is flush to the styrene.
 Put glue on the 1/2 inch of fabric that is exposed and place on top of the other side. You should now have a circular form of material in your hands.









Put weights in the center on the inside and let dry for 10 minutes. After the 10 minutes are up, roll it along your table to see that it stays in a tube-like shape.
 Those are the kind that are black, metallic, and are generally used to hold papers together. Rest the wire rings between the "arms" of the clips.


Use 4 or 5 clips on each side. Rest the weight of the lamp shade on the rings clipped on the bottom.
 Start at the top, using your paintbrushes to spread a light layer of glue on the exposed 1/2 inch of material. Remove the clips as you go and replace over the glued area.
 The first time you go around, don't be concerned with tucking it perfectly. Tuck it loosely at first, then circle back to smooth out the kinks.









Repeat these two steps for both ends. Take 15 minutes between the top and bottom to allow for drying.

