 Keeping track of everything that you eat and drink will help you to see if you are eating just enough or too much while you are on your vacation.You can keep a pen and paper record of what you eat or use an app to keep track of what you eat.


Make sure that you record everything or you will not have an accurate record.
Some apps even allow you to take a quick picture of your plate with your smartphone, then upload it to the app.
 Fitness monitors can offer some great motivation to exercise more, eat less, and sleep better while you are on vacation.Try wearing a fitness monitor every day during your vacation to keep yourself on track.


Try setting a vacation step goal for yourself that is a little higher than your usual to help offset any extra calories you take in. For example, if your usual step goal is 10,000 steps, then try setting a vacation step goal of 12,000 steps.
 Weighing yourself is a great way to keep yourself in check with your diet and exercise goals; however, it is not a good idea to weigh yourself every day because weight fluctuates from day to day. Instead, weigh yourself twice per week to determine if you are gaining weight or not.If there is a fitness center in your hotel, then there should be a scale. If not, ask at the front desk if there is a scale you can use. You can also bring a scale along with you. If you decide to bring a scale, make sure that it is a lightweight scale that you can easily fit in your suitcase.
To get the most accurate reading, weigh yourself first thing in the morning before you eat or drink anything.
Wear only your underwear or light weight clothing when you weigh yourself (or you can just do it naked). Do not wear shoes. Shoes and clothes can add up to five pounds onto your weight.
If the scale shows a higher number on one day, don’t panic. Just try to get a little more exercise and cut down on your calories for the next few days.
 If you don’t have access to a scale while you are on vacation, then you can also use the fit of your clothes to help you determine if you have gained any weight.


Try bringing a pair of jeans that fit you well and try them on once every couple of days. If your jeans feel snug one day, then get a little more exercise and cut back on your calories for a few days.

