 No matter how natural a product may look, if it contains anything in the FD&C category or the words “artificial flavors,” it contains unwanted additives.“Artificial flavors” is a generic term to cover hundreds of chemical additives.
Processed and refined foods are the most common culprits containing “artificial flavors,” but they can appear anywhere. Always check labels of food, vitamins, and even medications., Everything from fruit to mint flavor has a manufactured chemical that can reproduce it. When checking ingredient lists, be on the lookout for long, scientific-sounding names. Notice that some chemical names are made to resemble the flavor they are replicating, so don’t be fooled. Some common artificial flavors are:Ethyl maltol (sugar and cotton candy)
Ethyvanillin (vanilla)
Methyl salicylate (mint)
Limonene (orange)
Methyl anthranilate (grape)
Ethyl propionate (various fruits)
Isoamyl acetate (banana)
Cinnamaldehyde (cinnamon)
Benzaldehyde (almond)
Diacetyl (“buttery” flavor), Monosodium glutamate, or MSG, is added to foods to enhance their flavor, and is common in many “junk foods” like chips, fast food, canned foods, and in some restaurants, especially Chinese food. Some people choose to avoid MSG, even though it has been through a lengthy testing process and is “generally recognized as safe” by the FDA.You can avoid MSG by asking take-out restaurants if they use it, and if so to leave it out of your food. Get fresh vegetables and market soup instead of canned products. Stay away from fast food chain restaurants. Check food labels for “monosodium glutamate” and other possible terms to describe MSG. Processed free glutamic acid is in many ingredients including:Glutamic Acid
Anything with the word glutamate in it, such as monosodium glutamate, monopotassium glutamate, calcium glutamate, monoammonium glutamate, natrium glutamate
Anything hydrolyzed, such as hydrolyzed protein
Sodium caseinate or calcium caseinate
Yeast food, yeast nutrient, yeast extract, or autolyzed Yeast
Gelatin
Vetsin
Ajinomoto
Textured protein
Soy or whey protein isolate

