 The plaintiff cannot argue that you were negligent if you owed no duty to him or her.Rather than using an affirmative defense, in which you have to prove something, you also have the option of attacking the plaintiff's case-in-chief. This means that you disprove one of the elements of the plaintiff's case.
The plaintiff's case is made of distinct elements lined up like dominos. If you knock one down, the rest of the case will follow.
The first element a plaintiff must prove in a negligence claim is duty. In a products liability case, the law requires you to exercise a reasonable standard of care as defined by those in your industry or who manufacture similar products., Even if you owed the plaintiff some duty, you were not negligent if you didn't breach that duty.Product testing and compliance with safety regulations are two things you can use to prove you didn't breach the duty of reasonable care. The results of safety tests also can show that you didn't breach your duty, especially if the product achieved high safety ratings.
This element goes hand-in-hand with unforeseeable misuse. You cannot be reasonably expected to test the safety, performance, or functionality of your product in every possible circumstance – you are only legally responsible for injuries your product causes when it's being used the way it was intended.
 You have a defense to a negligence claim if the plaintiff's injury was caused by something other than your breach of duty.Demonstrating that something else most likely caused the plaintiff's injury will defeat the plaintiff's entire case, even if your product was defective and the plaintiff can prove that the defect was due to your negligent manufacturing practices.
For example, if the plaintiff hit her head on your machine because she slipped in a puddle of milk on the floor, neither your machine nor any defect it might have was to blame for her injuries.
 You can reduce or even eliminate your liability if the plaintiff also was negligent in the way he or she used your product.Essentially, you must argue that the plaintiff wouldn't have been injured if he or she hadn't been acting carelessly.To build this defense, you will have to gain information about the context in which the plaintiff was injured and how the plaintiff was behaving immediately prior to the injury.
An example of contributory or comparative negligence might be if the plaintiff was texting to a friend while operating the electric saw you manufacture.

