 This includes going back to the very first Disney cartoons and studying how animation and characters have evolved over the years into the Manga, Anime, and other lifelike characters featured in video games.;
, The best way to learn how to draw is to do it.


You can take classes at a local art school to develop your skills, but you can also teach yourself through observation, reading and practice.
It's a good idea to study anatomy and exterior settings so you understand the basics before trying to animate them, as every animation starts with a sketch, which is then scanned into the computer and developed in Photoshop before going through the animation process.
 For example, many universities in the United States, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), are now offering video game courses as part of comparative media studies or software engineering.



Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator are essential 2-D programs to develop characters, while 3ds Max and Maya are some of the most popular 3-D modeling programs.
You can teach yourself by means of tutorials from sites such as Computer Arts, or you can take courses to learn how to use the software. There are also animation certificate programs that last between 6 months and 2 years.



A concept artist comes up with original ideas for settings and characters.
A 2-D animator takes the concept artist's sketches and creates 2-dimensional animation from them.
A 3-D animator takes the work a step further and adds the modeling and building to create 3-D animations.
A 2-D texture artist creates all of the different textures used in a video game, from the hairs on a characters head to the scales on a reptilian character.
 Your portfolio should consist of a number of different designs or creations, and if possible, demonstrate their use in video games. You can save your files on a CD-ROM, a website, or both, so long as you can provide potential employers with samples of your work upon request.
 This will allow you to learn the entire process of creating animations for video games, from concept to interface design.


Most companies that develop video games are in Austin, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, North Carolina, and Washington D.C.
You can look for both jobs and internships on job portals like Monsterboard, but you can also look on the websites of video game companies themselves. In addition, you can use your social network to find out about current openings.
 Make sure your resume and portfolio reflect your strengths and showcase your talent by highlighting any video games you've worked on - even if they are non-professional - and including references if you have any.

