 To really enjoy the series, you need to understand the following:


The Doctor is a Time Lord, an advanced humanoid race that has harnessed the power of manipulating time. Their home planet is Gallifrey. The Doctor is constantly traveling through Time and Space. In the return of the Doctor Who series in the new millennium, it is revealed that the Time Lords have been exterminated as the result of a huge conflict between themselves and the Daleks, known as the Time War. Hence, visits to Gallifrey are not longer a part of the series but you can certainly see Gallifrey in earlier episodes of the series. All the same, there are lingering aspects of Gallifrey and other Time Lords that continue to run through the Doctor Who series, so be watchful!
The main character of Doctor Who is known only as "The Doctor". We're not actually sure of his real name (so far it has not been revealed to the audience), although there are plenty of times when it is shown to be of importance, and indeed, in series 6 (2011), it becomes clear that the question of who the Doctor really is is of some considerable future importance. The show's title is not a reference to his name, but rather an occasional joke in which someone asks "Doctor Who?" when he identifies himself as "The Doctor".
Time Lords, while they can die, more typically regenerate into entirely new individuals in body, temperament, and outlook. However, they can only regenerate twelve times (thirteen bodies), at least this is what we're currently told. However, it has been speculated that this was only a superficial limit imposed by Gallifrey's leaders on other Time Lords, and the Doctor, being the last Time Lord, may well be able to regenerate as many times as he wants. We presume gender as well, because the Doctor has never become female but this could change. Time Lords are not immortal, as all but two of them died in the Time War ("the Master" being the other known surviving Time Lord so far).
The Tenth Doctor was portrayed by David Tennant, the eleventh by Matt Smith. These two Doctors have proven wildly popular with audiences. Distinctive Doctors from the past include Tom Baker and Jon Pertwee. If you are just trying to jump into the newer series make sure you start with number nine, by Christopher Eccleston.
The Doctor is always very intelligent, cares about Earth and humans, and defending what's right. He solves problems chiefly through his wits, rather than violence, although he will engage in combat if needed.;
, The Doctor never goes long without a companion or two. Usually these are attractive young females but he has also traveled with male companions and non-human companions on occasion. Although the Doctor isn't very romantically motivated and seems to be mindful of much greater thinking pursuits, it is implied that he fell in love with one female companion, Rose Tyler, who eventually gets trapped in a parallel universe and they are forced to part permanently in a tearful scene. In later shows, the eleventh Doctor is kissed by his companion but it's all the result of "timey-wimey" mix-ups and causes the Doctor to realize that he needs to get her husband to come along too.


K-9 is a robotic dog-like companion that the Doctor relies on in earlier incarnations of the Doctor.One of his companions, Sarah Jane, later leaves him and takes K-9 with her, spinning off her own TV series later on.
 The TARDIS hurls through space on another adventure. It is the Doctor's spaceship – he cannot travel in Time and Space without it. It looks like an old-fashioned British police box. However, inside it's a sophisticated spaceship, and many times bigger inside than it is outside. The Doctor is fiercely protective and proud of his TARDIS. The TARDIS stands for Time And Relative Dimension(s) In Space. For more information check out: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TARDIS

, The Doctor relies ever more increasingly on his Sonic Screwdriver, a multipurpose tool.In earlier incarnations of the Doctor, this screwdriver has a few useful purposes but in recent episodes, it appears to be able to do everything (and probably can make a good pot of coffee too, if the Doctor asked it to).
 It wouldn't be great sci-fi without the enemies intent on destroying Earth, each other, other worlds and generally wreaking havoc and adding bad vibes wherever they stomp. There are too many enemies to list here but some include:


A Dalek – an enemy of the Time Lords (specifically the Doctor) and the human race. These are an army of cyborgs, genetically engineered mutations inside a bonded polycarbonate shell that look like R2-D2's cousins from hell. They tend to yell "Exterminate! Exterminate!" a lot. These are reoccurring antagonists. For more info, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dalek.
Cybermen These are cyborgs. They are emotion-drained humans turned robots with no sense of emotional hold-back when it comes to killing. They seem to turn up almost anywhere, anytime, just like the daleks.The Master. He was the Doctor's friend once on Gallifrey, who turns into his worst enemy in the classic series. Knowledge of him will get you respect among previous generation fans. He is also in the series three (season 29) finale and may well pop up again some time. For more info, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_(Doctor_Who).
 Doctor Who, as a series, reaches back into the early 1960s. The style, writing, special effects, and so on vary a lot from one season to another. If you enjoy classic sci-fi (original Star Trek, for instance), try the classic episodes. If you prefer more current sci-fi, you can start with the current series. However, if you really want to love Doctor Who and all it represents, watch them all. If you're Gen X, it's highly probable that you have. Both series are great, if you are jumping into the newer series start with number nine.
 Allen/Virgin Publishing Ltd. Target novelisations of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s Doctor Who adventures. These are long out of print, but you can still obtain them from specialist dealers and perhaps online. Second-hand bookshops usually stock them too. Also, check out the original Doctor Who novels from BBC Books, which are set in suitable gaps between the Doctor's television adventures and take the series' concept into areas that television technology and budget limitations could never do.
 While you can certainly enjoy Doctor Who without knowing the elaborate history, mysteries, and so on that has developed over the decades, learning these details can greatly enhance the experience. Learn from other fans, web sites, blogs and so on.
 BBC sells lots of merchandise and authorizes a lot of online and retail companies to sell items too. You can get Dalek torches (flashlights) through to full size TARDIS models that you can sleep in. Just go with what fits and suits your budget!


Having the DVDs of your favourite episodes is a great start.
 There are so many options possible here that it's an article in its own right. Check out the images on Doctor Who websites, fan sites and wikis for inspiration.


For women, see How to Be Like a Doctor Who Female Companion (Revived Series).

