 Animals such as kangaroo rats or chipmunks require a huge habitat. If space is limited, pygmy mice in a tank might be a good idea.;
, Harvest mice and African pygmy dormice for instance need plenty of climbing space and height, an arboreal vivarium is ideal. Multimammate mice can be happy in a wired cage, providing you give them plenty of enrichment. Remember that barred or plastic cages are easy for many rodents to escape from or chew through. Remember some rodents may need a higher temperature than others so you may need to invest in extra heating., There are plenty of exotic rodent forums that can help you find someone with direct experience of the pet you want to try keeping. You may find for instance that your chosen pet is very vocal, or smells a great deal because it scent marks. Finding out this before you own the pet will help you make sure it's a good match for your lifestyle. Exotic rodents can have a long lifespan, so you must be committed to them.
 Does your rodent need a particular type of mineral in its diet? What kind of substrate does it need? Megazorb with layers of hay is often a good starting point and many stables will have it as a horse bedding.
 African pygmy dormice for example need maple syrup as a good substitute for nectar as well as forms of protein and plenty of fruit. Its also about knowing what your animals CANNOT eat. Mediterranean lemmings for instance are sugar intolerant.
 Think of the habitats you see when you visit zoos, with plenty of nests to hide in, and wooden branches and hideaways. Remember that you can use some woods from your local wood(providing it has fallen and isn't still attached to the tree) but you MUST place in the oven for at least 20 minutes on 200 degrees before giving it to a rodent. This helps remove any dangerous bacteria or fungi, but does restrict the size of branches you can get.
 For instance, Pygmy mice can drown in normal water dishes, so you should get something smaller or place some pebbles in so they can climb out. If you choose dormice, you should know how to avoid torpor and what to do if it occurs.
 Stick with the same gender, you should never breed without having kept the animals as pets first as it can be very complicated. Some rodents are colony animals, like dormice, and should be kept in at least trios and ideally four or more. If kept in only pairs then they will be much shyer and more stressed. Some rodents should never be kept alone.
 These can be very costly, especially with animals that are new to the pet trade.
 Always go as large and enriching as you can afford and remember it is much better to concentrate on just one pet or pets, with a fantastic habitat such as this for a dwarf hamster

than have several types of pet that only have adequate housing., Once you are sure you've researched them and have the money saved for any potential vet bills its time to get your animals. Like any pet make sure that you go for animals that have clear eyes, a good well groomed coat, and are moving freely. Never go with a breeder that cannot guarantee the gender of your pets - if you ended up with a single female with two males for instance they could potentially fight to the death.
 It is important to let your pets get used to their new environment before you intrude, especially if you've had to travel to get them. Remember that some exotics you may never be able to handle.
 Rodent care isn't static, improvements are being made all the time and its important to keep informed and get ideas from other keepers.
 It can be very difficult to find and trap an escapee.

