 To make a classroom in your bedroom, you will have to have an available bedroom to use. If you need to, declutter it and clean up before setting everything for your classroom up. Make sure you have permission to use that bedroom from whoever uses it, if someone else does.;
,

When you pick you actually need to understand what you learn in that grade.
 You WILL need desks and chairs: keep them handy! If you don't have desks, you can just use some small tables and position chairs around them, but you will definitely need those chairs.
 Have it say "____" grade teacher: Mrs.; Miss; or Mr. _____'s classroom".
 You WILL NEED a bathroom, down the hall or in your room. Also, make sure you have a teacher's desk (or computer desk with computer) and a chalkboard/whiteboard.
 You don't necessarily need to have an ACTUAL library, but if you don't have one already in your house, just get some bookshelves and make sure you have a lot of books on them, a little counter, and other library-related things like that.
 If you're going into a backyard for recess, if you have a playground, by all means use it! But it isn't necessary if you don't have one; don't go out and buy one just for your recess time. Have some fun things to do outside, like some balls, chalk, jump rope, or whatever outdoor equipment would be appropriate for your grade level's age range.
 Just use some worksheets or something like that. You need a whiteboard/chalkboard, and definitely paper for your worksheets. If you have trouble thinking of assignments, you can always grab a book that you've read and create some questions based off of it. For science, you can look online for some fun projects and experiments.
 When you make up your teacher name, it can be silly or it can serious, like your last name. A serious one would be Miss Fowler, and a silly one could be Mr. Gooblic.
 You should keep a binder or type of portfolio to keep grades and behavior reports in.
 You can create a system for behavior, like having names on your whiteboard/chalkboard and adding tallies every time they misbehave, the classic "three strikes and you're out" method. Always have a reward system.
 If they don't want to play, do not force them to. It's their own choice. If you don't have enough people, it's fun to use stuffed animals or puppets to increase your audience, if you want.
 Require things like a book bag, binders/folders, paper, pencil/pen, and a few books.
 Yum. Tell them to bring a snack to eat for snack time, if it is appropriate for your grade level. They will need it.
 That way, they know what is going to happen at school. Include the times they'll learn certain subjects, lunch, recess, etc.

