


Only one slide will be necessary.
If there are any text boxes on the screen, click on their outlines and press your delete key. Only a blank slide is needed.;
, and go to images.google.com, or go to google.com and click on "Images" in the top right next to the apps grid. From there, type "BSOD," "blue screen," or "blue screen of death" into the search bar and press enter. Using the tips below, choose a picture and click on it. Then click the "View Image" button, right-click the image and select copy.


For the most accurate results, add your operating system (Windows XP, 7, 8, etc.) into the search bar as well. True blue screens for a PC vary by operating system.
When looking for an image, it's best to choose one that is not small or blurry. Those will make the blue screen look unrealistic when put into full screen.
Somewhere on your blue screen image (depending on the operating system) you should find an error code such as "irql_not_less_or_equal" or "page_fault_in_nonpaged_area." For even higher accuracy, google those error codes and don't use ones that would never make sense for your specific computer. However, this is a very small detail and shouldn't matter for most uses of a fake blue screen.
 When you right-click the slide, you should see at least one option of pasting. Click one of them; the option you select should not matter. Your blue screen image should then appear on the slide. After clicking your image, use the dots surrounding the image to stretch it out and fit the entire slide. Once it fills the slide, click on the 'Slide Show' tab and start the presentation or press F5 to make it full screen. You should now have successfully created a fake BSOD using Microsoft PowerPoint! (You can take the presentation out of full-screen mode by pressing the Esc key.)


If your image is blurry or fake-looking once the presentation has been put into full screen, it can most likely be concluded that the image's resolution is too small. Delete this image from the slide by clicking the image and pressing the delete key and repeat the process with a different blue screen image.
If your image has black margins after being fully stretched out and put into full screen, PowerPoint most likely isn't set up correctly. Go to the "Design" tab, click "Page Setup," change the size to the 16:9 option, and press OK. When put back into full screen, the black margins should no longer be present.
If no pasting options are present, go back to the image you copied online, right-click it and select "save image as" instead. Open the folder you saved the image to and drag it into the slide. This should work the same way as a paste would.

