 One way you can help eliminate the stigma of Tourette’s is to talk to people about your condition. Fear and stigmas often come from a lack of knowledge and awareness. Talk openly to people about your symptoms and what it’s like living with Tourette’s. Sharing with people that your tics are a part of you and don’t really bother you can help change their perception of Tourette’s., If someone is making fun of you or being negative towards you, defend yourself. But make sure to do it respectfully. Use it as a teaching moment. Getting mad and being rude to the person will not change the person’s mind about Tourette’s and remove the stigma, which is your goal.Talk to the person about your condition by explaining what Tourette’s is.
Ask the person what bothers him about your tics or why he is scared of you.
Use your judgment. Every situation of bullying or discrimination may not be safe or logistically possible to have a conversation. However, you can make small changes by talking to people at work, school, on the bus, or in line at the store.
 Some young people don’t want to let their teachers know they have Tourette’s. However, being proactive and telling your teacher may help you in the long run. If a teacher knows you have Tourette’s and you won’t be still or randomly speak, she will be educated enough not to punish you.Providing information to your teacher can help you and her have a better relationship. Plus, you will be educating someone about Tourette’s, which is one step closer to breaking down the stigma.
Talk to your class. Or if you are uncomfortable with this, ask your teacher to have a guest speaker come in to the class to talk to the class and educate them about Tourette's Syndrome.
 One valid way of embracing your Tourette’s is to share your life with the world. This can easily be done via social media. You can use Twitter, Instagram, Vine, YouTube, and Snapchat. By showing your everyday life to the world, you help provide awareness and knowledge to the general public. You also help fight stigma by showing everyone that your life is just like theirs.Sharing your experience via social media can help you find others going through similar things. You might even be able to inspire others with Tourette’s to embrace themselves and celebrate their lives.
 You can use your condition to make a difference in the world by being a spokesperson. Get involved in Tourette’s organizations, give talks in your community spreading awareness of the condition, or find another unique way to help remove the stigma. Be proactive in your community or online. Make it your goal to make Tourette’s a condition people understand and know about in your community.For example, people have started non-profits to raise awareness for Tourette’s, posted videos to YouTube, or spoken at schools in their communities.