 This is Dark Souls’ tagline, and it is that way for a reason: you will die a lot in this game. That being said, there’s no shame in seeing that “Game Over” message across your screen repeatedly. Dark Souls 2 requires patience and learning to beat it.


Make sure you find each of the area’s bonfires. Bonfires are Dark Souls’ save points.
Use your acquired souls a soon as possible since dying twice without retrieving your souls makes your souls gone forever.;
, Facing the bosses of Dark Souls 2 means going head to head against some of gaming’s toughest bosses. You’re well-advised to study each boss’ movements and patterns. You should also equip weapons and spells appropriate to the boss you’re facing.


Upgrade your armor and weapon if you have souls to spare.
Level up and improve your stats so you can increase your chance of beating the bosses.
 If you have friends online, you can ask for their assistance. Meaning, you can summon them up in your game, and actually join you in your adventure.


You can invite assistance from friends or other players by using an item called the summon sign. Simply use it on the floor, and players can join you from this point.
Without actual friends online, make sure to summon AI players to beat bosses. Summoning AI players requires summoning signs and you should be in human form.
 This is the first boss that you will encounter in Dark Souls 2. Well, at least the one you are supposed to beat first. He’s a huge tree-like creature with a powerful swing. He will also attempt to stomp on you, but you should be able to dodge that easily.


The primary technique to beat the giant is to stay close to him. His stomps may intimidate you, but just roll away from them.
Strike his feet with your weapon and just watch out for the stomps. He will occasionally reposition himself, but no worries, just get close to him again.
Be aware of the battle area. Make sure you don’t to get cornered by this giant.
Once you manage to lessen the giant’s health to 50%, it will remove its arm and use it to hit you. Just the same, keep close to his feet, and you should be fine.
There are times when the giant falls down. Take this opportunity to hit him while he is caught off-guard.
 You will have the chance to battle this boss early in the game on the plaza of the Forest of Fallen Giants. However, that is just an optional battle—you will battle him for real at the top of a nearby tower.


This boss employs speedy attacks, and can really deal serious damage, so watch out.
You can use striking attacks plus lightning for this boss is weak against those.
In order to deal a large amount of damage to the Pursuer, align him with the ballista and fire away. Keep in mind though that he can destroy those ballistas so use them early.
His thrust attacks are unblockable, so don’t bother using your shield against it.
A safe tactic is to just keep your distance, allow him to attack and after he sways his weapon, dodge and counter-attack. It might take a while, but this technique can kill him eventually.
 The Dragonrider is found at Heide’s Tower of Flame, at the base of the tower. Get ready for a close-combat surprise.


You will be fighting the Dragonrider in a small enclosed area, so keep on moving to avoid his attacks. Watch out for the pit surrounding the combat area. One slip, and you’re dead.
The Dragonrider’s weapon is its Halberd. He will continuously lunge at you with it, so do a sidestep all the time. When you’re almost facing his back, that’s the time to attack.
You can summon the AI player Masterless Glencour to assist you just outside the tower’s entrance.
Just keep on circling around this boss, and you will soon beat him.
 Still from Heide’s Tower of Flame comes another boss, the Old Dragonslayer. This boss is just like an upgraded Dragonrider with one difference. This boss can use a few dark magic spells.


You can still use the assistance of Masterless Glencour to beat this boss.
The Old Dragonslayer is susceptible to poison, so use those poison bombs away!
The Old Dragonslayer’s weaknesses are lightning and magic, so when at a distance, you can actually try using magic projectiles towards him, but that’s if your chosen class has access to magic.
This boss is really aggressive, so move a lot. You can also sidestep him, and try to hit his back.
Use your shield to block his sweep attacks.
If playing on Scholar of the First Sin version, watch out for the dragon at the entrance to the arena. Tackle this boss after Mytha so you have a higher healthpool.
 This boss can be easily beaten if you have already mastered how to handle melee-based bosses like the Old Dragonslayer and the Dragonrider. The Flexile Sentry is another melee-oriented boss with two sides; he can employ close- to medium-range attacks.


Use magic on your weapon because it will slightly increase damage dealt to the boss.
You can summon the AI player Lucatiel of Mirrah to assist you in beating this boss. She can be summoned inside the building just facing the stairwell that leads to the left portion of the docks.
Flexile Sentry has two sides: one is a double-sword wielder, and the other one uses clubs to attack you. The club side is way slower than the sword wielder, so use this time to deal damage to him especially after he lands his giant slam at the end of his combo.
While he is recovering from the slam attack, get close to him, and attack with all your stamina. Once he regains his fighting stance, just roll away from him, and recover your stamina. Heal if needed using your Estus Flask.
Watch out for his switching since the sword side of this enemy is more challenging. Good thing your AI companion can keep him busy while you attack the boss’ blind side.
 Don’t be fooled by the Ruin Sentinel, it should actually be “Ruin Sentinels.” You will face not just one but three Ruin Sentinels in the Lost Bastille. These sentinels have pole arms as weapons.


Initially, you will just fight one sentinel, but right after defeating this sentinel, two more sentinels will awaken and fight you simultaneously.
Fight the first sentinel on top of the platform, and just move around until it makes an attack. After attacking, that’s your cue to attack back. Keep your shield up when blocking.
The sentinels are weak against lightning and can be vulnerable to magic, too.
It is almost a requirement for you to summon an AI player to aid you with this difficult boss fight. You can summon this phantom inside a cell just along the corridor towards the boss battle area. The phantom is a magic-type character, so it will help you a lot in defeating the sentinels.
Unlike the previous bosses, getting close to the sentinels all the time is not always a good idea. Since there will be two sentinels going after you, you need to keep your distance where you can see both bosses.
Ranged weapons can be handy in defeating the sentinels. You should just focus your attack on one sentinel and then the next one. Never attempt to finish both sentinels at the same time.
Once you finish off the second sentinel, the third one will be an easy one. If you still have the phantom around, this should be a walk in the park.
 The Lost Sinner is another melee-based boss found at the bottom of Sinner’s Rise area. It wields a great sword and will aggressively attack you when able.


This boss has no elemental weakness, so you need to defeat it with melee-based attacks, too.
The Lost Sinner might be aggressive in her attacks, but equipping a large shield should protect you from her attempts.
Just like how you dealt with the other melee-based bosses, just circle around this boss, and you should be alright. Remember to heal up if she, for some reason, damages you.
This boss is very agile. In times that you are having a hard time landing attacks, you can switch to your projectiles or ranged weapons.
 This boss battle is a riot. You will be faced with multiple gargoyles in a not-so-spacious rooftop. Not only do you have to deal with the gargoyles’ melee attacks, they are all fire-breathing as well. They can also float, so this makes things even more difficult.


These gargoyles are weak against lightning and magic.
Whether you are a melee- or a ranged-attack-oriented player, this boss battle is going to be tough. Enter the battle with lots of estus flasks.
Initially, you will be facing just one gargoyle. Take advantage of this moment because after a few seconds, the other gargoyles will start to awaken.
Expect a lot of running on your part. The idea is to isolate one gargoyle so you could damage it without any distractions from the other gargoyles.
Ironically, when there are lots of bosses in your face, there’s no available AI assistance for this one. Sorry.
If you are a caster type, it will somehow make this boss fight a little easier, but don’t expect it to be easy. Patience and proper movement will win you this boss fight—with a little luck, of course.
 This boss fight is kind of unique. The battle will take place inside the Undead Purgatory in a circular arena. It will mostly be a dodging game, while the other half of the battle is an actual battle with the chariot’s two-headed horse.


The enemy skeletons in this area are weak against fire and slightly against magic. Same goes to the boss himself.
The first part of this boss battle is a matter of dodging the boss’ chariot, and at the same time kill the skeletons that are in the arena. Target the necromancers since they are the ones summoning these undead creatures.
There’s an option for you to roll under the chariot if you are light enough. The timing is a bit tricky though, so you might just want to stick to the conventional way of dodging.
Defeating the horse is somewhat easier compared to the earlier bosses that you have faced. It has a limited number of attacks, so you will get to predict its attacks in no time.
If you have a fire resin, attacking the horse with a fire sword will make the boss fight even easier. Keep this up, and you will end up victorious.
 Technically, you will face three bosses in the Huntsman’s Copse. One lord will be using pyromancy, and the other two are melee attackers.


This battle seems easy at first because of the spacious battleground, but since the Skeleton Lords summon skeleton minions, it makes things a bit complicated.
The skeleton minions seem to be just a nuisance to the boss battle since they are very fragile and easy to beat. They’re just too many!
You can use an item called Alluring Skulls so these pesky skeletons will stop bothering you from finishing the Skeleton Lords.
You can also use this moment to heal up if you are badly damaged.
 You can find this boss inside the Doors of Pharros. Like the Skeleton Lords, this boss also has minions to aid it against you, but rats this time.


The boss and the rat minions are all weak against fire. On the other hand, avoid any poison-based attacks since that’s the rats’ main ability. Needless to say, they are immune to it.
You should clear the area first of rats, so that when the boss jumps down it will be just between you and the Giant Rat.
The Giant Rat only has two distinct attack patterns: the swipe attack, and the jump attack. Both can easily be dodged in a one-on-one.
The best way to inflict damage to the Giant Rat is to its belly, so lock onto the belly as your target. You can roll over under him so you can get more access to its weak point.
Watch out for your stamina. If you’re caught under him with zero stamina, you will take a large amount of damage from it.
 The Covetous Demon is a giant slug that is weak against fire. Magic seems to have an increased damage effect to this boss as well.


The Covetous Demon is mainly a melee-type boss so your strategy is to run around him while attacking whenever possible. Counter-attacking can also be effective.
You can use the pots around the fighting arena that you can smash freeing some undead. This will lure the Covetous Demon to the undead leaving himself open for attacks.
Dealing damage to the Covetous Demon from afar with ranged weapons or projectiles will make this boss battle easier.
 Another boss found in Harvest Valley, she surrounds herself with poison making it almost impossible for you to defeat her as is.


This boss’ ultimate weakness is fire, so better use fire-based weapons or spells to quickly finish the battle.
There is something you must do first to defeat this boss with ease. First, go to the Central Earthen Peak bonfire, and turn around. Just straight ahead is a ledge. Walk right on this ledge and burn the windmill by using your torch. This will eliminate the poison mist in the Baneful Queen Mytha’s lair.
You can summon the AI player Doors of Pharros near the queen’s lair entrance.
Without the poison mist and with AI assistance, this boss battle won’t be that hard to finish off. She will occasionally cast magic, but all of her attacks can be blocked.
 This is one boss who’s a real tough guy. His built is enough to intimidate you, and what more with his flaming personality. This boss can be found at the end of the Iron Keep area. He has close melee attacks and some ranged ones, too.


Because of his built, this boss pauses after every major attack. Use these precious seconds to land attacks, and then back away.
Watch out for his slam attack which also spreads fiery projectiles. Make sure that you are away from him when he employs this attack.
Good thing is that he is vulnerable to attacks after this slam stance. Approach him, and give him a good amount of damage before he goes back to his feet.
You can trigger this slam attack if you get close to him, so just repeat the process until you defeat the boss.
 This marks the last of the early bosses in Dark Souls 2. Another boss in the Iron Keep, but he is an optional one. Meaning, you can move forward in the game without beating this boss. Well, that’s if you don’t want delicious rewards that you can acquire after beating this boss.


This boss is resistant to fire, but can be a bit weak to magic and lightning.
The Smelter Demon will damage you a lot, but since his attacks are mostly fire-based, it is advisable that you wear an armor that is strong against fire.
You cannot be consistently near this boss either since by just being near him you actually lose life. It is called proximity damage.
This boss often cool downs after every huge attack. Use this downtime to your advantage.
Keep your shield up when he does his deadly sword swing.
The best shield that you can use in this battle is the Gyrm Greatshield. It blocks physical and fire damage up to 100%.
With all the boss’ attacks seem powerless, the only thing you should do now is to deal damage to him and beat him.
 After defeating the optional boss, at this point your character is now a fully grown character with strong stats and ready for the next level. Go forth to the Shaded Woods to start on the second set of bosses that are on a higher bracket of evil.