 Determine whether they are extroverted, introverted, sporty, book-smart, etc. For example, this will help you avoid talking too much to a guy that is not talkative, which can lead them to be turned off from future outings with you. And you definitely want to make a positive impression on all of them, even if you are interested in just one or two, because the guy you don't care about could turn out to be the best friend of the actual guy you are interested in. Definitely keep all the guys on your good side!;
, They will see that you are making an effort to bond in their platonic relationship style, which gives you the upper hand. They will regard you as a platonic friend, so they will want to hang out with you another time. This will give you more opportunities to develop chemistry and attraction between you and them. Just remember to NOT ATTEMPT to go in between the guy bonds. Guys cherish their friendships, and you should too, so always allow them to do what they need to do.
 Guys can get very bored very quickly with a girl that has limited interests or conversation. Show off your knowledge and fun-loving nature to them by talking, teasing, playing a game, etc. But this doesn't mean to talk incessantly (as a lot of us are apt to do). Let them talk about themselves. Ensure them that you are listening by providing comments that are thought-provoking and fresh, which will leave them thinking longer about what you said. The longer they think about what you said, the more they think and wonder about you and their attraction to you. Guys love to solve mysteries!

, If you are trying to keep your options open with the guys, or even if you have picked the guy you like, don't favor only one. Socialize with everyone, in similar proportions. Guys love social girls and this will also create a slight competition between the guys. Guys love chasing and proving themselves to a girl, it gives them a goal in socializing. If you are going to zero in on the potential guy, do it later on in the outing, but keep it aloof! You don't want to give away your pick too quick, or you will risk looking like you were just shopping for a mate!

, Another version of this is, "play hard-to-get" but I avoid saying this because this is often misinterpreted. Guys do not want a girl that is so extroverted that she is open about anything, including her sexuality. Sure, they might want to fantasize about naughty nights with them, but this will lower the chance of a long-term attachment. Determine outfits that showcase your best features without showing too much. But besides appearances, don't reveal your thoughts and intentions too easily. If they ask you about who you are, don't always give them a straight up answer. Evade a little bit. Let them guess about you. Be an enigma.

