 Even though tai chi involves gentle, low-impact movements, it's still a good idea to ask your doctor about it. Depending on your condition, there may be other things you need to do first.If you have significant balance or coordination issues, tai chi may not be well-suited for you. This is also true if you take medications that make you dizzy or lightheaded as a side effect.
In addition to advice, your doctor also may be able to recommend specific classes or instructors in your area that you could try.;
, Breathing is fundamental to tai chi. Basic breathing exercises can give you an introduction to the practice and help ease stress and tension, even if never combined with movement.Breath in tai chi is like a continuous circle, with no pauses between the inhale and the exhale. As you inhale, expand your chest and belly to make room for the air. When you exhale, suck in your belly and think about squeezing the air out gently.
Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth, resting the tip of your tongue against the roof of your mouth. It should be in the same position it would be if you were going to say "laugh" or "light."
When you've got the deep breathing down, let your focus drift to parts of your body that are tense. Focus on relaxing and loosening them up with your breath.
 When practicing tai chi, standing in proper alignment is essential. In the neutral position, you help release tension from your body and find balance and stability. While there are several tai chi stances, the neutral position is typically the first you will learn.Start with breathing exercises to relax your entire body. When you're ready, stand with your feet hip- or shoulder-width apart, parallel to each other. Make sure you're comfortable and stable.
Distribute your weight evenly and keep your back straight. Your feet should be far enough apart that you feel stable, comfortable, and relaxed. When your hands line up over your feet, you're in correct alignment.
Bend your knees slightly, tucking your pelvis so that your tailbone points toward the ground. You should still be able to see your knees. Keep your shoulders flat and neutral and relax your chest. Continue to breathe deeply.
As you breathe, start to have awareness of each part of your body in the position. You can close your eyes if it feels right, but you should keep your head up and your neck straight.
 There are a number of videos available online for free that will help introduce you to the practice of tai chi and teach you some basic principles. Many of these videos are specifically geared toward those who want to treat arthritic knees with tai chi.For example, you can find videos on the Tai Chi for Health Institute's website. These videos use a form of tai chi practice that was modified by doctors and health professionals specifically to treat osteoarthritis.
Focus on videos for beginners. Watching more advanced practitioners at this stage could be intimidating.
 Loose, lightweight attire is most suitable for practicing tai chi. Whatever you wear should allow you full range of motion without binding or constricting your movement. Lightweight clothing will more easily move with your body.You typically don't have to buy any new clothes to start a tai chi practice. Some people even wear regular street clothes to class. The slow, gentle movements of tai chi mean you shouldn't expect to break a sweat or need special exercise clothing.
You may want to dress in layers if you tend to get cold, depending on where you want to practice tai chi.
 The Arthritis Foundation has developed a 12-movement program specifically for treating arthritis pain. This beginner's program is offered throughout the United States at locations listed on the Foundation's website.Look for locations by going to arthritis.org. Click on the Arthritis Resource Finder, or search for "tai chi" to bring up more information about tai chi practice and the Foundation's program.
You also can find locations and more information about the program by calling the Foundation at 1-800-283-7800.
You may be able to connect to other possibilities in your area through the Foundation, even if the specific program isn't available anywhere convenient for you.
 Before you get started, it's usually best to watch a class in progress so the movements and the atmosphere will be more familiar to you and you'll be more comfortable when you get started.Tai chi is for people of all ages and all levels of physical ability. While you typically want to observe a beginners' class, it isn't necessary to find a class specifically for seniors or specifically for people with arthritis – unless that would make you more comfortable.
As you're observing, be quiet and still. Once the class is over, you'll have the opportunity to talk to the instructor and some class participants, but you should refrain from interrupting while the class is going on.
If you were unable to find a class through the Arthritis Foundation, you typically can find a class near you by checking at your local library, community center, or fitness center. Senior groups of clubs also may offer tai chi classes.
 There is no universal accreditation program for tai chi instructors. Before you sign up for a class, you need to find out more about their credentials, experience, and reputation in the practice.You may want to also do some research on the instructor's background online. Find out where they've taught before, and look for any reviews.
Practitioners who have been in the class for a longer time period, or practitioners in intermediate or advanced classes taught by the same instructor, also can be good sources of information about the instructor.
If you're taking a class not specifically designed for people with arthritis, you need to explain your condition to the instructor so they can make the necessary accommodations for you.
 The best way to start a tai chi practice is to go to a formal, weekly class. This will help structure your practice and teach you the basic movements so you can eventually start practicing at home as well.The other class members also are available for guidance and advice in addition to the instructor.
Be open to the experience as well as to camaraderie from other practitioners. It may be intimidating at first, but keep in mind that you are all beginners.
 You'll get the most benefit out of your tai chi practice if you do it every day. After you're comfortable with the basic movements, you can start doing it every day at home to supplement your weekly class.There are some classes that meet several times a week, but you may find that a weekly class is a better fit for your budget. Unfortunately, tai chi classes aren't covered as a treatment for arthritis by most health insurance programs, even though the practice can be just as beneficial as physical therapy.
 The 70 percent rule is fundamental to the practice of tai chi. According to this rule, when you perform any of the tai chi movements you should only do 70 percent of what you can do.In terms of arthritis, this means that your 100 percent will be as far as you can go without experiencing pain. Your movement in tai chi should only be about 70 percent of that.
Keep in mind that this range may change from day to day. Grow in your body awareness so that you understand where the line is and how far you can go on any given day.
 Cycles and circles are at the center of many tai chi movements. The principles of tai chi are based on concentrating and harnessing the energy flowing through your body, just as your breath moves in and out in a continuous cycle.Think of your body as a circle, or your limbs as moving in circles. Try to feel the energy cycling through your body.
The energy ball exercise is typically one of the first things you'll learn when starting tai chi. The exercise involves rubbing your hands together, pulling energy into them, and then slowly pulling your hands apart, feeling the energy connecting your hands together. Over time, you may find you are able to actually physically feel the energy ball you've created., When the cycle of energy is in harmony with your continuous cycle of breath, you will achieve the most benefit from your tai chi practice. Typically, your instructor will start each class with breathing exercises to help center you.You should start your home sessions with breathing exercises as well. Try to keep your mind focused on that cycle.
If you find you're losing your breath, or that your mind has drifted away from your breath, take a moment to recover it. Stop moving and stand in a neutral position, turning your mind to your breath.
 It isn't necessary to advance at a certain pace, or to learn and practice many different movements, to treat your arthritic knees with tai chi. Learn at your own pace, keeping in mind that tai chi isn't competitive.In the beginning, you may find it frustrating, or have difficulty keeping up. If you feel yourself becoming frustrated, take a break and return to your breath until you are calm.
Keep with it, even if you have a hard time understanding the movements or aren't able to do everything you can. Have patience, and remember that tai chi should be slow and gentle.
Once you've learned basic movements, you might commit to learning one or two new forms or movements each month so you can gradually expand your practice.

