 Find ways to break down nutritional concepts so that kids can see why healthy food is so important. You'll be surprised at how quickly kids pick up on certain concepts, especially if you can relate it to their interests:



Proteins found in chicken, fish, and beans make up your muscles and organs, and are essential for growing strong.

Carbohydrates found in whole-grain bread, pasta, and rice provide you with the energy needed to move and be active, and whole grains have much more energy than white bread and processed (factory-made) sugars.

Fruits and Vegetables contain vitamins and minerals that help your eyes, ears, and brain work to the best of their ability, and keep you from getting sick.;
, Depending on their age, different children will need different amounts of food. The following rough guidelines are for young children age 9-13, provided by the Mayo Clinic. Girls are on the lower end while boys are generally on the higher end of the estimates:



Calories: 1,400 - 2,600

Protein: 4-6 ounces

Fruits: 1.5 - 2 cups

Vegetables: 1.5 - 3.5 cups

Grains: 5-9 ounces

Dairy: 2.5 - 3 cupsThese are estimates meant to help you gauge relative amounts of food. While you don't have to measure out each ounce, you do want roughly 50% more grain than protein, for example.
 A good, healthy meal for your child doesn't need to be complicated. Instead, you should aim for balance in a meal -- two or three simple dishes are perfect for a good dinner, for example. A balanced meal needs to include:


A whole-grain carbohydrate, such as bread, pasta, or rice.
A protein source like beans, chicken, or fish.
A fruit or vegetable., Start the day off well with a good breakfast, and give your child healthy snacks every 1-2 hours. Hungry kids are cranky kids, and a cranky kid is more likely to put up a stink when faced with a new or "gross" food. Keep them well fed throughout the day and they will be more likely to try something new when it is put in front of them.


Make sure a child always eats breakfast to start their metabolism and get the necessary fuel to do well in school., This is a good place to start planning healthy meals for your child as well as introduce newer, healthier foods into their diet. For example, you might notice that you child loves tomatoes. To convince them to eat healthier, you might start with tomato salads, introducing a few cucumbers or carrots as well to get them slowly eating better food.


Note foods you child can't stand as well and keep them off the table to start -- seeing one food they detest may make a kid turn their nose up at the rest of the meal too.
 The parent is ultimately in charge of what food comes into the house, and if there is no junk food to eat, then your kids won't be able to eat it. Substitute healthier snacks for treats and candy, like fruits, pretzels, and hummus. While you don't have to completely cut out junk food, removing the temptation will make kids less likely to clamor for junk.Make desserts together at home, like a simple cake or chocolate cookies, to get kids more interested in their food and turn junk food into an activity, not an everyday occurrence.
Studies show that making some foods "off-limits" makes them more desirable to kids. Don't eliminate junk food, just make it a "sometimes food.", Telling them the need to eat an apple may turn them off, but giving them the chance to choose between grapes, apples, bananas, or an orange will excite them and make them feel in charge. The more often you give a child choices the more excited they will be to eat something you put in front of them., Preferably, match the new food with 1-2 old favorites. This gives them something to be excited about and makes trying the new food easier. If they don't like it, they can always return to the Mac and Cheese after tasting something new.