 Treat your body with love and care. You will be better able to handle difficult situations when you're rested and physically well. What you eat, drink, and do outside of work hours really does impact how you emotionally respond at work.Exercise. Go to the gym. Take fitness classes. Walk, bike, and hike.
Sleep well. Give your body the rest it needs. Make sure to sleep for as long as your body needs to feel rested.
Make healthy choices. Limit junk food and caffeine when possible. Choose water and healthy snacks to keep you energized throughout the day. You'll be less cranky when you have a healthy snack to keep your blood sugar stable.
Limit alcohol and other substances. Outside of work, a drink or two may feel like a good way to unwind. Avoid becoming dependent on alcohol or drugs in order to function.
 If you feel like your emotions are getting the best of you, listen to your friends and co-workers if they voice concerns about your emotional well-being. Rather than ignore your emotions, channel them in ways that allow you release your negative energy.Have a good friend that you can trust to talk about what's bothering you.
Consider getting support through counseling. Counselors can help you learn coping skills to keep your emotions in check and how handle stressful work situations with greater tact.
You may have access to free or low-cost counseling via your Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Ask your human resources department for the EAP phone number. The consultation via phone to assess your needs is confidential.
 Get your thoughts out of your head and onto paper. This can help you to focus your energy away from worry, anger, or sadness. Use your journal to process what you're feeling and why.Journaling is an opportunity to figure out what is bothering you. It can help to provide clarity over time.
Write at least three things that you like about yourself and your life every time you write. Make sure to reflect on the positive things, and not just the negative.
 Help to make work-life balance a priority. The more opportunities that you give yourself to appreciate the people you love, the more you feel happy and purposeful at work.


Set aside time each day and week to be with people that make you feel loved and happy.
Call or talk with your friends or family more often. Open up to them about what you're feeling, even if it's not always happy. Be honest and open with them.

