 This is one way to communicate the status of an interpersonal relationship. Physical closeness and touch signal liking, affection, and love..


People in close relationships require less personal space than with strangers.It is worth noting that personal space is culturally fluid; keep in mind that what is considered close in one country is considered far away in another.
 Studies have found that when people are engaged in an interesting conversation, their eyes remain focused on their partner's face approximately 80% of the time. They don't only focus on the other person's eyes, however, but focus on the eyes for a few minutes, then move down to the nose or lips, then back up to the eyes. They may look down at table every once in a while, but they always return to meeting the other person's eyes.When people look up and to the right during a conversation, it usually means they're bored and have already dismissed the conversation.Dilated pupils mean that the person is interested in what is going on. Keep in mind, however, that many substances can cause the pupils to dilate, including alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, LSD, and others.Eye contact is also frequently used as an indication of truthfulness. Overly persistent or even aggressive eye contact suggests that a person is very aware of what messages he is trying to send out. A person who tries to deceive someone, thus, may distort his eye contact so that he doesn't appear to be avoiding it, which is a widely recognized indicator of lying.However, keep in mind, as noted above, that there is a lot of individual variation when it comes to evaluating eye contact and lying.
 If someone rests their arms behind their neck or head, the person is conveying that he is open to what is being discussed or may just laid back in general.


Tightly crossed limbs are usually a sign of resistance and low receptivity to another person. In general, when the body is arranged in such a manner, this is a sign that a person is mentally, emotionally, and physically closing themselves off from another person.In one study of 2,000 negotiations, which were videotaped to assess the negotiators' body language, there wasn't an agreement in any case where one of the participants had his or her legs crossed.