 A serious asthma attack requires immediate medical attention. Take action if you notice any of the following:Lips or nail beds turning blue or grey
Difficulty walking or talking
Skin between ribs or above breastbone sucks in while breathing
Rapid movement of nostrils, ribs, or stomach while breathing
Expanded chest that does not deflate after exhaling
Chest painFor young children — Refusal to eat, inability to recognize parents;
, Asthma is difficult to diagnose at home, and can be fatal in serious cases. If you experience any of the symptoms below, make an appointment with a doctor. If a doctor has failed to diagnose you, and you have one of the symptoms below, visit an allergy and asthma specialist.


Visit the doctor even if your symptoms don't match asthma. It could be another serious condition.
Symptoms can change with each asthma attack. The symptoms may last just during the attack, or persist for much longer.
 Many asthma patients complain of tightness, pain, or unusual sensations in the chest. You may feel like someone is sitting on your chest.
 Do you ever feel unable to catch your breath, or to draw enough air into your lungs? This is a very common symptom of asthma.


Exercising more vigorously than usual can cause this feeling in anyone. It's more likely to be a sign of asthma if even light exercise triggers this feeling. Until you get an official diagnosis, set exercise limits that don't cause breathing issues.
 Wheezing breath sounds like whistling or squeaking in your chest. This has several possible causes, but asthma patients often wheeze when exposed to allergens or viral infections (such as a cold)., Some people with asthma suffer from coughing fits. These often happen at night or early morning, making it hard to sleep., If you or your biological family have allergies, eczema, or skin rashes, you are more likely to have asthma., Kids under the age of five often wheeze due to an infection or cold, even if they don’t have asthma. A doctor may not be able to diagnose a child at this age, but he may still suggest treatment to make your child more comfortable. If symptoms stick around past the age of five, the child most likely has asthma.Children don't always tell people about their symptoms. Look for indirect signs of problems, including fatigue and avoiding sports or social events. Infants with breathing issues may have difficulty feeding, or may grunt during feeding.