 Pull-ups are a great way to build back strength. You just need a bar that is high enough. Alternate between close grip pull-ups (biceps) and wide grip pull-ups. (lats) Add an easy set of flyes or rows for high repetitions and a low weight such as a 12 oz bottle of cola, but omit this if you have swimming in your routine.;
, Crunches strengthen your abs. Find a friend to hold your feet, or stick your feet under your couch and do them. Alternatively, crunches are safer and more effective, but can be harder to do correctly.
 Push-ups help build your chest muscles.
 Running and jogging are great for your breathing, leg muscles, and arm muscles, and builds density in the lower bones. You will get in much better shape from running or jogging as well, if you are working out to lose weight. If you have trouble with pain in the side try breathing out when your left foot hits the ground.
 Swimming is great because water supports any weight and you can do a lot of exercise without becoming too warm.
 While it may not seem like much, walking can do wonders for your body. It's a very good place to start if you are starting a workout routine.
 Using a medicine ball can have many of the same benefits as lifting weights. Try one out. Consider this your lower back exercise. Use in place of a medicine ball a cloth sack, tote bag or backpack filled with household items.
 Just turn on the radio or stereo and start dancing. Or use your iPod/mp3 player. It doesn't have to be good dancing, just get your heart pumping!

, Anything that does either of these is working out.Also try to do wall pushups and lots of resistance training, which is use another person to push on your arms as you are trying to push them up or pull them over your head or push on your legs as you put them up. There are also leg lifts which you hold on to the persons legs and lift your feet and have the person shove them down. Make it so that your feet don't hit the ground. Do them in the direction of left, right, forward 15 reps each. This really helps with the bottom half of your six pack.

