 Even if you have rows and rows of cabinets, you're probably not making the most out of these spaces. By installing some in-cabinet wire shelves that compartmentalize cabinet space, you can organize your canned goods, spices, and dishes more efficiently while removing unsightly clutter.Drawer space can be maximized with plastic or metal drawer organizer inserts.


You can also slip an over-the-door pantry rack on the inside of the pantry door, or use a rolling cart to store items when you're not using them.
If you’re screwing or nailing any shelving into place, you might want to ask your landlord ahead of time. They might not mind if you leave the shelving behind when you move out, or they might want you to uninstall them before leaving.;
, Even the most storage-conscious kitchen probably under-utilizes ceiling and wall space. You can free up tons of cabinet space while making your pots and pans more accessible and organized by installing a pegboard on the wall or a hanging pot rack on the ceiling.You can find a hanging pot rack for 50-100 dollars (46-93 euros) online or at a home improvement store, while a pegboard can cost you as little as 30 dollars (about 28 euros).
 Dim lighting makes chopping, measuring, mixing, and baking—in short, everything you might possibly be doing in the kitchen—more difficult. Brighten up your countertops by installing some LED under-cabinet lights that you can switch on when cooking.Look for lamps that you can mount with heavy-duty adhesive strips for optimally easy dismantling when moving out of your rental.
 No matter how good of a cook you are, limited counter space can seriously cramp your style. Fortunately, you’re not stuck with the measly counters you were given. Buy an elevated chopping board that covers the stovetop so that you can utilize more flat space, install a folding shelf on the wall, or use a rolling cart as a portable kitchen island.Also think about how you’re possibly under-utilizing the countertops you already have. Appliances like toasters, slow cookers, and coffee makers can take up a lot of room, so consider storing them in a cabinet when you’re not using them.
 A short or low-hanging faucet head can cause major pains in the kitchen, making everyday tasks, such as washing dishes, drying, cooking, and cleaning, consistently awkward. With the addition of a new sink or faucet, you can make a world of difference in your day-to-day drudgery. Just be sure to ask your landlord before purchasing or installing anything.


Installing a new faucet is relatively easy, but you might not want to take it on if you’re not handy around the house. Hire a handyman instead to make sure your plumbing alterations don’t create any more problems than you had before.
 The backsplash can be one of the more eye-catching aspects of the kitchen, but it also keeps oil splatter, drips, and cooking messes from staining the wall. Give your rental kitchen an easy upgrade by mounting a new, removable backsplash on the wall between your cabinets and counters.You can use temporary wallpaper or fabric and cover it with clear plastic sealant to make it easily cleanable, or you can use ceiling tiles and mount them on adhesive panels.