 Choose the right spot. In order to concentrate, you must eliminate those things that you know will distract you. Put up mobile devices. Turn off the TV. Close other pages in your web browser. Sit away from people making loud noises.


Sit upright in a chair at a desk. Don’t lay on a bed or in a position that you know will lull you to sleep. Pick a space that is solely used for studying. Before long, your body will associate that space with that activity and it will be easier to concentrate.
Study in a brightly lit room. This will protect your eyes from straining too much at a book, your notes, or a computer screen. Bright lights will also keep you from dozing off.
You want a comfortable chair. There should be no strain on your back or neck. Pain is a terrible distraction.;
, Some people cannot stand silence. They need to have background noise to help keep themselves motivated. Consider playing classical music softly. For some people, music helps them concentrate. For some, it doesn't. Try it out and see what works best for you. A little something in the background can make you forget that you're studying instead of out having fun.


Keep in mind that study music might not be the music you listen to in the car for fun. You want to fill the room with sound, but not to the point that it becomes distracting or stressful. Experiment with different genres and figure out what helps you focus., Be sure to have all the materials needed to work. Have pencils, pens, highlighters, paper, textbooks, calculators, or whatever else will help you finish the task. Organize the area. A clean space will mean less distractions too. Your goal should be to take care of everything outside of studying before you sit down to focus. If not, you’ll just end up getting up repeatedly. Having to stop and start takes more time than continuously working.
 One of the biggest complaints that teachers have about their students is their inability to concentrate on a subject. Our constant use of social media and personal devices like cell phones divides our attention and makes it more difficult to concentrate.


Know what distracts you most on a computer, if you need to use one. There are websites and software blockers like SelfRestraint, SelfControl, and Think that can keep you away from the websites and software that are the hardest to resist.Find a place where there is no internet or your cell phone doesn’t work. Alternatively, you can choose to study in a place that doesn’t allow people to use cell phones, like in a quiet section of a library.

