 Many people judge confidence based on how you carry yourself and present yourself to others. You can appear confident and appealing to people by displaying open body language. This will help you project a sense of self-worth and draw more positive attention in a room full of people.Displaying open body language means maintaining eye contact with the person you are addressing and with people in the room. Eye contact can be a big indicator of confidence.
You should also take a relaxed stance, with your arms resting at your sides. Try to stand straight, with your shoulders rolled back. When you are speaking to someone, you should position your body so you are turned towards them and lean in so you can show them you are engaged in the conversation.
Avoid slouching when seated or standing and do not cross your arms over your chest. These are all signs of closed body language, signalling to others that you are not approachable or willing to be social.;
, You may find people prefer being around those who are positive and proactive. You should try to project a positive attitude so people find you appealing and fun to be around. You may work on developing a happy demeanor and focus on positive habits, rather than negative ones, so you are someone that people enjoy spending time with.You can be a positive addition to a conversation by telling a joke or a funny story. Using humor to communicate positivity can add levity and spontaneity to your interactions with others.
You can also be a positive person by being empathetic towards the needs of others and by being a good listener. Showing empathy for someone will demonstrate that you can put your ego aside and focus on how you can best help and support that person. This is often appealing to people and is a strong quality of a good friend.
 Avoid following the latest trends and styles, as this may only show others that you are a follower and not confident enough to make your own choices. Instead of following trends, you should try to maintain your own personal sense of style. This means dressing for your body and based on your tastes. You should also try to always wear clothes and outfits that express who you are and what you like.Though you may be worried about standing out in a room due to your outfit or getting noticed in a weird look, you should try to embrace your own sense of what looks good. Have fun with your sense of style and do not be afraid to wear clothing that might seem strange or weird. Wearing any outfit with confidence will make it seem appealing to others.
You may research more into dressing for your body type and look for clothing that suits your sense of style. You may also check your appearance in the mirror before you leave the house to confirm your outfit is great and you can walk out into the world with confidence.
 You can also attract friends by presenting yourself so you appear well groomed and well put together. Maintain good hygiene by taking a shower every day and putting some effort into your appearance. Though your outfit may be plain, it will still look confident and appealing if it is put together.You may stick to a regular bathing routine and wear deodorant to smell nice every day. You may also put on makeup as part of your daily routine and do your hair so you look put together and appealing to others.

