 There are a few things you’re going to need for this project, including supplies to clean the deck, fix problems, and refinish the deck. Many of the tools and supplies you’ll need include:


A broom and a hose or power washer
Cleaning agent, such as trisodium phosphate
A bucket and water
A stiff-bristle brush with synthetic bristles
Soap and water to remove mildew
A paint brush, tray, and roller
Sandpaper
Painter’s tape
A waterproof deck finish
Rubber gloves and protective clothing;
, Unless your deck is less than a year old, a clear or fully transparent stain or sealer is not recommended.For a natural wood look that still hides knots and grain pattern, choose a semi-transparent stain. To cover the wood completely and hide its natural color and grain patterns, choose a solid stain instead.An oil-based stain or sealer will penetrate the wood deeper and last longer, but a water-based product will be easier to clean.It’s also best to choose a stain that provides:


A waterproof finish (not just water-resistant) to protect it from the elements.
UV-resistance to protect it from the damaging rays of the sun.
Protection from water damage (it will contain a mildewcide).Insecticide if your home is prone to wood-eating bugs., Although most deck sealants are safe for plants, it’s better to protect nearby foliage from cleaner and paint run-off.You can either buy large sheets of plastic or cut open plastic garbage bags, but make sure you cover up nearby plants before you move on to the next stages.
 Move tables, chairs, umbrellas, carpets, barbecues, and anything else you might have on the deck. Clear the surface of the deck completely, as well as the railings and steps. This may include removing lights, plants, and other items as well.


Before emptying your deck, you might want to clear a space below, in the garage, or in the basement where you can store your deck furniture for a few days while your refinishing project is underway.
 Sweep to remove dust, dirt, and other debris completely. As you sweep, do a visual check of the deck, looking for problem areas such as popped nails, loose screws, warped, rotted, or split boards, chips, or areas that require sanding.Sand down any areas where splintered wood way cause slivers.
Tighten down loose screws and hammer down popped nails.Replace single boards that have split or broken.
 Apply painter’s tape to any areas of the deck that adjoin the house, concrete, or other non-deck surfaces to protect them from splashing cleaner and paint.
 Spring is a good time for a refinishing project, but if you attempt this in the summer, you are better off applying sealer or stain in the early morning or late afternoon. You don’t want to be refinishing your deck if the temperature is going to drop below 50 F (10 C) or soar above 95 F (35 C).Don’t try to refinish the deck on a sunny day, as applying your refinishing product in direct sunlight will make it dry too quickly, which will cause lap marks, and prevent the stain from absorbing into the wood properly.
You should also have a look at the long-range forecast to help choose a day when it won’t be raining.
 In a large bucket, dilute one cup (8 ounces) of trisodium phosphate in one gallon (3.8 liters) of water. Use the brush to scrub the railings and stairs with the water and trisodium phosphate solution. Attach your stiff-bristle brush to the long handle and continue scrubbing the entire surface of the deck.


Scrubbing will clean off dirt, mold and mildew, old paint or stain, and grime. It will also help open the pores in the wood so that your finish will penetrate more deeply.
Be sure to wear rubber gloves and safety equipment when working with heavy-duty cleaners.
It is generally not necessary to actively strip old stain or sealer from a deck., Once you’ve scrubbed the entire deck, use your garden hose to rinse it off well. A power washer isn’t necessary at this stage, but if you do want to use one, avoid areas that have sustained damage from the elements,keep the nozzle 12 inches or farther from the surface, and don’t linger on a single spot for too long.Concentrate your pressure washer use in the corners and areas where it was difficult to reach when you were scrubbing., If you are using a water-based stain or sealer, you can apply the product when the deck is still damp. However, if you chose an oil-based stain, you will have to wait two to three daysuntil the deck has dried completely before you can proceed with the refinishing., Pour your refinishing product into the paint tray. Dip in your paint brush a few times to saturate it, gently brush off the excess, and begin refinishing your deck, starting with the railings.Don’t apply an overly thick coat, and brush away any pools immediately.
 When you’re ready to start painting the deck surface, attach the roller to your roller frame, and attach the roller frame to your long handle. Soak your roller in an even coating of stain and roll off the excess. Dip the roller back in the tray as needed.


Start in an inside corner closest to the house if possible, and apply the stain parallel to the boards (in the direction of the wood grain).Work your way toward the stairs, and then refinish the stairs starting at the top and working your way down.
Use a brush for delicate areas along the house or near other edges where you don’t want to paint the adjoining surface.
 To prevent some areas from getting more stain and being darker than others, only work on a few boards at a time, and cover the entire length of those boards before moving over.Also make sure that when you stop to get more paint on the roller, you don’t take so long that your edge has time to dry.
 Check the can and follow the manufacturer’s instructions regarding wait time between applying coats. Once you’ve waited the allotted time, apply your next coat according to the same process.


Note that some products have to be applied while the first coat is still slightly wet in order to absorb into the wood properly., Check the manufacturer’s instructions for exact time, but most will recommend waiting two or more days before replacing furniture and walking on the deck again.

