 To like a Facebook page while representing your business page, you must log into your Facebook account; you must also be the admin or manager of that particular business page.


Go Facebook and enter your registered email address and password in the required fields at the top right corner of the page. Click on “Log in” next to these fields when you are done.;
, By default, after logging into your Facebook account, you will be using it as an individual, so to use it as your business, click on the down arrow button at the top right corner of the page. This will open the Setting menu. Here you should see the list of pages under your administration or management at the top.


Select the business page you would like to represent from the list under the “Use Facebook as.” The business page will load, and you should see the name and logo of your business page Facebook profile at the top right corner.
 Click on the “Home” tab at the top right corner of the page. You will be taken to the home page of your business page. The home page will load the updates of your business’s liked pages.


Click on the “Like pages” tab on the left side bar, which should be under the “Pages” title. This will load the “Suggested pages” list.
Scroll down the page to load more suggestions. The suggested pages will be displayed in thumbnail boxes.
 From the “Suggested pages” list, you can directly like a page without visiting the page directly, so once you locate a page you like, just click on the “Like” button at the bottom of each thumbnail box.


After liking a page, a “See similar pages” button will appear at the middle of the thumbnail box of the liked page.
 If you wish to see similar pages like the one you just liked, just click on the “See similar pages” on the thumbnail box. A new dialog box with a list of similar pages will appear on your screen.


Search for pages to like, and then click on the “Like” button on its thumbnail box.
When you are done liking and want to go back to the main “Suggested pages” list, click on the “X” at the top right corner of the dialog box.

