 First of all, you must stop whatever are you doing in that moment and sit down; after a few minutes of rest, the cramps should decrease in intensity or even disappear.


If the pain lasts longer or they are really intense, call your doctor and tell him or her about your symptoms because it might be a more serious problem.
Sometimes it helps to lean a little bit to the side that hurts; this way, you can relax the muscles in that area and reduce the pain you feel.
 To relieve a cramp in your leg, lie on your back momentarily and then extend the affected leg while keeping the knee straight. Try to position yourself so that the foot is bent backwards until the pain is gone.


Another means of stretching the legs is by riding a stationary bike for 30 minutes daily.
Brisk walking is also a way of improving circulation in the lower extremities.
 You might be tempted to use some medication for treating the pain; it is very important to know that many of the drugs used today, unfortunately, may have severe adverse or teratogenic effects (they can lead to congenital malformations or other abnormalities). Because of this, it is important to check with your doctor before using any over-the-counter medications.


Consider taking acetaminophen (the brand name is Tylenol) because it is considered a safe drug to take during pregnancy. The recommended dosage is 325 to 650 mg every 4 to 6 hours (unless stated otherwise by your physician).Another frequently used drug for pain relief is ibuprofen (Nurofen and other trademarks); this must be avoided during pregnancy, especially during the last trimester because it promotes premature closure of a fetal structure called ductus arteriosus (DA).
 You might try to reduce the pain by applying a warm compress to the area where you are experiencing cramps. However, be careful not to keep it against your skin for too long as it may cause nerve damage to your skin. Once you begin to feel relief, remove the warm compress.You can apply the warm compress to the area again if the cramps come back.
You can also consider taking a warm bath rather than using a warm compress. The heat will have a soothing effect on your muscles, which can help to calm cramps that you have.

