, This button should be at the top of the screen. The “First Step: Main Details” page will come up.


Make sure the radio button next to “Standard Newsletter” is selected.
The “Subject line” box is the subject for the e-mail. This will be the first thing the receiver sees, so develop best practices for what goes in the subject line on your newsletters.
The subject line is required in creating e-mails.
 If you haven’t set up any lists yet, select the checkbox next to the default list.
 It contains placeholders that can be edited to your liking or removed altogether.
 The top section of the newsletter is reserved for a logo. There are two ways to add a logo:


One way to add a logo is to find your logo image on your computer, then click and drag it to the top section of the new e-mail.
Second, on the menu to the right of the new e-mail, click the “Image” tab. You can add photos to that tab, which can be dragged to the header of your e-mail from there.
If left blank, there will be no logo in your e-mail.
 To remove a logo that’s been added, hover over the image until the menu appears at the top, then click the X symbol to delete it.
 Hover over the other items in the e-mail. The menu allows you to edit or delete any of them.


To add other items to the e-mail, drag items from either the “Content” or “Images” tabs on the menu to the right of your e-mail.
To edit fonts, colors, and other elements of style, click the “Styles” tab on the menu to the right.
To add themes with preset styles, click the “Themes” tab on the menu to the right, then click “Add More Themes.” You will be presented with a theme selection. Once you select and install a theme, you may then select it under the “Themes” tab, and it will be the active appearance of your newsletter.
To add social bookmarks, FIRST YOU MUST REMOVE THE EXAMPLE ONES. Then under the “Content” tab at the right, click and drag “Social Bookmarks” to the spot you want it. A dialog box will pop up asking for the relevant URLs. Enter the information and select the icon style you wish to use.
 Once you’ve edited your e-mail to your liking, you may send a test version to your e-mail by entering your e-mail next to the “Send Preview” button, and then clicking that button.



Clicking “Save Changes” also saves your newsletter and allows you to navigate backward to change the subject line. However, this is optional.
 Do this after changes have been saved and you’re satisfied with everything about your newsletter. You will be brought to the “Final Steps: last details” page.
 This can be found in the “Sender” field.


You have another chance to edit the subject line now, as well as what lists you will be using.
 This is the e-mail address to which you’d like replies to be sent.


You have a chance to send yourself a preview again.
 At this point, you can save your e-mail as a draft or, by selecting the check box next to “Schedule It,” you can select a time which your e-mail will send automatically.

