 Adhesive patches are intended for use on smaller objects. If your whiteboard weighs more than 3-4 pounds, an adhesive may not be strong enough to use. If it is under 3-4 pounds, you can hang it without risking damage to your wall.If you aren’t sure how much your whiteboard weighs, you can use a kitchen scale, or you can stand on your own scale with the whiteboard in hand, then without, and subtract the difference.
 Before you begin hanging, watch your wall thoroughly, using water and vinegar, or a mixture of water and dish soap. Adhesive cannot stick to dirt, so you should not try to hang using adhesive on a dirty wall.

Make sure the wall has dried completely, then wipe down with a dry cloth to pick up any grease or dirt left behind after the initial wash.
 To make sure your board has an adequate amount of support, place an adhesive strip every 6-8 inches on your board. If your board is large, also place a strip midway down the height of your board.

If your board is small, place an adhesive strip in all four corners to ensure stability.
 Once the adhesive strips have been placed on the board itself, expose the adhesive intended for the wall. Do this step right before placing it on the wall, as industrial-strength adhesive attracts all manner of dust and debris.

If possible, remove a single adhesive strip at a time, and press it into the wall immediately.
 Making sure the whiteboard is level, press it into the wall, stopping to push each individual sticker firmly against the wall. Although the adhesive is stronger than a simple strip of scotch tape, it does rely upon heavy pressure to achieve a firm hold.You don’t need to hammer the adhesive, but pushing against the adhesive for 30 seconds will help it stay in place.
 To make sure your whiteboard doesn’t come crashing down unexpectedly, check the adhesive strips every 2-3 months, pressing them into the wall if you see any separation.

Some paint peels away gradually, so you may need to reapply some of your adhesive strips periodically.

