 In most creative and artistic fields your portfolio is more important to potential employers than a formal education. Prospective employers will want to evaluate your past work before hiring you. As a result, you should compile a portfolio that includes a brief bio to explain your training and experience. You should also include some animation stills and storyboards that you have created..


A useful portfolio will also provide contact information and links to various social media platforms and blogs as well as a link to watch your demo reel.
 Enhance your portfolio with a demo reel that highlights your successful animation projects. Most people use either a DVD format or a website that links to Youtube or Vimeo. Your demo reel should be unique and stand out to potential employers., A demo reel should not be more than two minutes in length and should only include excellent content. When you are just starting out in the industry it is unlikely that you will have a lot of stand out footage to show anyways. Do not include average work just to add length to your reel. A potential employer will put more weight on 30 seconds of amazing footage than two minutes of standard content., When you are creating your demo reel be sure to put your best content and animation at the beginning of the film. Employers will look through hundreds of reels and will only continue watching if the content is unique and technically sound. As a result, you want to catch their attention with your most impressive work.If you have created a strong animated character, begin your reel with this. It will highlight your creativity and ability to create dynamic and unique characters.
Alternatively, you could showcase a particular technique, such as stop motion. If this is something you excel at.
 Music can be distracting and may even detract from your work. If you choose to include music in your reel, it should be light and in the background. Similarly, if your reel includes any dialogue between characters, cut the music altogether and let the dialogue speak for itself.