 You will need a sharpening jig, a large 2-sided sharpening stone, a small burr stone, and a rag to wipe everything down. Look for a jig and stones specifically meant for sharpening skates. These are often sold together as a sharpening set.


You will also need something to lubricate your stone, which will depend on the particular type you use. This will usually be water, some type of oil, or a mixture thereof.
If you are a speed skater, you probably want skates that are completely flat, creating a perfect 90 degree angle with the ice.
 Simply wet your stones with a few drops of the correct lubricant. The lubricant will help to whisk away debris as you sharpen.


If you are using a set of traditional oil-lubricated stones for the first time, you will need to saturate them with oil before their first use. In a plastic container, pour or brush some oil onto one side of the stone. Wait for the stone to absorb the oil before adding some more. Once the oil absorption slows, flip the stone over and repeat the process on the opposite side. Wrap the stones in plastic between sharpenings. This will prevent your stones from becoming clogged with dirty oil., Speed skate sharpening jigs generally hold two skates parallel to each other with clamps. The heel and toe ends of each skate will have their own clamps for a total of four. Different jigs will have different specific instructions. Consult the user manual that came with yours if you aren't sure how to secure your skates properly.


Orient your skates parallel with the blades in the air, as if you were skating upside-down.
The toe end of a jig usually has a guide-plate. Make sure the end of each blade is up against this plate before you finish tightening the clamps.
The exact orientation of your blades isn't as important as maintaining consistency between the right and left sides and across multiple sharpenings. For example, some people place the heel-ends of their blades up against the guide-plate instead of the toe-ends. As long as this is done every time the blades are sharpened, this is a perfectly valid way of mounting a skate.
 When it comes to sharpening skates, "burrs" are bits of displaced extra metal that have been pushed to the sides of the blade. Sometimes you will find burrs before you begin to sharpen. If that's the case, remove them with your burr stone.


Position your burr stone flat against the side of the blade with the top of the stone placed slightly past the top of the blade.
Apply steady, even pressure to push your burr stone along the entire length of the blade in one motion.
Repeat these strokes until the burr is removed., Start with the coarse side of the stone facing down and in contact with the blades. Place the stone perpendicular to your skates to form an "L," with the stone far to one end and one side of the two skates.


Which side and which end you start with doesn't matter as long as you stay consistent between sharpening.
 Push the sharpening stone down to the opposite end and side of your skates. Then pull the stone back along the blades to its starting position. Keep the stone perpendicular to your skates the entire time. Repeat this for a total of 20 strokes., Turn the jig around so that the opposite ends of your skates now face you. Do another set of 20 strokes, still pushing and pulling, but in the opposite direction. For example, if you originally went forward and to the left, this time move forward and to the right., A dull blade will make a loud scraping noise even with proper lubrication. As you sharpen, the noise will get quieter and quieter. Keep repeating the sets of 20 strokes, turning the jig and switching directions each time. The duller the blade, the more sets you will have to do to get it sharp., After you've done a few sets, your stone is likely to dry out. If you start to hear a squeaking, "fingernails on a chalkboard" noise, add a few more drops of lubricant to the coarse side of your stone. Remember that if you are just starting out on a dull blade, it will make a loud noise regardless of lubrication., Once your strokes start to quiet down, check for burrs. When four distinct burrs have formed, one on either side of each blade, you have finished the grinding process. Keep in mind that a partially-sharpened blade will develop a burr on the outside edge before it does so on the inside.


How many total sets you will need to do will depend on how dull the blade was when you began. A blade that has been recently sharpened may only need a few sets of 2x20, while a very dull skate may need a few dozen., After the burrs have properly formed, lubricate the opposite side of your sharpening stone and flip it over. Position your stone the same way you did to grind your skate down. Do one or two passes of 20 and check that the blade is shiny and smooth. If there are still scratch marks, do another set and check again., Remove your skates from the sharpening jig. Apply steady, even pressure with your burr stone to the entire length of each side of the blades. Repeat until the burr has been removed from all for edges., Wipe the blades down with a clean cloth to remove any stray metal shavings or lubricant. Your skates should now be ready for use.


Use a rag and some additional lubricant to clean off your stones before storing them. Proper maintenance will keep them working for a long time.