 Watching a movie is a way to relax and have fun, not a torture. Nobody can force you.
 Even if the movie is based on true events, remember that it is probably based on what little event or what someone believed would happen in this "true event".
 Make sure that person will not torment you afterwards. For example, many people watch it with their older siblings which sometimes, wouldn't be the best idea. Also, we know that some people say that PG-13 movies are less scary - well, that is not always the case. Take The Grudge or Insidious both known as two of the scariest movies. Try something that isn't extreme - get introduced to the horror genre by maybe seeing comedy-horror or drama-horror. Look for that other genre that interests you that you can combine with horror.
 Hug the person you are watching the movie if you can. Anyway, you should have the possibility to establish a physical contact with this person. Have pillows and blankets to hug too!

, Even though some horror fans may want to watch movies in the dark with surround sound, you definitely should not do that if you are afraid of being scared. Watch movies in the daytime, turn on the lights, open the window to let sunlight in. Also, avoid surround sound, because it sends you all the background suspenseful music louder than the actual people talking.
 Scary movies are made for suspense, so you will not relax totally.
, It tends to make you even more jumpy.
,, Pausing the movie helps remind you that it is just a movie.
 Laugh about things, or funny faces, or anything.
 Get yourself some food and a drink; this is very useful. Read a short advertisement in the newspaper, check your mailbox for mail, or play a quick game of sudoku. This can divert your mind from the movie temporarily so you can continue watching it.
 Do not stay in a room alone or read something related to horror. If possible, discuss the movie with someone. Another awesome thing to do is go to the "Special "Features" in the main menu and look at how everything was so fake.
,