 You will need needles in size 8, 9 or 10 (US size) and a worsted weight (normal) yarn in a color you like. Gather these materials to begin your project.;
, Casting on is the process of beginning your first row of stitches, to which all the other stitches will be attached. The backwards loop cast on is as easy cast on for beginners to learn.


Pull ten inches from your ball and make a loop in the yarn. Bring the long end through the loop and then pick up the yarn that is lying across the inside of the loop. Pull the loop while holding both ends of the rest of the thread. Slip a needle through the loop and tighten so that it is snug on the needle. Holding the needle with your right hand, drape the side of the yarn still attached to your yarn ball behind your left hand and around your palm. Bring the needle under the yarn across your palm and pull out your hand, leaving a loop formed around your knitting needle. Pull the loop tight and you have completed your first cast on stitch. Continue with the next stitch by wrapping the yarn behind your hand and around your palm once more until you have the desired number of stitches.
 For this project, either the garter stitch or cabbage stitch are recommended. The garter stitch in particular is a useful stitch that many beginners learn and will produce a sturdy, flexible piece of knitting.


To complete the garter stitch, hold your needle with the cast on stitch in your left hand and your other needle in your right hand. Insert the right needle into the first loop between the topmost stitches on the left needle so that the right needle crosses beneath the left needle. The yarn should lie to the back of your needles. Wrap the end yarn around the tip of the needle counterclockwise and hold it with your right index finger. Gently pull the tip of the right needle back through the first loop, keeping the yarn you looped around on the needle. Slowly pull the right needle all the way through and bring it up so that it is close and on top of the left needle. Be careful not to pull too hard so you don’t pull it out. Move the right needle upwards so that only the first loop on the left needle slides off over the top. Continue the rest of the stitches by inserting the right needle into the next loop on the left needle. Once all the loops are on the right needle you have finished your row. Switch the needles into the opposite hands and repeat for the next row.
 Casting off is the process of making the last row of stitches for your project. This last row must finish the stitches so that they cannot unravel later on. Casting off is an essential technique when learning to knit.


When you get to the last row, knit the first two stitches onto your right needle. Push the left needle into the first stitch that you made on the right needle (the bottom stitch). Lift the first stitch over the second stitch (by moving it upwards) so that it is no longer attached to either needle. Knit another stitch from the left needle to the right needle and complete the same process (insert the left needle in between the stitches and then lift the bottom stitch over the top stitch). Continue until there are no stitches on the left needle and just one stitch on the right stitch. Remove your needle, cut the yarn ball away and pull the loose end through the loop and tighten to tie off.
 This swatch will be used to determine how many stitches to use for your headband and can also be good practice if you are a beginner. Cast on and knit about a 4" x 4" sample square, and measure how many stitches are in each inch, and how many rows, with the yarn you've picked. Write down that information.


You will need this gauge swatch to determine the number of stitches for your final headband to be the width you would like.
 (If you were getting 10 stitches per inch, you'd cast on 25, for example.) In this example, it'll be 16 stitches for size 8 to 10 needles.


You can make a headband that is a bit wider or skinnier if you choose.
Good beginner cast on methods include the long tail cast on and backwards loop cast on.
 Heads vary in size, so measure your own, and take off one to two inches (2.5-5 cm) for the stretchiness of the stitch. Again you should use the number of stitches you have calculated using your gauge swatch minus an inch or two (2.5-5 cm).
 Because you'll want your headband to have some stretchiness, knit in a garter or cabbage stitch. In this example, cabbage stitch is used.
 You can test the length by wrapping it around your head. Remember that it must be tight enough to stay on your head without falling down but loose enough to fit onto your head.
 Finish knitting the headband by casting off at the end. This prevents the knitting from unraveling later.
 Using a piece of yarn and a blunt needle sew the two edges of your headband together. Line the edges up next to each other. Then, starting at one end push the needle through both layers and around the edge back through the same hole. Then move to the next stitch and push the needle through. Bring the needle around the edges and push through the next stitch along the edge. Continue until you reach the other edge of the pieces and have knitted the edges completely together.


For added flair, twist the headband once before sewing the edges together. The twist will make the headband more comfortable at the back of your head, so your hair can fall normally.
 The headband should now be completed and you can try it on to make sure it fits correctly. Enjoy wearing your headband and keeping your ears warm!

