 Handle peppers with gloves to protect your skin and eyes from irritation. Pods that are young, firm, and crisp will result in the best pickled chiles. Any peppers with brown or soft spots can be thrown away.


Whenever you handle chile peppers with your bare hands, be sure to wash them in warm soapy water immediately afterward to remove chile oil., Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Use tongs to submerge your jar(s) in the water for at least 10 minutes. To protect your lid(s) from deforming, sterilize lids with water that is nearly or lightly boiling for the same amount of time., Rinse your pressure canner with clean water. Insert the rack plate in the canner’s bottom. Fill the canner with about 4 in (10.2 cm) of water, or to the point indicated in the canner’s user manual. Heat the canner over low heat with the lid off.Some pressure canners may need to be adjusted according to altitude. Check your pressure canner’s instructions to determine its correct.Always follow the manual directions for your pressure canner. Some brands may have special procedures. Improper usage to result in damage or ruined peppers.
If you cannot find the directions for your canner, look for a digital manual online with a keyword search for your canner’s make and model.
 Small peppers can be pickled whole. Simply slice the pepper lengthwise and remove the seeds. Large peppers should be quartered with a knife. Remove the core of large chiles and most of the seeds.If you like your peppers spicy, leave a few seeds behind. Save a few seeds for later and add these to the pickling mixture for spicier pickles.
 If your chiles have thick skin it will toughen when pickled. Heat a frying pan over medium heat and lay the peppers in the pan. After a few minutes, turn the peppers. When the skin begins to darken and bubble, it will be easier to pull free with your hands. Rinse the peppers after the skin is removed.


Use a knife, vegetable peeler, or a similar tool to scrape away the skin on chiles. Tools like these are especially useful for peppers with stubborn skins.
Pepper skin can be similarly blistered for easier removal in a broiler or on a grill. Apply medium heat to the peppers until the skins loosen., Place a saucepan over high heat. Add the vinegar, water, pickling salt, sugar, and garlic cloves to the saucepan. When the mixture reaches a boil, decrease the heat and simmer it for 10 minutes. Remove the garlic with a ladle and throw it away. Turn off the stove top., Fill your jars with chiles until none remain. Leave at least an 1½ in (3.8 cm) of space between the chiles and the top of the jar. Use a ladle to transfer the pickling mixture to jars until there is only a half inch (1.3 cm) of space between the mixture and the top of the jar.Heat will transfer from the mixture to the glass of the jar quickly. Handle jars filled with hot pickling mixture with safety implements, like an oven mitt, potholder, or tongs.
 Position the round lids on top of the jars. Seal the lid to the jar by screwing the lid-ring on snugly. Do not over tighten jars when using a pressure canner. Doing so may make the jars very difficult to open later., Use tongs or a similar tool to place the jars in the boiling water of your canner. Jars should be covered by no less than 1 in (2.5 cm) of water at all times. Lid the canner. Jars must boil for 10 minutes. When the time is up, turn off the heat. When the canner’s pressure gauge reaches zero, open the vent. After two minutes, you can remove the lid.


Keep an eye on your pressure gauge while boiling the jars. The ideal canning pressure indicated in your canner’s user manual should be maintained for a full 10 minutes.The elevation of the region in which you live will influence the time needed to boil jars in your canner. Adjust boiling time according to the following:

Between 0 and 1,000 ft (0 and 304 m): 10 minutes
Between 1,001 and 6,000 ft (305 and 1,828 m): 15 minutes
Over 6,000 ft (1,828 m): 20 minutes, Use tongs to remove the jars from the canner when they’ve finished boiling. Place these on a wooden cutting board or towel. Allow jars to sit untouched in a draft-free location overnight. Afterward, store pickled chiles in your refrigerator or pantry.


Verify that the lids have been properly sealed by pressing the center of each lid. If you feel the lid pop, it is not properly sealed.
Refrigerate poorly sealed jars immediately. Use these in the next few weeks or so to prevent them from spoiling.
Loosen the ring fastener of jars after they have finished resting overnight. Allow the jars to remain like this for several hours so that water caught in the ring threading can evaporate. This will prevent lids from rusting.