 If you’re still planning on using Evernote in the future and want to ensure that you have access to your file, make sure that everything is synced and backed up before uninstalling.


You can export your notes as HTML files as an extra level of redundancy. Click All Notes, select all of the listed notes, click File and select Export Notes.;
, You may run into problems uninstalling Evernote if you don’t close the program that runs in the background. To do this, click the Evernote elephant icon in the Menu Bar and select Quit Evernote.
 When you empty the trash, Evernote will be uninstalled from the computer.
 Evernote will leave behind preference and settings files, which can be removed by an uninstaller program such as AppZapper or removed manually. This guide has detailed information on how to find and eliminate any lingering files., If you’re still planning on using Evernote in the future and want to ensure that you have access to your file, make sure that everything is synced and backed up before uninstalling.


You can export your notes as HTML files as an extra level of redundancy. Click All Notes, select all of the listed notes, click File, and select Export Notes.
 In Windows XP through Windows 7, you can access the Control Panel from the Start menu. In Windows 8, press the Windows key + X and select Control Panel.
 Depending on which version of Windows you are running and what view your Control Panel is set to, you may be looking for different things. In Windows XP, click the “Add or Remove Programs” icon. In Windows Vista through 8, click the “Uninstall a program” link if you are in Category view, or select “Programs and Features” if you are looking at individual icons.
 You may have to wait a few moments for the list to completely load. Select it in the list and then click Uninstall/Remove.
 Evernote will be uninstalled from your computer. You may be given the option to keep or delete your settings and preferences.
 Before deleting the app, make sure that any notes you have are synced with the Evernote servers. This will allow you to retrieve them if you decide to reinstall it later. To manually sync your notes, tap the Account tab and then tap “Sync Now”.


Return to your Home screen after syncing.
 All of the apps on your screen will start to wiggle after a moment, and a black “X” will appear on the upper-right corner of the app icon.
 A message will appear informing you that deleting the app will delete all of the associated data. Tap Delete to remove the app from your device.
 Before deleting the app, make sure that any notes you have are synced with the Evernote servers. This will allow you to retrieve them if you decide to reinstall it later. To manually sync your notes, tap the Sync icon at the bottom of the Evernote Home screen.
 This is accessed in different ways depending on your device. You may have a Settings icon in your App Drawer, you may have a menu button that allows you to access Settings, or you may be able to access it from the Notifications Bar.
 You may have to scroll down to find this option. This will open a list of all of the installed applications on your device. Select the Downloaded tab to only see applications you have installed yourself.
 The list is typically sorted alphabetically, though it may be sorted by application size. Either way, scroll until you find the Evernote entry. Tap it to select it.
 You will be asked to confirm that you want to uninstall the app. Click OK to begin. Your phone will process for a moment while the app is uninstalled, and then a message will appear on the screen confirming that the uninstall was successful.
 Before deleting the app, make sure that any notes you have are synced with the Evernote servers. This will allow you to retrieve them if you decide to reinstall it later. To manually sync your notes, tap the Sync icon at the bottom of the Evernote Home screen.
 To remove Evernote from a BlackBerry with a keyboard, first navigate to your home screen. Press the Menu button and select Options (the wrench icon).


Select Advanced Options, and then Applications/Third Party Applications.
Find Evernote in the list of applications. Press the Menu button with Evernote selected.
Click Delete. You will be asked to confirm deletion. Click Yes to remove Evernote.
 Uninstalling Evernote on a newer BlackBerry Z10 is a much more straightforward process. Touch and hold the Evernote icon on your home screen. After a few moments it will begin to blink. Tap the trashcan icon that appears on the app to remove it.If Evernote is not on your home screen, press your Menu button and select “My Apps & Games”. Tap “Downloaded” and then look for Evernote. Press and hold the icon, and then tap the trashcan icon that appears. Select Delete when prompted.
 If you are an Evernote premium member, the first step towards getting rid of your Evernote account is by cancelling your subscription. You can do this from the Evernote website, under your account settings.
 Log into Evernote and move all of your items to the trash. Then, open the Trash folder and select Empty Trash. All of your notes will be permanently deleted and will be irretrievable. This will remove them from the Evernote servers.
 You can log into your Account Settings page and remove your email address from your account. Evernote will no longer be able to retrieve your account password via email.
 In the Settings section of your account, you will find a Deactivate Account link. This will disable your account. Any remaining notes will not be deleted, and your account will still be available if you want to log in with your old username and password. You cannot permanently delete your account.