 Chronic diseases are those that persist beyond the course of a normal, temporary illness. They usually require working with a doctor for long-term care. Chronic diseases of the gastrointestinal tract — your stomach and intestines — can be treated with diet, medications, and sometimes surgery. If you have stomach problems that won’t go away, get diagnosed by a doctor and start the appropriate care.


Discuss options with your primary care doctor — they may refer you to a nutritionist, surgeon, or specialist called a gastroenterologist.
 Over-the-counter antacids like Tums, Rolaids, and Pepto-Bismol can help to relieve symptoms of stomach ulcers, but medical treatment can help to actually cure the ulcers. Treatment requires working with your doctor and most likely treating with triple therapy: antacids, antibiotics, and a medication called a proton-pump inhibitor (PPI).Make concurrent lifestyle changes to stop smoking, avoid alcohol, and minimize your stress.
Avoid the use of NSAIDs, which can aggravate peptic ulcers.
 The general rules of a healthy digestive tract apply to IBS: avoid foods that trigger your symptoms, manage your stress, exercise, get plenty of sleep, and stay hydrated.Additional treatment can include dietary changes and medications. Speak with your doctor about what’s appropriate treatment for you:


Sometimes it helps to eliminate foods that cause gas: carbonated beverages and raw fruits and veggies are the worst. Talk to your doctor about this first, because a healthy diet usually contains plenty of vegetables and fruits.
Try a gluten-free diet and see if that helps your symptoms.
Avoid fructose (fruit sugars), lactose (milk sugar found in dairy), and FODMAPs (fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, polysaccharides, and polyols).Consult a nutritionist for details about how to avoid foods containing FODMAPs.Generally, minimize eating high-FODMAP foods like: onions (and leeks, chives, and onion-like vegetables); garlic; processed meats; products containing wheat; honey and corn-syrup; apples; watermelon; snap peas; artichoke; and baked beans.
Discuss medications with your doctor. People may benefit from fiber supplements, antibiotics, anti-diarrheals, or anti-spasmodics. It depends on your symptoms and what is causing them.
For severe symptoms, consider an IBS-specific medication like Alosetron (Lotronex) or Lubiprostone (Amitiza). Which you use depends on your symptoms.
 Work with your stomach doctor to control your symptoms and try to attain remission. Treatment is usually with medications, and sometimes surgery. First, work with your doctor to try anti-inflammatory drugs like sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), mesalamine (Asacol, Delzicol, and others), or a corticosteroid like prednisone. From there, you can try other treatments or a combination of treatment methods:Immune suppressing medications can help significantly decrease the inflammation that causes symptoms of Crohn’s. These medications have unpleasant side effects, however, so risk must be weighed against the possible benefit.
Antibiotics like Flagyl and Cipro will help if you have fistulas or abscesses.
Other supplementary medications can be used to treat other symptoms, like anti-diarrheals, pain relieves, iron supplements and vitamin B12 shots (to prevent anemia), and calcium and vitamin D supplements.
A low fiber diet can help. In severe cases, you may have a hospital stay for “bowel rest” and get your nutrition from an IV.
In severe cases, surgery can remove a damaged part of your colon.
 Treat UC with your doctor’s help using similar medications to what is used for Crohn’s Disease – the two illnesses are very similar other than the location of the damage to the intestine. Notable differences are that surgery to manage UC is generally more extensive and may require using a colostomy bag afterwards to collect stool. It is also important to have regular screenings for cancer:Have a surveillance colonoscopy as soon as eight years after you are diagnosed with UC if your whole colon is involved, or 10 years after if only the left side is involved.
Start screening one to two years after diagnosis if you are also diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis.
Have a screening colonoscopy every one to two years if the disease involves more than your rectum.

