 The hardest working authors sell the most books, especially in the days where almost anyone can publish a book online. Now that the book is done, you should be spending a few hours every single day engaging with your followers and providing short, free content to entice people to buy the book.The more related to your market, the better. A horror writer might review recent thrillers, a romance writer could offer relationship advice (perhaps in the voice of one of your characters), a historian can offer thoughts on current politics. Be creative about your content.
 They enable you to be viewed by anyone anywhere in the world, 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year. It is one of the cheapest yet truly efficient ways of marketing your work. You can also link your website to forge stronger business relationships with online bookstores, book clubs, and author organizations. Be sure to feature your web address on all promotional materials, both print and online, and always include ordering information.


If you don't have a website, you need one. It is almost impossible to sell a book and gain trust in the modern era if you don't have an online presence. Sites like Wix, Square, Weebly, and others make website easy for anyone., Does your book feature a lot of baseball imagery and stories? Then get in touch with players, teams, blogs, and more to talk about mutually beneficial marketing. You can share their new blog posts for them, and they'll promote your book. Not only will you build a solid, important relationship, you'll both reach fans you otherwise had no chance to talk to.
 Provide all the necessary links and information, and kindly ask them to share the book and links with several friends or family members. This not only heightens traffic for your website but also increases awareness for your book, providing key word of mouth buzz that sparks early sales. You'll be surprised at how many people want to help your book get famous.


Offering a free or discounted copy is a great way to incentivize people.
Really comb through your contact list. Unless you're always asking for money, this is one simple, easy favor you can ask of most family and friends., Make it as easy as possible to find and buy your book. Each page on your website and every bio on social media should point back to the sales page. While you don't want to plaster the page with annoying advertisements, there are easy, subtle ways to advertise everywhere:


Put a banner on the top of your web page celebrating your new release. Since the banner is the same, usually, on all pages of the site, this will "follow" viewers unobtrusively.
Link out to your book in blog posts where appropriate. If you say, "while writing my new book," link these words to the Amazon or GoodReads page.
Add the link to the bottom of photo posts on social media to the book. The image is the main attraction, but it links quickly to your sales.
 SEO, or search engine optimization, sounds far more complicated than it really is. To be fair, there are people that make a living doing it, but for your purposes it is rather simple. SEO is simply re-using a similar, market-targeted phrase ("sci-fi fantasy novel") repeatedly to make it more likely to show up on Google. So, in every photo description, blog post, and set of "tags" you need to use the phrase "sci-fi fantasy novel." You should know the most likely groups to buy your book already, so think of what


Longer, more specific phrases are most likely to work. Random House will always beat you on the Google phrase "Published Books," but they might not win "cowboy western romance novel."
Linking out to similar websites, and getting linked back by other blogs, will improve SEO ratings.
You can check your outreach and SEO by signing up for a Google Analytics account.
 If you've got some money to spare, you should put it to use. You can spend as little as $5 on Facebook to reach 1,000 people, and more money will reach more people. If you think your book has broad appeal or want to give it a serious marketing kick, you'll need to spend some cash.


Paid advertising, on its own, will not lead to sales. You need to combine it with hard, daily work marketing your book to see results.
Most advertising sites let you target the type of person who sees the ad based on their interests. Make sure these match your target markets.