 Children will display intense feelings of grief unpredictably, likely over a long period of time. Make a point of ensuring that you or another family member is always around children that have just experienced a loss, and during likely times of emotional turmoil during their childhood.When speaking with your child, make sure they know that they are always able and welcome to show their emotions and talk about their feelings with you.
Don’t be surprised by fits of anger. At various ages of development, anger is a common feature of children’s emotional processing.
Especially if a child has lost someone integral to their previous experiences, children will often actively express their anger towards other members of their families.
When a child is roughly 6-12, they may go through seemingly unprompted fits and tantrums, which may simply be the release of anger they are unable to process. While this certainly needs to be monitored and discussed, understand that their inexplicable anger may reflect deep sadness.Similarly, teenagers may respond to grief with periodic, even intentional lapses in healthy judgement. While they may be able to control tantrums, outbursts of misbehavior and knowingly inappropriate activities may be directly connected to their suffering.To diminish the negative effects of extreme emotional swings, spend as much time as possible with your child, especially when it seems they need support.
 Emotional release is the first stage of healing. Encourage them to express their feelings when you see them begin to become agitated. Don’t hesitate to touch or hold the child while they cry.Read a children’s book about death with them. While this might elicit some tears, it will also facilitate some potentially important conversations with the child.
Ask a young child who has just finished crying is they’d like to draw or tell you a story. Children sometimes struggle to convey things they are struggling with verbally, but may be more capable of expressing themselves creatively.
 Show the child that crying is perfectly normal and natural by allowing yourself to cry with them. Emotional pain is inevitable after a loss. Indicate that grieving is entirely appropriate by doing so yourself.Share a bit about what your feeling with children who are grieving. Admit that you are in immense pain yourself.
Encourage children to open up by saying things like, “I’m very sad that ______ died because I loved them deeply and it hurts that I won’t be able to see them anymore.”Be particularly open with older children, who will feel more comfortable expressing their emotional by crying if they see older people do so as well.
 At all ages, children need to express their grief, tell stories, and share their memories about the loved one they lost. Whatever their age when tragedy occurs, children will experience grief over the death of loved one throughout their childhood. Recognize and respect that intense periods of sadness may be frequent and long-lasting.Know that even when periods of intense sadness come less often, they will still come from time to time. Often, they will coincide with other emotionally intense parts of human life, particularly during times of transition, accomplishment, or celebration.
Even infants will experience suffering on account of someone they lost when very young. Be sure to allow a child who lost someone while very young to talk about it as it comes up later in their life.Always allow someone who has experienced a loss to openly share their feelings about it, as this will normalize a process of working through their sadness and processing intense emotional scenarios as they arise.
Know that it will get better. Though it’s far from everyone’s mind during periods of mourning, the experience of loss often contributes to personal growth. Children that suffer the loss of a love one often later report feeling more compassion towards other people, place greater value on personal relationships, and even develop a greater sense of appreciation for their own lives., Since children who are grieving can sometimes be hard to predict, it can be challenging to be sure a child is emotionally healthy following a significant loss.


If any of these signs develop, take the child to see a mental health professional:Extended depression, including loss of interest in events and activities the child used to enjoy.
Withdrawal from friends.
An inability to sleep or disinterest in eating.
An sustained, irrational fear of being alone.
Behaviour that is more characteristic of substantially younger children.
Excessive imitation of the dead person.
A sustained decline in academic performance of a blatant lack of effort.
Repetitive declarations of a desire to join the dead person.


Mental health professionals will know the best approach to handling grief at different ages. For all children, professional help will allow children to accept the reality of death and begin to grieve safely.
Connect your child with other children of a similar age who are going through or have experienced the loss of a loved one. There are support groups for specific ages, often organized according to how a loved one was lost. Involving a child in a support group of children their own age will help them feel less lonely in their grief.