

Each person is different, so grieving processes are different. Some may grieve for a relatively short amount of time; some may grieve for what seems like a long time. Comfort a grieving person by allowing them to take the time they need to come to terms with their loss.Check up on them periodically. Don’t just see how they are doing immediately after the loss, check on them in the weeks and months following.
Be aware of trigger days like birthdays, anniversaries, and holidays that may be particularly hard for a grieving person.
Try to make yourself available to support them on and around these days.
For example, you might want to keep the anniversary of the death of your partner’s father free from other events.
 You can comfort a grieving person and help them heal by getting them involved in an activity. Whether it’s getting them back in the routine of doing things they did before, or introducing them to something new, being involved in activities can help distract them, fill their time, and lift their mood.

Invite them for a walk, bike ride, yoga session, or game of table tennis. Physical activity is good for the body and for the mind.
Suggest that you two volunteer somewhere or participate in a community event for a good cause.
Giving back to the community can help the grieving person feel connected to the world again.
Attend a grief support group with them. It may help them to be around other people experiencing the same feelings and challenges they are.
 The grieving person may need support and comfort for a while and you shouldn’t and probably can’t help them with everything they may need. Identify a few friends and family that are willing and able to help the grieving person over time.Try to organize a couple of people that can take turns checking on the grieving person.
Perhaps each week one of you calls the person to check in and lets the rest of the group know how things are going.
Check with other members of the group if you notice something that concerns you. Ask them to do the same.
For instance, if you notice your roommate hasn’t eaten in a few days, you could let her parents or siblings know so that you all can help her with her grief.
 Sometimes grief may cause more pain than a person can cope with on their own, or even with the support of friends and family. If someone you know is struggling to cope with their grief, then it is important to encourage them to seek professional help, such as by seeing a therapist.Try offering to take the person to see their family doctor and get a referral or offer to help them find a therapist they can speak to.
You might try saying something like, "It seems like you have been struggling and I would like to help if I can. Would you be willing to let me make an appointment for you to see your doctor?"

