 Make sure to take close-ups of corners and sections that meet. You will need to be able to review these photos when piecing the material back together again.;
,


Put on a paper mask to protect yourself from the fine dust that is released during the dis-assembly process.
Use the single edge razor to speed up the dismantling of the old chair. Make quick strokes across the threads, not worrying too much about ruining the old material which will be thrown away, then pull the pieces apart.
Again, take images whenever you come to a section where two pieces are connected, or wherever there is a complicated seam; this way you will know exactly how to re-sew the new fabric.
 This is so you don't have to sew into the very strong reinforcing ring material, especially if your sewing machine can't handle it.


Be sure to make your pattern piece to incorporate these sections.
Retain any of the old packing foam or other unusual parts needed later for re-assembly.
 Once everything is dismantled, take one of each unique piece and trace it on the brown packing paper:


Poke holes in the paper wherever you may need to make guidelines later.
If you are sewing without double fold bias tape, as shown in these images, then you will need to add the appropriate extra "folded-edging allowance" on to your pattern. In the project shown here, that meant 1 centimeter (0.4 in) folded either two or three times, equaling 2-3 additional centimetres being added to each pattern piece.
 You will need to note:


Which direction is the front, back and top;
The number of the piece you will need to cut out; and
Which other pieces connect to each side of the piece.
 It is important to make sure that you plan which way the fabric's nap or material print direction will run for each piece you plan to cut out. For instance, the example shown first appeared to have no noticeable print or nap direction, however, when the fabric was turned at 90 degrees, the optical sheen changed from a warm tone to a cool tone.


Try to picture in your mind which way you will be viewing each piece of the pattern piece before laying them out and cutting them.
 Basting and pinning each section is the best way to avoid fighting with holding pins or ending up with visibly uneven seems.


The contrasting colour of the thread will make it easier to pull it out afterward
Follow the photos that you took initially to know where to sew the pieces together.
A finished corner.
 Sewing will be slow with this project. Work your sewing machine by slowing turning the hand wheel by hand and giving just enough power to move over these sections very slowly. The upholstery thread is very thick, so to make things go faster, fill up several sewing machine bobbins with your upholstery thread, so you do not constantly have to un-thread and refill the same bobbin.


Increased thickness of fabric, at corners or fold seams, requires that you wear your safety goggles while stitching.
 Once everything is sewn then simply reassemble to the original metal frame. In this example, there were screws holding the armrests and top back sections to the metal frame:


Assemble all the pieces out on the floor to check that you have sewn together everything. If anything is missing at this stage, be sure to make it!
Slip the pieces back on in the order required. This means that pieces that serve as the base or foundation will need to be in place first, then pieces that slip over the top are fed back into place next. The order will depend on the style of the chair.
Screw the fabric pieces back into place securely.
A finished product in place.

