 About one-fourth of atmospheric scientists are employed by government agencies--primarily by the National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the Armed Forces.Many of these jobs involve research, for which you'll need an advanced degree. These agencies offer a number of internships that can give you an employment advantage once you've received your degree.
 In the near future, the most jobs in the atmospheric sciences will be offered by private companies.Taking basic courses in business administration and economics can help strengthen your resume for job possibilities in the private sector.


Companies are hiring climate forecasting and modeling teams to help them prepare for the severe weather that is increasingly disrupting business.
Also, as utilities companies use more solar and wind power, they are hiring climatologists to help them forecast when they can sell their excess power, and when they'll need to buy power., There are several associations of people working in the atmospheric sciences. These groups mainly promote climate- and weather-related research, and they are also an excellent way to form a professional network with scientists in your field. The more fellow climatologists you know, the more likely you’ll find out about a job possibility through them.


Consider becoming a member of organizations such as the World Meteorological Organization,the American Meteorological Society,the Royal Meteorological Society,the Canadian Meteorological and Oceanographic Society,the Australian Meteorological and Oceanographic Society,and the American Association of State Climatologists., Once you’ve been offered an interview for a position, learn as much as you can about the company, organization, or other institution offering the job. Get a good sense of the job duties as well, since you’ll likely be asked about your knowledge of and experience with specific tasks.


Ask a friend or colleague to help you do a mock interview. Have them ask you questions such as, “Why would you like to work for our company?”, “How did you become interested in climatology?”, and “Explain how your background has prepared you for this job.”

, Taking refresher courses to brush up on the computer science skills you learn as an undergraduate can be a valuable asset for your job search. Consider enrolling in the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research program called COMET, which offers students and professionals online courses for keeping up-to-date on the latest technology developments in the atmospheric sciences.