 Some people believe that they're hungry when in fact they're just dehydrated. Not having enough hydration can result in feelings of tiredness and hunger. Some doctors even suggest drinking a glass before a meal to make you feel fuller faster.Drinking sugary sodas or juices are not recommended, as they are often laden with calories and their high sugar content will result in a sugar spike, and consequent crash, in your blood sugar level.
By drinking a glass of water, you're allowing yourself time to notice if you're genuinely hungry or if you're feeling emotionally charged. If it's the latter, eating won't solve your problem.
 Capsaicin, the component that gives hot red peppers their heat, has been shown to be an appetite suppressant. A sprinkle, up to a teaspoon, of cayenne on your typical daily diet reduces your appetite overall. This is particularly effective if you are unused to eating hot, spicy foods.The research was only done using cayenne pepper. It isn't clear whether it would also work with capsaicin in a capsule form.
People who ate cayenne pepper on their food also had a higher metabolic rate, meaning they burned calories at a higher rate.
 High quality green tea can be an effective appetite suppressant. When you start to become aware of feeling hungry, make a hot cup of green tea. You'll notice your hunger lessens and your energy level becomes higher.Green teas include any teas that have not gone through the oxidation process. They are higher in powerful antioxidants called polyphenols.
Avoid adding sweeteners (such as sugar, honey or artificial sweeteners) to green tea to maximize the effect of appetite suppressant.
 It takes the body about 20 minutes to stop feeling hungry and start feeling full. This is because the brain must have time to receive the signals from the stomach that it's no longer hungry. When you feel hungry following eating, what your body may actually be experiencing is fullness.Stretch receptors in the stomach are alerted as the stomach fills with food and liquid. These signal the brain through the vagus nerve, which connects the brainstem and the intestine, alerting the brain that the stomach is full.
Not everyone processes feeling full in the same way, and the feelings of appetite are complex.
 Studies suggest that the color blue serves as a natural appetite suppressant. Since there are only a few naturally-occurring blue foods, humans don't have a strong connection between the color blue and food.When human food responses were developing, millions of years ago, foods that were blue, black or purple were "color warning" of possible toxin.
People who are trying to lose weight are commonly encouraged to eat from blue plates.
 Hunger may be a response to visual cues. Don’t leave food out where you're likely to see it and eat it. Keep food put away, so that it's hard to find in office and home environments.Get up and walk around during commercials. They may also be giving you visual cues that you are hungry.
Keep your favorite foods in the freezer, so that you can't easily nibble at them.
 A fast walk, jog or exercise session can result in a delay of hunger pangs. Engaging in aerobic exercise also addresses the possibility that your hunger is emotional rather than physical. If you're really physically hungry, your hunger pangs will come back after you exercise. If you're stressed out, going for a quick run might remove your hungry feelings.Exercise also releases endorphins that will help combat stress.
If you're likely to eat when watching television, try going on a walk instead.

