 The first part of the tanning process is always scraping off all bits of flesh and fat from the skin. It helps to place the hide on either a fleshing beam or a garbage bag or tarp on the ground. Scrape all pieces of flesh and fat off the hide with a fleshing tool.
 Wash it down with clean water to remove the dirt, blood and bits of flesh. You can use some castile soap or another type of soap made from natural substances to help loosen the grit.
 Attach the hide to a drying rack and set it out for a few days to let it dry before you begin soaking it in tanning fluids.


Drying racks can be purchased at game shops. These wooden structures are useful for holding the hide in place while it dries.
The hide should be stretched across the drying rack, rather than simply hung up. Otherwise the edges will curl.
 Use a rounded steel blade with a handle or a traditional elk antler hide scraper to scrape the hide from the skin against the grain. This helps the tanning solution absorb more thoroughly into the hide. Take care not to tear the skin where it is thinner in the belly area.
 Place the deer's brain and a cup of water in a saucepan. Cook the mixture until the brain breaks down and turns to liquid. The mixture should resemble a soup. Blend it so that it's completely smooth and lump-free.
 First wash the hide with water once more, to remove any last bits of hair or debris and make the hide more malleable. Squeeze it out between two towels to extract the excess moisture. Now pour some of the brain mixture on the hide and rub it in with your hands. Rub an even amount of the mixture over the entire hide, covering every inch.


You can use gloves to apply the tanning mixture if you'd prefer not to use your bare hands.
When you're finished applying the tanning solution, roll up the hide and place it in a large food storage bag or freezer bag. Put it in the refrigerator for 24 hours to give the brains time to soak in.
 To keep the hide from getting too stiff, it's necessary to soften it by working it and pulling at the edges. Take it out of the refrigerator and place it back on the drying rack. Wipe off the excess brain mixture with a cloth. Use a large stick to soften the hide by running it back and forth across the skin until it becomes soft and pliable.


You can also use a heavy rope to soften the hide.
Another way to soften it is to take it off the drying rack and worth with a partner to run it back and forth across a log or bench.
 This is the last step in the natural tanning process. Sew the hide up the sides to create a bag. Close one end so that it is tight enough to keep smoke inside. Dig a hole about 1⁄2 foot (0.2 m) deep and 1 foot (0.3 m) across, and place the open end of the hide bag over the hole, with the top propped up by sicks, tee-pee style. Build a small fire inside the bag, in the hole, so that the smoke from the fire will rise and smoke the skin.


When the flames have died down and the fire begins to smoke, add smoke chips to the fire to create more smoke and keep it alive. Close the open part and leave a small vent through which you can add more fuel to the fire.
After half an hour, turn the bag inside out and smoke the other side.

