 The final step in preparing duchess potatoes is baking them in the oven. To ensure that the oven is hot enough when the potatoes are ready, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Your oven will alert you that the oven has preheated in some way. Most models either flash a light or beep to let you know.;
, While the oven is preheating, place 2 pounds (900 g) of russet potatoes that have been peeled and cut into 2-inch (5-cm) chunks into a large pot. Cover the potatoes with approximately 1-inch (2.5 cm) of water, and bring the pot to a boil on medium-high. Reduce the heat to medium-low, and allow the potatoes to cook until tender.It should take approximately 10 minutes for the potatoes to become tender.
Use a fork to test the potatoes’ tenderness.
 Once the potatoes are tender, remove the pot from the stove and drain it completely. Place the potatoes back in the pot, and cook on medium-low for 3 minutes. Make sure to stir the potatoes often to prevent burning.Returning the potatoes to the pot without the water helps dry them out slightly.
 After you’ve dried out the potatoes, use a potato masher to mash them until they are completely smooth. Allow them to cool for approximately 5 minutes in the pot.You can use a potato ricer in place of the masher if you prefer.
 When the potatoes are completely mashed, add 5 tablespoons (71 g) of butter that has been softened to room temperature, ¼ cup (60 ml) of heavy cream that’s at room temperature, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt, ¼ teaspoon (2 g) of ground nutmeg, and ¼ teaspoon (0.5 g) of pepper to the pot. Stir the mixture thoroughly to ensure that all of the ingredients are well blended.If you want your potatoes to have some cheesy flavor, you can also mix in 2 tablespoons (10 g) of grated parmesan cheese.
 After you’ve mixed in the seasonings, give the potatoes a taste. If you think they need more salt, add more until you’re satisfied with the flavor., Once the potatoes are seasoned, add the yolks from 3 large eggs to them. Use a spatula to gently fold the yolks in until they’re blended with the potatoes.Work the yolks into the potatoes until they’re just combined. Avoid overmixing the yolks.
 Take a large baking sheet, and line it with a piece of parchment paper. You can also use a silicone baking mat if you prefer.If you don’t have parchment paper or a baking mat, you can grease the baking sheet with butter or nonstick cooking spray.
 Take a pastry or piping bag and fit it with a large star or round tip. Next, use a spatula to fill the bag with the prepared potatoes.If you don’t have a pastry bag, you can spoon the potatoes onto the baking sheet in mounds. Use the back of the spoon to swirl the tops of the mounds.
 With the piping bag, create approximately 3-inch (7.6-cm) swirled mounds on the baking sheet with the potatoes. You should have enough potatoes to make 12 to 16 potato swirls., In a small bowl, combine 1 whole egg with 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk to create an egg wash. Use a pastry brush to carefully apply the wash all over the potato spirals.You can use any type of milk that you like, but whole milk typically works best.
It’s usually easier to brush the potatoes with the egg wash if you chill them for approximately 30 minutes in the refrigerator beforehand.
 After you’ve applied the egg wash, place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the potatoes to bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the edges become golden brown.Be sure to keep an eye on the potatoes as they’re cooking to ensure that the edges don’t burn.
 Once the potatoes have cooked for at least 15 minutes, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Use a spatula to carefully lift them off the sheet, and place them on a decorative platter for serving.