 If you run a business and would like to supplement your income with slot machines, a restricted license may work for you. With a restricted license, you can have up to 15 slot machines. The slot machines cannot be your primary business. Factors that the Gaming Control Board and Gaming Commission may consider include:The amount of floor space for your slot machines compared to the amount of floor space for your primary business
The investment in the slot machines compared to the investment in your primary business
The time you spend managing the slot machines compared to the time spent managing your primary business.;
, If your primary business is a bar, tavern, saloon, restaurant with a separate bar area, liquor store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store, it will be pretty easy to get a restricted license. If you have some other type of business like a laundromat or gas station, it will be more difficult to get your application approved. The commission can reject your application if they find your location unsuitable.If your business sells alcohol by the drink, you will have to meet other requirements related to the size of your business and your kitchen operation.
If your business is located near a school, church, playground, or has a lot of minors as patrons, it may be unsuitable.
 The application for a restricted license includes your personal history, financial information, and a criminal background check. The application is very extensive and requires multiple forms. Many people have a gaming attorney help them navigate the application process.Visit the Nevada Gaming Control Board and Gaming Commission website to access all of the necessary forms


Form 1: A two page document that details your identify and the type of license you need. You will enter your name, mailing address, and the gaming devices you plan to offer.
Form 2: All the names of your partners, directors, shareholders, and bonus and profit sharing information.
12 page personal history questionnaire: This form requires 3 character references, your name, age, citizenship, previous residences, family information, arrests, litigations, detentions, military record, and a 25 year employment history.
Form 20: Your financial status including the revenue you will invest, the source of revenue, and if you will play an active role in managing the gaming activities.
Form 15: Information about the location of your primary business, the maximum number of patrons you can have, your business hours, if any of your customers will be minors, the original floor plan, 3 pictures of your business, and a copy of the lease or deed.
Form 27: Determines if the slot machines are secondary to your primary business
Forms 10, 17, 18, 28, and 28A give the Board permission to conduct a criminal background check and access your financial information.
 You must pay a $150 application fee and a $550 investigation fee. These fees are non-refundable. You may also have to pay other investigative fees or make a deposit before the investigation begins.You may receive a refund at the end of the process.
 Once the Board has reviewed your application and completed their investigation, you will be notified about your public hearing. The Board may or may not request that you attend the hearing. Do not worry if you are asked to appear, the Board may simply need additional information.Show up to your hearing on time, but be prepared to wait for a few hours.
It typically takes 6 to 8 months to go from filing your application to having your hearing. This time frame may vary depending on the complexity of your application and the workload of the Board and Commission.
After your hearing, your application may be accepted, denied, approved with conditions, or referred back to the Board.

