 The Halloween holiday is one of the most dangerous times of the year for outdoor cats. Aside from the ghoulish costumes that could frighten kitties, there are also usually spikes in animal abuse incidents during this holiday, especially against black cats. Protect your cats from any possible harm by keeping your cat indoors during Halloween season.Consider keeping your cat inside for a week before the actual Halloween holiday and for a week after. People often have Halloween parties on days other than the actual holiday and you want to keep your pet safe on those days as well.
If you plan on having a Halloween party at your home, you may want to consider putting your cat in a confined room that no one will access. This will ensure that your kitty is safe and won’t accidentally be allowed back outside by a careless party guest.;
, Make sure your cat has everything it needs inside your home. This is especially true if the cat is used to being outdoors most of the time. The cat will need indoor food, constant access to fresh drinking water, a clean litterbox, several toys, and a form of identification – like a collar with an ID tag.Be sure to show the cat where its food and water dishes are, as well as the litterbox and any toys you may have purchased for it.
 Your outdoor kitty may not be happy about being forced indoors during Halloween. The cat won’t be able to tell that this is a temporary arrangement and will make its frustrations known. When your cat appears to be unhappy, spend some time soothing the kitty by playing with it and petting it.You can also try giving your cat treats to make it feel more calm about being stuck inside.
Don’t force your cat to cuddle you if it is clearly feeling scared. Try to treat your cat as your normally would and just spend some quality time together.
 Many people like to use candles and jack-o-lanterns around their homes for Halloween. This can be a fun and festive way to enjoy the holiday, but it can be quite dangerous for curious kitties. If you decide to light candles or keep jack-o-lanterns inside, be sure to monitor them at all times.Always remember to distinguish candles and jack-o-lanterns before you go to bed or whenever you plan on leaving your cat unattended.
 If you have a lot of a trick-or-treaters visiting your home, make sure you are cautious each time you open the door. The unusual activity could startle your cat and cause it to bolt outside, especially if your cat is used to being outdoors some of the time.If you think your cat might try to run out the door, consider keeping it in a room with a closed door while you are receiving trick-or-treaters.
 Candy and chocolate can be deadly if ingested by cats, so make sure you keep your stash of Halloween candy in a place that is not easily accessible for your cat. Put the candy away in a cupboard when you aren’t using it.Halloween decorations can also be particularly dangerous for cats. They can get tangled in ribbons and fake spider webs, or even try to eat them.
Also be cautious about candy wrappers, as your cat could try eating it. This could cause your cat to choke or the wrapper to get stuck in your cat’s digestive tract.
 If you have people over to your house during the Halloween season, whether it’s for a party or just visitors, make them aware of the precautions you are taking with your cat. This will help them understand your rules so they know how to interact while they are in your home.

Remind your guests if the cat is locked in a back room, so they remember not to open the door to that room.
Tell your guests to be careful as they enter and exit your home to make sure the cat doesn’t get outside.
Ask your guests to be extra careful about storing and disposing of any Halloween candy they might have brought over.
 Children need to be taught how to interact with animals, especially during special circumstances like holidays. Tell the children in your household about how they need to be extra cautious with the kitty during the weeks surrounding Halloween.

Remind children to avoid scaring the cat by running around in their costumes or by making loud, unnecessary noises.
Ask children to be careful about leaving the doors open so the cat can’t get out.
 Halloween can be a very stressful time for cats with all the noises and visitors – whether you’re having a Halloween party or just receiving trick-or-treaters. Consider giving your cat treats to calm its nerves and distract it from the distressing noises.Try giving your cat healthy treats so that the holiday season doesn’t contribute negatively to your cat’s weight and overall health.
 Whether you are having a Halloween party or just being visited by trick-or-treaters, try to take a moment out to spend some quality time with your cat. You can play with the cat and pet it to distract the cat from all of the stressful noises happening that could startle your cat.

Your cat will be soothed by your presence and will have an easier time adjusting to the scary noises.
 Cat pheromones are chemicals that cats produce naturally. They rub off on things the cat touches and have a calming effect on most cats. There are scientifically reproduced versions of kitty pheromones that you can purchase at your local pet store, which can be used in situations (like Halloween) when your cat is feeling stressed out or agitated.The pheromones come in spray-on options, plug-in diffusers, or even special collars with pheromones on it.
Your cat doesn’t need to wear a pheromone collar all the time, or live in a house that has a pheromone diffuser in each room. But during special times where the cat may be feeling extra anxious, these can be soothing options.
 This is a good way to distract your cat from the noises happening outside and to reassure your kitty and help it feel more calm. Choose something you’re your cat has listened to before and play it for your cat. It may also help mask some of the unfamiliar sounds and keep your cat from startling.Try some classical music or something with a soothing melody.

