


Unless otherwise specified in your correspondence from the airline, bring business attire for classroom and training sessions. Bring business-casual attire for down time. Some airlines may provide you with a uniform during training, so you won't need to pack as many of your own clothes.
Bring anything that will help you have more comfortable and restful sleep, like an eye mask, your own pillow and calming music. Training sessions are intense, and it is important to be well-rested.;
,


You will likely have at least 1 roommate, and you will also meet many new colleagues during training sessions. Get to know these people, as they will provide support throughout the overall experience, and you may be able to arrange group study sessions for exams. They are also the starting point for your professional network.
Some colleagues may act like they are on an extended vacation instead of a business trip. They may stay out late or drink heavily. Try to avoid getting in the habit of joining them. It is important to be able to perform your best during training and testing, so you should always be well-rested and sober. Since flight attendants are not allowed to be under the influence of alcohol on the job, many airlines institute a no-alcohol policy during training that extends to business hours and down time.



You will learn aircraft specifications, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) guidelines and safety procedures. Much of what you are trained on is not common knowledge, so it is essential to pay attention and take notes so you can study properly. Some airlines give daily tests during training, so take advantage of every possible opportunity to review your notes, and always ask questions if something isn't clear during training.



Trainers, fellow trainees, passengers and crew onboard your training flights, and anyone else you come in contact with, should be treated with patience, respect and courtesy. The only exception is when someone is putting themselves or others in danger, in which case you should act according to your airline's emergency guidelines.

