 Understanding why dating is important to you at this stage in your life will help you explain it to someone else, including your date. This is especially important if you have just received the diagnosis or are in the middle of treatment. While it's completely understandable that you'd want to continue living your normal life, clarifying your motivations is a great first step.

What made you decide to start dating now?
If you were dating someone before receiving your diagnosis, what makes you worry about telling them?
What concerns do you have about sharing your diagnosis?;
, If you belong to a support group for cancer survivors, ask them how they’ve coped with dating after their diagnosis. Ask them what their experiences have been like, how they’ve disclosed, and when they’ve disclosed. It can be helpful to get advice and feedback from others who have endured similar experiences.If you don’t belong to a support group, consider joining one or engaging in an online support group and posting the question. Many people are happy to share their experiences with you and encourage you.
 If you’re nervous to disclose your cancer to a date, practice your disclosure ahead of time with someone you trust.While you cannot control someone’s reaction, you can control how you deliver the news. Decide in advance what you’d like to say and how you want to say it.Creating a plan can help to calm your nerves and make you more comfortable in your words.


Keep it short and simple. It might be overwhelming for your date to get the full story of your cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care. Consider practicing a response no longer than a minute and a half. You can always go into more detail later.
 Having cancer can make you feel less confident than before your diagnosis and dating can be a daunting task. Remind yourself of your positive qualities and what traits you have to offer a potential partner. If you did hobbies before your diagnosis, go back to them or try new ones to start feeling like yourself again.Don't let the cancer define you. Focus on your talents, interests, and accomplishments outside of the cancer.
If you struggle in accepting your body image or have difficulty coping with the emotional impacts of cancer, consider seeing a mental health therapist. You can discuss your feelings, think more positively, and learn how to cope with stress more effectively.
 Think about what it might be like to receive news that a potential love interest has had cancer. If the person is anxious to get married, start a family, and grow old with a partner, they might feel threatened by the chance of relapse, potential problems with childbearing, or passing cancer on to a child. Remember that these may be valid concerns for someone, and they might respond with these fears.While you might feel hurt by their response, remember that everyone is entitled to their own feelings and desires for the future.
Knowing why you want to start dating now can help you discuss these fears and concerns with them.
 You may not want to disclose your cancer on the first or second date. After all, do you want to share personal information about yourself with someone you don’t know, don’t trust, and may not see again? Some say wait until the fourth date. By this point, you may be genuinely interested in seeing the person, yet not terribly disappointed if the person decides they cannot see a future with a cancer survivor.However, the choice is entirely up to you.


Some people tend to be more outspoken and may want to disclose earlier than others. You might feel like you’re keeping a secret, which can be uncomfortable.
 Some people want to be serious in their disclosure while others want to be more lighthearted about their cancer. You might want to talk about your experience or treatment or show your scars associated with surgeries. If that sounds too stuffy for you, you may want to approach cancer through humor. Whatever you choose, make sure you feel comfortable.You might want to have a specific date or time in mind to bring it up, or you might casually mention it in a text. Think about what works best for you.
For example, you can choose to bring it up on your next date, or bring it up out of the blue.
 When bringing up cancer with a date, think about what questions they may have and what you want to disclose. Some possible considerations may include the possibility of recurrence and any physical limitations you have. You may also want to talk about your feelings about dating or starting a relationship.You can say, “Cancer hasn’t been easy on me, and I’ve had one recurrence. I’ve been hesitant to date, but I’m feeling healthy now and feel like I’m ready to explore the possibility of love.”
Depending on where you are in your recovery, be aware of how they may be affected by your treatment. Prepare to discuss their concerns and what you'd expect from them.
 Cancer doesn’t typically just come up in normal conversation, so it’s likely you’ll need to bring it up. Before having the conversation, think about how you want to talk about it and how you will introduce it. Announce the conversation and talk about your feelings.For example, say, “I need to tell you something that’s difficult for me to talk about. I had cancer, and it felt like it was important for you to know this.”

, By now, you recognize that your cancer affects both you and those around you. Your date has a right to know the truth about your cancer and how it affects you. If your cancer is serious, don’t hide this fact. If your partner chooses to be in a relationship with you, they should know how your cancer may affect their life.For example, say, “I had cancer when I was a teenager. I’ve been lucky and have lived cancer-free for seven years now, but I thought you should know.”
You can also say, “I’m in remission from cancer right now, but I still have regular medical appointments.”

, Some people may be full of questions or ask you for lots of details. You should feel comfortable talking about cancer, and if you start to feel uncomfortable, think of a response to show your boundary. For example, you can say, “I’d rather not discuss the details right now” or, “I don’t want to get into the personal details of my health.”When you’re disclosing something about your health, remember that you’re in control of what you say and how much you want to tell.
 When you disclose your diagnosis, your date could worry that they'll be forced to take on the role of caretaker. While you want to acknowledge any caregiver activities that they may one day do, make sure that they know that you are wanting a relationship. Tell them how you will enhance their life, reassuring them that you are interested in a romantic partnership.

Say, "I don't want you to take care of me. My doctors and family are already doing that. I'm interested in pursuing a romantic relationship with you."
Explain, "While I am tired a lot, I'm still an excellent cook and can play the guitar. All of my friends ask me to play for them, and I'd be happy to give you a private concert."

, If you need to or want to talk about sex, now might be a good time. If cancer has affected you sexually, it’s best to talk about this before becoming sexually intimate with your date. Talking about sex is never easy and there’s never a perfect time to bring it up. Be honest and tell your partner any problems you have. Let them know what you enjoy, what feels good, and what would be best to avoid. Guide your partner to the most pleasurable positions and activities with the least amount of discomfort.You might want to have a few small conversations about sex instead of one big one.
Cancer can sometimes affect sexual functioning and desire. If you struggle with body confidence or sexual problems, consider seeing an expert such as a psychologist, urologist, or gynecologist to address these problems.
 Even if your date feels uncomfortable or does not take the news well, don’t give up hope. Frustration and rejection are common in dating whether you’ve had cancer or not. Remember that relationships are about finding caring compatibility with someone who shares values and interests with you, and this shouldn’t change just because you’ve had cancer.Remember that if you’re rejected, you’re not the first one to experience this. Keep trying.

