 As a general rule, lining fabrics should be smooth, lightweight, and very flexible.Additionally, if the original dress fabric has any stretch, the lining material must have an equal amount to prevent the fit from becoming warped.
Popular lining options include smooth-surfaced cotton blends such as Viole, Habutae, crepe, thin satins, and Georgette. Do not use Negative Weight fabrics, heavy fabrics, or taffeta, crinoline, or tulle as a lining. Negative weight fabrics will alter the form, heavy fabrics will restrict movement, add bulk and weight, taffeta will add unnecessary shape and bulk, and crinoline is harsh on skin, as well as tulle.
Consider the color, too. If the dress fabric is sheer, the lining should match either your skin tone or the color of the dress. If the fabric is opaque, you can coordinate the color of the lining material as desired since it won't show through.;
, The amount of material you'll need for the lining should roughly match the amount of material needed to make the original dress.


Only calculate the amount of necessary material based on the pattern pieces that will come into direct contact with your body: bodice, skirt, and sleeves. You do not need to include any facings, collars, cuffs, or waistbands.
If you're working without a pattern, you'll need to measure the dimensions of the bodice, skirt, and sleeves to determine the required amount of lining fabric.
 Trace the lining from the original pattern used to construct the main dress, but adjust the edges as needed to prevent the lining from hanging beyond the sides of the dress.Only trace the lining for the bodice, skirt, and sleeves (when applicable). Transfer any pattern markings, but do not include extra material for kick pleats. Do not trace lining for the facings, collars, cuffs, or waistbands.
Since the lining must be slightly smaller than the dress, remove 1/8 inch (3 mm) from your lining seam allowance around all of the outer edges, minus any edges that will overlap. In other words, the bottom of the bodice and waistband of the skirt should retain their original seam allowances. Adjust the bottom hem of the skirt to be 1/2 inch to 1 inch (1.25 cm to 2.5 cm) shorter than the main dress.
When working without a pattern, trace the lining from the actual bodice, skirt, and sleeves (when applicable), creating separate pieces of lining for each separately attached portion of the dress. Add 1/8 inch (3 mm) seam allowance to the neckline, shoulders, zipper opening, and armholes (sleeveless dress only). Add 1/4 inch (6 mm) seam allowance to the sides. Do not add any seam allowance to the skirt hem.
 After tracing the lining pieces onto the material, use sewing shears or scissors to carefully cut out each one.


Before beginning, it's a a good idea to check the lining against the original dress. All pieces should match the form of the dress at all points, but the seam allowance and lower hem should be visibly shorter. If any of the lining pieces do not match, you'll need to redo them.
 Before lining the dress, you should follow the original pattern instructions to complete everything except for the outer edges.


Leave the edges at the neck and shoulders raw, but finish the bottom hem. For sleeveless dresses, leave the armhole raw, too.
 Follow the pattern instructions to stitch together the pieces of the lining as though making a separate dress.


Any edge left unfinished on the original dress (neck, shoulders, and armhole) should remain raw on the lining, as well.
Leave the zipper opening unfinished, too. If the dress has any kick pleat or slit, you should also leave those edges unfinished.
 Fold the raw edges of the lining under by 1/8 inch (3 mm) and press them in place using an iron.


Do not fold the neck and shoulder edge under. If the armholes were left raw, do not press them, either.
Press the seam allowance for the zipper opening, along with the seam allowance for any kick pleats or skirt slits.
Press any darts in the lining in the opposite direction of the darts in the dress to reduce the amount of bulk.
 Arrange the lining pieces over the main dress. The right sides should face each other and the wrong sides should face out.


Verify that all key components line up correctly before pinning the lining in place. The lining waistband should match the dress waistband. The zipper opening of the lining should match the zipper opening of the dress, and you should pin the lining in place around that zipper.
 Machine sew the lining to the main dress at the neckline and shoulders using a standard straight stitch.Follow the seam allowance indicated by the original pattern, but keep in mind that the seam allowance of the lining will be 1/8 inch (3 mm) shorter than that of the main fabric.
After sewing the pieces together, notch the seam allowance and corners to reduce potential bulk.
 Machine stitch the lining to the main dress around each armhole using a straight stitch.


For sleeveless dresses, you'll need to follow the seam allowance according to the instructions of the original pattern.
For dresses with sleeves, stitch the lining to the dress directly over the matched seams. Pull the sleeve lining through the sleeves and let it hang loosely.
 If the dress has separate bodice and skirt pieces, you should stitch the lining to the main fabric around the hemline.


Align the lining and main fabric so that the waist lines match. Stitch directly over the existing seams, stopping 1 inch (2.5 cm) before the zipper opening on either side.
 Change the foot on your sewing machine to a zipper foot, then sew the lining to the dress around the zipper.Start at the top left side and sew straight down. To complete the right side, start at the bottom and sew straight up.
Do not get too close to the bumps of the zipper while stitching the lining in place.
If you do not have a zipper foot, you'll need to sew the zipper to the lining by hand, preferably using a fell stitch.
 If the skirt had a slit, stitch the lining to the main dress around the perimeter of the slit.


On the other hand, if the dress has a kick pleat, finish the lining with a narrow hem around this area and let it hang free.
Note that the bottom hem of the skirt should remain loose. You can also leave the outer edge of the sleeve loose, but if you would prefer secured sleeves, top stitch the outer edges of the sleeve together.
 The lining should now be secure, so you can turn the dress right-side out again. This step completes the process.
 Machine stitch the separate lining pieces together. When finished, you should have a duplicate dress form made from the lining.


Sew the sides together with a 1/4 inch (6 mm) seam allowance, but use a seam allowance of 1/8 inch (3 mm) along the shoulders.
 Hem the skirt of the lining with 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.6 to 1.25 cm) seam allowance. Press and finish all of the other raw edges with 1/8 inch (3 mm) seam allowance.


Finish all other raw edges, including the neckline, zipper opening, armhole, sleeve opening, and any skirt slits.
 Turn the dress inside-out but leave the lining right-side out. Slip the lining form over the dress form, matching the seams and edges precisely.


The only edge that should not match will be the lower hem, since the lining should be shorter than the original dress.
Double-check to verify that the zipper and seams overlap properly before pinning them in place.
 Machine stitch the lining to the dress at the neckline, shoulder seams, armholes, and waist seam.


Use a standard straight stitch for all topstitching. Instead of sewing directly over the existing seams, stitch 1/8 inch (3 mm) to the inside of each seam.
If the dress has a slit in the skirt, topstitch the lining to the dress around the slit opening, as well.
Leave the bottom hem of the skirt loose. Sleeve openings can remain loose, or you may wish to stitch them together, as well.
 Switch to a zipper foot, then machine stitch the lining around the zipper.


Sew from top to bottom on the left side of the zipper and from bottom to top on the right side. Make sure that you do not get too close to the bumps of the zipper while working.
Alternatively, you could hand stitch the lining to the zipper if you do not have a zipper foot. Use a fell stitch or similarly secure stitch.
 The lining should be secure, so you can turn the dress right-side out again. Doing so completes the process.

