 A mother cat gives off pheromones (or chemical messengers) that make her kittens feel safe. Feliway is a synthetic version of the feline pheromone that makes kittens feel safe and secure. It is available as a room diffuser, or as a spray for pet bedding. This scent will slowly reassure your cat, and make her feel like your home is a safe place. This is especially helpful if you have moved to a new home and your cat is having a hard time adjusting.


Feliway is not a quick fix; in fact, it may take two weeks to see any sign that your cat is feeling less stressed.
 Zylkene is a nutraceutical that acts on the same region of the brain as diazepam. A nutraceutical is a food supplement that has a pharmaceutical-like activity, but is not a drug. Scientists have identified a milk protein that stimulates the same part of the brain that diazepam acts on in order to calm a cat; Zylkene is made up of this milk protein.


With Zylkene, you may see a change in your cat within seven days. Generally, Zylkene will be given to the cat over the course of four to six weeks to ensure that the over-grooming habit is broken.
 Skullcap and Valerian is an herbal remedy that is anecdotally reported to reduce stress and anxiety in cats and dogs. The mode of action is unproven and unknown however, so talk to your vet before giving your cat this herbal remedy.
 If the above measures have been tried and the cat remains stressed and continues to over-groom, then prescription medications may be necessary. Of these, clomipramine is the only licensed product available for use in cats (it is described in the following step).
 Clomipramine is a drug used for the treatment of cat’s with obsessive-compulsive behaviors, such as over-grooming. It belongs to a family of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants and the exact mode of action is not completely understood. It is believed that it primarily acts by preventing the reuptake of neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine and serotonin.The dose of clomipramine is 0.5 mg/kg once daily by mouth. It is available in veterinary formulation as clomicalm and comes in 5 mg tablets. A 5 kg cat requires half a tablet once a day.

