 You will need to submit documents that prove your identity and your California residency. You can find a complete list of acceptable documents here. The list separates different forms of proof of identity into three tables. You only need one document from Table A to prove your identity. Alternatively, you need two documents from Table B. If you cannot present one document from Table A or two documents from Table B, you must submit as many documents from Table C as you can for the DMV to consider your application.To prove your California residency, you only need to provide one document from Table D.;
, A recently-issued foreign passport that is verifiable with your social security number will suffice by itself. If you do not have a social security number, you can to present a passport along with certain identification or consular cards. Alternatively, you can present school documents, immigration forms, court documents, income tax returns, marriage licenses, foreign passports, birth certificates, and other types of identification.


Review the complete list of acceptable documents.

If any of your documents are in a language other than English, they must be accompanied by a certified translation or an affidavit of translation into English.You may need to hire a certified translation service to have your document professionally translated.
 Most of the acceptable documents are required to have your first name, last name, and address on them. Acceptable documents include rental/lease agreements, bills, school documents, medical documents, employment documents, insurance forms, tax returns, vehicle registrations, court documents, and more. Submit as many as you can.


Review the complete list of acceptable documents.
 You can take a driver education course from a private licensed instructor, or through a high school, technical school, or adult school that offers driver training.You will need to present proof of completion of the course to the DMV. Your instructor should give you a certificate at the end of the course.


Your course must consist of 30 hours or two half-semester periods of classroom instruction, plus 6 hours of behind-the-wheel instruction., At your first DMV appointment, you will take a written knowledge test. You can study on your own by using study materials provided by the DMV. On this page, you can find handbooks, audio lessons, sample tests, interactive tests, study sheets, flashcards, and videos in several languages.
 The DMV offers several ways to make an appointment. You can make an appointment online here, use the DMV Now iPhone/Android app, or call 1-800-777-0133. Some offices have Saturday hours.There are also four Driver License Processing Centers in California, which offer same-day services. They are located in Los Angeles, Lompoc, San Jose, and Stanton. You can find their locations and hours of operation here.
 The Driver License Application Form (DL 44) is available at the DMV office. You can also call 1-800-777-0133 to have one mailed to you. Forms are not available online because each form has a unique barcode.The form has a space to provide a social security number. If you do not have a social security number, check the appropriate box.
Do not sign the form until asked to do so by a DMV representative., You must pay a fee to begin the application process. The fee for a non-commercial Class C license is $33.00., Bring your documents proving your identity and residency to your appointment. The DMV will review your documents to verify that you are eligible for a driver's license under Assembly Bill 60.
 The DMV will administer a vision test. The test is designed to verify that you have at least 20/40 vision with both eyes together, with or without corrective lenses. Wear your glasses or contact lenses to your appointment. If you fail the vision test, you may be referred to a vision specialist., You will be asked to take a written knowledge test, which will be administered on a computer touchscreen, or on paper or by audio recording. The test is not timed, but you cannot begin your test within the last half-hour before the office closes. If you fail the test, you can study more and take it two more times. If you fail three times, you must begin the application process again., DMV representatives will record your thumb print and take your picture. The photograph will be used on your license.
 Unless you have been licensed in another U.S. state before, you will be given a learner's permit, which allows you to practice driving with another person in the car. That person must be a licensed driver over 18 years of age, and be sitting close enough to you to grab the wheel if necessary.If you are under 18, your practice partner must be at least 25 years old.Ask the DMV representative about scheduling a behind-the-wheel road test.
 To exchange your learner's permit for a driver's license, you will need to pass a behind-the-wheel test. Arrive 10-15 minutes early. The instructor will verify that your safety equipment is working and that you know how to operate it, and then will ride with you. Follow his or her instructions carefully. If you pass, you will be given a temporary license to use while waiting for your license in the mail. If you fail, you must wait two weeks before trying again. You can retake the test twice, but may need to pay a small retesting fee. If you fail three times, you will need to begin the process again.You will need to bring several things with you to the test:

Another licensed driver (to drive or accompany you to and from the appointment);
A vehicle in good working condition, with which you are comfortable driving;
Current proof of registration of the vehicle;
Current proof of insurance for the vehicle; and
Your learner's permit.