 All-purpose batter tastes great with pretty much any meat or vegetable you'd want to fry. No matter what you're frying, cut the food into similar-sized pieces so each piece will fry evenly. Try any of the following foods:Sliced onions, jalapeños or other vegetables
Boneless chicken breasts (cut into strips or nuggets) or bone-in chicken pieces
Fish such as cod, tilapia or haddock;
, Add all the ingredients to a bowl and use a whisk to mix them until smooth. This basic batter mix is delicious on its own. If you'd like, customize it by adding a pinch or two of any of the following spices:









Old Bay seasoning
Cayenne pepper
Garlic powder
Italian seasoning

, Use a deep, heavy-bottomed pot that will heat the oil evenly. In most cases you'll need an inch or two of oil to submerge the food you're frying. Place it over medium-high heat and allow it to heat for several minutes. To test whether it's ready, use a fry thermometer to take the temperature of the oil. Once it reaches 350°F (176°C), it's ready to fry.


Choose a high smoke-point oil. Peanut, canola, vegetable and grapeseed oils are all suitable for frying. You want to use an oil that can be heated to a high temperature without smoking.
If you don't have a fry thermometer, don't use a meat thermometer. Instead, test the oil by placing a small piece of food in the pot. If it immediately starts to sizzle and turn brown, the oil is ready.
Cooking food before the oil is ready will result in the batter sliding off. The food will turn out greasy and wet instead of moist on the inside and crispy on the outside.
 Use a fork to dip a piece of food into the batter to coat it on all sides. Try to get an even coating of batter. Shake off the excess drips.
 Place enough pieces of battered food into the pot to evenly cover the bottom of the pot. Avoid overlapping food, since this will result in uneven cooking. Fry until the food is golden brown on both sides, then place it on a paper towel-lined plate to drain. Cooking times will vary depending on what you're frying.









Vegetables typically need no more than three or four minutes in the pot. Smaller pieces will require less time.
Raw chicken or fish may require five to fifteen minutes' frying time, depending on how big your pieces are and whether they have bones. The center of the meat should be opaque when it is fully cooked.
If the oil seems to be browning and burning the outside of the food before the inside is cooked, turn down the temperature. You want to try to keep it at a steady 350°F (176°C).

