 Note that washing your face more frequently than twice a day may irritate it and strip essential oils from your skin, which can lead to breakouts.Washing once in the morning and once in the evening with a mild cleanser is a good routine to get into to prevent pimples from forming.
 Choosing a product to wash your face with either salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide as the active ingredient will help to prevent the formation of pimples.This is because these ingredients help to dry excess oil from your skin, thereby decreasing the chances that a pimple will form.


Note that these products are most effective as part of a regular skin care regimen., If you feel like you could be breaking out, keep your hands off you face to prevent spreading more dirt and oil to the area. Wash your hands before you clean your face.Also avoid touching or picking at areas of irritation. If you suspect a breakout may be forming, it is best to keep your hands off it and to use other preventative strategies to ward it off as best as possible.
 Sweat and moisture on your skin increases the chances of pimple formation, so rinsing off sooner rather than later can help to prevent this problem.


This is the exception to the washing your face only twice daily rule — it's okay to wash once in the morning, once after working out, and once before bed.
Also, wear loose-fitting clothing. Areas that are covered by tight-fitting clothing, where moisture and sweat can collect (such as under a sports bra or tight-fitting shirt), are often where breakouts occur.
 Also, only use makeup when needed, as any skin products, including those that are labeled as "non-comedogenic," are worse for your pores than wearing no makeup at all.


When you are done wearing makeup, wash it off your face.
Always remove your makeup before going to bed at night, as this will give your pores a chance to clear during the night., Consuming too many dairy products, such as milk, cheese, yogurt, etc., has been linked to increased breakouts of acne. Choose non-dairy alternatives whenever possible, such as almond milk or soy milk, and see whether reducing dairy in your diet has a positive impact on preventing breakouts.
 Common medical treatments for persistent or recurrent acne breakouts include:


Using topical acne creams. These usually contain salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide as the active ingredient, and the formulations provided from your doctor can be more potent and effective than those available at your local pharmacy or drugstore.
Taking oral antibiotics. Because acne is linked to bacteria on your skin, taking an oral antibiotic such as minocycline can help to diminish outbreaks.
Using the birth control pill. For women with acne, the hormones provided in the birth control pill (namely, the boost of estrogen) can help to prevent acne breakouts. This is because acne is fuelled by androgens such as testosterone, so raising female hormones can help to counterbalance the effect of the testosterone that is present in all of us (both women and men have testosterone — the difference is that men have more of it).
Taking isotretinoin. Also known as Accutane, isotretinoin is a powerful medication to prevent acne and is used only in more severe cases, as it can have serious side effects. Speak to your doctor if you think this may apply to you. If you are planning to get pregnant, isotretinoin should be avoided, as it is known to cause birth defects.

