 Dry skin is a major cause of itchy breasts. Itching from dry skin often involves more areas of your body than just your breasts. Treating your current outbreak of dry skin can also help to prevent future problems.Dry skin can develop in patchy areas. The patchy areas tend to have flakes or the area may tend to peel. Areas of dry skin can feel tight or stretched, especially after exposure to water.
Patchy areas of dry skin appear darker or duller than normal skin tissue and may appear wrinkled when compared to the smoother texture of healthy skin.Dry skin on your breasts may tend to get worse in the colder and dryer months of the year.;
, Lengthy showers or baths and using hot water temperatures can cause your dry skin problem to linger, or possibly get worse.Bathe or shower in warm water and avoid prolonged exposure to hot water.
Use unscented soaps that have a high fat content or those that contain glycerin. Avoid perfumed products like bubble baths. Use a loofah sponge or gentle bath cloth and avoid scrubbing your skin harshly.
When showering, consider applying soap to your breasts only every two to three days. This will allow your body’s natural oils to be replenished.Pat your skin to dry off after bathing or showering and avoid harshly wiping with a towel. Apply an unscented moisturizer immediately after your bath or shower.
An alternative to applying a moisturizer after your bath or shower is to apply a bath oil product immediately before you get out of the shower. Let your body dry naturally without wiping harshly with a towel, especially around the areas of your breast that are the itchiest. Bath oil products are slippery so take precaution not to fall.
If you are an athlete or go to the gym regularly, take quick showers after your workout and bring your own soap.
Limit your use of antiperspirants and perfumed products due to their ability to dry the skin. Deodorant products are less drying to the skin than antiperspirants.
 This includes protection from the sun and harsh chemicals. Wear clothing that covers your breasts, or any exposed areas of your skin.Use a sunscreen product that contains a moisturizer.
 Choose products that contain at least one of the following ingredients: glycerin, urea, sorbitol, lactic acid, pyroglutamic acid, lactate salts, and alpha hydroxyl acid.Always use unscented skin care products that are designed for sensitive skin.Apply a waterproof moisturizer before you swim, such as a thin layer of petroleum jelly. Shower and apply a moisturizer as soon as possible after swimming.
Thick, creamy moisturizers, such as Eucerin and Cetaphil, may be more effective at moisturizing than thinner lotions. Petroleum jelly is also thick enough to moisturize your skin well, and is very cheap.
 You may be routinely exposing your skin to products that contain chemicals or additives that can worsen your condition.Choose laundry products that are labelled for use in people with sensitive skin. Select products that are dye- and fragrance-free.
Try using fragrance-free fabric softener. Fabric softener can help to reduce the harsh effects of washing clothes in areas that have hard water. However, many fabric softeners can trigger allergic reactions, so if switching to fragrance-free softener doesn't help, eliminate fabric softener altogether.
Rinse your clothes thoroughly by using an additional rinse cycle to be sure all detergents and unwanted chemicals are removed.
 Drinking plenty of water every day provides the fluids your body needs to stay healthy, including the largest organ in your body, your skin.Use a humidifier in the winter months to keep more moisture in your skin., Select bras that have less padding and are not made with stiff and scratchy lace. If possible, wear bras made of cotton. Go without a bra whenever you can.Wear tops, blouses, or dresses that are loose fitting and made of comfortable and breathable fabrics such as cotton.
Be sure your bra fits properly, including sports bras. Chafing and itching can be caused by bras that do not fit well.Remove your sports bra as soon as possible after exercising to reduce the moisture and sweat that stays against your breast tissue.
Do not sleep in a bra. Wear sleepwear that is comfortable, breathable, and loose fitting.
 Trying not to scratch an itchy area is a difficult thing to do, but important in preventing complications.Scratching the area causes the skin to become even more irritated, leads to more itching, and can possibly lead to an infection if the skin is broken.
Apply gentle pressure with the heel of your hand, gently massage the area, or place a cool cloth against the area to reduce the itching sensation.
Many people scratch at night without realizing it. Try putting band-aids over your fingertips when you sleep, or sleep with socks over your hands to help avoid scratching.
 You can buy hydrocortisone cream over-the-counter at most pharmacies. Apply the cream topically to your skin for minor itching. You can usually apply it 1-4 times per day.If your symptoms do not improve within a day or two, call your doctor.
Call your doctor immediately if you develop side effects such as redness, swelling, or pus discharge.
To apply, wash your skin gently and pat dry. Then apply the cream in a thin layer and rub it in gently.
 The most common places for fungal infections to occur on the body are in warm, moist places where there is little light. Armpits, the groin area, and under the breasts are common areas for fungal growth.The inframammary fold is the area under the breast. This area is well-suited for fungus to grow. The most common type of fungus that causes an infection under the breast is a yeast called candida.
This is the same yeast, or candida, that causes vaginal infections and yeast infections in the mouth called thrush.
There are no serious long-term consequences of a candida infection under the breast, other than a darkening of the skin which can be permanent, and the possibility that the condition will spread.
 The rash associated with a fungal infection under the breast can vary in appearance. The rash occurs in areas where the breast tissue folds against the skin of the upper stomach or chest area.Most often the rash will be pink to red in color, itchy, have areas that are growing outward, and contain small bumps, especially along areas where there are hair follicles, such as under the arm.
The rash is sometimes referred to as an intertrigo rash.Intertrigo is an area of the skin that is inflamed, and occurs in places that are warm, moist, and where two skin areas press against each other. The rash associated with intertrigo can be caused by a fungus, bacteria, or prolonged exposure to moisture.
There is usually an odor present. The odor is caused by persistent moisture and the breakdown of healthy skin tissue.
 Treating a fungal infection with associated intertrigo under the breasts can be accomplished by altering the environment that is promoting the growth of the fungus, and by using an antifungal medication prescribed by your doctor.To alter the environment, take steps to avoid the skin folds pressing against one another and prevent the accumulation of moisture.
Be sure you have a bra that fits well and prevents your breast tissue from resting against the skin of your upper stomach or chest area.
If needed, use a dry and clean cloth, or sterile dressing pad, placed at the base of your bra to absorb any excess moisture and prevent the skin layers from touching.
Wear a clean bra each day. Also wear loose fitting tops that are made of breathable fabric, like cotton.Remove your bra whenever possible. Place a clean, dry, towel or dressing pad between the skin folds.
For men, avoid wearing tight shirts and shirts made of fabric that causes you to sweat more. Consider wearing cotton undershirts to help absorb moisture.
 Be sure you thoroughly dry the area under your breasts after bathing.


It may be helpful to avoid dressing immediately after bathing. Take time to allow fresh air to access the affected areas of skin.
Lie back on the bed or stand in front of a fan to allow the skin folds to be thoroughly dried before dressing.
 5% aluminum acetate is available over-the-counter as either packets or tablets that are dissolved in water to make a solution commonly known as Burow’s solution.This is a solution commonly used to treat skin irritations, and acts as a drying agent to help prevent the rash from spreading. As with all products, check with your doctor if you have any concerns about treating the area at home. Seeking medical advice is always an appropriate step.
Mix the packets or dissolve the tablets according to the package directions, and apply the soak topically to the rash area.
Soak a clean cloth in the solution and apply to the rash area for 15 to 30 minutes. Once you have soaked a cloth in the solution and applied it to the affected skin, do not re-use it.
Repeat the procedure three times a day. Once you have removed the cloth from the area, allow the area to thoroughly air dry before getting dressed.
Discontinue use if the area becomes more irritated, or if there is any sign of an allergic reaction to the use of the topical soak. Signs of an allergic reaction include a rash beyond the area being treated, hives, blistering, or excessive itching.
Continued use of the product beyond what is recommended in the product literature may result in excessive drying of the skin.
 Using antifungal agents that are available over-the-counter can help to treat the area. Common topical products available without a prescription include clotrimazole and miconazole cream.Stronger products used to treat fungal infections of the skin, including nystatin topical powder, require a prescription., If the topical approaches do not work within a few weeks, the condition gets worse, or the itching interferes with your daily routine, see your doctor.


You may need a prescription strength product, or possibly an oral medication in combination with the use of topical products., In some cases, either the mom or the infant may develop a candida yeast or fungal infection, and pass the infection back and forth until both parties are effectively treated.If breastfeeding, the rash from the candida will be along the area of the nipple on mom, and will be in the infant’s mouth, commonly known as thrush.Treat the thrush in the infant, and the subsequent candida infection on the breasts, by seeking medical attention. See your doctor or your pediatrician to obtain a prescription strength medication to resolve the condition in both mom and infant., To effectively treat breast eczema or an outbreak of psoriasis on your breast, you will likely need a prescription strength corticosteroid product.Topical corticosteroid products, including those available over-the-counter, should not be applied to your breast area without first consulting your physician., Psoriasis outbreaks occur anywhere on the body, including the breast tissue.Psoriasis patches appear as thick, silvery, sometimes reddened patches, that are itchy and often painful.
If you develop a psoriasis outbreak on your breast area, contact your doctor before you apply any medication. Be sure your doctor intends for you to apply medications you may already have on your breast tissue.
 Breast eczema outbreaks most often occur in the area of the nipple.The area often appears as an itchy, reddened area, and is sometimes accompanied by crusty formations and drainage from the sores.
 Due to the similarity in the rash associated with breast eczema and a more serious condition, Paget’s disease, a medical examination is warranted.


Take care to keep the area dry, and avoid harsh soaps or perfumed products.
 In addition to topical products, your doctor may prescribe oral medications to help treat any infection that may have started, as well as medications that can help control the itching.Topical products that may be prescribed include corticosteroids that reduce inflammation and promote healing, as well as newer agents, called calcineurin inhibitors. The newer agents are only used in people with severe and repeated flare-ups of eczema.
Examples of the newer agents include tacrolimus and pimecrolimus. These agents help your skin to heal, and prevent further flares of eczema or atopic dermatitis. These medications alter the way your immune system works.
 With outbreaks of both psoriasis and eczema, regardless of where they form on your skin, scratching the areas can lead to complications.Scratching can cause the condition to spread beyond the immediate area, can cause further skin irritation, and possibly lead to infection.
Many people scratch at night without realizing it. Try putting band-aids over your fingertips when you sleep, or sleep with socks over your hands to help avoid scratching.
 This type of cancer is very rare. It occurs in only 1% to 4% of all types of breast cancer, and often presents with itchy breasts.Inflammatory breast cancer involves a tumor in the breast and is often accompanied by changes in the skin and breast tissue surrounding the tumor. The changes in the breast tissue appear suddenly.
The skin changes that occur include itching accompanied by pain, swelling, and redness of a specific area of the breast, located just above and surrounding the location of the tumor.
The breast tissue becomes dimpled, resembling the skin of an orange.Watch for other warning signs of inflammatory breast cancer including feeling a firm or hardened area under the skin, a feeling of warmth or heat to the touch, and a discharge from the nipple.
The nipple may also be inverted, or pulled inward.
 Paget’s disease is very rare, developing in 1% to 4% of all breast cancers. Paget’s disease is a condition that looks very similar to psoriasis or eczema of the nipple and may be itchy.The disease begins in the nipple or areola part of the breast, and often appears as a red, scaly, and sometimes itchy, rash. The nipple may also look flat or produce discharge.Most people with Paget's disease of the breast have at least one tumor in the breast, and about half of them have a lump that can be physically felt during a breast exam.
In 90% of women that have the tumor beneath the nipple area, the cancer has spread and is considered to be invasive.
Paget’s disease is diagnosed by tissue biopsy. It is sometimes diagnosed late since the symptoms present like common skin conditions.
 Keep in mind that both Paget’s disease and inflammatory breast cancer are very rare, developing in less than 4% of all breast cancers.


Seek medical attention as soon as possible if you have symptoms that may indicate the presence of either disease.
Most breast conditions that cause itching do not involve serious medical conditions.

