 Many government positions or other jobs with a security clearance require background checks. Private sector employers don't have to run a background check on potential hires, but it's a good idea to cover your bases.


No matter how honest someone seems in an interview, your new employee's actions may hurt someone. If you didn't perform a background check on that employee, your company might be liable for negligent hiring. A background check can help insulate your company from such risk.
Most states demand criminal background checks on people who work with children, the elderly or the disabled.
 You cannot conduct a background search based on someone's race, sex, nationality, age, disability, or religion.


For example, running background checks only on Muslim or African American applicants would violate equal opportunity laws. So, too, would "people under 30" or "men."
You might run background checks on everyone who applies to work for you. But, taking action on that information only for members of protected classes is illegal.
 Even in industries with mandatory checks, new employees must sign a consent form. This will not only give you permission to proceed, it will also protect you from claims of invasion of privacy.
 If you are an employer using an outside agency to conduct a background check, federal law requires you to use a registered CRA. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a CRA must follow strict standards for data protection and offer dispute resolution. There are many different types of CRAs to fit your needs. For example, a CRA might focus on credit, insurance, employment, or rental history.


Research CRAs carefully before contracting services. Because there is such a wide variety, you need to ask about specific services to make sure they fit your needs.
 This is a popular category of CRA that provides a special credit report called an “Employment Report.” The document lists everything on a person's actual credit report aside from their credit score. This includes payment history, prior addresses, and prior employers.


Normal credit reports affect the subject's credit score. A request for an “Employment Report,” though, has no effect on it.
Most CRAs don't list credit scores because asking (without reason) is illegal in some states.A good reason to request an employee's credit score might be if the person would be handling your money.
 This type of report includes interviews with an employee’s neighbors, co-workers, and friends. This can give you a picture of the subject’s reputation in the community and personal characteristics. Only some CRAs provide this service, so ask about it specifically.
 Under federal law, CRAs generally won't reveal civil lawsuits or judgments, arrest accounts out for collection, or paid tax liens over 7 years old. You likely won't learn about bankruptcies that occurred over 10 years ago, either. But you can request that history beyond 7 years be included in your report if your state allows it.A few states have stricter regulations that protect even criminal records older than 7 years.
Even though arrest records are public records, some states don't allow them to be used in hiring decisions.
 There are some public records you can't take into consideration in the hiring process. For example, Workers' Compensation claims often become public records. Using these records in a hiring decision could be illegal under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).You also can't consider prior bankruptcy in most decisions unless it's relevant to the position.


Official criminal records ("Rap Sheets") aren't always public records. Some states allow access only for special cases, like law enforcement and childcare facilities.
This doesn't mean private investigation companies can't compile their own lists. They can still search for individual convictions and arrests in the public records.
 Legally, they're allowed to say anything truthful about your potential new hire’s past performance. But, to avoid lawsuits, most companies won't do much more than say that your potential new hire worked there. If you get honest, detailed feedback, use it to evaluate your potential hire, but don't go into the hiring process relying on thorough feedback.
 Personal blogs, Facebook and Twitter accounts, and much, much more are all waiting for you to find them. A person's online presence can speak volumes about their personal and professional life. If potential hires keep their information private, ask for permission to access the information.
 There are many pieces of information that reporting agencies are not allowed to provide. But, there's often nothing stopping you from directly asking your potential new hire for answers. For instance, "Have you EVER been arrested?" is an acceptable question even though CRAs can only report on the past seven years of criminal history.


Be aware that asking these questions early in the application process might expose you to liability. You can't exclude every applicant who answers “yes.” Allow them to provide an explanation, and take it into consideration before making your decision.

