 It is often helpful to form a committee of employees to conduct a survey. Form a committee of representatives from all organizational levels, areas, and other groups, so you can have a range of opinions represented. In this committee, think about including people from your organization or corporation that have responsibility for some aspect of employee health or well-being, such as human resources, employee benefits, occupational health and safety, the employee cafeteria, and employee unions.


This committee should meet regularly to ensure the program's success. They should write a mission statement based on the results of the survey.





;
, How many employees take smoke breaks throughout the day? If you have a vending machine, how often does it need to be refilled? Do your employees exercise regularly? Do they eat 3 balanced meals a day? Do they go to the doctor regularly for checkups? Looking at questions like that will provide you with a better sense of the types of programs from which your employees would benefit.
 Offer employees free flu shot, blood pressure checks, cholesterol screenings, BMI assessments, smoking cessation programs. Work with your local hospital to coordinate these events.
 One idea is to use Monday as the day for all things health and prevention. This will start the week out on a good note and employees will appreciate the opportunity to improve their health on their company’s dime! Employers could organize Monday walks, free fruit on Mondays, or Monday health screenings., If employees want to enter a local run or walk for a charity race, run a marathon, or take a fitness class, sponsor them!

, While some companies may choose a zero-tolerance policy for drugs, other companies may choose to offer on-site counselors to encourage employees to quit smoking, drinking, or using drugs. Using work site health promotion to help as many employees overcome their addictions will benefit the entire company.
 If any employee achieves a health goal, reward them with an item that is useful and further promotes their health such as:


pedometer
microwave vegetable steamer
good athletic socks
orange peeler
dyna bands
stress balls

, Find out what's working, what isn't. Are employees losing interest? Continue taking surveys and adjusting your program so that it remains effective.

