 You can accent your colorful patterns with throw pillows. Pillows add a perfect pop of color to your room, and help bring out the color palette. You may want to choose an accent color not prominent in the patterns to bring out the subtle colors.You may also want to choose accent pillows with patterns.
 Bold, excessive accessories and items help build the bohemian look. This means you can pile cushions on the sofa or on your bed, add lots of decorative pieces to the walls and on shelves, and put up multi-colored curtains and bedding. Cover your entire floor with rugs or place house plants on every surface. The options are unlimited, and you can have fun with your choices.Drape tapestries from the ceiling or around your bed to make a canopy or place them over chairs and dresses.You can even choose to repurpose pieces as accents. For example, you may use a window pane or a rug as a wall decoration.
Stack your jewelry on your dresser for a bohemian decorative flair.
 Bohemian chic furniture is quirky and unique. This can be anything. A canopy bed, a chaise lounge, or an antique headboard can accent any bohemian decorated room. As you shop, look for interesting pieces.For example, you may find an antique looking dresser or armoire that has painted details or a distressed desk and chair.
Use ottomans with interesting fabrics, like velvet, satin, or corduroy.
You can look for pieces at antique shops, thrift stores, and garage sales. You may be able to find bohemian pieces to buy in stores.
 Empty walls are the opposite of a bohemian decor. Cover your walls in vivid tapestries, artworks, and wooden wall art. Don't worry about cluttered walls or matching the decor. The bohemian ideal is to express your artistic side.For example, you may hang up a wall tapestry with a teal background with pink and yellow geometric patterns, prints of famous artworks, framed album covers, wooden wall art bought at local art fairs, and interesting wall hangings found at a thrift store.
You may consider doing a collage on a wall of postcards, magazine cutouts, art prints, posters, and anything else you enjoy looking at.
 The bohemian look is accented by soft, warm light. This is achieved by unique lamps and candles around the room. Look for lamps in interesting shapes, shades with unique patterns and bold colors, different textures like satin or silk, and even beading hanging from the shade.Consider hanging lighting from the ceiling or putting up globes.

