 If you notice that your dog chases after his toy but doesn’t bring it back to you, try playing fetch with two of his favorite toys. To play the ‘bait-and-switch’ game, throw his first toy. When he fetches this toy, call him to get his attention. Once he starts turning to you, throw his second toy in the opposite direction that you threw the first toy. He’ll probably drop the first toy to go chase after the second one.When he’s chasing the second toy, run and get his first toy. Call his name, and repeat the process. Your dog probably sees this as a fun game of chase, but you are teaching him to turn back to you.After doing this a few times, throw your dog’s first toy again. Call his name, but do not throw the second toy yet. When he gets closer to you with the first toy in his mouth, give him the “Drop it” command and show him the second toy. When he drops his first toy, throw the second one. When he chases after the second toy, pick up his first toy and repeat the process.Eventually, your dog will learn will learn to bring his toy back to you after you throw it to him, without the need for the second toy., This is another game to teach your dog to give his toy back to you. Attach a leash or rope to his toy and throw the toy. If your dog catches it but doesn’t bring it back, wiggle the leash or rope and start running in the opposite direction. Chances are that your dog will start chasing you with the toy still in his mouth. Give him a treat if he does so.If your dog initially drops the toy and doesn’t chase after it, wiggle the leash or rope a little more and start running away. Eventually, he should try to chase after and catch the toy. Give him a treat when he gets closer to you with the toy. After a few weeks’ time, your dog will learn that he should bring his toy back to you after you throw it to him., If your dog tends to drop his toy before bringing it all the way to you, stand in place and say “Bring it” just as he reaches the point where he usually drops it. Wave your arm to gesture that he should follow you, and then start walking away from him. When he starts to follow you and reaches the place where you were originally standing, say “Drop it” and walk back towards him to pick up the toy.It may take a few weeks before your dog understands the “Bring it” command, so be patient with him.