 Familiarize yourself with the courses your college is offering each semester. The sooner you know what courses are being offered, the sooner you can register for those classes.It will be a hassle to enroll in a class that is already full. You may have to petition the professor or the department or, unfortunately, wait until a different semester or year to take the course.;
, Especially if you’re going from class to class three or four times in a row, it can be helpful to schedule similar classes (i.e. within the sciences or humanities) next to each other. This will give you easier transitions between classes. It would be difficult to switch from Biology to Political Science, then back to Chemistry.


For example, if you’re taking a lab-based course, try to schedule the class right before or after the coinciding lecture course.
 Since college classes (especially popular ones) can fill up quickly, you should have one or two courses to fall back on, if you first choices are full. Ideally, these back-ups should still be required courses for your degree, or at least Gen Eds, so that you’re not just taking multiple electives.


Since it can be more enjoyable to go to a class if you’re taking it with a friend, see if you can find a friend or two to take one of your back-up classes with you.
Working with a friend in class can motivate you to attend regularly, and gives you a study partner that you’ll work well with.
 Ask yourself: are you a morning person, or do you prefer to stay up late? If you’re not a morning person, you can schedule classes that begin around 10 or 11 am, or even noon.Find class times that work well for you.


Some students also have trouble focusing during afternoon classes (especially right after lunch), or can’t stay awake during evening classes. Find what times work best for you.
 In addition to scheduling your in-class time, you’ll benefit from setting aside specific time in which you’ll study, review the class work from the day, and do your homework. Start out by following the 2:1 rule: two hours per week outside of the classroom for every hour in the classroom.So, if you’re taking 4 classes and spending roughly 12 hours per week in the classroom, start out by scheduling 24 hours (3 hours every night) of homework time.
 If you have a hard time finding an agreeable schedule, or can’t get into the in-seat classes that you want or that your degree requires, look into taking online classes. Some students enjoy online work more than others, but as more and more colleges increase their online course offerings, you should at least know they’re an option.Although online classes can ease your weekly schedule, they require as much work and discipline as in-seat classes.

