 Pain can cause stress, anxiety, and helpless feelings. You may feel upset about your pain all the time, which causes tension and stress, which feeds your pain. Pain and stress are a vicious cycle. Meditation is a proven stress-reliever, and reducing stress can help your pain. It can also help to calm both your body and mind., Meditation can be used any time you feel pain. Since meditation helps you refocus your mental energies away from your pain, you can meditate even when you are out in public or surrounded by people. For the best results, meditate every day. This helps keep the effects from lessening.Deep breathing and even certain mindful meditation movements can be done whenever you feel pain. At first, it may be harder to concentrate in public places or busy situations, but the more you practice these techniques, the easier they will become.
You can meditate as often as you like with any of the three methods. If you find that meditation helps reduce your pain, you can meditate four to six times a day.
 One of the things meditation offers is a way to rethink your concept of pain. For people who suffer pain, it dominates a lot of their life, and the pain takes on a life of its own. Meditation can help you understand that pain is a sensation, not a larger entity. Meditation helps you learn how to deal with the pain by controlling your emotional response to it.Focusing on your body helps you localize the pain. Many times, pain feels like it is everywhere in the body. Meditation can help you adjust those thoughts. Instead of the pain being in your whole body, you begin to understand it is only in certain parts of your body, leaving most of your body pain free.
 Meditation helps you acknowledge pain. If you try to ignore the pain, it might consume your thoughts or feel worse. With meditation, you can learn to be aware of your pain without judging yourself or focusing on it. You acknowledge the pain alongside everything else at that you experience in the same moment. This includes good things.By acknowledging your pain and everything else you experience at the same time, pain becomes only one of many things going on for you. If you can focus your awareness to the pain, but also the sun on your face, the smell of food cooking, the sound of birds chirping, the feeling of someone near you, you realize pain is a small part of your experience at every given moment.
Doing this helps you lessen the power pain has over you, giving you control over your life and the moment.

