 One way you can help your baby reach milestones in gross motor skills is to help them develop the muscles needed for these skills. Starting at around two months, when your child is awake, place them on their belly for "tummy time." This helps them develop the neck and back muscles needed for movement.Never leave a baby unattended on their belly or place a baby to sleep on their belly.
When you are just starting out with tummy time, the baby will spend just a few minutes several times a day on their belly. Over time, this can increase to about 30 – 45 minutes a day.
Make your home safe for your baby so you can place your baby on the floor and let them explore. This may include your baby just lying on their tummy and reaching out, or starting to crawl. By six months, your baby should be pushing themselves up and starting to crawl.
Older children should be encouraged to go outside so they can move around. They need to run and jump to develop their muscles, movement, and coordination.
 Babies may need a little help with the fine motor skills, like using their hands. Babies should be encouraged to grasp and use their fingers. By four months, you can start giving them toys to play with that stimulate this impulse. Different textures of the toys will help babies want to touch them with their fingers. Giving them age-appropriate toys, like puzzles, blocks, or even crayons, can help them develop fine motor skills.When your baby is old enough, you should let them feed themselves. This usually is between six to eight months. Let them pick up food with their fingers as they develop the pinching motion.
 If your baby is experiencing language delays, there are a few things you can do to help them. Talking to them and reading to them is a big help because they hear your voice. Name objects as you read or go on walks. Point to the object so your child will start to associate the object with the word.Babies start to make noises by four months. By six months, they should be making concrete sounds, and by nine months may babble as a form of communication.
To help stimulate hearing, play music for your baby. Start this when they are a newborn and continue as they grow.
 Your baby may need help with their social skills as they grow and develop. You can encourage them to interact with you by touching, laughing, and smiling at them. Your baby will respond to your voice and your facial expressions and start smiling and laughing with you.Babies should start smiling by two months. By six months, they can smile and frown, recognize their parents, and respond to their emotions.
Don’t place your baby in front of a television and leave them. Instead, play with your child. If you are able, let your child play with other babies.

