 Many toys help kids with their math skills. There are tech toys that use computers and tablets to help kids with Tangrams and other geometry skills. Kid-friendly tablets give kids endless games and apps that use their math skills.These toys will give your child puzzles, pictures, games, songs, and other interactive activities to help your child learn math.
Many computer programming, mechanical, musical, culinary, and electronic tech toys also teach kids math.
 There are many different educational tech toys that help your children learn various language skills. Some toys help children learn how to read or read books aloud to them. Other toys help kids learn to write by going through proper strokes and teaching spelling.You can also find toys that teach your children foreign languages. There are many books that teach children foreign languages through interactive songs or videos that your child gains access to when you buy the book.
 Chemistry sets have been upgraded to digital science toys. Children can use digital microscopes connected to computers or tablets as they explore the microscopic world around them. Kids can also get inventing kits where they can learn how to make various scientific inventions.There are even seed growing kits that connect with smartphones to turn the seeds into animated characters.These science-based toys also teach kids computer, mechanical, and engineering skills.
 Some toys allow your child to learn basic computer skills and programming skills at a young age. There are products that allow you to put together a small computer in Lego-like parts, and products that let you snap blocks together to make small electronics. Other toys let children assemble robots.These products can teach mechanical and computer skills. They are good for kids who have interest in putting things together and taking them apart, or who have enjoyed playing with Legos, K’nex, Erector Sets, and similar products.
 Educational tech toys don’t just teach kids how to read, write, and do math, or build computers and electronics. There are many different products that let kids explore their creative side. These often incorporate other skills, such as math and spatial reasoning.


They can try their hand at creating animation with different apps or small computer devices or even making music with electronic musical instruments connected to computers or phones.Other creative apps let your child learn how to cook from an animated chef while also learning math skills.