 As a general rule, you are wearing dress shoes, a dress watch would be appropriate. If you are wearing sneakers, then a sports watch would be appropriate. If you are somewhere in between, such as boots, boat shoes, or flip-flops, an everyday casual watch is your best bet. , Your everyday watch should be neutral and durable, as it's meant to be worn throughout your daily activities, including work, casual social functions, and errands. Stainless steel is a popular choice as this makes for both neutral and sturdy watches, but options include basic watches made of all sorts of different materials, including plastic and rubber.
 This includes weddings, christenings, funerals, formal dinners, opera and theater performances, and other formal events. Formal watches add a finishing touch to a well-polished outfit.


Formal watches are usually made of a precious metal (silver, gold, or platinum), and can be incredibly expensive, depending on brand and materials. Many people prefer a formal watch that is made of the same metal tone as the rest of their jewelry or accessories. For example, a woman who's wearing a platinum necklace might prefer to wear a platinum, silver, or white gold watch, while a man who's wearing gold cufflinks will usually prefer to wear a gold watch. Formal watches can be incredibly expensive, and are seen as a status symbol among men. If an expensive formal watch is not in your budget, consider foregoing the formal watch altogether; a cheap watch can carry a negative perception, while there are no consequences for not wearing a watch during these occasions.
 You can wear it as an everyday watch, or as a functional tool for running or working out. Sports watches can be made with rubber, plastic, or even fabric bands that are meant to be durable, sweat-resistant, and often water-resistant. Pay close attention to the instructions that come with the watch—they will tell you how far under water your watch can safely go.


Wear your sports watch when you will need to keep time, measure depth or speed, consult a compass, or when you will use other special features included.
Outside of athletic endeavors, you can wear your sports watch with a long sleeve shirt or even a tie to casual events.
Never wear a sports watch with a suit—this is the fashion equivalent of wearing sneakers with a tuxedo! It is considered to be in poor taste., This would be appropriate with something slightly more dressed up than khakis and a polo, such as a shirt and jacket. Dress watches are usually more plain and simple than formal watches, and generally won’t have the same level of adornment that formal watches can have.Choose one with a thin black or brown leather band to wear at events that require semi-formal wear, business professional wear, or even business casual wear, including blazers with slacks or jeans, dresses, and trousers with a nice blouse or jacket.
Match your shoes and belt to your watch band. If your shoes are black, then don’t wear a watch with a brown band.
Buy multiple bands for your watch, so you can easily and inexpensively make your watch match your shoes and belt. Or, look for a band that is a mix of brown and black.

