 All the islands in the Caribbean are blessed with white sand beaches and sunny days yet each one of them offers a distinct and unique holiday experience. Vacationing in the Caribbean is an easy decision to make but the trick lies in selecting the right island that suits the visitor’s tastes and needs. Here is a concise list of the unique characteristics of some Caribbean islands in order to make the right decision for the perfect holiday.;
, A quiet and peaceful destination, the secluded island of Nevis is ideal for the urban traveler seeking a quiet getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life. Many plantations and resorts are tucked away on this beautiful island which has a rich history as well.
 All the Caribbean islands have excellent beaches but Aruba’s beaches are ranked as the most clean and attractive. In addition, the soft surf and water sports also highlight its popularity.
 A rocking nightlife awaits visitors at St. Lucia and Jamaica. As the Jamaican sun sets, an all-night party filled with rum and reggae music takes over the island. Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic are good bets as well.
 Spa lovers will enjoy the Turks & Caicos which are full of luxury resorts and world-class spas. This spa destination offers many signature treatments which can be enjoyed amidst its white sand beaches.
 Puerto Rico is the Mecca for gambling in the Caribbean and is reminiscent of Las Vegas. The credit for the most number of casinos in the Caribbean however goes to the Dominican Republic.
 Among the best diving and snorkeling destinations in the Caribbean is the island of Turks and Caicos.
 The golfing experience on the world-class golf courses of Barbados and Jamaica are unparalleled in the Caribbean.
 The calm waters of the British Virgin Islands are perfect for sailing, snorkeling and swimming with dolphins.
 St. Martin has an unmistakable French and Dutch connection with a Caribbean twist which can be experienced through its numerous restaurants. The Cayman Islands, hosts of the popular Cayman Cookout featuring top chefs from around the world is also home to the most restaurants of any Caribbean Islands, and referred to as the culinary "Capital of the Caribbean."

