 This phrase is a common way to say "I miss you" in Spanish. However, it is not a direct translation of the English words. The literal translation of the phrase is "I throw you less."While the direct or literal translation of the phrase into English doesn't make much sense, the meaning of the phrase is to express the feeling of having something missing in your life as a result of the person's absence.
Pronounce the phrase as "tay EH-choh day MAY-nohs."
This phrase is used more in Spain than in other Spanish-speaking parts of the world.
If you are speaking in past tense ("I missed you"), you would say "te echo de menos." , This phrase is a more direct translation of the sentiment "I miss you." The verb extraño means "I miss" and te is the object pronoun for "you." Literally, this phrase is saying "you I miss."Pronounce this phrase "tay ehks-TRAHN-yo."
To use this phrase in past tense to say "I missed you," you would say "te extrañé."This verb is more versatile, and can be used to say you miss other creatures or things. For example, you might use it to say "I miss my dog" – "Extraño a mi perro.", This is another phrase used to mean "I miss you" in Spanish. While there is no good direct translation, the general connection is that the person to whom you're speaking is responsible for an absence or need in your life.This phrase is made up of "me," the direct object pronoun for "yo," the first-person singular pronoun meaning "I," the verb "haces," which means "you make" or "you cause," and the noun "falta," which means "lack or absence."
Pronounce the phrase "may AH-says FAHL-tah."
In past tense, this phrase becomes "me hiciste falta" ("I missed you")., To say "I miss you" in Spanish, you must use an object pronoun to identify the person you miss. If you're speaking directly to the person, you would use the object pronoun for "you."The phrase "me haces falta" is an exception, because you use the object pronoun for yourself, me, instead of the object pronoun for the person to whom you're speaking.
The Spanish language has formal and informal variations of you. If you are speaking to someone with whom you are not on familiar terms, you would use the formal variation.
Generally, you wouldn't be saying "I miss you" to someone with whom you're not close. For this reason, the word te is most commonly used in Spanish phrases meaning "I miss you." This word is the direct object pronoun for the second person familiar tú, meaning "you." Since this is the familiar form of the word "you," it should only be used with friends and family.
If for some reason you need to express this sentiment to someone with whom you're not on familiar terms, replace te with lo (masculine) or la (feminine). These are the formal object pronouns for usted, the polite, formal variation of "you."
If you are speaking about missing several people (for example, if you are telling a couple that you miss them both), you would use the plural direct object pronoun for "you," which is os.

