 Remember, a buyer would never want to see clutter or anything in your property for sale that can present it in a bad condition.


Make renovations wherever required, such as replace any old or damaged stuff.
Make it look spacious and bright.
Remember, a house or property in good condition can attract many buyers, while a bad condition can prove to be a turn off.;
, Yes, it is true. Therefore, once your house is in a ready-to-sell condition, it is the time to take its best pictures and present it in its actual form.


Add videos and pictures. This allows the viewers to get the latest description of your property and attract all the genuine buyers.
Present the best angles and shots of your garden area, kitchen, bedroom, and living space allowing the viewers to get the real picture. This will also allow the property seekers to decide if your property ad falls in their property search criteria and save time of both the parties.
 For pricing your property, it is important to do some market research and get an idea about the current property prices.


Decide on the price on the basis of certain important factors such as location, amenities offered, size and age of the property. Many online property sites allow the user to compare property and its prices.
Take professional advice from property agents if you want. Remember, pricing too high will make your buyers go and keeping the price too low will end in your loss. Hence, it is vital to price your property after proper market research.
 Keep the description concise, as buyers tend to skip the lengthy narrations of property and expect a quick overview. Your property description should explain in simple words that what it offers, such as “3 BHK fully-furnished independent house at ..." says it almost everything about the sale offer- location, size, and type of property.
 If you are using online avenues like real estate websites to market your property, make sure that you chose a property site that gets a lot of traffic. Do not waste time and efforts in posting your property ad on any irrelevant website.
 However, it is advisable to keep the option open for negotiation with the buyer. Keep price negotiation communication friendly to allow the potential buyer feel comfortable.
 Close the deal by accepting the offer at the fixed price. Firstly, accept the offer verbally and then make it official by accepting the offer via email or by post. The exchange and completion of contract is mandatory to make your property transaction legal.
 Search online property sites can be used to conduct a customized search of property as per your requirement for location, size, budget, amenities, and age. Your property search should mainly depend on the type of property you wish to buy.
, Once you find any property suitable for your current requirement, the next step is contacting the property owner to schedule a meeting.



Inspect the property in terms of various parameters such as layout, neighborhood, location, and specifications.
Know about loan approval process, financial institutions, and housing loan interest rates. Several reputed property sites also offer services to help you in completing home loan documentation, EMI calculation, and finding the detail of reputed home insurance companies.
 After your final meeting with the property seller, determine the price demanded by him. If you are actually interested in buying it, check if the property falls under your budget and if the property is worth the sale price. If not, negotiate the price to settle down at a final amount.


For negotiation it is vital that you have a fair idea about the latest price trends in your chosen city and locality. Several online property sites offer price trends to help you find a right property deal. For instance, choosing between two property locations in A and B can turn into an easy decision if the price trend reflects an increase or decrease in the respective locations.
 After negotiating price with the seller, get ready to accept the offer and go for the completion of legal formalities.


Do not forget to get all the property documents varied by a legal professional to avoid any issues about property title in the future.

