 How long your color will stay in depends on whether it's permanent or semi-permanent. Many people think semi-permanent dye will fade, while permanent color will last. However, often a combination works best. The two colors act differently on your hair, and using permanent color throughout your hair may cause unnecessary damage.Permanent dye is more powerful, and may change hair color more dramatically. It's best to use it on your roots, which will come out in your original hair color.
It's a good idea to use semi-permanent dye, in a gloss form, on the rest of your hair. This hair probably retains some of its original color, so it only needs to be lightly lifted with a semi-permanent dye.
 All colors are not created equal. Certain shades will be more difficult to maintain, and you may have to take extra efforts to maintain those shades.Red hair is one of the most difficult colors to maintain. It tends to fade very fast. You can try not washing your hair for a week after getting it dyed red. This can help the color set.
Blonde dye will be hardest on your hair's health, as a lot of lifting and lightening is used. You will want to use a lot of moisturizing products and do deep conditioning treatments after dyeing.
 Hair dye fades. Even if you used permanent dye, your hair will fade over time. You may like the color it fades into. You may end up with a tone lighter than your original, but your hair will continue to fade until you're left with your original color.Some colors need touch ups more often. Red hair, for example, requires a touch up every 4 to 6 weeks.
You can get a touch up done in a salon, but this can get pricey. You can also consider touching up your hair yourself at home. Just make sure you carefully read the instructions manual for any products you purchase.
 To avoid continual touch ups, you can slow the fading of your hair. There are several ways to maintain color more long term.Stay out of the sun as much as you can. Prolonged exposure to the sun can lighten hair.
Add some hair dye to your conditioner. This way, you're dyeing your hair a little bit each time you shower.
Wash your hair cold and do not shampoo too often. If you can, limit shampooing to once a week.

