 There are lots of different reasons you could be making a greeting card. If it’s truly just a greeting card, you have lots of options. You can decide to spell out their name in felt, you could add images of their favorite things, or you could just have fun creating an abstract felt design. If this card is for a birthday or a wedding, you can create things like cake, balloons, flowers, and so on!


Gather inspiration by looking at greeting cards in store or online. Search Pinterest to see homemade cards others have created for the same occasion.
 Unless you’re an absolute pro with scissors, it’s a good idea to outline your felt shapes or designs in pencil before cutting into the felt. You can purchase stencils at the craft store, or even print out stencils that you can find online. If you have a design in mind but aren’t sure how to draw it, printing an outline or stencil online can be hugely helpful. Otherwise, simply freehand the design onto your felt. You can ensure it looks good before you do something irreversible with your scissors.


Don’t worry about leaving marks on the felt with your pencil. You can glue the felt to your cardstock with the marked up side down, so no one will ever see it!

, While adding one piece of felt to a piece of cardstock or paper can add a lot as is, adding layered, three-dimensional designs can take your card to the next level. Before you glue any felt to your paper, try layering and building on your designs with different colors of felt. Even if the design doesn’t require it, it can add a lot of interest to an otherwise simple design.


For example, say you created a bright yellow sunshine to glue on your paper. Before gluing it down, why not add a bit of orange to the sun? Cut out the exact same shape in the orange felt, only smaller. When you glue it on top of the yellow shape, it will look like an orange sun with a yellow border.
If you don’t want to layer your shape entirely, you can just add little details with other colors. It doesn’t have to be perfect to look great!
Remember to use hot glue or felt glue to glue felt to felt. Regular glue may not be strong enough to hold felt together, and you don’t want your greeting card to fall apart!

