 Determine whether or not there are any exercise facilities available for out-of-town visitors.


Contact professional gyms and aerobic centers and inquire about weekend passes that may be available for visitors and tourists to purchase. With a pass like this, you can have full access to a workout facility during your vacation.;
,


The best time to schedule an aerobic activity is in the morning. Because many travelers are busy either with business or pleasure during the day, the nighttime can be a difficult time to find the motivation to workout.
Waking up just thirty minutes earlier and incorporating a quick aerobic exercise routine into your day can dramatically transform the rejuvenating effects of your vacation.



While you may not be able to feasibly pack heavy weights, a pair of lightweight dumbbells can be very beneficial in a travel workout regimen.
Pack any of the following if it will also help you complete your workouts: a pair of running shoes, lightweight clothing for working out, a pedometer, a heart rate monitor, a small floor mat and an mp3 device or other portable music player if you prefer to workout with music.
 Working out in pairs or groups is a far more effective way to ensure that you don't put off your intended exercise routine. Keeping each other accountable will ensure that you follow through with your exercise goals while on vacation.
 While it is tempting to throw caution and care to the wind and eat whatever you feel like, your exercise routine will be far more effective if you maintain a healthy diet while on vacation.


Bring healthy, non-perishable foods along with you. You can have them as snacks between meals - especially if you're traveling and can't get to restaurants.
If your hotel has restaurant(s), check them out. If you have food allergies, explore gluten free restaurant options in the place(s) you’ll be visiting. You can also ask about room service if you need to rest before exercising.



Book rooms at a hotel that has a workout facilities and/or a swimming pool. When the exercise facility and pool are easily accessible, you will be much more likely to utilize these facilities to complete your exercise routine.
Use the hallways and staircases of your hotel as a walking track if you prefer not spending time outdoors. Perform several circuits by crossing the hallways and walking up flights of stairs and then back down. Keep your heart rate up for 20 to 30 minutes for an effective hotel exercise routine.



Opt for a walking or cycling tour rather than a tour bus to burn calories and incorporate aerobic activity into your vacation.
Plan a day on your vacation completely devoted to an outdoor task such as hiking, cycling, mountain climbing or even all-day shopping.
Climb stairs instead of taking escalators and elevators.

