 Certain chronic illnesses, like migraines and autoimmune diseases like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), are worsened, possibly even partially caused, by diet.


For migraines, you should try eliminating chocolate, aged cheeses, nuts, wine and other alcohols, and limiting caffeine. Also cut out anything with MSG or nitrates, like prepared foods and deli meats. See a neurologist and follow the National Headache Foundation diet.For RA, make sure to eat a variety of foods, mostly natural grains and vegetables, limit sugars and alcohol, and watch your fat intake.After you’ve eliminated any problem foods, watch for improvements in your symptoms over the following weeks. If you start to see improvements, slowly begin adding one item back into your diet at a time. Keep a journal to see how you feel as you add each item back in. By adding one item at a time, you should be able to identify the food that was responsible for your symptoms.;
, Since this essential acid helps with inflammation, it can be used to treat headaches, joint pain, back pain and menstrual pain.


It is best to eat foods high in these fats, including fish, canola oil, spinach, and eggs with added omega-3 acids.
You can also take up to 3 g of fish oil in capsule form., These bacteria may lessen inflammation and help with stomach pain.Probiotics are found in yogurt, kimchi and sauerkraut.
You can also take a supplement, up to 10 billion CRUs a day.
 This vitamin may lower cytokines that cause pain. It also may be associated with decreasing pain from fibromyalgia. You get most of what you need from the sun and a proper diet.


Exposing 50% of your skin for 12 minutes a day in the summer months will almost fulfill your daily requirement.
You can get more from eating fatty fish.
You may also take supplements, but make sure you know how much you are getting from the sun and your diet so that you don’t reach unsafe levels., Turmeric is a root in the ginger family and can be bought as a spice. It lessens inflammation and can help with back and joint problems.


Either cook with it or make a tea to drink.
You may take capsules too, up to 2 g a day., They can help with different pains, including muscle cramps and migraine headaches. Magnesium is the 4th most abundant mineral in our cells and 2 out of 3 Americans don’t get enough.Foods that include high levels of magnesium include spinach and other dark lettuces, some nuts, including almonds, cashews and pumpkin seeds, lentils and some whole grains, and fish like halibut.
Aim to eat one or more of these foods daily and take a supplement of 200 mg of magnesium gluconate 2-3 times a day.