 The dog paddle is where you move your arms out in front of you while kicking your legs up and down.









The advantage: it doesn't take a lot of "proper technique" in order to do.
The disadvantage: it saps you of energy, meaning you won't be able to do this technique for very long.
 The flutter kick is where you tread water with your legs while keeping your arms outstretched for balance. To flutter kick, point your toes downward and kick one leg forward as you kick another leg back. Maintain a consistent back and forth.









The advantage: you can keep your arms free by doing the flutter kick, giving you an opportunity to do something else with them.
The disadvantage: because you're using just your legs to keep you up, this technique can be taxing.
 The frog kick is where you bring your feet out to the side, and then back in. The frog kick is also called the whip kick. Starting off with your legs together, move your feet out to the side and then quickly back in.









The advantage: this kick is less tiring than the flutter kick or the dog paddle.
The disadvantage: using this kick causes you to bob up and down in the water instead of staying relatively motionless.
 Sculling allows you to tread water with your hands. To scull, keep your hands outstretched to the side and completely submerged. With your palms facing toward one another, move your hands towards one another until they are almost touching. When you've reached this point, turn your palms facing outward and move your hands back out to their original position. Try to keep your hands doing one fluid movement back and forth.


The advantage: you can keep your legs free by sculling, allowing you to combine this with another foot treading technique such as the flutter kick.
The disadvantage: you have to keep pretty much your whole body (minus your head) underwater.
 Also called the eggbeater, this is where you move one foot clockwise while moving the other foot counterclockwise. This technique is hard to master, but it saves a lot of energy.


The advantage: you save a lot of energy doing this technique if you can perfect it.
The disadvantage: this is a hard technique to perfect, and many people need to practice extensively in order to learn it.
 Lay back in the water in the same manner as floating. Immediately move your hands in a circular motion. Move your feet up and down together.


The advantage: it's very simple to explain to children.
The disadvantage: circling hands can become tired.

