;
, Once you know the requirements then you can start practicing. Warm up first––you always need to start with stretching.


Practice your skills in front of your family until you're sure everything is perfect.






Try recording yourself doing the cheers/dances. Play the video back and fix all possible flaws. This helps a lot.
 If you have a back handspring or anything like that make sure you have it to the best you can do. This makes for a better tryouts!

, Make sure to listen and pay attention, because the coach will be watching at all times.
 Drink plenty of water in place of sugary drinks, eat lots of fruits and vegetables, and exercise regularly.
 When you wake up, eat a healthy breakfast then go to the tryouts!
, Don't be nervous, there's nothing to worry about and the coaches aren't going to make you do anything high level, especially for your first tryout.


The judges will think you are not having fun at all if you don't smile. They don't want a gloomy face on the squad––they want to see that although you're taking it seriously, you also know how to make light of it and have some fun.
Display lots of spirit!

, It's great if you can place them, but it doesn't have to be perfect. The point is that no one wants to see them sloppy and all over the place. Hit your motions and be tight; squeeze every muscle, but not so hard that you are trembling.
 Don't draw your words out. Don't say, Goooo Caaats! Say, Go! Cats!


Don't count out loud. If you do, they think you haven't learned it very well, and it does get annoying.
 This allows you to show that you will do the same for the audience and make each member watching feel special.
 When it's time to find out if you made it, just relax. If you end up making the team then congratulations! But if you didn't, don't worry about it, keep up those skills and you will be better then ever for next season!


Don't be disappointed if you don't make the squad. Try again next year, and make the coach remember you with all your strengths!

