 To age your paper, you can choose to use coffee for a darker color or tea for a lighter color. You can also affect the color of your paper during the brewing process.


If using coffee, you can darken or lighten the color by using more or less coffee grounds.
With tea, the resulting shade of your sheet of paper will be affected by how long you leave the tea in the water. A longer infusion will result in a darker shade, while a short infusion will make for a lighter shade.
Let your liquid cool before proceeding to the next step.
 Make sure the paper can fit inside the sheet easily, without going over the edges.
 By preheating your oven at this point, it should reach the desired temperature by the time the paper is ready to be baked.
 Start pouring in a corner of the baking sheet, not directly over the paper. Only pour enough liquid to cover the sheet of paper with a thin film. Don’t be concerned about solvent ending up beneath the paper; it will soak up the liquid beneath it.
 Here you can be creative with the patterns you create. You can spread the solvent evenly around the sheet if you want a more uniform look. Otherwise, you can spread it unevenly to create more vivid, obvious patterns.If you’d like to create a more vivid, spotty pattern, you can sprinkle coffee grounds on the paper, letting them stand for a few minutes., Make sure there are no pools of liquid left either on the paper or in the baking sheet. You’re not trying to get the paper completely dry, just making sure there is no unabsorbed liquid sitting on the sheet.
 Before you put the baking sheet and paper in the oven, you can add a few touches to make the paper seem even older while it's damp and easy to manipulate. Tear a thin, jagged strip off the side. Or, dig small holes out of the paper with your fingernail; you can crumple these tiny wads and move them to other parts of the paper for a bumpy, parchment-like look. Additionally, you can press down on the paper with something like a fork to leave imprints.
 Ideally, you’ll want to put the sheet on a middle oven rack. Keep an eye on the paper as it bakes. You’ll know the process is complete once the edges start to curl up. The time it takes for this to happen depends on your oven.
 Using oven mitts, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Give the paper 10 to 15 minutes to cool down before you attempt to write on it.

