 There are a number of different styles of harnesses available. Not all of them are designed to be used on walks, though this is what most people use harnesses for. There are a number of different styles that can be used for walking, like the front clip, back clip, or tightening harness.Dog mobility harnesses are used to help dogs who have trouble getting around, particularly senior dogs, and distribute the dog’s weight so you can lift them more easily. They are fitted the same as walking harnesses and your vet will have recommendations that are designed for your dog’s individual health needs.Harnesses that are used for sport or training purposes will need to be lighter, so look for harnesses without metal adjustment clips and are made of lightweight materials. You can also find sporting harnesses that allow you to add weight to them, which helps to strengthen your dog and add resistance.
You want the harness to be comfortable for your dog to wear and for you to use.;
, On this harness, the leash attachment ring is located on top of the dog’s back. These harnesses are easy for dogs to get used to since they are comfortable to wear and the leash won’t get tangled in their front legs.Back clip harnesses should only be used with dogs that are calm and trained. They shouldn’t be used with dogs that pull when they’re being walked since the harness won’t redirect this motion. They shouldn’t be used to correct behavioral issues, like aggression towards other dogs, since the harness doesn’t curb bad behaviors like other types do., Front clip harnesses have the leash attachment in the center of the dog’s chest rather than on their back. This way, the harness gives you more control over your dog if they pull when they walk. It also helps to redirect a dog to face the owner, if need be.Front clip harnesses are a good choice if your dog pulls when they walk and you want to correct that behavior. Be aware that the leash can tangle under your dog’s front legs if you give too much slack during your walk.
 There are different variations of tightening harnesses, but they all will tighten and add pressure when your dog pulls. The tightening is uncomfortable for your dog and they’ll lessen their pulling or stop all together. This type of harness is good to use with a determined puller who hasn’t broken this bad habit.Some tightening harnesses can cause pain, which is not what you want. The harness should add a slight pressure that is uncomfortable, so make sure that the harness does not hurt your dog.
 The majority of harnesses are made from nylon or another synthetic fabric, or from padded leather. Nylon harnesses are more easily adjusted and are better if you live in a humid area that has a lot of wet weather. In dry weather, both nylon and leather will do.You can also consider a harness with light padding. This padding makes the harness more comfortable for your dog to wear. Padded harnesses tend to be slightly more expensive, though if you are investing in a quality harness it is worth it.
 If you take your dog out for walks at night, consider a harness that has a reflective trim that will make your dog more visible You can also find a harness with a handle, which is a helpful training tool to help control you r dog. You can also lift your dog by the handle if they are small enough.


The looks of the harness shouldn’t be your first priority but once you’ve identified the proper type of harness that you need, you can choose between different colors and patterns.
You can also find water resistant harnesses that are easier to clean.

