 Having a plan for what you’re going to eat makes shopping and cooking healthy foods easier, and you’ll avoid impulse or convenience eating., There are many places to find healthy recipe ideas for practically any style of cooking. Cookbooks, magazines and newspapers, and internet sources are all great places to find recipes to meet your needs.


Find recipes for foods you like and want to eat. There are usually simple modifications available to make them healthier. Bake foods instead of frying them, for instance, and steam rather than boil vegetables.
 Using unsaturated fats like olive oil instead of butter to prepare a meal can make a huge difference. Changing cooking methods, substituting ingredients, and other strategies can help you feel better while still providing delicious, satisfying meals.


Moderation is still important since all oils are high in fat and calories.
You can also reduce oils and fats by baking or roasting foods. Roasted vegetables in particular are a delicious alternative to using the frying pan. Try it with cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, or asparagus.Make substitutions in your favorite recipes to cut out extra sugar, salt, and fat. Use light cream or milk instead of heavy cream. Or try using plain Greek yogurt instead of sour cream on a taco or chili. Sweet fruits like dried figs or raisins can sometimes take the place of refined sugars. Experiment and see what works for you.
 While meat is certainly a great source of protein, it’s also expensive, and red meat like beef has been linked with heart disease and cancer. Most Americans consume far more than the recommended portion sizes of meat, so there’s usually room for improvement here in most diets.


Opt for meats with less saturated fat like fish or chicken when you can, and avoid cured, processed, or smoked meats.
Beans and legumes are a great, non-meat alternative to augment your protein intake.
 This is the simplest way to reduce caloric intake, and for some, the most difficult. A little discipline here can go a long way toward healthier, happier eating.


It can be very difficult to estimate what a proper portion looks like. Use measuring cups and a kitchen scale rather than guessing.
Remember that “serving size” and “portion size” are not necessarily the same thing when it comes to food labeling. That 20 oz. bottle of soda might contain two “servings,” so read the label carefully to know how much you’re really consuming.