 This is also necessary if your voter registration has ever been canceled. The following documents can be scanned as proof:


Your driver's license or ID card. You will need these numbers to apply for your Kansas voter registration online. This also works as a citizenship document if the county where you applied for it states that you are a US citizen on the ID card.
Your passport. If your passport was issued by the United States, this will prove you are a US citizen. Make sure to copy the pages with your photo and address information.
Your naturalization documents. If you were born in another country and you are now a citizen of the United States, you should include any official documents that prove you passed your citizenship test and you are naturalized.
Your birth certification. The official birth certificate allows you to prove you were born in the United States. Foreign birth certificates are not applicable documents for citizenship; however, if you had a consular birth, you can show a birth certificate that proves this.
Other applicable forms of ID include a Bureau of Indian Affairs card, an American Indian Card, a military service record that shows you were born in the US or an adoption record that shows you were born in the US.;
, This format can be uploaded when you complete your online application.
 Click the "Continue" button at the bottom of the page.



Affirm that you are eligible to vote in Kansas. You must be 18 years of age, a citizen of the US and a resident of Kansas. You must not be under detainment for a felony.
Write your personal information. This includes your legal name, birth date and Kansas driver's license number or ID number. If you do not have this ID number, you will need to fill out the paper form.
Enter your address information, phone number and party affiliation.
 Sign it with an electronic signature.
 Submit your application at least 21 days before the next election.


You can also email, fax or mail this document to your local county elections office. Visit http://www.kssos.org/elections/elections_registration_ceo_display.aspx to locate this office.
 Review it for errors. Mail it back to the elections office with corrections if there are errors.

