 Exercising as little as 25 minutes a day can increase your brain function.Exercise helps you learn faster and retain information better. Make exercise a part of your daily routine to ensure you get the brain boost from your physical activity.


Try joining a fitness group or starting an exercise routine with a friend to make it more fun.
 The nutrients that you consume in your diet are important for keeping your brain healthy and functioning.Omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins, unsaturated fats, and fiber are particularly important for your brain. Eat lots of vegetables (broccoli, kale, spinach), peanuts, berries, whole grains, and fish (salmon and tuna).Drink lots of water as well to stay hydrated.


Avoid anything with added sugar (particularly syrups), saturated fats, and trans fats.
 Sleep is absolutely essential to brain health. Some studies suggest that during sleep, your brain flushes out toxins that have accumulated during the day. It is also important for consolidating short-term memories into long-term memories.Sleep deprivation has also been linked to the development of neurodegenerative disease, so it is very important to not skip sleep.


Try to get at least eight hours of sleep every night.
 Interaction with friends and family can help reduce stress levels, enhance intellectual stimulation, combat depression, and potentially slow the rate of memory decline. Having a happy marriage or successful long-term relationships gives you purpose in life and is protective against neurodegenerative effects related to age.Contact friends and family on a regular basis.
Meet new people through social groups or volunteering.
Get a pet to take care of and bring joy to your life.
 If you are noticing that you are frequently forgetting things or have spells of disorientation, you may have mild cognitive impairment or be in the early stages of a more serious neurodegenerative disease (Alzheimer’s or dementia). Consult your doctor to get tested.Remember, forgetfulness can just be a sign of getting older. Unfortunately, your brain will not remain as sharp at 75 as it was at 25.

