 Before you put on your own diaper, make sure to fold it properly. Fold the diaper length-ways with the back sheet facing outwards; you don't want a hard crease, just a soft fold.Make sure you do not touch the inside of the diaper. You do not want to contaminate it.This folding step is just designed to avoid contaminating the diaper as you put it on. If you're using cloth diapers, there is also folding involved in actually preparing the diaper for wearing. For more information about folding cloth diapers, check out How to Fold a Cloth Diaper.;
, Once you've folded the diaper, place the diaper front to back, with the smaller middle portion running between your legs. Carefully hold the brief in place as you make any necessary adjustments. Once again, make sure your hands do not come into contact with the diaper., Once the diaper is in place, make any adjustment necessary. Many people find it most comfortable to pull the bottom edges downward, creating something like pant legs. It may also be comfortable to adjust the top of the diaper so it's forming a straight, horizontal line along your hips., Once you have the diaper in a comfortable position, use the adhesive tape provided to secure it in place. Most brands of adult diapers come with four pieces of tape: two on the bottom sides and two on the top. It may be helpful to angle the tape slightly upwards as this improves how the diaper fits around the legs., Once the diaper is on, make any necessary adjustments for your own comfort. The edges of the brief should ease into the groin to avoid chafing or rashes. You may have to fold the edges over slightly so the sides are not as sharp., Gently fold the brief length-ways to make a soft fold; you don't need a hard crease.Keep the back sheet turned outwards. Do not touch the inside of the diaper as you want to avoid contamination. It might be a good idea to wear gloves during this process., Have the wearer lie on his or her side. Gently place the brief between his or her legs, the larger backside facing the buttocks. Fan out the rear end so it fully covers the buttocks., Have the wearer roll onto his or her back. Have him or her move slowly as to not ruffle the diaper. Fan out the front of the diaper, as you did with the back. Make sure the diaper is not scrunched at all between the legs., Once the diaper is a comfortable position, secure the adhesive tape. Most diapers will have four pieces of tape: two on the bottom on two on the top. Make sure the diaper fits snuggly but make sure the wearer is still comfortable. You do not want to tape the diaper up too tight as this can cause discomfort., Make sure the wearer is comfortable. You may have to fold the edges inward slightly so they ease into the groin area. Ask the wearer if he or she is comfortable and if you should make any adjustments., If you want to wear diapers subtly, take some time and care selecting products. Many brands of adult diapers are fairly easy to wear without others noticing.


Choose a product you can easily fit in a bag and briefcase. Less bulky diapers tend to be easier to conceal as they can be folded. However, be careful when folding a diaper as you do not want to cause any damage to the product.Make sure you select a product that's strong enough for you, however. If you're nervous about choosing a product, talk to your doctor and ask for a recommendation. He or she should be able to recommend a good brand for you based on your medical history., Many people worry about disposing diapers when out at work, school, or running errands. Most people worry about others noticing they're wearing adult diapers. Having a game plan in mind for discreet disposal can help.


Be aware of what's available in terms of dumpsters, trash cans, restrooms, and changing areas in any given area. This can help you act fast in the event of an emergency.Stock up on scented disposal bags. These allow you to discard diapers in places like public garbage cans without the smell becoming noticeable.Remember, it is impossible to plan for every scenario. However, having a set game plan for some of your regular outings can help you dispose diapers without too much notice., Proper clothing can help you conceal the fact you're wearing an adult diaper. Make the right wardrobe choices when going out.


Opt for somewhat high-waisted, loose fitting pants.A shirt that tucks in or does not pull up can also help conceal a diaper., Dealing with wearing diapers can be embarrassing for many. Look for support groups in your area. You can also find forums online where people share stories and offer tips for coping with adult incontinence.

