 One trusted player, or an outside party, should collect and count the money, or whatever you are wagering, and exchange it for poker chips for each player. If you are not playing for money, still the bank should divvy out an equal number of chips to each player. There are a couple ways to organize your game from here.


"No limit buy-in, winner takes all". In this version, each player buys into the game with a set amount—perhaps $5 for a friendly game, hundreds or more for serious wagering. There is no limit on how many of their chips a player can bet at once—you can go "all in"—but when a player runs out he or she is out of the game unless allowed to buy back in for another share of chips just as new players can buy-in during the first 2 or 3 days of the tournament with hundreds playing, coming and going. In these tournaments players are usually eliminated one by one by leaving it all on the table until the last remaining player wins the whole pot. But, in some large tournaments, the last 10, 20,30,... or 100 to go out get an increasing take-home, up to the ultimate winner's set pay amount (not the amount of the table pot).
"Limit, No Buy-in". In these games betting at each stage of the hand is not allowed to go all in, and also players can usually buy more chips at any time. This means that instead of playing the original chips until eliminated, players can wager until they are no longer willing to put up more money. Often, a player can "cash out" of the game to take their winnings or cut the losses at any time.
;
, Sponsor can deal a card to each player to see who has high card to get to deal first. Give this person a token, called "The Button," and a clean, standard deck of 52 playing cards (no joker, no wild card). The dealer shuffles the cards and always deals to his or her left, clockwise around the table to the button last. After each hand the button is passed to the left, and the job of dealing thus rotates around the table.
 Have every player prime the pot—a small amount of money for the table/pot before dealing any cards. Using an ante is optional, but it keeps the pot motivating for everyone to try and makes sure pot size doesn't depend only upon the money wagered.
 The player to the left of the dealer for each hand is the small blind and must first put in half the decided minimum bet. The next player to the left of the small blind is the big blind, who puts in the full minimum. These bets are called "blinds" because they are placed before any cards are seen/dealt.
 Hand them out one at a time, starting to the dealer's left and ending with the dealer/button. Players can look at their own cards and should keep them secure and facedown. These are the "hole/hold" or "pocket" cards, and each player hopes their pair combines best with the community cards. Players are responsible for keeping their hole cards secret. If a player's hole cards are accidentally exposed or are mucked/folded, that player forfeits claims to any money already paid into the pot for that round.
 If they had to put in the ante, then each player can "check/tap", until someone "raises the ante" which then must be at least called. The betting round begins in earnest with the player to the left of the big blind, called the "action/under the gun" position. Starting with the player to the left of the big blind, each player must call (meet) or raise (increase) the current stakes to stay in the hand. If a player chooses to bet or raise, the next player must meet ("call") or raise that new bet, and so on. Raises must often be in increments of the minimum (big blind) bet. If a player does not wish to call or raise the current bet, he may fold by pushing his hold cards to the dealer into the muck/discards, quitting the pot and sitting out the rest of the hand. Betting goes around the table clockwise until every player has either folded or called or re-raised. If one player makes a bet none of the remaining players are willing to at least match, the hand ends and that player wins the pot without a showdown. He may muck his hand or choose to show either one or both of his hole cards (showing one or both cards when at least one is pretty good is a way of establishing or helping your reputation, "see, I play when I have good cards, see this ?").


When betting circles the table and returns to the small and big blind players, these players subtract the money they've already put in from the current call. Thus if no player had bet more than the minimum, the big blind has the "option" to either raise or stay in the game at no additional cost by checking. The small blind owes 1/2 of the minimum plus the amount needed to buy up to the call. If the minimum were $100, then the small blinds needs to pay in $50 to pay-in the minimum to the pot.
 These are community cards that players still in the betting hope will combine favorably with their pocket cards.


Before dealing out the flop, or any subsequent cards, the dealer should discard, or "burn," the top card of the deck face down to lessen the ease of the dealer slipping a card on top for cheating purposes.
 The flop is followed by a second round of betting, this time without counting any players as the "blinds". Just bet normally starting with the player to the button's/dealer's left. Players are betting on the total of the two cards they have face down in front of them and the three community cards face up in front of the dealer.


If no one has yet bet, players may "check" to pass without betting for now. If no one bets the game moves on, but if a bet is made as action goes around the table, then those that checked must bet/call the new stakes to stay in the hand.
 The turn is the fourth community card dealt already turned face up by the dealer. Now players evaluate their chances based on their best five-card combination of their two secret/hidden hole cards with some or all these four community cards—with the knowledge that there is yet one more community card to see that might improve their hand. But, players without a significant draw/combination at this point should probably check/fold unless they hope to bluff their opponent(s) to fold/rather than to bet more into the pot. The bet amount may make it too expensive to "pay to see" the possible bluffer's hole cards. Then no one else knows whether it was a bluff or not, unless the winner chooses to show one card as a tease or downer, or to even show he or she "had real goods", if it was not purely a bluff.
 Since the river is the last card, players bet based on the best five-card hand in these seven total cards—this hand will not improve, so check/fold now it you don't believe it is going to win, unless you hope to bluff your opponents out of the pot. Again, if one player makes a bet the remaining players aren't willing to match, he or she wins without having to reveal his cards.
 Assuming there are at least two players who haven't folded by the end of the last round of betting, the remaining players flip over their two pocket cards, starting with the last player to bet and going clockwise. A player who tried to bluff, got called, and knows he is beat may simply muck his hand and forfeit the pot. Each player announces his five card hand. The player with the highest hand wins the pot (the total sum of all chips bet on this hand).
 Hold'em poker usually continues until most of the players have been knocked out or quit and either a single winner has all the chips or the remaining players choose to split the pot proportional to how much each has won.

