 You will need two video out connections on the back of your computer, one for each monitor. There are 4 main types of connections, listed from oldest to newest: VGA, DVI, HDMI and Display Port. For best results, use two of the same connectors for your dual monitor setup.


Monitors are typically connected to either the motherboard or the graphics card. Most graphics cards support two or more monitor connections, while most motherboards support one and sometimes two.
If you have a monitor with a VGA cable, and your port is DVI, you can purchase an adapter that will attach to your VGA connecter and allow you to hook it up to a DVI port.
The ability to set up dual monitors depends on the power of your graphics card and CPU. Running a second monitor puts more strain on your system. A more powerful graphics card means the display has more pixels, which makes a dual setup possible.;
, In most cases Windows will automatically detect the new monitor. If it doesn’t, restart the computer.


If you want to connect a second monitor and there is only one port on your motherboard or graphics card, you will need to install a new graphics card in order to attach the second monitor.
The monitor does not need to be the same manufacturer or size. For easiest viewing, use two monitors that are the same size so that your desktop stays uniform.
 In most cases, this will start automatically when a new monitor is plugged in. You will be given options to either mirror or extend your desktop.


Mirroring duplicates what is shown on your primary monitor. This is most useful for giving presentations, where your laptop may be connected to a projector or TV.
Extending makes the second monitor another screen for your desktop. This will allow you to drag windows and icons onto the second monitor, giving you more room to multitask.
You can also set the second monitor as your primary desktop monitor. This is useful if you attach a monitor to a laptop and want to use it instead of your laptop's display.
 If the monitor wizard does not automatically start, or you want to change the settings yourself, you can use the Display Settings tool.


Right-click the desktop, and select Properties or Personalize. Select Display Settings from the list of preferences.
You should see icons with numbers representing your attached monitors. If one is disabled, it will be grayed out.
Select the second monitor and choose to either extend your desktop or mirror your desktop.
Your options may be dependent on the graphics card that you have installed. You may need to make these changes from within your nVidia or ATI control panels. If you have these installed, they can be found in your Start menu.

