 It will be easier to negotiate if you call at least a month before you travel and if you want to book in the off-season. Hotels are not likely to negotiate on rates during peak seasons, but they may be willing to accommodate you during the off-season., Instead of going through a travel agent or a tour company, call the hotel directly. They will be more likely to negotiate with you one on one.When they pick up, you can say, “Hi, I am looking to book a room, and I have a few questions first.”
You can also say, "Hello, I will be traveling on the 25th and will need a room for only one person. I was wondering if we could discuss the rate."

, State that you have noticed they have a single occupancy supplement, and ask them if it can be waived. Even if they are not willing to waive it entirely, they might offer to reduce the rate.


You can say, “I see that you charge a single occupancy supplement. I want to know if that can be waived.”
If they say no, ask, “Can we negotiate the rate then? I would be willing to pay $140 a night.”

, If they are open to negotiation, you may want to advertise yourself as a valuable customer. Indicate that even though you are a single traveler, you will be a worthwhile guest at the hotel.


You might say, “Since it’s your off-season, I was wondering if you had any special deals.”
If you’re staying for longer than a few days, you could say, “I am staying for ten days.”
Indicate your interest in any other deals that the hotel is offering to show that you might spend money elsewhere. For example, you could say, “I am interested in your spa package as well.”

, Always be polite when negotiating. The hotel will be more likely to work with you in this case. Even if they say no, thank them for their time and help.If you managed to waive the supplement, you can say, “Thank you so much. I look forward to staying with you.”
If they said no, tell them, “Thank you for your help anyways. I will let you know when I’ve decided if I still want to book or not.”

