 It can be a protest sign, or something that says how much Twilight sucks. (e.g. vampires don't sparkle in the sunlight, they die.). This is the most popular protest they have about Meyer's books. But, go with your own, or write fan-fictions about how much it sucks.;
, Like, how they 'imprint' on Bella's baby in Breaking Dawn. And complain about how werewolves turn into wolves when there is a full moon, not when they become angry.
 Also, complain about how dull and boring Bella is. She is a one-faced character, and her life is boring. Also, confront the book by also complaining about how much of a whiny, bratty, picky, clingy, brat she is.


She mocks her own friends.
When she first meets Jacob, she uses his crush on her to coldly manipulate him for information.
Why does every boy like her on the first day of school?

, He forced Bella into having them get married, emotionally abuses her and makes her feel bad.


He breaks the car down so she can't see Jacob, or won't let her be around her friends.
Bella does not get a say in most decisions. She is nearly an adult, yet he and his family consult her no more often than one would consult a toddler.
When Edward leaves Bella, she is devastated for months. Why does nobody take her to a doctor for depression treatment, or question the health of the relationship?
If Edward fears he cannot control himself around Bella, why does he keep toying with her? How much did he really value her life?
This is the most dangerous aspect of the Twilight series: it tells women and girls that abusive relationships are acceptable and desirable.
 Meyer's books always have big words in a sentence, but the outcome never makes sense at all.
 Meyer's books always somewhat have terrible character development. Was she rushing to get the books done? Who knows. These books' characters never have great behavior.
 This book(s) are filled with plot holes. They never seem to make sense. This is yet another one of the biggest complaints about these books.
 Meyer makes all the women in her books weak. Even Leah.


Is it really okay for her husband to hurt her so badly it leaves a scar?
If it's true love, why didn't he control his temper more carefully?

,, Imprinting on a 3 year old, or even a newborn baby?

, It isn't true love; they love each other for their looks; or smell.
 Stephenie Meyer teaches how important having a boyfriend is.
