 Stay on the perimeter of the store and buy mainly fruits and vegetables. Over 1/2 of your plate should be filled with vegetables at each meal.


Aim to replace processed foods, such as bread, with complex carbohydrates from fruits and vegetables.
High-carb vegetables include squash, beans, sweet potatoes, green peas, carrots, beets and corn. These vegetables will fill you up and keep you full longer than bread or pasta.
Mix in low-carb vegetables, such as avocado, green beans, tomatoes, bell peppers, broccoli, mushrooms, spinach, lettuce, chard, asparagus and summer squash.
Get a variety of colors into your diet. Buy red, green, orange, brown, blue and any other color of fruit and vegetable you can get your hands on.
Colors indicate different nutrients and a balanced diet.;
, Breakfast jump starts the metabolism to ensure you are burning, rather than storing fat.


Try high-protein breakfasts, like Greek yogurt, oatmeal, quinoa, an egg white omelet or a large smoothie.
 You will want to reduce overall calories by 25 percent over the next 4 days, and reduce portion sizes on fatty foods is a great way to do that.


Replacing processed foods with produce will also reduce your calorie intake.
Don’t skip meals. You should eat 3 meals with 2 snacks per day. Try to limit snacks to a single serving of protein or fruits and vegetables.
If you are eating a 2,000-calorie diet, you will reduce to 1,500 calories. If you are eating a 2,500-calorie diet, you will reduce to 1,875 calories for 4 days.



Replace all full-fat dairy products with no-fat dairy products. While eating high-protein, no-fat Greek yogurt each day can help you lose weight faster, full fat cheeses and milk can pack on lbs. Choose non-dairy proteins for the next 4 days.
Eat salmon, tuna, mackerel, turkey, chicken, and beans or lean cuts of meat in 4 oz. sizes for lunch and dinner.
Eat 1 serving of almonds or 1 serving of Greek yogurt for a post-workout snack, starting on day 2.
 Drink only water, tea or drip coffee for the next 4 days.


Alcoholic beverages, sodas (including diet) and sugary coffees add hundreds of empty calories to your diet.
Drink 2 to 3 l of water each day. This will make you look thinner by flushing sodium and reducing water weight.
Drink 1 cup of coffee before you work out. Studies show it will help you workout harder, burning more calories.



Doctors agree that low-carb and yo-yo dieting leads to weight gain when diets return to normal. It is also hard on your body. The best way to lose weight is to change your eating habits to include produce, lean protein and whole grains.
Recent studies have shown that eating low-carb just 2 to 3 days a week can help you achieve weight loss goals. After your first 4 days, you can add whole grains in, but replace processed carbohydrates with low-carb vegetables every other day.

