 Carry a bottle of water with you and sip it throughout the day to keep your mouth moistened. Sports drinks or even milk can work as well, but avoid anything that contains sugar or caffeine.Try eating yogurt and cream because they create a protective layer over the mucosa that can fight dryness.
If your mouth is driest after waking up, run a humidifier while you sleep. This keeps the air moist. You could also drink a glass of water or tea before going to bed;
, Chewing and sucking both stimulate saliva production. Use sugarless gum or candy, since people with dry mouth are at high risk of developing cavities.


One clinical trial showed that green tea lozenges may be more effective than other hard lozenges.It's not certain which component of green tea causes this effect, so you may wish to try several brands.
If you don't have either of these at home, try sucking on a piece of hard, uncooked pasta.
 There are several types of foods that can cause pain or mouth infections if you have dry mouth. Reduce these to a minimum, and only eat them with plenty of water:Acidic foods such as tomatoes or citrus juice. These are especially bad, as they promote tooth decay as well as causing pain. Some people also have an increased saliva flow when they taste or see lemons.
Salty and spicy foods, which can cause pain.
Toast, crackers, and other dry foods should only be eaten when moistened with sauce or soup.
Sugar has a high risk of causing tooth decay. Minimize your intake, and don't brush teeth right away after eating sugary foods. The sugar carries on attacking your teeth for 40 mins-1 hour. If you brush your teeth immediately after eating any meal you are brushing away thin layers of the enamel, leading to highly sensitive teeth. This means when you drink freezing cold water or eat freezing cold food or if you eat sugary sweets, your teeth will hurt. Only brush teeth 40 mins to 1 hour after your meals.
 There are many types of artificial saliva, including over-the-counter and prescription products. The extra moisture can make you more comfortable, but it will not treat the underlying problem, which has a vast origin.


Ask a doctor first if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.Some people are allergic to the ingredients in some artificial saliva. Call an emergency medical number if you feel shortness of breath, swelling of your tongue, lips, or neck area, or itching., There are a variety of prescription-strength drugs that increase saliva production. If over the counter remedies don't work, make an appointment with your doctor. Your doctor will know which medicine is best for you based on your medical condition and other drugs you are taking.

