 How does he dress and act? How does he move around, what is his posture like? How does his voice sound like? Practice his movements and perfect them everyday. Also look in the books for additional information on this.;
, Don't wash your hair for long periods of time- that makes it greasy. Make sure it looks lanky, straight and not curly. If you don't want to do this you could always wear a wig.
 Spend most of your time indoors;somewhere cold, dark and gloomy is especially good. avoid the sun as much as possible and do not get a tan, no matter what. Snape is known for looking sickly and sallow.
 Snape has "cold, black eyes", so wear black contacts if you don't have dark eyes, and tilt your head forwards as you tense the muscles around your eyes and eyebrows. Do not smile anytime, whatsoever, try out a menacing smirk instead.
, Do not forget the "billowing black cloak"! This is essential and Snape's trademark. No matter what, do not wear colours. Snape is very moody, any other colour except black would make him too cheery and happy.
 If you can't get a real one, get a temporary tattoo or draw it on with ink.
 Practise this everyday before you try it out in public. Make comments that are brief, direct and sarcastic. Do not say anything too long, spontaneous or has positive connotations. It is best to remain silent most of the time. Keep your diction formal and practice a southern English accent with slight upper class overtones. Do not let it lapse into Cockney or Northern English (Beatles etc.), remain upper class and formal. Sound slightly posh, and don't forget to add slight pauses between your words when you want to get your point across. Don't forget to properly pronounce your T's.
 Even with superiors, dignity and formality are his way of facing criticism. When addressing inferiors including students, use salutation and last name. "Mr. Potter, are you quite finished?" "Miss Granger, your assistance was expressly forbidden." Take points from anyone not Slytherin for anything, including breathing offensively. It's all right to parody Snape! Judge non-HP characters at the party by what House they would be in if they were in Hogwarts. Magical creatures and monsters are your social inferiors. Evil Overlords are potential allies.
 Avoid anything sentimental.

