 When people are listening to one another intently, they tend to subconsciously imitate each other’s body language. The next time you’re engaged in a good conversation or discussion, cross your arms, put a hand under your chin, lean forward, take a drink from your glass, etc. If he tends to follow suit, it means he’s very focused on you.



Don’t waste this experiment on a ho-hum conversation; if his mind isn’t absorbed in what you’re both saying, it probably won’t work.;
, Platonic guy friends smile at each other. They also make plenty of eye contact. But if your guy makes prolonged eye contact while flashing you a big grin, he’s being far more intimate than most straight guys are around each other.
 Okay, so maybe he doesn’t stare deeply into your eyes, but if you catch him looking away suddenly when you turn to face him, it means he watches you when you’re not looking. Unless it turns out that there’s a huge glob of food on your cheek, it probably means he’s interested.
 Guys aren’t known for their ability (or desire) to untangle the threads of their guy friends’ personal lives. If your guy asks a lot of questions about your life, interests, hobbies, friends, and, most importantly, feelings, he isn’t content with chitchat and wants to get to know you on a deeper level. Or, you're his best friend.
 Straight guys may high-five, roughhouse, or even slap each other’s butts on the playing field, but most won’t feel comfortable with touches that aren’t rooted in play. If your guy lets his hand brush against yours, puts his hands on your shoulders while standing behind you, gives frequent hugs, or finds an excuse to pull something out of your hair, he’s probably trying to kick the intimacy up a notch – or even test how you react to his advances.
 Does he get sweaty palms, laugh awkwardly, or have trouble speaking when you’re around? Then he’s nervous about what you think of him – which means he’s trying to impress you.
 A group of guys will often bestow a nickname on a friend when he does something memorable, but if your guy comes up with a nickname for you on his own, especially if you haven’t done anything remarkable to earn it, he’s making a point of how special your relationship is.
 Everybody has a guy friend who’s a perpetual joker and loves the attention of a crowd, but if this guy makes a special effort to get you to laugh, he’s either trying to cheer you up (have you been blue lately?) or flirting heavily.
 Okay, so not all guys are showy about their feelings. Gay guys in particular might hold back until they know it’s safe. If he doesn’t seem to be willingly dropping you any hints, look for the opposite. Does he avoid eye contact? Speak to you quickly, briefly, or in monosyllables? Make a point of never touching you? Are you the only one he does this with? Then he either really dislikes you (if he can’t find reasons not to be there when you’re around, this likely isn’t the case) or is struggling with his feelings for you.

