 For this recipe of concentrated white phenyle, you will be making a solution that is 70% pine oil and 30% emulsifier. To make it, you will need: pine oil concentrate (between 22%-26%), an emulsifier such as Emulsifier OP-95 or Pine Oil Emulsifier, and a bottle to contain the finished product.Pine oil and emulsifiers can be purchased online.
Make sure your container is large enough to hold the volume you are making. If you’re making a large quantity, you will need a larger container.
The recipe here is to make 1 liter of concentrated white phenyle.;
, You can calculate the amount of pine oil necessary to make a 70% solution or simply make 1 liter and measure out 700 milliliters. If you wanted to make 2 liters, you would double the amount (1.4 liters pine oil).


The easiest way to measure volumes is to use a graduated cylinder or measuring cup.
 You want the final solution to be 30% emulsifier, so you will add 300 milliliters to a final volume of 1 liter. Again, if you wanted to make 2 liters, simply double the amount of emulsifier (600 milliliters).


Clean out the graduated cylinder or measuring cup before measuring out a different solution.
 In a container large enough to hold both volumes, combine the measured volumes of pine oil and emulsifier. Stir well until the solution clears.The emulsifier will mix with the pine oil and together they will create a clear solution that has brownish-yellow tint to it.


At first, the solution will appear milky in color. This is normal. Continue to stir and then let it sit until the solution clears.
Once the solution clears you will have concentrated white phenyl.
 Concentrated white phenyle is usually diluted 1:40, but can be made as strong as a 1:20 dilution.For dilution, you will need concentrated white phenyle, water, a large plastic container, and a spoon or something to stir with.


You can make your own concentrated white phenyle or simply purchase it online.
The plastic container needs to be large enough to hold the volume of diluted solution that you will be making. If you get a container with a lid, you can simply shake the vessel instead of having to stir.
 To dilute a solution 1:40, you will use 39 liters of water and 1 liter of the concentrated solution. If you don’t need to make 40 liters worth of diluted white phenyl you can always do less.
 Measure out one liter of the concentrated solution and add it to the 39 liters of water. Stir the solution well into it is thoroughly combined. The solution should appear milky while stirring.


When a stable emulsion is formed, the solution will appear milky white and have a fresh pine scent.This solution can now be used to clean and disinfect your home.
 White phenyle is non-toxic to both humans and pets, but it is recommended to dilute before use.Because of its disinfectant properties, white phenyle is a good solution to use for cleaning floors and bathroom/kitchen surfaces.


White phenyle is safe to use on a variety of surfaces including glass, porcelain, wood, concrete, plastic, ceramic, etcAvoid ingestion and contact with eyes. Wash hands after use.
 It is recommended to store white phenyle in a cool, dry place away from flammable items. White phenyle is flammable, so it’s important to keep it away from any source of heat.Keep the container tightly closed to prevent spills.
 Instructions for disposal include using up the solution as intended and disposing of small amounts down the drain while running water. The label on your version of white phenyle may have more specific instructions on harmful dilutions and proper disposal.If you’re unsure about the concentration of your white phenyle, call the manufacturer and ask them about it.

