 If you want to prevent bullying, you must first learn what kind of behaviors constitute bullying. Bullying can often be subtle. Whether you're a teacher or a student, strive to educate yourself on the various manifestations of bullying.Teasing is very common in classrooms. Students often tease friends in a way that's lighthearted and not meant to be taken seriously. However, when teasing becomes mean-spirited, hurtful, and constant, it crosses a line and becomes bullying.
Bullying can be physical. A student may hit, kick, or otherwise get physical with another student. It can also take the form of name calling. A student may mock another student, calling him or her names or calling attention to perceived shortcomings. Bullying can also occur on social media. Students may target one another via outlets like Twitter or Facebook, making aggressive posts about one another.
People often brush off bullying. You may feel it's something you need to "tough out." If you're a teacher, you may see bullying as something that simply happens as kids grow up. While light teasing and occasional goofing around is normal, if something is making you or a student feel uncomfortable or unsafe, it needs to be addressed. School should be an environment where everyone feels they can learn safely.
Power relations often play a role in bullying. A bully may be in a position of power over his or her victim. The bully may be older, for example, or have a position of authority in an after school club or sports team. This may mean the bullying gets inadvertently overlooked as the victim may be hesitant to report the issue., If you're a teacher or school official, make an effort to assess bullying in your school. Students may often be hesitant to come forward if they're being bullied, fearful of being labeled a "tattletale" or a "squealer." Try to find ways to allow students to report bullying anonymously.Surveys can be helpful to assess bullying in your classroom. Provide students with handouts asking them if they've ever been bullied or witnessed bullying. You can also pass out surveys to school officials, asking that they report any bullying they've seen in their classrooms or in places like hallways and bathrooms.
You can also encourage increased vigilance around your school. Ask that teachers and school officials watch for bullying and report it to the principal as it occurs.
 A good way to prevent bullying is to lead by example. Follow the golden rule and treat others how you would like to be treated. Try to behave in a kind, empathetic way to discourage bullying.If you're a teacher, always be patient with students. If you interact with other adults in your classroom, be kind to them as well. Be courteous to the bus driver on field trips. Always say "please" and "thank you" when a technician comes to fix something in your classroom. Show your students how to treat others with kindness or respect.
As a student, do not engage in bullying yourself. If another student is being made fun of or treated disrespectfully, show that student kindness. Disengage in gossip and other negative conversations. If you hear a student make a rude comment about someone else, point it out. Say something like, "How would you like it if someone said something like that about you?"

, As a teacher, you can teach about bullying. Go over what bullying is, how to recognize it, and why it's wrong. You can then encourage students to engage in activities that help reduce bullying.There are a variety of activities your students can do that teach them how to treat others well. For example, you can have them draft a bill of rights for an imaginary planet. You can have students take turns sharing stories of when they've been bullied, using a talking stick to take turns sharing.
You should have a strict code of conduct for your classroom. If you school provides a code of conduct, have your students read it as homework. Discuss it in class the next day.

