 Is it:


your home?






your family?
your food?;
, All of these are important of course, but what do you enjoy the most? If it is all of them, you'll need to consider how you can juggle between them, to stretch your dollar as far as possible.
 It may be learning; outdoors activities; eating out; movies or other ideas. Once you have thought about these things, the next step is to consider the ways that you can do these things without it costing too much, or perhaps even for free.
 See which ones appeal to you and come up with more of your own alternatives as well:


Learning activities: Visit the library. Libraries offer several resources that can be of great benefit for free or for a very low joining fee. You can borrow books (fiction, non-fiction, craft, art, hobbies, language, math, science etc.), music and reading CDs, DVDs and videos and even games and toys at some libraries. Save by not buying these things but borrowing them for the whole family; take the whole family to the library for regular visits, so that everyone can make their own choices. Libraries also offer a lot of activities such as "meet-the-author" sessions, book reading evenings and children's clubs. All of these are a great way to meet others and to have an enjoyable time.






Rent movies and stop cable TV subscriptions: Get rid of cable TV costs through regular movie borrowing or cheap rental from DVD stores. Initially there will be withdrawal symptoms but soon you'll discover that between the movies you can borrow for free or rent for low prices and the free-to-air choices, you'll have plenty to watch. All the extra time you gain to spend together as a family is an enormous bonus!
Increase your knowledge: You can learn a lot of new things from reading books (the ones you've borrowed from the library). A great way of learning is to base the learning on a famous novel. For instance, after reading a novel like Little House on the Prairie, your family could follow up the reading by borrowing books on farming during different periods of history. Learn together the different ways people have done things and how they are done today.
Take up craft or homesteading activities: Try craft books, "free fun" books, homesteading books (old-fashioned knowledge and tips), games books and science books (kids love the experiments). You could have a fair in your house - make up the games and have events like balloon dart-throwing.
 Cities offer a lot of free events - hit every free event imaginable with your family and enjoy them. These include parades, outdoor concerts, national day celebrations, marathons, charity runs, food promotional fairs, art displays, children's events and more. Keep an eye on the newspaper or internet for upcoming freebies to attend. Many museums and galleries have "free days" where you can visit for nothing at all. Don't forget to take a packed lunch or meal and plenty of water. Saves queueing as well as money!

, What other people no longer want, you might get for a song. make it a day's event to trawl around garage sales in your area. Even the haggling can be fun and you never know what you might find.
 Many cities, towns and villages have amazing buildings in their central district. Pack a great lunch (sandwiches, drinks etc) and catch the bus in to go "sight-seeing" as a tourist might. You can glimpse animals outside the zoo on the way, ride the elevator to the top of the biggest building to look out the windows and if you and the kids look presentable and well mannered and you ask the receptionist at the top office nicely to look out the window they'll probably say yes. Learn all that you can about the buildings from plaques on the walls, signs or a library book on the history of your area. If you become really knowledgeable, you might even end up telling tourists in the area more about what they're looking at!

, Visit the bulk buying area at the grocery store and save money on the things you need (don't buy things you don't use just because they're cheap - it's still a waste of money if you won't use it.)

, Save on restaurants or fast food places by letting the kids enjoy the fast food at home. When shopping, buy the "junk food" items and store them at home for special days. Another way to make junk food stretch is to only buy some of the junk food (like a burger each) and then cook the rest at home (store brand or homemade fries/soda pop, for instance). It'll taste a lot better and it goes a lot further. If you do want to eat out, buy the burgers and split the fries, take your own drinks and extra food items with you and eat it all in the park instead of inside the restaurant. (Take the picnic gear and it'll feel 100% better than staying in the restaurant!) Do the same with take-out - only order some of it (e.g., the pizza) and make the rest at home (e.g., the salad, the rice, the wings, the sauces etc.)

, Learn some enormously useful skills that 'll save you a lot in the long run. For instance, learn to sew and use your hot glue gun. Visit the dollar stores for bargains and also visit used (secondhand) stores and thrift stores, which have a lot of goodies that people don't want anymore but are still in terrific condition. Learn to dress up old stuff! Finding a bargain can in itself become a real addiction and as you learn more, you'll find more bargains.

