 Your body and mind are transforming themselves. You’re full of hormones that make your emotions intense and difficult to regulate. You’re constantly in social situations at school and at home that exacerbate those emotions. Taking control of your life also means recognizing what’s out of your control: this is an awkward, rocky time in your life. It’s important to accept that.The neurological and hormonal changes and developments in your body can make it difficult to control and cope with your emotions. You may feel overwhelmed, confused, and out of control. Know that this is normal, and there are things you can do to help you stay healthy and cope.
Understand that adolescence is something everyone goes through, so don’t be too critical of yourself.
Don’t be too concerned about judgment from your peers or from adults. At some point, you will look silly, say something awkward, trip and fall, and so on: it's part of the deal.
 Growing and developing take lots of energy, and getting through a packed schedule demands even more. It’s essential to eat a well-balanced diet to fuel your growth and productivity. Never skip any meals, and always make sure to eat breakfast to get your day going on a full tank.Half of what you eat should be fruits and veggies. Balance the rest of your diet out with whole grains, like whole grain bread, brown rice, or oatmeal, and lean proteins, like turkey, chicken, seafood, and eggs.
Talk to your doctor to learn more about your specific dietary needs.
There’s no “right” number of calories to eat, and no universal portion size for everyone. If you’re a very active boy, you’ll need to eat more than a less active girl. Get to know your body’s needs and take this time while you’re young to establish long-lasting healthy habits.Teens should not go on weight-loss diets or try to lose weight by eating less unless recommended by your doctor., Your teenage years are a tumultuous time, and there will be times when you feel stressed and overwhelmed. Learning healthy, productive ways to deal with your emotions will not only help you take control of your life as a teenager, it will also set you up for success as an adult.When you find yourself getting upset, try asking yourself the following questions: "What am I reacting to?"; "What about this is making me so upset?"; "Is this a fact or just an opinion?"; "Am I jumping to conclusions?"; "Am I putting more importance on this than it actually deserves?"; "Will this be important in six months?"
Communicate assertively. Many people wrongly think "assertive" means "aggressive." Being assertive means you clearly and respectfully express your wants and needs and that you listen and honor the opinions of others as well. Don't expect anyone to know what you want or need — if you need some space, simply ask for it. Say something like, "I'm feeling really stressed and overwhelmed right now. I need to just go to my room and be alone for a little while."
Learn to breathe deeply. Feeling overwhelmed may trigger your sympathetic nervous system, known as your fight or flight response. You can counteract this with diaphragmatic breathing, in which you breathe deeply into your belly. Place your hand on your stomach and feel your belly rise as you inhale for a count of five. Hold for a moment, then exhale for another five seconds. Do this until you begin to feel calm.
Journaling is a great way to work through your emotions and vent. Try free-writing three pages in a notebook every day. Don't worry about spelling, grammar, making sense, or even being fair. Just let loose with whatever is going through your mind at that moment (just be sure to keep this journal private).
Find ways to reduce your stress. Running, meditation, doing something creative, going for a bike ride, playing video games, shopping — whatever positive activity makes you feel better and less stressed, give yourself permission to enjoy it.
 Most teens do not get the recommended amount of sleep, which is at least nine to 10 hours a night. Remember, those changes your body is going through take a lot of energy, and you need to rest to recover. It’s okay for teens to sleep late on the weekends, so remind your parents that your oversleeping is not a sign of laziness, but something that’s necessary for your body.Try to go to bed and wake up at regular times. Develop a sleeping routine.
Don't stare at your phone or computer right before going to bed, and try to listen to relaxing music or read a book to create a good sleep environment.
 Being active every day can help you gain control over your changing body, keep a positive mindset, and helps you to simply have fun. It’s recommended that teens be active for at least 60 combined minutes a day, whether through physical education or gym class, participating in a sport, or riding a bike.Get active outside to help cut down on your “screen time,” or the time you spend on your phone, computer, or watching television.
Try to make exercise a social activity, or a way of having fun with friends.

