 Look for journals that remind you of the sea, like a beach-themed one or one that has a dolphin on it. It doesn't have to be entirely sea themed though. Add your own ideas for the front cover: If you want to decorate a journal yourself, just take some glue-on or stick-on gems, glitter, stickers, or any other mermaid/ocean type decorations for your journal, and put them on. You can even make a bookmark by attaching a fake/real seashell to a ribbon for an ocean-inspired look. Don't forget to add a title to your journal! You can write something like, "My Secret Life", "Life as a Mermaid", or "Skin to Scales".;
, Now that you have your mermaid journal, you are ready to start writing. Talk about how you became a mermaid. Did you wander into a secret magical pool? Did someone cast a spell on you? Or maybe you were born a mermaid? Talk about your family and friends. Do they know or do you keep it a secret from them? Are any of your friends or family mermaids/mermen too? Include some descriptions of your friends, family, and school life.
 Write about how long it takes you to transform into a mermaid after touching water, like in the Australian TV shows: H2O: Just Add Water, or Mako Mermaids. Or, if you can decide when you turn into a mermaid, write about it. Do you have special powers that come along with being a mermaid? You also may want to include sketches of your tail. Can you breathe underwater, or can you hold your breath for a long period of time? Can you talk to sea creatures? Is there a special animal that you can talk to, like a companion or guardian? Write about it on your "facts page". What kind of mermaid are you? Are you a lake mermaid, or an ocean mermaid? A ship-saver or wish-giver? There are many types of mermaids. Find out which one you are (or want to be) and write about it.
 What are some difficulties you experience? What are some advantages of being a mermaid? IS there anything that makes being a mermaid fun or bad? Write it down!

, It's your second home! Write about how the moon affects the waves (tidal pulls), about the creatures that live there, and about the adventures you've had in the ocean. If there's a special cave or place that means a lot to you in the ocean (or whatever body of water you live near) you can write about that too.
 Being a mermaid equals having an interesting life. Write about how someone almost found out you were a mermaid or any drama that's going on. Did any friends recently find out that they are mermaids/mermen too, or find out about your mermaid secret? Remember to write about some everyday things too (if you were a mermaid scared away, write about things you are bewildered by, like the cash register). Even mermaids have to go to the store to buy their mothers' bread sometimes!

, Study folklore and conduct your own "experiments". A good book to look into is "The Secret World of Mermaids" by Francine Rose. By researching mermaids, you can find out a lot about yourself as a mermaid. You may even find that there are a lot more mer-people that are living a double life, just like you! You could even have a special talent that you never knew about. Write your discoveries in your journal, so that you'll remember what you found. This information could come in handy with finding out what's true and what's a myth. Who knows, your journal could help some other mermaid who doubles as a human too someday.
 If your journal gets into the wrong hands, it could be a disaster: life as we know it could change drastically. It's better for mermaids to remain as mysterious as the ocean.

