 Before you begin, look at the manual for your machine and get a sense of where everything is. Not all espresso machines are alike, but they will all have the same basic parts:


The portafilter, where espresso grounds are placed for brewing.
A hot water knob or button, which turns on the hot water and sends it through the portafilter to make a shot.
An espresso or steam switch that designates whether water should go through the portafilter or the steam wand. On Italian machines, this may be marked with the words "caffe" and "vapore".
The steam wand, which is used to steam milk.
The steam knob, which controls the amount of steam released from the steam wand.
A grinder, which produces the ultra fine grounds that give espresso its uniquely strong flavor. Most experts agree that owning an espresso grinder is a necessity for home baristas, so if your machine doesn't come with a grinder you should consider buying one.;
, The consistency of the grounds can make or break a great espresso shot.


Purchase espresso beans at your grocery store or local caffe. Espresso beans are characterized by their dark roast.
To make grounds for one shot, measure about 7 gramsof espresso beans using a kitchen scale
Pour the beans into your espresso grinder and grind until they are consistently fine.

Test the grounds by pinching some between your thumb and forefinger. They should feel slightly granular, just short of a powder. .
Adjust your grinder as necessary until it produces grounds at this consistency.
 The perfect espresso shot depends on pressure and timing.


Fill the reservoir of your machine with water.
Turn the machine on. It may take some time for the water to heat
Pack the portafilter full of espresso grounds, then lightly tamp them down so the surface is flat.Try to pack the beans densely so there will be significant water pressure when brewing. This will result in a stronger shot.
Be careful not to pack beans so densely that water cannot get through, because this can cause back-up and overflow. Learning the best density for your machine will take some practice.


Place the portafilter in the machine, and put a standard espresso cup under the portafilter spout.
Set the water to "espresso" or "caffe" and turn it on to brew your espresso shot.
A single shot should create one to two ounces.
A good espresso shot will have "crema" on top, a light brown foam that looks similar to the head on a beer. The more crema, the higher the quality of your shot.

