 Newspaper companies will occasionally hire kids to manage a paper route. Go to your local newspaper office and see if they're hiring.


Oftentimes, you don't need a lot of experience to manage a paper route. For many, a paper route is a great entry level job that teaches responsibility and work ethic.A paper route is a lot of responsibility. It's your job to deliver the paper every day, except Sundays, which means working holidays. Many newspaper have a special morning paper for Saturdays, so you may have to wake up early on some weekends to deliver a Saturday paper., Ayesha Reviews is a web site managed by a 10 year-old named Ayesha. She writes book reviews for children's books and pays other tweens between 40 cents and $2.50 for reviews. If you're interested in reading and looking to make extra money, consider contacting the website.You could also start your own review website or blog. It will take some work to get it off the ground, but with some time and effort you could become successful, especially if you're writing about things you really care about.
 Many car washes hire younger workers for basic services, like cleaning cars and pumping gas. If you live in a smaller town that still has full service gas stations, stop by a local station and see if they're hiring., Many kids take advantage of the fact they have more computer skills than older adults. See if any adults need tutoring help for basic computer skills. You can ask your parents to see if your grandparents would be willing to pay you to teach them about the internet, e-mail, word processors, and other computer skills., If you're interested in making money, try making fun or informative YouTube videos online. If you get enough views or subscribers, YouTube will pay you for ad space. Try to find topics relevant to your interest or the interests of people your age. Make funny lists about movies or TV shows. Give fashion tips. Offer advice on relationships with friends, family members, and significant others.Keep in mind that it only pays about 2 cents for 6,000 views.

