 Use a gas grill instead. If you elect to use charcoal, put the coals on the gas grill and let the gas ignite the coals. Lighting fluid is made from gasoline and contains many of the same components.;
, The worst substances are all formed from fat dripping onto the hot coals, causing flareups which also compromise the taste.



Ground beef is one of the worst things to grill because it contains very high amounts of fat and must be grilled to well-done meaning that not only will there be a lot of flare-ups but the meat will be subject to the burning for a long time.
Trim all visible fat off of the meat to be grilled. Remove the skin off of poultry. Use all of this scrap in soup, don't throw it away.
Bones increase cooking time and should be removed if possible. Some pieces such as chicken drumsticks cannot have the bones removed.
Choose visually smooth cuts of meat without any nooks or crannies. Rough meat causes uneven cooking, and makes more fat drips.
 The easiest way to marinate it by opening a bottle of Italian dressing, pouring it in a plastic bag, and putting the meat inside for 8-24 hours in the fridge.
 This can either be done by pre-cooking the meat to a certain extent by pan-frying or microwaving, or simply serving the meat at a lower level of done-ness. Remember all pork, chicken, and ground meat of any kind must be cooked to well-done. If you must grill burgers, pan fry it until it is medium well, and transfer it in the last 5 minutes to the grill.
 This reduces the time of cooking, lets the meat retain more juices (meaning less drips), and makes it more flavorful.


Open the grill once every 3-4 minutes if possible to prevent over-smoking of the meat.
If a large flareup does happen, find the offending piece and finish cooking it the pan-fried way.
Take the food off the grill as soon as it is finished cooking and let it sit somewhere else for for the juices inside to settle.
Eat. Enjoy a piece that is cleaner and more flavorful than on another person's grill!

,