 Buy a tube of pure silicone from a home improvement store; it usually comes in a syringe-like container. Squeeze some of the silicone out into a disposable dish. You will need enough to cover whatever you wish to mold.You may also find construction silicone labeled as silicone caulk. Make sure that it is not the quick-set type.
If the silicone did not come with a syringe, you will need to get a caulking gun first. Insert the tube into the gun, cut the end off, then poke a hole in the tip., If you can't find any cornstarch, try cornflour or potato starch instead. Keep the box handy; you might need to use more.If you want a more colorful mold, add a few drops of acrylic paint. This will not make the mold any more or less effective., Keep kneading until the silicone and cornstarch come together and form a putty. It may be dry and crumbly at first, but keep kneading. If it is too sticky, add some more cornstarch into it.You may have some cornstarch leftover in your dish; this is fine. The silicone will have picked up all the cornstarch it needed.
 Start by rolling the silicone putty into a ball between your palms. Next, place it on a smooth surface, and gently press down on it to flatten it slightly. It still needs to be thicker than the item you wish to mold., Make sure that you are pressing it design-side-down into the mold, and that the back is visible. Use your fingers to push the edges of the mold against the item; you do not want to see any gaps., This will only take about 20 minutes or so. You are ready for the next step when the mold is rigid. It should still be flexible, but you should not be able to dent it or form it., Hold the silicone mold by the edges, and gently bend it back and away from your item. Flip the mold over to pop the item out. If you need to, use your fingers to pry the item out., You can push pieces of wet clay into them, then pull them out and let them dry. You can also pour resin into the mold, let the resin cure, then pop it out as well. De-mold any castings the same way you de-molded your initial object.