 Most online courses have an online management system where you can log in, post the syllabus for the course, and monitor discussion boards on specific lessons or topics relating to the course. You should encourage your students to use the online management system to communicate with each other about course content and to post any questions or comments they may have about the course.If you do not know how to use the online management system for the course, you should speak to the institution that is hosting the course and get trained in the system. Being technically savvy will only help you better communicate and connect with your students. It will also allow you to be organized and present a clear picture of the course to your students.
 Once you have set up the online management system for the course, you should be prepared to monitor all student postings. Keep track of all student postings and check the discussion board on a daily basis. This will ensure you know what students are posting and discussing among themselves.If you notice a student posting hurtful or discriminatory comments on the class discussion board, you should address the situation right away. Remove the comment and email the student privately, explaining how the comment was inappropriate and why you removed it from the discussion board. Do not accuse the student of anything. Instead, explain your reasoning behind the removal and ask the student to reflect on his decision to post the comment.
 To keep your online students engaged, you should create detailed lesson plans for each class that have interactive activities and activities that integrate the students’ interests.This could be an activity that uses video and audio examples that can accessed online, and then requiring students to respond to the example in a discussion post. This could also be an activity where the students work in groups online and collaborate on a group project or assignment. You could then require the groups to facilitate a class via video and to create a discussion prompt for the class that the other students can respond to on the discussion board.
You can also try to integrate the students’ interests in your lesson plans by referencing current pop culture figures or current news and events. This could be an assignment on celebrity culture for a communications class, with the requirement that students post video and audio examples on the course’s discussion board. Or, you could use a recent news event as an example in a social justice class and have students comment on the recent news even in relation to topics you are discussing in the course.
 Similar to a classroom environment, your students may have different learning styles. One student may be more of a visual learner and another student may be more of an auditory learner. Because you have the ability to post different types of media online, you can try to present the content of the course in several different ways to appeal to different learning styles.This could be integrating video and audio media into your lesson plans, as well as text documents. You may also encourage your students to set up video meetings with each other to discuss the course material, especially if the students prefer face to face discussion.
 Stay on top of the course by doing daily updates about upcoming deadlines or due dates on the course’s discussion board. You can also post a relevant quote or video to keep your students engaged and to get your students to interact with the course material.Doing daily posts will also show students that you are engaged in the course as an instructor and are willing to start a discussion that they can then respond to. You need to be the interactive force that keeps your student motivated.

