 This is the first step that every policy holder should do whenever there is a fire incident and damage caused by it. Once the officials have extinguished fire, contact the insurer, and report the incident.

Note: If there is involvement of the police, then make sure you provide a copy of the police FIR (fire incident report).;
, After the fire, you may have been forced to evacuate your home and seek a temporary place to reside. If you do not have an adequate amount of cash in hand to buy essential items such as toiletries, clothes, etc., then call the insurer to send a check for payment of a certain amount of sum insured, as an advance amount.

Note: Insurers do make advance payments, which are later adjusted from the total claim amount sanctioned.
 To assess the damage caused, and to get substantial amount as reimbursement, it is necessary to keep a track of all the losses incurred after the fire accident. While making a list of the losses, make sure that you:

Do not dispose of the burnt goods/items
Do not initiate repairs for damaged structures
Keep all the evidence of lost/damaged items.
 Insurers ask policy holders to file a claim as soon as an accident occurs. Call the fire insurance company or the insurance agent to assess the loss and initiate the claim process. The insurance company will ask you to submit a “Proof of Loss Claim” that will indicate the lost/damaged items against their respective values. The claim document will comprise the following key information:

Date of loss
Type of loss or damage
Location of damage
Any related injuries
Others involved
Condition of the home or office
Description of damaged contents
Whether or not temporary repairs are necessary
A police report.
 After filing a fire insurance claim, you will be able to obtain reimbursement for repair of damage caused by fire to home and household items. To get the appropriate reimbursement, it is necessary to get proper estimates of the repairs.

Note: Keep the original receipts and estimates of repair as insurance company demand original documents.

