 You can play the Whisper Challenge with at least one friend, but you can get more friends together. If you want the chance of having more absurd sentences, gather together more friends; if you want the sentences to go by quickly, aim for one or two friends.


You can have as many people as you want, but you may want to stick with a small group of people, since the more people you have, the longer it takes to pass around the sentence.;
, There are many reasons you could record a Whisper Challenge - you could post it online to get views, or you could just keep it as a keepsake to look back at and laugh at, for example. Just keep in mind that if you're recording your Whisper Challenge, you should record it with something that has full battery life, so that you don't realize that the recording stopped halfway through because the camera died!

, Once you've found your friends and decided whether or not to record the Challenge, find or think of phrases that you want to use for the Challenge. Anyone else partaking in the Challenge should do the same (but make sure nobody tells anyone what phrases they're coming up with!). There are many phrases you can use in the Whisper Challenge, so take some time and see what you can come up with.


Idioms and figures of speech are fairly common and can become quite funny.
Nonsensical sentences can spurn some great lines.
You can also look at messages that YouTubers have received. Many popular YouTubers who have done the Whisper Challenge have used social media (such as Twitter) to ask their followers for phrases for the Challenge. Or, if you have a substantial social media following, ask your followers on your own!

, If you choose to record the Challenge, get a device that's has good battery life and start recording. You can use something simple like a phone, but keep in mind that most video cameras record in better quality than a phone.
 The main part of the Whisper Challenge that differentiates it from Telephone is that instead of whispering the phrase into someone's ear, the players put on headphones and turn up their music. Get everyone to put on their headphones and turn on the music - and turn it up loud enough so that it's hard to hear what other people are saying.


The person who is saying the phrase can take off their headphones while they're saying the phrase, but everyone else should have their headphones on.
Noise-canceling headphones are best for this challenge, but they're not a necessity. You'll have to turn the music up louder if you don't have them, though.
 Once everyone has their music playing, one person who was previously picked out will whisper a phrase to the person next to them, and they have to lip-read. It then gets passed along the line if there are any other people playing the game. Have one person turn to the person next to them and whisper a phrase to them.


You may want to set a limit on how many times a person can ask you to repeat the phrase, to make sure that you don't get stuck on the same people for too long.
 If there are more than just you and one other person in the game, then have the "interpreter" whisper the phrase they heard to the person next to them. Continue doing this until you've gotten to the last person in the group.
 Once you've reached the last person in the group, have everyone take off their headphones, and have the last person say what they heard out loud. Chances are, it'll be funny and nonsensical, especially if the sentence went through a long line of people.


The person who originally said the sentence can also repeat what the original sentence was, to display how garbled the sentence became.
 Once the sentence has been said, switch to the next person and have them say their phrase. Continue to play the game like this, and you've got the Whisper Challenge down!

