 If you are traveling to India as a tourist and plan to stay for only 30 days or less, then you could apply for an e-Tourist visa.


Only people from certain countries can apply. For a full list of countries, visit the Indian government’s website at https://indianvisaonline.gov.in/visa/tvoa.html.
 You must apply at least four days in advance of your arrival in India with a 30 day window. For example, if you apply on March 1, then you can select as your arrival date March 5 to April 4.
 You will need to upload of photograph of yourself for your application for an e-Tourist visa. The photographs must meet the following specifications:the photo must be in JPEG format
the photograph must be between 10 KB and 1 MB in size
the height and width must be equal
the photograph should be front view of your full face with your eyes open
Center your head within the frame
make sure the photograph captures your entire face, from the bottom of your chin up to the top of your hair
the photograph should have a white background without borders
make sure that no shadows cover the face or background

, Scan the page of your passport that contains your personal identification information. You must upload a scanned copy in PDF format.The minimum size of the file is 10KB and the maximum is 300 KB.
For help on scanning, see Scan Documents.
 You can apply for your e-Tourist visa by visiting https://indianvisaonline.gov.in/visa/info1.jsp and completing the online application. The application will request similar information as a request for a regular visa:


your passport type
your nationality
your port of arrival
your date of birth
your email address
your name
your sex
your country of birth
your education level and religion
information about your passport (number, date and place of issue, as well as the dates it is valid)

, Your fee will depend on the country you are applying from. It can range from $0 to a maximum of $60.The fee is not refundable.
 If you are confused or need help, you can email indiatvoa@gov.in with questions. You can also call +91-11-24300666 with questions.