 Prenatal check ups are very important to assess fetal well being. According to the ACOG, the frequency for prenatal check up are as follows:


8-10 weeks of pregnancy (or earlier if the patient is at risk for ectopic pregnancy)
Every 4 weeks for first 28 weeks.
Every 2 – 3 weeks until 36 weeks gestation.
Every week after 36 weeks gestation.;
, Education is a vital component in prenatal care especially for women who are pregnant for the first time. Classes will teach you about the normal physiologic changes that are happening in you body as well as when will be the time to call your doctor. It also answers questions that may bother you like breastfeeding and intercourse during pregnancy.
 The first few weeks of pregnancy is the period where in organs begin to develop. Your baby will need all the nutrients so it can aid in better organ formation.


Eat leafy vegetables and milk because they are a good source of calcium for bone formation.
Meat and poultry are an excellent source of B vitamins and Iron that are essential in cell formation.
 Folic acid is important for the central nervous system development. It is recommended to drink 0.4 mg per day from the 4th to the 12th week of gestation because this is the period where the brain starts to develop.


Iron is also recommended for pregnant women. The baby shares blood from the mother therefore the pregnant woman may be prone to having anemia. Iron is given at 30 mg/day because average source of iron for meat are insufficient to meet the requirements of pregnancy.
 According to the ACOG thorough clinical evaluation of each pregnant woman should be conducted before recommending an exercise program. In the absence of contraindications, pregnant women should be encouraged to engage in regular, moderate intensity physical activity.


Consult your doctor for the appropriate exercises that is fit on your age of gestation.
 Signs and symptoms include vaginal bleeding, difficulty in breathing, dizziness, headache, chest pain, and calf swelling.

