 The most basic four ball jugging move is the Fountain. To start, you need four balls. When you throw them in the air, you need to throw them slightly to the outside. The side you throw the ball to will vary depending on the hand that the ball is in. If the ball is in the left hand, you will throw the ball toward the left side. If you have the ball in your right hand, you will throw it to the right.


This move give momentum to the balls and also creates space for the other balls to fly in the air.;
, Now that you know the way to throw the balls, you need to start practicing with each hand. Hold two balls with your right hand. Moving your hand in a clockwise circle, throw one ball in the air. After you let one ball go, move your hand in the clockwise circle with the other ball still in your hand. As you round the bottom curve of the circle, let go of the second ball. Then, as you crest the top of the circle, catch the first ball. Continue to make the circle with the first ball now in your hand and the second in the air. Continue the pattern, alternating balls and keeping the momentum going.


Once you've grown comfortable with your right hand, try your left. For your left hand, you complete the same steps, but move your hand in a counterclockwise direction.If you are left handed, you might want to start with the left instead. Your dominant hand will likely be more coordinated than your non-dominant hand.
 Once you have mastered each hand, it is time to put the two motions together in a synchronous Fountain. Start with two balls in each hand. Start moving your hand in the circular motions you practiced. When your hands reach the center, let go of one of each of the balls and continue to move your hands around the circle. When you are cresting the bottom of the circle, let go of each of the second balls and then catch the first balls as you round the circles. Keep going as long as you can.


To stop, just catch two balls in each hand.
If you have a hard time doing this for long periods of time, try doing two or four circles before stopping. Then work up to six, eight, and ten. Before long, you'll be able to juggle without interruption.
The basic four-ball pattern is really each hand handling two balls. A ball never goes from one hand to the other., In addition to the synchronous Fountain, you can also try an asynchronous Fountain. Instead of releasing the balls at the same time, move them in opposite positions at the same time. When one of your hands is releasing the ball, the other should be catching a ball. In other words, when the left hand moves up to throw a ball, the right hand is going down after just catching a ball.


Interleaving the hand timing makes the pattern look more like a real fountain. This also allows you to throw the balls closer together in the center. This sells the cascade illusion more effectively.