 People often make the mistake of purchasing more furniture than fits in their space, especially if they love the look on the showroom floor. However, having too much furniture crammed into your dining room will make it hard to enjoy the space, and it will look cluttered.Take a measurement of the walls.
Write down the measurements or type them into your phone.
Take photos of the space to reference while you shop.
 Visit your local furniture stores to pick out your pieces. Ask a friend or the person you live with to come along and provide a second opinion. If you pulled out inspiration photos, bring those as well. This will help you know what pieces you’re interested in buying for your space.

Look for sturdy pieces if you use your furniture a lot. For example, if you use your dining table for homework sessions and work as well as for eating all of your meals, then invest in hardy pieces.You can also find items at flea markets, second hand stores, department stores, or on resale websites.
Popular dining room pieces include a dining table and chairs, a hutch, a china cabinet, and a buffet.
 If you don’t have a lot of space in your dining room, then buy fewer pieces that can do more work. For example, look for a hutch that has more built in cabinet space, and choose a dining table that has collapsible or removable table leaves.

A round table works better in a smaller space because it takes up less room., If you have a big dining room, look for larger items like a statement table, a huge painting, or a large mirror. Look for a dining set that comes with additional pieces, such as a hutch or cabinet that matches your dining room table., If you’ve chosen big or expensive pieces, such as a rug, a painting, or a nice dining set, build the rest of the room around those pieces. For example, choose items that bring out the colors in the investment piece, and choose items that are smaller so that they don’t compete with your big piece.Make the investment piece your focal point.
Choose smaller accents that complement the investment piece without competing with it.

