 Do your homework first before watching TV or playing on the computer. When you start your homework early you have time to ask for help from your parents or siblings. Waiting until it's late before starting homework can cause you stress, especially if you discover that there's a lot of work to do or if there is no one awake to help you out if you get stuck. Also, keep in mind that most teachers have heard all the excuses and usually won't believe your dog ate your homework.;
, It's a good idea to get into the habit of reviewing what you learned each day and what you still are not completely sure about. Practicing spelling words or math problems on your own will help to make you a classroom expert.
 When you let things distract your attention - like passing notes or talking at the same time as the teacher - you will miss out on important information. What if you missed the teacher telling the class about a quiz tomorrow?

, Sometimes people think that asking questions makes them look silly or dumb, when actually it's NOT asking questions that really makes you dumb. If you still don't understand, make time to meet with your teacher later for some one-on-one help. Teachers are glad to take extra time for students who want to learn.
 Fourth graders usually have classroom teaching assistants, school libraries (and librarians), homeroom parents and even older elementary classroom volunteers who can all give you some help when you need it. If you have access to the internet, you can learn about almost any topic imaginable. Tutors are available for helping you learn and master a subject, or even to help you learn more about a topic that interests you.
 Reading skills will help you, not only in 4th grade, but for your entire school career and your life beyond that. Strong reading skills are important, even if you plan to be a professional athlete when you grow up. Athletes have to read and understand contracts so that they know what is required of them in order to be paid or to earn a performance bonus. Just think, improving your reading skills could help you make money, even if your job appears to only involve keeping the other team away from the ball.
 TV is a passive activity which means that your brain doesn't have to work very much. Too much TV time and your brain might become lazy. Brain "exercises" require you to be actively involved and that can be hard to do while watching TV. Most really smart people don't spend much time in front of the television.
 Ask questions. Look for other sources of information. Think about what you know, what you want or need to know and how and where you can find that information. You might be surprised at the things other people can help you with if you are willing to ask them for help.
 You get to share your knowledge, feel good about helping someone else, and maybe even learn something you didn't already know. That's what keeps teachers coming back every year!

