 Wrap a hair tie around your wrist and pull your hair up into a high ponytail. Hold your hair with the hand that has the hair tie on it. Use your other hand to slip the hair tie off and wrap it 2 to 3 times around your ponytail.









Use a brush or comb to get it as smooth as possible.
Use a hair tie that matches your hair color.;
, This is not completely necessary for the style, but it could help hide the elastic and give you a fancier look. Take a thin section of hair from the ponytail and wrap it around the base to hide the elastic. Secure the strand with a bobby pin.








Use a bobby pin that closely matches your hair color.
 Take the section from the top-left corner of your ponytail, right where the elastic is. The section should be no thicker than your finger. It will become thicker as you add hair to it.









You can grab the section from the right side instead if you prefer. You will need to reverse the sides for each step in this method, however.
 Divide the section into three thinner sections. Cross the right section over the middle one. Cross the left section over the new middle section.Stop.
 Grab a thin strand of hair from the right side of your ponytail, right under the elastic. Bring it across the front of the ponytail, and add it to the right strand.Your right strand should now be thicker.









Keep the strand loose. You don't want it to pull too tightly against the ponytail, or your lace will be crooked.
 Make sure that you are crossing the entire right section—with the extra strand added to it. Do not let any hairs escape.








This technique is similar to French braiding.
 Cross the left section over the middle one. Add some more hair to the right section, and cross it over the middle section. You can braid as far down as you'd like, or until you run out of hair.








Consider braiding as normal for the last couple of inches.Keep the tension loose as you add the strands to the braid. This will help keep the lacing straight. If you don't, the laced braid will end up crooked., Use a clear hair tie or one that matches your hair color. Do not use a regular-sized hair tie, as this will create too much bulk. Only wrap the hair tie around the braid, and not the rest of the ponytail.









If you braided your hair all the way down, secure the hair tie around the braid and the ponytail.If you braided your hair only partway, secure the hair tie around just the braid itself., This is not completely needed, but it will give your laced ponytail a nicer finish. Choose a bobby pin that matches your hair color, and slide it through the top of the braid, right into the ponytail.