 Tap the app’s icon, which can be found on your home home screen or in the app drawer, to open it.


The Play Store icon looks like a white bag with colored triangle in the middle of it.;
, Tap the search bar and enter “Dragon Mobile Assistant.” Tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.
 Select the Dragon Mobile Assistant from the search results and tap “Install.”


When prompted, tap “Accept” to begin downloading and installing it onto your smartphone.
The app is free to download.
 When the Dragon Mobile Assistant is opened for the first time, a message appears showing you the two different ways to begin:



Say “Hello Dragon.” The application will then ask you, “Just tell me what I can help you with.” You can go ahead and voice the task you want Dragon to do.

Tap on the speaker. The speaker (mic) icon appears at lower middle section of the screen. You can speak any instruction you want you Dragon Assistant to do for you.
 Go to Settings (gear icon) then select “Wake-Up Phrase.” This option allows Dragon to be activated and start doing its task whenever you mention the wake-up phrase you set.
 By default “Hello Dragon” is the wake-up phrase. You should enter a wake-up phrase, which should be easy to pronounce and at least 3 syllables long.
 The screen will display “Listening to .” Speak the new wake-up phrase to set it. You must speak in a noise-free environment so that the assistant will clearly recognize and save the phrase.
 You need to swipe your fingers rightward to view the shortcut menu.
 If you want to continue using the wake-up phrase shown, tap “OK” else tap on the keypad and enter a different wake-up phrase (Part 1).


Tap on “OK” to accept the changes. This will activate Attentive mode. Now your Dragon Mobile Assistant is ready for a command.
 To test Attentive mode, lock your device by tapping on the Power button once. After your device is locked, say, “, what is the weather today?”


You will see Dragon responding to your question within 3–5 seconds.
,, It includes reading out the notifications, text message alerts, detailed prompts, etc. You need to tap on “Enable” to activate these tasks.


The Auto-Detect Driver mode will start activating within 10–15 minutes of driving.
 You need to swipe your fingers rightward from the left end of your mobile screen.
 This permits the app to read out your notifications aloud whenever you receive them.
 All are selected by default, except Facebook. If you want Dragon to read out Facebook notifications, select it.
 For some devices, “Applications” need to be accessed. It is located either in the middle of home screen or on the right section of your mobile.
 The settings icon looks like a gear.
 This is the first option in the Settings menu.
 This option has settings related to Dragon’s voice.
 Dragon offers 3 voices—Jessica, Victoria, and Jonathan.


Jessica and Victoria are female voices, whereas the third one is a male voice. Jessica has a formal British accent.

