 Ideally you should continue with this food until your pup reaches adulthood, since most breeders put a lot of thought into the type of food they recommend for puppies.


The rapid growth rate of Newfoundland requires a food with up to 24 percent protein and 15 percent fat to support their growth. Feed Newfoundlands, both puppies and adults, at least twice per day.;
, Even one accident by a 25-pound puppy can leave a big mess. Get a wire crate that will be large enough for your pup when he’s an adult, and block off part of it so that he is confined to a space just large enough for his comfort. It’s natural for him to want to keep his crate clean; so he'll try to hold his bowels. Let him out often, and always after he eats.
 Newfies are naturally sweet dogs, but unusual situations or strange animals and people can frighten or upset them. A scared or aggressive Newfoundland is a handful -- so get him used to the world outside the back yard as early as possible.


If your dog is well socialized he’s unlikely to resist when it’s time to take a trip to the vet, to interact with other animals or to meet strangers. By going out and experiencing many different people and situations, your Newfoundland puppy will learn to accept and tolerate a variety of animals, people and situations.
 Do wait until your vet gives the okay for your pup to socialize so he’s not at risk for diseases. Newfies are generally intelligent, happy and willing workers, and you can expect that your puppy will enjoy his training sessions with you. Enroll him in a kindergarten puppy class to provide both socialization and a structured framework for teaching him good manners. Your puppy will learn essential obedience commands, such as “come,” “sit” and “stay.”

, Regular, thorough grooming is essential to prevent matting and keep their coats in good condition. You will need to have the time to devote to grooming. Bathing a Newfoundland is a major undertaking too and you are likely to have to do that more often than you think, given the Newfoundland's love of getting wet and muddy. A 'blaster' is an essential piece of equipment.
 If you find slobber or drool disgusting and cannot accept or handle it, a Newfoundland is probably not the breed for you. Most people are unprepared for how just how much Newfoundlands slobber and drool, especially after eating or drinking. When they shake their heads, you will literally be toweling saliva and slime off your clothes, furniture, and walls. Keeping a 'slobber cloth' close at hand is probably going to have to become second nature.
 Newfoundlands are one of the most devoted of dog breeds, it's one of the great attractions of Newfies. They want and need to be with you and because of that they are not a suitable breed to be left alone for any length of time. If you work all day and your dog is going to be left alone, a Newfoundland is not the breed for you.

