 Some guitars do not have the capability to mount a whammy bar. Take a look at the bridge of your guitar. The bridge is near the bottom of the body and is where the strings’ ends are held. You should see a small hole, if your guitar is able to hold a whammy bar.Some guitars come with a permanent whammy bar that cannot be removed.;
, If you have a Fender Telecaster or Stratocaster, you’ll be better off letting the music store fit the whammy bar. Many whammy bars look the same, but come in different sizes and fits. Les Paul guitars require you install a tailpiece onto the bridge and body to hold the whammy bar.


The two main types of whammy bars are the detachable ones (Floyd Rose and Fender style) and whammy bars that require a tailpiece (Bigsby).All guitars are different and the method for installing a tailpiece could be different. For example, a Les Paul might look the same as a Gretsch model, but installing a whammy bar is different for the two.
 Make sure you have your whammy bar set up correctly. A whammy bar that is not set up correctly can lead to issues with your bridge. Some whammy bars don’t require to be screwed on to the bridge. For these bars, you simply insert them into the slot and you're ready to rock.


If you have a whammy bar that screws in, make it tight, but not too tight. Some guitarists like their whammy bars looser than others.For tailpiece whammy bars, you’ll need to make sure your bridge and tailpiece are firm. Be careful not to misplace any screws from your bridge, if you install it on your own.
Talk to someone at the music shop before you install a tailpiece. Be sure you purchase the right type of system for your guitar. Music shops won't charge too much for a job like this, and you're guaranteed quality work.
 Study how the whammy bar works by listening to a range of music. This will help you understand what you can do yourself with the whammy bar. You can use whammy in the minimal surf guitar style or the shredding chaos of heavy metal.


There are other types of music that use whammy bars for sound textures and tonal depth like Sonic Youth and My Bloody Valentine.