 Your first questions after going through a miscarriage may involve around when it is safe to try to conceive again. The correct timing usually depends on two different factors: your physical health and your emotional wellbeing.Physically, it is possible to get pregnant again as soon as menstruation recommences and you start to ovulate. This generally occurs four to six weeks following a miscarriage.
You can begin trying again after one menstrual cycle has passed. However, you can wait longer to try again if you want to.
It may actually be better to conceive sooner than later after a miscarriage. Research suggests that women who get pregnant within 6 months of a miscarriage of their first pregnancy are more likely to carry to term versus those who wait two years or more.;
, Miscarriage can be devastating emotionally both for you and your partner. Thus, it is important you allow yourself to grieve and do not rush into a new pregnancy too soon.


Even if you are physically ready for another pregnancy, it might take you longer to prepare emotionally. Thus, you should assess your emotional wellbeing before you try to get pregnant again to ensure you are ready both physically and emotionally.
Talk with your partner and sort through your feelings together. Do not shut each other out but instead understand the emotional toll that the miscarriage had for each of you.
If you are having difficulty dealing with the miscarriage, consider hiring a therapist. They can help you to work through any feelings of sadness, anger or guilt that you are feeling and enable you to accept the loss.
 Miscarriage can occur for a variety of reasons, even if you are perfectly healthy. Becoming aware of possible causes of miscarriage can help you find direction in your family planning. There are some factors that cause miscarriage that are out of your control:Genetic abnormalities within the fetus can cause the pregnancy to terminate prematurely, which is the most common cause of miscarriages.
Uterine abnormalities may trigger a miscarriage if the uterus cannot support the pregnancy; uterine polyps or scar tissue are examples.
Your chance of suffering from a miscarriage increases as you advance in age or if you have a chronic illness.
However, there are some factors that increase the risk of miscarriage that you can change including stopping smoking, avoiding alcohol, maintaining a normal weight, and reducing stress. Consuming lots of caffeine may also increase your risk of miscarriage, but a moderate amount of caffeine will not.Try to keep your caffeine intake below 200mg per day, which is about the same as a 12 ounce cup of coffee.
In addition, certain infections (toxoplasmosis, rubella, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, and poliomyelitis) may cause miscarriage and thus you should consult your doctor how to avoid these.
 If you have had multiple miscarriages, then you may need to have some tests run to check for problems. Before trying to get pregnant again, you can undergo diagnostic tests to help you navigate any underlying fertility issues.A blood test allows your doctors to determine hormone levels in your bloodstream and any components of your immune system that may affect your pregnancy.Chromosomal tests from both you and your partner allow your doctor to discern if you are carriers for chromosomal abnormalities that might lead to a miscarriage.An ultrasound allows your doctor to create an image of the internal organs in your pelvis, allowing them to identify if there are abnormalities with your uterus.A hysteroscopy is another imaging test during which your doctor inserts a camera into your birth canal in order to see your uterine walls and fallopian tubes., Genetic carrier testing provides important insights about the genetic material you pass on to a possible child. Meeting with a genetic counselor allows you to find out if you are a carrier for a genetic disease.


Some genetic disorders contribute to increased risk of miscarriage if there is a chromosomal abnormality in the fetus., You can increase your body’s ability to support a healthy pregnancy by preparing it ahead of time. Ensuring you get all the necessary vitamins and minerals is one of the first steps you can take.


Pregnancy increases the demands on your body and thus, preparing beforehand can help your body be ready for the pregnancy.One of the vitamins that is essential for a healthy pregnancy is folic acid. Because deficiency in folic acid can increase the risk of neural tube defects, it is vital you eat foods high in folic acid (such as cereal, spinach, asparagus, broccoli, avocado, mango and oranges) or start taking pre-natal vitamins even before you try to conceive.Your body also needs more iron during pregnancy. Iron is a component of a protein called hemoglobin, which is necessary for carrying oxygen. Thus, taking iron supplementation or eating iron-rich foods (such as spinach, broccoli, wheat germ, lean red meat, poultry and chicken liver) before conception can help support conception and the early phases of pregnancy.Calcium is another important mineral during pregnancy. Calcium is the main element that helps in the formation of the baby's bones and teeth. Calcium is present in dairy products, seafood, kale, collard greens, broccoli, tofu and green snap beans., Because weight gain and loss can affect your body’s ability to maintain a pregnancy, it is important to keep it in check. Make sure that you are maintaining a healthy weight for your height and body type.If you are overweight, try to lose some weight before you get pregnant. This is a good place to analyze your diet and start eating healthier for you (and your baby).
Start a regular exercise program that you can also continue during your pregnancy. Try walking, jogging or swimming, which are often also safe to do during pregnancy.
If you are underweight, you may want to analyze your diet and ensure you are getting enough nutrients and calories to support you. During pregnancy, it is even more vital to get enough calories and nutrients to support your growing baby.
 Caffeinated beverages should be generally avoided while trying to get pregnant. Elevated levels of caffeine have been linked to miscarriage.March of Dimes recommends that you should limit your caffeine intake to the equivalent of one cup of coffee (less than 200 mg of caffeine) while trying to conceive.Also check the caffeine content of other beverages (such as teas and sodas) and even medications.
 Stress can negatively affect your health and pregnancy by affecting your body, appetite, energy levels, and sleeping patterns. Take steps to reduce stress and learn to manage your stress levels before and during pregnancy.Heightened stress during early pregnancy can raise your blood pressure and have negative effects on the baby.Because stress affects your amount of energy and your appetite, it can adversely affect your weight when you are trying to get pregnant.
Reduce stress by engaging in meditation, breathing exercises, and yoga


, Alcohol, cigarettes, and illegal drugs are not only harmful to your health but also to the health of your baby. Using harmful substances can decrease your chances of conceiving, increase the risk of miscarriage, and impact your ability to have a healthy pregnancy.Alcohol, the nicotine in cigarettes and the content of certain drugs can cause harmful and irreversible effects to the growing fetus. Thus, it is a good idea to stop using these products even before you become pregnant.
 Prenatal checkups allow your doctor to assess your health and follow your pregnancy to ensure your baby is developing normally and you are not suffering from any complications.Pre-natal checkups are often scheduled once a month for the first two trimesters. As you get closer to your due date, your doctor may want to increase the frequency of the checkups.The purpose of pre-natal checkups is to make sure you and your baby are healthy and the pregnancy is moving along as it should. This includes ensuring you are doing well both physically and mentally.
If you have any concerns about your pregnancy, pre-natal checkups are the place to bring these to your doctors attention.
Your doctor can also give you valuable advice about your diet, exercise routine, and dietary supplements in order to maintain a healthy pregnancy.
 Maintaining a healthy weight helps support a healthy pregnancy for both you and your baby. If you have a healthy weight before pregnancy, a normal weight gain during pregnancy is usually around 25 to 35 pounds total.However, if you are overweight before pregnancy, you should only gain about 15 to 25 pounds. If you are obese, your weight gain should be even less (around 11 to 20 pounds).
If you are underweight before pregnancy, you should be able to safely gain anywhere between 28 and 40 pounds during pregnancy.
The general guidance recommends you gain 2-4 pounds a week during the first trimester and 1 pound a week during the rest of your pregnancy.
Gaining too much weight can increase your risk of complications such as gestational diabetes and premature birth.
 Your developing baby relies on you for all nutrients and calories and thus, it is essential you eat a balanced diet that helps support both you and your baby.Your nutritional needs increase when you become pregnant, meaning that you need more protein and vitamins in order to accommodate your body’s changes and to meet your baby’s developmental needs.
However, this does not mean you can eat anything you want. In fact, you should only get around 300 extra calories per day compared with your normal calorie need.You also should not gain your extra calories from eating unhealthy foods that are high in saturated fats and simple sugars.
Build your diet around lean protein (chicken, turkey, low-fat dairy), leafy green vegetables (kale, spinach), fresh fruits, and whole grains (quinoa, brown rice, whole wheat pasta and bread).
Monitor your intake of fish. While fish contain many good nutrients, they also contain mercury, which can be harmful to your baby.You should also avoid raw seafood (so say no to raw sushi and opt for cooked rolls), lunch meats and other uncooked foods that can cause a food poisoning.
 Regular exercise is not only good for maintaining proper weight gain, but it also helps you to prepare for the delivery. Labor and giving birth has a great toll on your body. Having a strong cardiovascular system and muscle tone can help you get through the long hours of labor and delivery more easily and prepared.


Regular exercise also helps you prepare for the extra weight you gain during pregnancy, including building your muscle tone to support your growing belly and strengthening your cardiovascular system.If you were not physically active before pregnancy, consult your doctor and start slowly. Walking, swimming and yoga are great low-impact exercises that are generally safe during pregnancy.Avoid strenuous, high-impact exercises later in pregnancy and anything that bears a risk for falls and injuries (such as skiing, horseback riding and team sports with risk of collision)., Because your baby receives a blood supply from you, any chemicals that pass the placenta will come into contact with your baby and can cause fetal abnormalities.You can come into contact with harmful environmental chemicals at work or at home without even realizing it.
Even secondhand smoke can be harmful for your developing baby.
If you work in an environment that exposes you to radiation or harmful chemicals, talk to your doctor about how to properly protect yourself.
Blood-borne illnesses (such as HIV and toxoplasmosis) can also harm your baby. If you are exposed, see a doctor right away.To reduce risk of toxoplasmosis, avoid contact with cat waste and if you have a cat, ask your partner to change the cat's litter box. You should also wash your hands after gardening and avoid eating under cooked meat, especially lamb, venison, and pork., Your body goes through dramatic changes during pregnancy. Getting enough rest helps you successfully navigate those changes.


Getting at least six hours of sleep a night decreases your chance of needing to have a C-section.Your energy level and health are directly linked to your amount of sleep, so make sure you rest up., Having a proper support network throughout the pregnancy can help dampen the stress and ensure you are well-supported during your pregnancy.


Even if you are healthy and your pregnancy is moving along as it should, your previous miscarriage can loom in your mind and cause you to feel stressed, even unconsciously. Having a support network behind you will help you if you feel vulnerable and need someone to talk to.

