 If you just want to make a new insert for a jewel case that you already have, remove the old one, or clean up the jewel case some for the new cover. Remove stickers, fingerprints, and other markings from the case with a fine cloth and a small amount of isopropyl alcohol.


Alternatively, you may find it easier to buy new jewel cases for your CD or for burned CDs. Full-size, with the capacity for back covers, and half-size jewel cases are available, usually in bulk. Since they have a tendency to break over time, it's a good idea to buy new ones.
 Get some heavy-duty cardstock that's still thin enough to fit inside the jewel case comfortably and cut it to size using a paper-cutter, or scissors. Use the following dimensions as a guide:


Front cover: 4.724 inches x 4.724 inches (120mm x 120 mm)
Back cover: 5.906 inches x 4.646 inches (150 mm x 118 mm

, The image you create for the cover can be as simple or as complex as you want it to be. Consider the songs that are on the CD and the image they create, and start going through old magazines, text books, snapshots, and other materials for collage elements. It's usually a goo idea to use a pencil to lightly draw in where your CD cover images will be placed before you get started, as a template, but it's also good to just start free-handing if you want to experiment.


Old textbooks can be a great source of weird images and diagrams that can make for good CD art. Head to the thrift store or the library for toss-aways that you can cut up.
Try combining disparate elements to make for weirdness. A picture from a cereal box can look suddenly great for a punk rock CD, when everyone's eyes are cut out.
When you have your images, start gluing them on, using a simple glue stick. It might seem too primitive, but a good quality Elmer's glue stick or rubber cement is usually the best way of getting the pieces down on the base.
 You can hand-write the text onto the image lightly, using pencil and then going over it with dark marker, or you can print out individual words and glue them onto the image separately for a DIY look.


It can also look cool to use stamps to mark out letters and words on the cover. Invest in a set of stamps at a craft store that you'll be able to use for label-making.
Want a real punk alternative? Go ransom note. Cut out individual letters from the newspaper and magazines and spell out your title and the name of your band on the cover. It'll look slightly psychotic and totally rad.
 To mass-produce your hand-designed cover, you'll need to scan the image into the computer and follow the steps in the previous method. That will be much easier than drawing them out, one by one.


Likewise, if you want to design a 3D image, made up of collage and hand-drawn elements, it might be better to scan it and print out a 2D image to keep in the jewel case.

