 You should be able to talk about a wide range of matters with someone in a loving relationship.Be sure you can have an actual 2-way conversation with a guy.


This can be everything from your hopes and dreams to your past relationships to your favorite celebrities.
If he doesn’t contribute to a conversation or seems not to care about your opinions, he either does not have reciprocal feelings or isn’t a good catch.
 Particularly if you have a physical relationship, try going on a date or having some time together that does not include physicality. Having fun together in a way that does not involve romance or passion is essential to a healthy relationship and can distinguish between a guy who is interested in you and one who is interested in just your body.
 This is obviously not something you can manufacture, but if one of you goes through something that is emotionally difficult, you can often gauge the depth of a man’s feelings for you.


Be open with your feelings about the event as well as your partner.
Communicate about your emotional needs and his, but remember that boys are often hesitant to share their emotions. This doesn’t mean that he is not interested in you.
 If you are in love with him and you want to know if he feels similarly, tell him how you feel.


If you tell him you love him, be aware that he may not say it back immediately. This does not mean that your relationship is over; he just may need some time to process the idea.
Watch his body language when you tell him how you feel. If he immediately seems physically uncomfortable, he may not share the same feelings.
If he does not respond and seems to feel indifferent, then he may not truly care about you.
 Talking about the future serves dual purposes. First, it can be a way to evaluate whether you have common goals and values, which signals long-term compatibility.Second, it can expose the feelings of someone who is only interested in a short romance.


Begin by talking about your individual goals and thoughts about the future.
Eventually ask if he can imagine a future together with you in it.
Know that goals and visions for the future can change a lot, especially when you are young. Reassessing those ideas periodically is a good idea.
 If a boy invites you to spend time with his family, he probably loves you.It’s unlikely that he would introduce his family to a girl he isn’t interested in. Getting to know his family can also tell you a lot about where he comes from and the type of environment he is likely to perpetuate.


Reciprocate and invite him to spend time with your family as well.
Even if his parents (or yours) do or say something embarrassing, it will give you something to laugh about later.
Boys are often very close with their moms. If you can impress his mom and she likes you, the boy will likely be proud to bring you home.
Be kind about his family. Sometimes people are embarrassed about their family situation and you can alienate them by making fun of their family, even if you do it as a joke.

