 A common sign of distress is a limp gait. Your dog may limp as they walk on their paws. The dog may also hold up one of their legs. The limp movement may be in multiple legs, so the dog may walk on different legs at different points during the day.Usually when a dog suffers from a limp gait they will favor placing their weight on certain legs.;
, When your dog's legs are lame, you may notice problems with their bones. If one of the back legs is lame, the dog's pelvis may drop when they step, but then rise when the leg lifts. If both back legs are affected, then the dog's weight will shift forward.You may notice that the bones or joints in the dog's legs, hips, or back are abnormal in size or shape.
 Limp and stiff body movements may result in your dog not wanting to do the same activities they used to enjoy all the time. Your dog may stop jumping around or refuse to climb stairs.If the dog does climb stairs, they may have noticeable trouble, stumble, or even have one leg that is limp when they are finished.
 You may notice that your dog is having trouble standing. They may be stiff all over or some of their legs may appear limp or lame. It may take your dog a long time to stand due to this.Often, the dog will limp or have trouble walking for a few moments after they get up.
 Stiff necks in dogs may point to an underlying medical condition. When your dog has a stiff neck, they may arch their backs or move their nose towards the ground. The dog will probably not want to move their head from side to side or turn around.The muscles around the neck may be very tense or start showing tremors.
The dog may refuse to eat because it is difficult to lower their head to eat from the bowl.
 Sometimes your dog will go completely rigid and stop moving. Their entire body may be tense. A dog’s face may also be stiff or tense, giving them a furrowed brow look. The dog’s mouth may be tense and rigid. The tail may also be stiff and held low or parallel to their body.This may not be due to any sickness or ailment, but be body language in response to something that makes them nervous or upset.

