 You might want to draft your will or trust by yourself. You can certainly do so if your estate is simple. However, many people’s estate plans are more complicated than they could imagine. For this reason, you would benefit from consulting with an attorney.


For example, if you have a disabled heir, you don’t want to leave them assets through a will. Instead, you should create a special needs trust.
If your estate is large, you might be able to lower your estate taxes using different trusts.
A lawyer can explain the differences between a will and a trust. They are very similar, but a trust can help you avoid probate, which might be time-consuming and expensive.;
, Everything you own belongs to your estate. You should sit down and identify everything that you own. Consider the following common assets:


real estate
financial accounts
automobiles
personal property, such as clothing, jewelry, books, art, etc.
life insurance policies
retirement or pension accounts.
digital assets, such as digital photographs, unpublished manuscripts, eBooks, etc.
 Your executor will be responsible for collecting and safekeeping your estate after you die. They file your will with the probate court and then pay any debts you have with your estate assets. Once all debts are paid, they distribute your property according to your wishes.If you decide to create a trust, then you will name a trustee.


Choose someone you trust and someone your heirs will trust. For example, if you have three children, you might not want to name any of them. This will reduce squabbling. Instead, you could name a good friend.
Name one or more alternates in case your original choice declines to serve or dies before you.
Some states place restrictions on who may serve as your executor, so talk about this choice with your lawyer.
 You can leave property to whoever you like. Make sure to name alternates in case your beneficiary dies before you. For example, you might want to give your diamond ring to your daughter, but if she dies before you, then you can leave it to her daughter (your granddaughter).


You can also give property to groups of people. This might be easiest with money, which can be easily divided. If you leave a house to two people, they may have to sell it.
You probably won’t name a beneficiary for every specific piece of property. This is why your will has a residuary clause. Your residuary is everything you own that you haven’t specifically bequeathed to someone. Name one or more beneficiaries to your residuary estate.
 You can name your guardians in a will.Choose people you trust and who agree to become guardians in case you die. You should also name back-up guardians in case the original ones decline to serve.


Always talk it over with the potential guardian. Many people have legitimate reasons why they can’t serve, and you should know ahead of time., You can’t leave property to your pets in a will. However, you can still give your pets to a guardian and leave the guardian a sum of money to take care of your pet.


Think about creating a pet trust instead. With a trust, you can leave detailed instructions for how your pet should be taken care of. You can also appoint a trustee to check up on the guardian and make sure they are following your instructions., You can leave your home to a beneficiary using your will or trust. However, it’s also possible to leave your home to someone using other methods. You should consider which is preferable:


Life estate deed. You deed the property to someone but keep a life estate for yourself. The life estate lets you use and occupy the home during your lifetime. At death, it passes to the other owner.Transfer on death deed. Some states have this option. When you die, the house passes to the person named on the deed without having to go through probate. You can revoke the deed at any time.Joint tenancy with right of survivorship. You might already own your home this way with your spouse. Check your deed for “right of survivorship.” Each spouse owns the house equally. When one dies, their interest is automatically extinguished and the surviving spouse owns the house outright.
 You don’t name a beneficiary to life insurance using your will or trust. Instead, you name a beneficiary on the policy itself. Remember to name an alternate beneficiary in case the original one dies before you.If you want to change your beneficiary, ask the insurance company how to make the change.
 Look at your 401(k), IRA, and pension. Those accounts are payable on death to someone else. As with life insurance, you don’t name the beneficiary in your will. Instead, contact the company you have the policy with.
 You can also make these payable-on-death, meaning they will automatically go to your beneficiary and skip the probate process. When you register with the stockbroker or the company, request to take ownership in “beneficiary form.”, As people live longer, more are spending their later years in nursing homes. Because of the high costs of nursing care, their assets quickly become depleted and the state must pay for the care using Medicaid. When you die, the state will come after some assets to cover any unpaid medical bills.


For example, Joannie enters a nursing home at age 80 with Alzheimer’s and lives for three more years. Because her family can’t pay, the state steps in and pays the $160,000 in nursing home care. Joannie’s only asset is her home, which she leaves to her children in a will. However, the state will seize the home to cover the costs of Joannie’s care.
You might be able to avoid the state taking the asset if you transfer it well in advance, e.g., five years before you need care.This is a very complicated decision you should talk about with a lawyer.
 If you become incapacitated, you can’t make financial decisions on your own. In this situation, you’ll want someone to pay your bills, deposit your Social Security checks, file your taxes, and watch your retirement accounts.This person is your attorney-in-fact, also called an agent.


Try to choose an attorney-in-fact who is financially savvy. They don’t need to be an expert, but they should have common sense.
 You might own a business. In that case, you’ll need to plan for what happens to the business when you’re gone. Ideally, a child or other relative could step up and become an owner. However, your heirs will probably need to sell the business. Make things easy for them by getting all of your business documents in order and identifying possible buyers.If you’re a sole proprietor and have accounts in your own name, then your financial attorney-in-fact will be able to step into your shoes.
 If you are a partner in a business, then you should have a buy-sell agreement in place.This document will explain what happens to your share in the partnership if you die. For example, the partnership might agree to buy your share from your heirs.
 Children under 18 can inherit property. However, they’ll need an adult to manage it. You should name a property guardian in your will or trust.Perhaps the easiest choice is to have the property guardian be the same person who takes physical custody of your children. Nevertheless, you can name different people if you want.
 A Do Not Resuscitate order (DNR) instructs doctors and emergency personnel to not give you CPR if you stop breathing or your heart stops beating. Talk to your doctor about whether you should sign this document. Your doctor should have the paperwork., You might become incapacitated at some point and no longer be able to make medical decisions for yourself. In your living will, you decide what kind of treatment you want and don’t want.For example, you can decide whether you want to be put on artificial respiration or if you want food and water if you become unconscious.


Be as detailed as you can in your living will. You can’t think of every possible situation, so you might want to talk with your doctor.You can draft your own living will. Because each jurisdiction has its own laws, always consult with an attorney.
 You can’t account for all situations in your living will. For this reason, you should also create a durable power of attorney for health care. You’ll name an attorney-in-fact, who will be able to make decisions for you.Your lawyer can draft this document, or you can create one on your own.


Make sure to talk with your attorney-in-fact to discuss what kind of medical treatment you’ll want if you become incapacitated.
Choose someone you trust who lives near you. They may have to travel to talk to doctors if you are hospitalized. It’s easier if they live nearby.
 Your attorney-in-fact or executor will need to access your online accounts to cancel them or transfer funds. Sit down and make a spreadsheet that contains the following information:


name of account
description of the account (such as email account, banking account, etc.)
URL where you can access the account
password
who you want to receive the account (this information should already be in your will)

, When you die or become incapacitated, other people will need access to your documents. Make copies for them of the following:will or trust
insurance policies
information on bank accounts and safe deposit boxes
retirement plan information
real estate deeds
certificates for stocks, bonds, and annuities
list of online accounts

, In the immediate aftermath of your death or incapacity, people will be scrambling around. You don’t want people struggling to find key documents. Give copies to the people who need them.


Your doctor should have your DNR order, living will, and durable power of attorney for health care. Your attorney-in-fact for health care decisions should also have copies.
Your attorney-in-fact for finances should have copies of all financial documents.
Your executor or trustee should have copies of your will, trust, and financial documents.
Remember to store your copies in a safe place that is easily accessible. For example, you can store them in a filing cabinet at home. Make sure your attorney-in-fact or executor has a key if you lock it.
 You can also use the letter to explain why you have left property to certain people. Often, your heirs want to know why they didn’t inherit certain property, and a letter can explain that.


Give your letter to your lawyer or executor and keep a copy with your documents.

