 Invite people whom you love and who love you. They are the people who wish you the best and will serve to make this as authentic an experience as possible.;
, Do not invite someone just because they are helpful. If there is no love lost between you, leave them off the list.
 It is unusual to ask your guests to help you create your memory. Instead of an impersonal registry at some faceless department store, give them a chance to personally make your day special. To do this, decide what you'd really like from you guests to help make the wedding special and let them know:


Lay both lists side by side and begin to match what you need to the persons on the guest list.
Create a script to inform people what you need. You do not want to appear demanding or greedy, simply grateful for their love and willingness to help. Begin with, "I want you to know you are invited to come share my joy at my wedding!"  From there, you may decide how to introduce your need. Usually, guests will ask what you need and you can let them know.
 For example, you might:


Have an aunt prepare a roast for the dinner.
Have a friend prepare a specific rice dish that you like how she or he makes.
Ask another friend for a turkey.
Ask the friends of your parents to provide flowers and other decorations.
Ask a childhood mentor to provide their talent to sew the dresses at a great discount as wedding presents.
 Give it to your maid or matron of honor work with the best man and have them make sure that everyone comes through with what they have promised. If anyone is likely to back out, ask that they let you know that at least two weeks in advance. You may have to end up asking someone else, or pay for it out of your pocket, so be on top of it.
 If there are still guests to whom you've not assigned roles yet, consider asking them to take on something, or go on and pull out your checkbook.
 The ring can be simple or simply beautiful. Remember, there are anniversaries coming up and they get progressively better in terms of upgrades you can make to the stones. You want something to build on--if you start at the top, where will you go from there?

, You do not need more than two attendants on each side. You are including everyone in your wedding by asking them to create it, so nobody should have tantrums about not wearing a bridesmaid dress.
 If you go to a budget bridal store, you can get a beautiful gown for next to nothing. If you choose to create your dress, remember it does not have to cost a lot to be beautiful.


Suits can be purchased that will be useful in other venues, or rent a tuxedo.
 Many cell phones take better pictures than some professionals do, so don't be shy about asking folks to forward you their best shots. You may consider only posing for the wedding party pictures. This will reduce the time you are paying for the professional photographer.
 If you are careful, you should be able to have an absolutely beautiful wedding for under $2000.

