 Skin often starts to feel rough and dull as a result of the accumulation of dead skin cells. Dry air causes the top layer of skin to dry out and flake off, causing your skin's texture to feel less smooth. Brushing off those dead skin cells immediately makes your skin feel softer, and because the technique improves circulation, it also enhances your skin's silkiness in the long term.


Dry brushes are sold at beauty stores and drugstores. Choose a body brush made from natural fibers. Natural fibers are easier on your skin, so avoid brushes with plastic bristles.
Always make sure both your body and the brush are completely dry when you begin. Brush from your toes up your legs toward your heart using quick, firm strokes. Focus on the areas where your skin is the driest. Keep working on your skin until your legs, torso, and arms have all been brushed. The procedure should take about five minutes.
If you want to brush your face, buy a special brush made with softer fibers.;
, Scrubs are usually made with salt or sugar and lotions that hydrate your skin while you exfoliate. While you're in the bath or the shower, apply a heap of scrub mixture to the area of your body you want to exfoliate and rub it vigorously into your skin. The sugar or salt scrubs dead skin cells away without scratching or otherwise harming your skin.


For best results, use scrubs once or twice a week. Don't use them too often, or you may end up drying out your skin; scrubs remove dead skin cells and dirt, but they also scrub away the natural oils in your skin that prevent it from getting too dry.
Scrubs are available for purchase at drug stores and beauty stores, but it's quite easy to make your own. Combine the following ingredients and store the scrub in an old cosmetic container or a jar with a lid:

2 cups sugar or salt (use fine-grained sugar or salt, rather than course-grained)
1/2 cup olive oil or almond oil
1/4 cup honey
1 teaspoon vanilla or a few drops of your favorite essential oil



, If you want silky, soft legs, shaving or waxing regularly can help. Not only do these techniques remove hair, which can cause legs to feel less soft, but they also remove the dead skin cells that accumulate on the surface of your skin.


Shave your legs with a moisturizing lotion or shaving cream, rather than a cleansing gel, to prevent your skin from getting too dry.
Choose a leg wax that is fortified with moisturizing ingredients, like aloe, for even softer results.

