 Search the Internet for up-to-date information on the latest trends in fashion. Look at bridal websites, wedding forums, and fashion blogs or magazine sites.;
, You want to choose a pair that coordinates well with your dress. Consider shopping at bridal boutiques that offer a selection of both gowns and shoes. If you cannot find your shoes at the same place you find your dress, take a photo of your dress or notes on the color, fabric, and style. Use these resources to refresh your memory the next time you go out shoe shopping.
 Take your time finding the right shoe at the right price. Try on a few different styles to see what works best, and consider shopping at multiple stores for a broader range of options. If you find a shoe you like in store, see if you can find it for a cheaper price online.
 As a close friend or family member whose sense of style you trust to accompany you on your search. Ask someone who has seen your dress. This way, she can offer you her opinion on how a given pair of shoes may look with your gown.
 Traditional bridal shoes are white or ivory. Choose a shade that matches your dress. To maintain a thoroughly classic approach, opt for a shoe in a traditional, feminine material, like satin, silk, lace, or velvet., If you want to add a little glitz, look for a gold or silver shoe to wear on your special day. Metallic shoes put a glamorous twist on a traditional look.
 If you have a funky, edgy style, consider carrying it into your wedding day attire by choosing a bold shoe. Look for a dressy pair in a traditional material, like satin or velvet, but opt for a bright color instead of the traditional white. Try to find a hue that matches the color scheme of your overall wedding to keep things coordinated.
 If you have always been fond of flats, go with flats. If you prefer heels, stick with heels. Bridal shoes are available in a broad spectrum of designs and shapes. If a certain style of shoe appeals to you, look for a pair of wedding shoes in that style.

