 You're going to be facing society's lowest who possibly could have been living off stealing, rape and murder to the point where it's justified to them. Stay cool, you need to be convinced mentally that you are superior to them in every way possible, but be ready to back it up physically.;
, Clue is in the name: you need to be on your guard, knowing where crime is likely to happen, the likely verdicts of a crime and most importantly, to make sure you don't chase down a person who just started a play fight with their friend.
 Chances are, if you start chasing someone who's just pulled a crime on another, they may try to vacate the area if they're not stupid enough to try and stand and defend themselves. When this happens, you need to know all the possible routes the could take and where you can head them off and where you can keep at them without losing them.
 At least, not too much. You're trying to be better than the criminal, that means you should deal with them in a rational manner. If you catch up to them, don't start beating them to a bloody pulp, deal enough to let them know that they didn't get away with breaking the law, and they can expect the same if they try again.
 Vigilantes don't work like in movies. Simply watching a marathon of Batman, V For Vendetta, etc movies isn't going to prepare you for real life scenarios. In movies, the skills and abilities of such characters are greatly exaggerated. Once you confront a criminal, the only difference between you and him is mindset and physical ability. Chances are, you can get hurt, possibly killed if you try and follow your favourite fictional superhero's footsteps.
 Simply hunting bad guys with your two fists isn't going to get you far if your target pulls out a knife or gun on you. Make sure to keep it exclusively non-lethal, yet concealable. Civilian tasers are a natural choice, if not available, telescopic batons are also very practical and effective. Your options are not limited to these two of course, but keep in mind your weapon's requirements.
 You need to be at your physical peak, jog, sprint, take up martial arts, as much as you can cram into your system. It'll mean the difference between life and death during a confrontation.
 Chances are, the person you just saved would be questioned by the police about your appearance. Masks are rather conspicuous, apparel like hoodies and brimmed hats are as effective as they are discardable.
 Your close friends may feel the same way about the adequacy of authority and be willing to fight crime alongside you. The more members you have, the better it is, but make sure you are all well co-ordinated and they accept the leader's authority.

