 If you are not in Ohio or don’t have the time to apply for birth certificate copies in person, you can file the application by mail. You will need proper documentation to submit to one of the Offices of Vital Statistics or the city or county health department to ensure that there aren’t any delays in getting you the birth certificate by mail.


It will likely take approximately three weeks to get your birth certificate copies by mail.You need to have a completed application form for a copy of an Ohio birth certificate.If you are applying for a copy of your own birth certificate, you need to provide a copy of your official photo ID. For example, you can provide your driver’s license, military ID, or a passport.If you are applying for a copy of a birth certificate for another person, you need identification and usually other legal documentation., In addition to your documentation, you need to submit the “Application for Certified Copies” of an Ohio birth certificate. For the application to be complete, you must fill it out to the best of your knowledge and sign it.The application is available online at https://www.odh.ohio.gov/~/media/ODH/ASSETS/Files/vs/general/applicationform.ashx

If you have any questions on the application, you can call the Ohio Department of Health at (614) 466-3543 or the Office of Vital Statistics at (614) 466-2531.You can call either hotline between 8:00am and 5:00pm except state and federal holidays., There is a fee of $21.50 for copies of birth certificates. You must pay this by personal check, money order, or credit card when you file your application.Make the personal check or money order out to Office of Vital Statistics., You must send the $21.50 fee for each copy of a birth certificate with your application materials. You must pay this by personal check or money order when you file your application.The Office of Vital Statistics does not take cash or credit cards for mail service. If you cannot get a check or money order, you can pay by credit card using the services the Ohio Department of Health’s online request site or use the expedited services of VitalCheck.Make the personal check or money order out to Office of Vital Statistics.
 Once you’ve collected all of your required documentation, send your application to the Offices of Vital Statistics in Columbus or the department of health in the city or county where the birth occurred.If you’re sending your application to Columbus, the address is: Ohio Department of Health, Vital Statistics, P.O. Box 15098, Columbus, Ohio 43215-0098.If you’re going to send your application to the health department of the city or county where the birth occurred, consult the Department of Health’s statewide directory of offices at https://www.odh.ohio.gov/~/media/ODH/ASSETS/Files/vs/general/applicationform.ashx. Consider sending the application materials by registered mail so that you can ensure that it arrives at the Office of Vital Statistics or Department of Health.
 It takes approximately three weeks to get the copy of the birth certificate for which you applied by mail. If you have any questions about your application, follow up with of the Offices of Vital Statistics at the phone numbers listed above.