 Many personalized recipes for baking soda toothpaste call for a bit of coconut oil as well. Coconut oil is a worthy addition because it can help fight certain infections of the mouth. Further, it will improve texture, and has the added benefit of helping to boost your digestive health.It has also a slight whitening effect, is a good pH-neutralizer, and is an effective antibacterial substance.
Do not replace flossing and brushing with coconut oil mouth rinsing. Though some recommend the practice, coconut oil alone is insufficient to keep your mouth clean and healthy.
 If you drink primarily water that is purified via reverse osmosis, trace mineral drops can provide some of the beneficial minerals that you may not be getting in the water you drink. Consider adding a dash or two of xylitol to sweeten your toothpaste, as well as boost the anti-cavity properties of the paste as well., You’re likely familiar with the common toothpaste flavors: various sorts of mint, an aggressive grape, maybe a variation of tutti-frutti; however, arguably the best re-mineralizing compound around is cacao — which works even better than fluoride, without the dangers.If you’re tempted to add cacao to your toothpaste, talk to your dentist about the degree to which you should grind the nibs, as this will affect their abrasiveness.
 Like baking soda, bentonite clay is alkaline, so it helps fight the acidity that destroys your teeth. Clay has the additional capacity to serve as a natural polishing agent without being too abrasive. The bacterial balance in your mouth that clay promotes also helps you fight illness and boosts remineralization of your teeth.Simply add a small amount of bentonite clay to your toothpaste.
 You want to ensure that none of the ingredients you add to a homemade batch of toothpaste are acidic. In fact, it’s likely a good idea to get some pH test strips to test for acidity.Make sure all readings have a pH of seven or higher.


If you toothpaste has a pH lower than seven, dispose to the batch and make a new one, perhaps removing any ingredients that may have contributed to the acidity.

