 Feasts and banquets are how Saints’ days have traditionally been honored. Gather the family together to give thanks and savor a selection of scrumptious foods. For even more fun, plan a menu full of classic English fare like roasted lamb, bangers and mash and bread pudding.Invite your guests to bring their own favorite dishes for a potluck-style meal.
At the very least, be sure to stop for some fish and chips while you’re out and about!

, Make a beeline to your favorite pub or nightspot to strut your stuff on the floor. Holidays like St. George’s Day are all about cutting loose and enjoying yourself. What’s a celebration without dancing, after all?Throw your own private dance party at home with a few close friends if you’re not the going out type.
Sit in on a Morris dancing performance (a type of English folk dance) for a closer look at the cultural roots surrounding the holiday., Spend an evening at the theater attending a production of one of Shakespeare’s many comedies and tragedies. The famous playwright William Shakespeare is believed to have been born and and died on the same day as St. George. As a result, people sometimes find ways to make his timeless literature part of their holiday activities. Quiz your friends with Shakespeare-related trivia, or play a Shakespeare-themed version of charades where you act out famous characters and scenes from his plays.
If you happen to be in England, take a tour of Shakespeare’s birthplace in Stratford-upon-Avon., No matter where you’re located, there are all sorts of parades and street festivals to be found on St. George’s Day. These are usually open to the public, so feel free to stop by and join in the fun. A parade can be the perfect way to cap off a night of celebrating with your loved ones.Keep an eye on the local news to find out what sorts of holiday events are being planned in your community.
One of the biggest public celebrations is the St. George's Day Festival held in the city of Manchester. If you're in the area, it may be worth checking out.

