 Ovarian cysts are fluid filled sacs found on the surface of the ovaries. Unfortunately, ovarian cysts can be difficult to remove. The best approach after the initial diagnosis is to watch and wait.


Some ovarian cysts may go away on their own. Your doctor might want you to wait and then get reexamined after a few months have passed.Your doctor will have to monitor the cyst on a regular basis to see if it's changed in size. After a certain point, medical intervention may be necessary., Birth control pills are usually the first course of action to lessen ovarian cysts. Ask your doctor about getting a prescription for hormonal birth control pills.


Hormonal birth control pills can decrease the size of existing cysts and prevent further cysts from developing. They also decrease the risk of ovarian cancer, especially if you take them for a long duration.Birth control comes in a variety of formulations and dosing schedules. Some allow for a monthly bleed, and others for less frequent bleeding. Some have iron supplementation, and others do not. It is imperative to talk with your primary care provider to discuss which option fits with your lifestyle, goals, and overall health and history.Some women experience side effects like breast tenderness, mood swings, or bleeding between periods when they first start taking hormonal birth control. These side effects usually lessen after a few months., Ovarian cysts can be painful and even dangerous if they continue to grow. If your cyst does not go away on its own, you doctor might prescribe surgical treatment.


If your cyst persists after two or three menstrual cycles, your doctor might recommend surgical removal if it is growing at an excessive rate. Cysts this large can cause pain and menstrual irregularity.In some surgeries, the entire infected ovary may be removed. However, in most cases the doctor should be able to remove the cyst while leaving the ovary intact. In rare cases, cysts are cancerous. If this is the case, your doctor will likely remove all your reproductive organs., The best course of action for ovarian cysts is prevention. Get regular gynecological examinations and be aware of any changes in your menstrual cycle. The sooner ovarian cysts are detected, the easier they are to treat. A routine pelvic exam can detect signs of irregularities that could be caused by ovarian cysts.