 Even if you have built your team with the best and most talented people available, you should still try to be a strong leader. Every good team needs direction. According to one study, the most effective kind was with the single, strong leader.You don’t need to see your role as “the boss.” You’re don’t have to rule with an iron first. Instead you can be the glue that holds things together, the oil that makes the gears turn, the one who makes the team function properly.
Leadership can take different forms. You might be charismatic and influence your team by personality. You might offer vision, you might coordinate the members of your team, or you might take part actively and lead by example.An ability to see natural talents and put them to use is one trait that good leaders share. Think of it like a hockey coach “juggling lines.” Say your supply workers are having trouble with a new protocol. You might decide to put Sarah temporarily on the supply line, even though she doesn’t work in logistics, because she has better people skills than your regular manager. Or, you pair them together.Good leaders also share the ability to motivate. This involves being able to push the right buttons, whether through internal or external incentives, to get the best performance. For instance, maybe one of your team is a night owl. He could be more productive if you assign him to work on second or third shift.
The bank HSBC has even institutionalized this sort of motivation. Each year, managers ask every employee what they would like to get if they win a yearly “Dream Award,” given for outstanding performance. Winners get to choose a unique, tailored prize capped at $10,000, which they cannot redeem for cash., As you might have guessed, you should get to know the members of your leadership team on a personal level. They are not just skill sets to plug into problems. Find out what moves them and what motivates them, and how you can encourage them to the best results.


Great leaders get the best out of the people around them, as said. They are able to manage personalities, praise and push when need be, and solve conflicts.
Try team-building exercises. Plan a retreat or weekend outing, for example, where you can build camaraderie through things like scavenger hunts, trivia games, or cooking exercises.Team-building is usually structured. However, pure socialization will help you get to know your employees, too. Having a weekly happy hour or a monthly off-the-clock office event can work. If you live in close proximity, consider carpooling together.
Keep tabs on your team members’ performance, as well. You might set up an review system, for instance, with set performance measurements, an assessment, and the opportunity for the employee to respond. Reviews can occur on a fixed schedule, like once or twice per year.If reviews are too formal for your management style, you could alternately invite team members for one-on-one meetings to ask about the status of their work, assess their morale, and sound them for possible concerns. These, too, might happen at fixed times, like once per month., Establish ground rules for behavior. This includes how team members act toward each other and how they resolve issues. You might also think of generating these standards together, so that your team will all see them as fair and binding.Make sure that you set standards for civility. Disagreements can generate new ideas and should be welcomed, but do not let them devolve into personal attacks, name calling, or threats.
Decide on how best to communicate. You and your team may need to get in touch directly and fast, and in a way that keeps everyone in the know. Settle on a system – phone, email, or otherwise – that works for the whole team.
Develop a system for conflict resolution. In case team members have a difference, set up agreed upon ways to resolve the problem. You might agree to name a third party member of the team as a mediator, for instance., You probably chose each member of your team for a reason, to fulfill a certain purpose or with a role in mind. Make sure that each member is aware of how he adds to the system.Ideally, your team will act as your counselors and your eyes and ears. This sort of behavior, and a cohesive and less competitive team, is more likely if each member has a distinct role and feels as if they are valued for it.Show Bill that you value his twenty-five years of front-line service experience, for example. Show Natalia that you rely on her to outline more efficient workplace procedures. And demonstrate to Sarah that her knowledge of your supply networks is crucial.
Employees who are sure of their place in the system are also more likely to voice uncomfortable truths. A team with defined roles is less likely to be one of “yes-men.”

, When it comes to motivation, the carrot is better than the stick. Praise often and criticize only when absolutely necessary. Do not take performance for granted and give your team members credit for a job well done. This will reflect well on your leadership and serve to motivate the team.You can reward your team in different ways. If you have money, give raises. If not, offer them more control over their work or increased flexibility on the job. Reward them and show your trust.Don’t just reward individual accomplishment. Stop to note the team’s progress as a whole. You could even create a system where team members can “nominate” colleagues for acknowledgement.