 Click on the “Sign Up for Free” button on the upper right corner.






;
,









Alternatively, you can sign up using your Facebook account.
 Go to the e-mail you used to sign up and click the link in the message you received for confirming your e-mail address. It will bring up a page with the next step in the process.









If you used your Facebook account to sign up, you won’t receive any confirmation e-mail.
 To upload a song, click the button that says “Upload a song,” browse your computer for the file, and enter the file information.









This step until step 11 may be skipped by scrolling to the bottom of the page and clicking “Skip this step.” If you decide to skip these steps, proceed to step 8.
 Click the Profile Picture button, browse your computer for an image, and add a caption.
 You may opt to sync your social networks: To sync to your band’s Facebook page, you must first sync your personal Facebook profile. Do this by clicking “Sync” next to Facebook, and then signing into your account.









Click the Install button next to “Free Facebook Artist App.” You will need to grant permissions to allow ReverbNation to manage your band’s Facebook page. Next, you may select the page ReverbNation will manage, and then click “Update.”
To sync to Twitter, do the same thing when syncing with Facebook: click “Sync” next to Twitter and log into your Twitter account.
To sync to YouTube, you need to be signed into your YouTube account as well.
 Click the “Invite” button and select which way you’d like to send word of your new ReverbNation account.









This screen will appear periodically until you complete the steps. Click “Don't show me this screen again” if you don’t want to see it anymore.
 It’s up to you whether you take the tour or not.









You now have a ReverbNation profile and a dashboard that allows you to manage all your social media posts in one place.
 It should redirect you to the mobile site. If not, follow the steps above.
 If there isn’t one at the top of the page, click the Menu button at the upper-left of the page, and select “Signup.”








, Bands should use “Artist.” You will then be prompted to sign up with Facebook or by entering your e-mail address.









If you select Facebook, you will have to sign into Facebook on your phone’s browser.
If you enter your e-mail address, you’ll also need to come up with a password.
After either choice, click “Sign up.”

, You will now need to create your profile by entering the following information:









Band Name
Genre (what style is your music)
Country of the band
City
State
Postal Code

, You may download the ReverbNation Control Room app or login and manage your profile from the browser.