 Assuming the initial childhood cholesterol screens are normal, people are advised to return for screening blood tests to check their cholesterol levels every five years thereafter.


For instance, if you go for a blood test at 36, your next test for cholesterol should be at 41, and so on.However, if you have a family history of high cholesterol, increased risk for heart disease, or other personal risk factors that may predispose you to elevated cholesterol, your doctor may ask you to return for screening at more frequent intervals.;
, In addition to routine screening for elevated cholesterol every five years, you will need to come back for more frequent monitoring if any problems are identified. For example, if your LDL (bad) cholesterol is on the high side, your triglycerides are elevated, your total cholesterol is elevated, or your HDL (good) cholesterol is too low, your doctor will likely recommend some form of treatment or lifestyle modification and then repeat blood tests to see if your cholesterol levels improve.


Your doctor may order a fasting lipid panel to try and get the most accurate data. For this test you will have to fast for up to 12 hours, as your triglyceride and LDL cholesterol levels can change based on what you have recently consumed., The level that changes most with fasting status is the triglycerides.One of the key reasons that a doctor will order blood tests for cholesterol is to evaluate how the treatment of your high cholesterol is going. If you are diagnosed with high cholesterol, your doctor will likely begin you on a three month trial of "lifestyle changes" (unless your levels are very high, in which case medication will likely also be needed). Lifestyle changes typically include increased aerobic exercise, a diet higher in fruits and vegetables and lower in fats and refined carbohydrates, and steps to achieve weight loss as all of these are correlated to an improved cholesterol profile.


After a three month trial of lifestyle methods, your doctor can re-measure your cholesterol and evaluate the degree of improvement.
If your cholesterol has improved substantially and if you are back in the normal range, your doctor may advise that you continue with lifestyle modifications and you may not need medical treatment.
If, on the other hand, your cholesterol levels are still elevated, this would be an indication to begin medical treatment.
Repeat blood tests can then be taken every few months as you begin the medication to monitor its effectiveness and to screen for side effects, as well as to determine the dose that you need in order to get your cholesterol levels back in a healthier range.
 Good cholesterol (called "HDL cholesterol") is, perhaps ironically, a type of cholesterol where the higher your numbers are, the better.


Above 60 mg/dL (1.5 mmol/L in Canada and Europe) is considered the "best" range for your HDL cholesterol.
Between 50 – 59 mg/dL (1.3 – 1.5 mmol/L) is considered "better."
Below 40 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) in men and below 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L) in women is considered "poor."

, The target range that you should be aiming for depends on your overall health, and any other cardiovascular risk factors that you may have.


Below 70 – 129 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L – 3.3 mmol/L in Canada and Europe) is considered the best range for your LDL cholesterol (the specific "target value" for you, given that this is a broad range, depends on your overall health and other risk factors for heart disease and stroke).
Between 130 – 159 mg/dL (3.4 – 4.1 mmol/L) is considered "borderline high."
Between 160 – 189 mg/dL (4.1 – 4.9 mmol/L) is considered "high."
Above 190 mg/dL (4.9 mmol/L) is considered "very high."

, It will also provide you with your ratio of total cholesterol (TC) to good cholesterol (HDL). It is important to know your target ranges for each of these quantities.


Below 200 mg/dL (5.2 mmol/L in Canada and Europe) is considered "desirable" for your total cholesterol (TC).
Between 200 – 239 mg/dL (5.2 – 6.2 mmol/L) is considered "borderline high."
Above 240 mg/dL (6.2 mmol/L) is considered "high."
In terms of your ratio of total cholesterol (TC) to good cholesterol (HDL), a ratio above six is considered high risk.The lower the value for your ratio of TC:HDL, the better this is for your health.
 Triglyceride is a fat commonly found in the body that contributes to atherosclerosis, which is the accumulation of fat on your artery walls. This increases your risk of heart attack and stroke.It is essential to keep your triglyceride levels within a healthy range to reduce your cardiovascular risk.

Below 150 mg/dL (1.7 mmol/L in Europe and Canada) is considered "desirable."
150 – 199 mg/dL (1.7 – 2.2 mmol/L) is considered "borderline high."
200-499 mg/dL (2.3 – 5.6 mmol/L) is considered "high."
500 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) and above is considered "very high."

, Try incorporating aerobic exercise at least five days per week for 30 minutes or more per session to improve your cholesterol. Note that you should always consult your doctor for a health check prior to commencing a new exercise plan.
 It also helps to choose healthier fats (such as the fat found in avocado, nuts, and fish) and lower glycemic index carbohydrates (such as whole grain breads, oatmeal, and quinoa).


Increase intake of omega 3 fatty acids (found in flaxseed oil, fatty fish like salmon, chia seeds, walnuts, and broccoli) to lower triglycerides. Try to eat at least two servings of fish per week or fish oil supplements.
 Losing weight has been shown to improve your cholesterol profile. Therefore, it is helpful to talk to your doctor about how many calories you should be eating daily, and how much exercise you should be doing, in order to optimize your weight and to get it closer to your ideal body weight for your specific height and build. Note that it is key to lose weight in safe ways, and not to starve yourself in the process.
 This medication works to improve your cholesterol; however, there are also some side effects to be aware of.


The main side effects that may occur with a statin medication are liver problems and/or muscle soreness.
Your doctor will test your liver function at your next appointment (following the initiation of the statin) to ensure that it is not causing any problems.
Tell your doctor about any muscle soreness you are experiencing due to the medication.
 These include bile-acid-binding resins, cholesterol absorption inhibitors, and/or injectable cholesterol medications.

