 There are multiple benefits to going to a party with someone rather than on your own. It will give you the added confidence when you first walk in because you will know someone else is just getting there too. Plus, as you start up conversations and meet new people, you will have an extra voice to keep things going.Make plans ahead of time regarding whether you will stay together the whole time or if you plan to split off. Having a friend can be a great way to get started at the party, but you may not want to be stuck together the whole time. Plus you will avoid hurting each other’s feelings if you decide ahead of time that it’s okay to separate while you are there.
You will also want to make sure of the plan on when you will leave and if you’ll go together or not. Keep in contact so you know if the other person is ready to go.;
, If the party is more than a small group of close friends, you will likely find a wide range of people from different grades and social cliques. When you first get to the party, take a few minutes to really scan the room and see who is around. Finding someone you know can be a good place to start, rather than being stuck somewhere alone.Catch the eyes of a couple of different people when you first arrive. Smile and wave at them. Give them a gesture that says, “I’ll come talk to you soon.” Establishing a couple different people you want to talk to can make it easier than waiting around for people to come to you.
Parties are also a great place to meet some new people or make connections with people you rarely see or talk to. Think of the person you have multiple classes with but you never get much of a chance to spend time with. Parties are the perfect place to have a first conversation that can lead to friendship down the road.
It is also always good to find the host quickly, since they are most likely the reason you are there. Tell them thanks for the invite or mention what a great party it is. You can also ask them if they need help with anything.
 You may know someone who has a reputation already for being the life of the party, so go find them and watch what they do. You can learn a lot from their actions and begin to apply those in your own way. It can also be helpful to start up a conversation with them or get involved in what they are doing. They can help you meet more people and get into the center of the party.If you don’t have much party experience, you can be honest with this person and ask them to help you get the most out of it. Ask them if they can introduce you to some people or maybe show you around the party. It’s okay to let people know you are new to the party scene.
Once this person has shown you around a little and you get more comfortable, you can then use what they have given you and start to become the person who helps others get used to it. Seek out people who are on their own and pass on the favor of getting them into the mix of meeting people and mingling.

