 A wide variety of free media players are available for download online. Some are quite well-made - better, in some ways, even, then the default media players included with your computer. Others aren't well-made. Different media players offer different options and features for video playback - in this case, what you want is the most-recent version of a well-made, easy-to use player that can decode and play MKV files with a minimum of effort.


The VLC Media player (often called simply "VLC") is a free, widely-used player that meets all of these requirements (and more). The rest of the steps in this section will assume you've chosen VLC.
VLC isn't the only suitable player, however. You have many options when choosing MKV-compatible players, most of which function similarly to VLC. For instance, Media Player Classic (MPC) and MplayerX are both great choices.;
, Though the rest of this section assumes you've chosen the VLC player, this step will be very similar for nearly all media players. Find a download link online for the free media player of your choice. Be sure that the site is reputable and secure - Cnet.com is a safe, widely-used site that contains download links for a wide range of software, including the VLC Player. If you use Cnet, simply use "VLC Player" into the search bar for relevant results. Download the player, then run its installation app and follow the onscreen instructions to install it on your computer.


For ease of use, you may want to create a shortcut for the player on your desktop. This makes it easy to locate your new player on your computer - a great choice if you're not tech-savvy.
Be sure to download the correct version of VLC for your operating system. VLC has separate versions for both Windows and Macs.
 Once VLC is installed, launch the player. You may be required to confirm the player's ability to access information from the internet. You should see a black window with an orange traffic cone icon in the center. From here, you can access all of VLC's functions, including playing videos.
 Click the "Media" button in the toolbar at the top of the VLC window. Next, select "Open File." Locate and select your MKV file. In the vast majority of cases, your MKV should play perfectly fine!


Note - the above instructions are for the Windows version of VLC.
Though VLC should play the majority of MKV files without any problems, issues have been reported for MKV files that includes a video compression format called RealVideo. In this case, you may need to use a RealVideo-compatible player.

