 The goal of environment enrichment is to make an environment interesting and engaging. Environmental enrichment is another way to support a dog with dementia, since it will help keep a dog’s mind engaged and busy. Puzzle toys, such as Kong® toys, are great for dogs with dementia. They will challenge your dog to play until it gets what’s inside the toy (peanut butter, treats).Encourage your dog to play with its toys each day.If your dog has favorite toys that are looking worn out or damaged, replace these toys with new ones.
Provide your dog with a steady supply of toys so it can continue experiencing something new and different.Rotate the toys regularly.
 An obstacle course will give your dog a physical and mental challenge. It can be easy to make a homemade obstacle course. For example, purchase some PVC pipes from your local hardware store and place them in the ground outside so you and your dog can safely walk or run through them. You can also use sturdy children’s play tunnels that won’t move when your dog goes through them.Have your dog follow you through the course.This will allow your dog to know where to go, reducing the chances of it feeling lost or anxious from disorientation.
If you don’t have a yard, set up an obstacle course in your home with pieces of furniture.
 Dogs with dementia usually stop greeting family members and don’t seek affection as much as they used to.Therefore, increased social interaction is important for supporting a dog with dementia. If your dog has other doggie friends, set up a play date so they can play together. To increase human interaction, you and your family members can spend more quality time with your dog.


Quality time can be as simple as quietly petting and talking to your dog.
If your dog is friendly with some of your friends, invite them over to spend time with your dog.
Do not introduce a new pet to your dog.This could be distressing to a dog with dementia.
 Experiencing new sights, sounds, and smells is a good activity for dogs with dementia.To help your dog experience new things, go for a ride to a new location, such as a park, where you’ve never taken your dog. You could also walk your dog along a new route so your dog can see and sniff different things.

