 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need".;
, You'll be drawing lines to create the template for cutting:


Place the wreath roughly in the middle of the fun fur square.






Outline the outside of the wreath using the marker pen and mark another circle about 3 inches (7.5cm) outside of this outer circle.






Mark a big evenly spaced "X" in the middle.






It should now look like a large "bulls eye" shape.
 Once the lines are drawn in place, you can begin cutting as follows:


Start with the outer circle.






Return to the inner circle and cut down each line of the cross to the inner circle edge. This will create four "flaps".
 Cut each hole about an inch and a half (2cm) but not too much more than that or the balls risk slipping through and won't appear like an eyeball. Place the holes evenly around the whole circle.
 Pinch the fabric where the line is and cut the slit. Repeat this all the way around. Be aware that the fun fur is hard to work with and the fabric pieces will end up everywhere!

,


If the ping pong balls have labels on them, have the label facing away from the outside of the fabric (you should be working on the non-furry side or inside of the fabric).






Push one ball through each hole. Adjust as needed.
 This will seal it up but will take lots of glue, so be prepared to use a lot. Repeat until all the eyeballs have been inserted.
 Ensure that it has dried or you risk burning yourself.
 Be sure to sit it over them neatly.
 Continue until all pieces have been pinned onto the wreath.
 Make small cuts in the outer edge of the fabric to make a smoother finish to the pinned wreath. Cut to a depth of about an inch to an inch and a half (2.5-3cm) every 10 inches (25cm) or so. Then start pinning the cut outer pieces onto the wreath. As you pin, be careful not to pull too much on one side, otherwise the other side will be too short and you'll have to pin it all over again.
 Pull out the pin and glue that piece to the wreath (add glue to both the wreath and the fabric piece). Continue to do this all the way around until all the pinned pieces are glued instead of pinned. This will consume a lot of glue.
, Do this all the way around. A small black dot is all that's needed.
 Once the eyes are done, the wreath is ready to display. Add some invisible thread for a holder and hang on the door in time for Halloween.

