 Although you shouldn't let yourself worry too much about the expense of a gift, it can't hurt to see if and where you can get a deal on the gift you've chosen to purchase. If it's a fairly common item, you'll probably have an option of a few different stores near you. Although prices for some items are standardized, there's always a possibility that one store will have some sort of edge over the others. Checking to compare prices of stores or online marketplaces doesn't take long to do, and you could end up saving yourself some money by doing so.


You can sometimes take advantage of great sales. Certain sales, like Black Friday or Cyber Monday, offer major discounts on items., If you're buying this gift for a particular date, such as a birthday or anniversary, it stands to reason that you'll need the gift ready on the day of, and preferably at least a few days before that. Much postage takes 1-2 weeks to get a package on your doorstep. You should take this delay into consideration when you make your purchase. Due to unforeseen issues with the postal service, it's a good idea to give yourself at least a week's leeway.


If your boyfriend lives with you, you should consider the risk that he may be the one to see the package on your doorstep before you. If this is a risk you should have the package shipped somewhere else like a friend's place.
 Whether you're going to a store or buying the gift online, there will come a moment of truth where you hand over your money and get the gift. Although it's most likely your boyfriend will love the gift you bought for him, it's always good form to ask for a gift receipt. That way, if for whatever reason your boyfriend would prefer something else, he can get store credit instead.


Online purchases will take at least a week to arrive on your doorstep.



You can put your gift in an envelope as well if it's fairly small.
 If you live with your boyfriend in a fairly small apartment for instance, it might be tough to find a place where he is sure not to look. Inconspicuous places like the backs of kitchen cupboards and cleaning supply closets can be great for hiding the gift until the time is right.


If you think it's going to be enough of an issue to hide it, you can always hide it somewhere away from home, such as your parents' home or a friend's place.

