 Imagine you were trying to stencil something onto a piece of paper. Would you want a flat sheet, or crumpled sheet? The same concept applies to your hair. You want to have sleek, straight hair as your canvas, because you will be able to hold the stencil flat against it while creating your design.


If you don’t have natural straight hair, you can use a hair dryer or flat iron to straighten it.
If you have very short hair, like a buzz cut, that also works perfectly too.;
, If you decide to leave it down, you will need to style it in a way that there is very little movement. Sleek bobs work well, as well as long, straight hair that can lie flat on your back or in front of your shoulders.The reason this works best is because the hair will stay in the position it was in when the stenciling was done.


If you create a beautiful design on straight hair over one shoulder, it will be ruined if you throw your hair over your back.
 If you decide to put your hair up for this style, make sure that the pulled back hair is sleek and smooth. The stenciling will be going against your head on this pulled back hair. The advantage is that you know this hair will not budge, and your stencil creation will stay intact.Ponytails and buns work great for this style.
 Once your hair is styled how you want, add some hold with your favorite hairspray. This will help to achieve that really smooth surface that will make the stencil designs look great. When it comes to stencil patterned hair, sleek is the name of the game.
 You can find regular plastic or rubber stencils at a craft store. Rubber stencils are ideal because you can press them to your hair, but either can work. Consider the different sizes and decide which ones will fit best on your hairstyle. Simple things like flowers, stars, hearts, and polka dots work well for this.If you have a very specific design in mind, you can try your hand at creating your own stencil.
 The easiest way to do this is by using the temporary colored hairspray that you can find in party supply stores, costume shops, and some beauty supply stores. If you have trouble finding them there, you can find plenty of colors online. You can stick with one color, or you can use a handful of colors to make your hair art really pop., Try holding the stencils where you want the design. You may realize that it’s impossible to hold the stencil with a sturdy hand while also spraying the hairspray. It’s extremely helpful to enlist a friend to help you out.They can help make sure the stencil is flat and exactly where you want it. They can also help do the back sections, if you’re doing them.









If you’re only doing a few stencils near the front, you may not need any help at all.
Give your hairsprays a few test sprays as well, so you know how close or far away from your hair you should be holding it to fit the spray inside the stencil design.
 Once you’ve decided where the designs will go, get to it! Hold the stencil as flat as possible, so that the paint will not bleed out from the intended area.Carefully spray the hairspray so that it goes within the stencil design and not outside the stencil.
 With hair stenciling, you can create amazing, colorful designs, and you aren’t limited to one color per design. For example, you can use pink spray on half a design, and fill in the other half of the stencil with yellow spray. You can even layer colors to create a tie-dye effect. Get creative!








You can always practice techniques on a sheet of paper before trying them on your hair.
 Once you’re satisfied with the hair stenciling you’ve done, add a bit of hairspray. This will do two things. It will help seal the colored hairspray to your tresses, and it’ll also add a bit of extra hold to really ensure that your canvas doesn’t move.







