 The malic acid in strawberries is a natural emulsifier that helps removes surface stains and plaque. To make your own whitening toothpaste, simply mash a 2-3 strawberries in a cup and add ½ a teaspoon of baking soda to clean your teeth. This paste can be used a few times per week with improved results over a longer period of use. Since the malic and citric acid in strawberries can erode enamel, use this remedy in conjunction with a fluoride toothpaste.Make sure you floss afterwards, as strawberries have tiny seeds that can get caught between your teeth and in your gums.;
, Potassium, magnesium, and manganese can be found in a ripe banana. These three vitamins can help remove stains and clean teeth. Simply peel a banana, take a small strip of the peel, and rub it on the surface of your teeth for two minutes every day. Be sure to brush afterwards., Apple cider vinegar is a multipurpose household product which also has natural teeth whitening properties. Although results may not be instant, using apple cider vinegar in conjunction with baking soda can help remove surface stains and whiten your teeth. To make your own teeth whitening paste, mix two teaspoons of apple cider vinegar with ½ teaspoon of baking soda, which can be used a few times per week. You can also simply use apple cider vinegar as a natural mouthwash along with your daily oral care routine, by swishing 1 fluid oz. in your mouth after meals for 2–3 minutes., Coconut oil is a natural emulsifier which helps clean your teeth, reduce stains and fight off plaque and cavity causing bacteria. Mix a small amount of mashed peppermint or spearmint leaves (approx. 1–2 grams) with 2–3 tablespoons of coconut oil to use as a whitening paste or mouthwash. The peppermint leaves help keep your breath fresh throughout the day. Since coconut oil is gentle and non-abrasive, it can be used daily and is safe for people with sensitive teeth and gums., Instead of using toothpaste, dip your toothbrush into a sea salt mixture for 3–5 minutes, made by dissolving ½ teaspoon of salt in 1 fluid oz. of water, and brush your teeth with it. The salt temporarily increases the pH balance of your mouth, turning it into an alkaline environment in which germs and bacteria cannot survive. A salt water mouth rinse after meals can also help keep your mouth and throat clean while soothing and healing mouth sores., Neem twigs and miswak sticks are used in many cultures to clean teeth. After chewing the bark off the end, you can separate fibrous bristles in the pulp of the wood, which can be used to brush the teeth as normal. The act of chewing and sucking on the twigs likewise helps to clean the mouth.