 To qualify for winning the cook-off, you must follow and adhere to all the contest rules. For example, if the rules prohibit you from using lighter fluid on the coals within your grill, start the grill using newspaper and matches instead.


Obtain a copy of the rules by consulting with the panel of judges for the cook-off or by visiting the website for the cook-off.;
, This practice may help you determine the flavors of and cooking methods for preparation of your meat. For example, if you are participating in a cook-off in the city of Memphis, but your judges are from Kansas City, they may prefer sweeter Kansas City-style flavors as opposed to Memphis-style flavors rich in vinegar.


Read the short summaries or biographies about the panel of judges in your cook-off rules, brochure, or from the cook-off website.
Introduce yourself to the judges far in advance before the cook-off, if possible, to determine the background and experience of each judge.
 Engaging in forums and discussions about barbecue may give you new, additional tips and ideas for unique and flavorful barbecue dishes.


Perform an Internet search using keywords such as "barbecue forums" or "barbecue discussions" to locate online barbecue communities.
 Depending on the competition rules, you may be required to purchase a fire extinguisher or sanitation supplies for your booth at the cook-off.
 High-quality meat is considered to be fresh and either all-natural or organic, and in most cases may taste better than pre-packaged meat found in many grocery stores.


Consult with farmers in your local area or region who can provide you with fresh meat, or order high-quality meat from farmers in other regions.
Visit grocers who specialize in all-natural or organic products to purchase your meat for the barbecue.
 Barbecue cook-offs often judge participants on their ability to produce a new, unique barbecue flavor.


Try combinations of different sauces, dry spices, and cooking methods to develop a unique flavor based on the rules of your cook-off. For example, if the cook-off allows you to use either cherry wood or hickory wood in your grill, experiment using both types of wood to determine which produces the better flavor.
 Most cook-off judges prefer barbecue dishes in which the sauce does not retain a watery or runny consistency.


Create a glaze that sticks to the meat without dripping or add small amounts of honey, or dehydrated honey, to your flavor in order to decrease your chances of a mess.
 Judges will rank your food according to how appetizing the dish appears, and may also inspect the area in which you are preparing your barbecue for cleanliness.


Use paper towels to wipe up sauce spills from counters and sauce streaks from the edges and sides of boxes or containers.
If you place toothpicks in your meat, use neutral, wood colors instead of colored toothpicks. The dye on colored toothpicks may transfer onto the meat when the toothpick is pulled out.
 Warm or hot barbecue may taste better to the judges and give the impression that the food is fresh; whereas cold food may give the impression that the prepared food is less fresh.


Cook the meat shortly before the judges' taste test or use a chafing dish to keep the barbecue warm after cooking.

