 A headshot is an initial impression you make on a casting agent and director and is required if you're going to audition for a TV show.A good headshot for a television audition will embody who you are as an actor or actress. Avoid static facial expressions and think about the type of roles you are auditioning for.


If it's a comedy, you'll want to smile.
If you are trying to audition for drama or romance, a more serious or sultry look may be what casting directors are looking for.Do not cover up imperfections on your face, like moles or freckles. Your headshot should look like you because casting directors want to have a good impression of what you truly look like. If you get a drastic haircut or get older, consider getting your headshot taken again.
Look for photographers online and request to see some photos that they have taken in the past.Don't settle for a sub-par photographer. Your headshot is like your calling card. If it's low quality, it will leave a negative impression on casting directors.;
, Various websites post open casting calls in some major cities across the country like New York, LA, Boston, and Chicago. Choose the closest city for you and take the opportunities to audition. Sometimes even websites like Craigslist will post opportunities for roles in smaller, independent films.


Avoid auditions that require you to pay, or casting directors that you can't find online, as these are typically scams.Some useful websites to find casting opportunities include www.Playbill.com, www.Backstage.com, and www.Castingnetworks.com.If you can afford it, move to a major city so you can take advantage of casting opportunities.
Opportunities on smaller sets will give you the experience some casting directors are looking for.
 Many casting directors are looking for actors that are a part of the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. These roles are made available to members of the SAG-AFTRA Union.As a member, you'll receive advanced notice for union auditions, and you'll have a greater capacity to network with other actors.
To be eligible to join the SAG-AFTRA Union, you must have completed three days of work under the SAG-AFTRA collective bargaining agreement.
Another way to be eligible is to join an affiliated performers union like AEA, AGMA, ACTRA, or AGVA for one year as an actor.The SAG-AFTRA Union offers additional benefits like health insurance and retirement benefits.The SAG-AFTRA requires monthly dues as well as an initial registration fee.
If you are not part of the union, look for nonunion opportunities.
 Booking agencies and successful agents will usually have a network in the industry and can help you obtain auditions.Search for local booking agencies in your area and find one that has a high rating from previous actors and actresses. Use any networking connections that you have in the industry and ask friends if they've worked with any suitable agents.Choose an agent or agency that you feel comfortable with.
If you find work yourself you may catch an agent's eye. Make sure to look for work on your own while searching for an agent.
 Actors can get their foot in the door by creating a strong digital presence. Make sure that you have a working website and that your IMDB is updated. If you are brand new to acting, you can try to make videos on YouTube or other popular video websites to get recognition. Register social media accounts on all the most popular platforms including Twitter, Snapchat, Instagram, and Tumblr.


Keep your social media regularly updated so your fans keep coming back for more content and feel a greater connection to you.
Refrain from saying anything offensive, and abstain from arguing with people online.
Agents are looking for a previous track record that includes a body of work. If they can't find you online, they have nothing to judge but your audition tape.
 Get to know everyone. You never know when another actor or actress will get sick and the studio needs to find a replacement quickly. If you don't know anyone else in the industry, you can meet other actors at acting workshops held in your area. You can also go to theatrical performances and mingle with people after the show. If you do end up getting an audition, there will be other actors and actresses in the waiting room that you can talk to.If you know the right people you'll hear about auditions before they are made available to others vying for the same role.
Try to be polite and shake hands with everyone you meet. Remember the names of people who can help advance your career.
Other actors and actresses can give you advice or tips on your auditioning technique.

