 Everyone's style is influenced by another's. Even Osamu Tezuka the "Father Of Anime" was inspired by Walt Disney to create characters with huge eyes, which became the anime style we know today. Find a good artist that you admire, "shadow" their work by looking at how they draw their bodies, proportions and how it works together overall. This way you can see the mechanics of their style.;
, You've found an artist and you've shadowed them. Now, think of yourself. What are some line styles that you are comfortable with? Sharp, quick, pointy lines that feather out? Smooth, round, bold lines? Jagged edges, and pointy features? What lines make your art yours? This is important because your lines are what makes up the "mood" of your style and the "mood" of the characters.
 You've found a good artist to shadow, and let's say, you're in love with sharp pointy edges and quick-feathered features. You've got your inspiration and an idea of lines you're comfortable with...now what? Grab some paper, a pencil and get started! Start doodling random characters using the line style you chose. Experiment by varying the size and shapes of limbs and features, and placement of things.
 After you've developed the basics to your personal style, it's time to explore the 2nd most important thing in developing a new unique style - color! Color is important because it works with your line work to create the "mood" and "feel" of not only the style but your characters too. Sit back and think. Do you want happy-go-lucky bright colors, or gloomy, dark colors? Are you thinking exciting and ravishing or monochromatic, like the old fashioned cartoons back in the day?

, Once you've got a general idea of the line style and color scheme, it's time to put it to the test! Will it hold or flop? Is it a versatile style or can you only go one way with it? Try going out to public places like the mall, or the park and draw who and what you see in your new-found style. Draw different variations of what you see and if it doesn't work, keep tweaking it!

, It will hopefully be unique to you and what you like, and you might just make your own comic book, manga book, or get your own Cartoon Show!

,