 Different coffee providers offer an array of products from fresh locally roasted coffees to mega-corporation coffee like Folgers. Coffee is the number 2 export in the world second only to Oil and one of the fastest growing industries is the specialty coffee market. Local coffee roasters can often provide a substantially better coffee to the consumer at only a little extra in price. The difference amounts in cents per cup. Three benefits can be found by purchasing local coffee; one you’re supporting your local community, two you’re helping the farmers who grow specialty coffee, and three you’re getting a better overall product.;
, Almost all coffee service providers will provide you with the equipment you need to use to brew your coffee at no additional charge. Many providers will skimp on the equipment they use to cut back on costs. However, in the long run this will cost you more in terms of time and money and will end up costing the supplier as well. There are a handful of quality coffee manufacturers who spend years developing their machines to be reliable and consistent. A faulty machine can cause problems in maintenance and in consistency. Too often machines will break down or over/under fill your carafes. The best coffee in the world can taste mediocre when brewed with shoddy equipment. Look for providers who use BUNN, Curtis, Jura or Fetco as their equipment.
 A few key things to note when interviewing your provider is to ask them how often they clean the carafes, how well they manage your inventory, and how quick they’re to respond to requests for maintenance and service. You want to find a coffee service provider who takes care of your break-room and keeps you fully stocked without overstocking you. A good coffee service provider should be able to provide same or next day service for your requests.
 A good coffee supplier should be able to provide numerous references for any job they’re bidding on. Depending on the size of the account you should ask for references that are similar to your company. Make sure to call the references and ask them about their service.
 A coffee service provider who requires a contract is something to be wary of. A good coffee supplier should rely on their strength of product and exceptional service to keep an account. Too often businesses get stuck in 1 year, 3 year, or even 5 year contracts with a coffee service provider only to find out that the customer service is shoddy and the product is abysmal. Don’t sign a contract but if you have to sign a contract, make it no longer than 1 year.

