 Be a friend to brighten up the days of your friends. Get yourself happy! What do you love? Sports, fashion, parties, movies, sleepovers, your parents, pets, gumball machines? Whatever it is, do these activities joyfully and include your friends.


If you aren't feeling positive about anything, be honest with yourself and decide what you need to fix and make a pact to really try. Once you have tried, you will start loving your life and your friends will notice.;
, Your friends will be attracted by the real you. If they're attracted by you being someone else, it won't last and when you can't keep up the charade, you'll find yourself around the wrong kinds of friends.
 Once you are proud of yourself, it will be easy to be a really cool friend.
 These are the key to being a success with friendships. Have fun with everyone and show kindness to all. Aim to be friends with all people, including your close friends.
 Look past the differences and extend your friendships to many people. You can't be unpopular with a ton of friends, that’s for sure.
 If at a sleepover, do it well. Blast the music and have good food! Be hyper and be fun. No one can turn that down.
 Even if you are really annoyed with a friend or they've been mean to you, stay nice. Learn to forgive and move on. It keeps things light and friendly.
 Be sure to not laugh at them but with them. Be silly but not over the top. Make simple jokes to make others smile. Don't hurt anyone's feelings or spread gossip.
 If you have been a bad friend, say you're sorry and mean it. Don't thrive on it, and don't fight. Just move on. The sooner the better.
 Everyone makes mistakes and nobody wants a friend with a dramatic head. Solve the problem instead of making it bigger than it actually is.
 If you are a clingy person, remind yourself not just to stick to one person, but stick to many of them, to even yourself out. Clingy behavior can drive friends away.
 It's really hard to see your friends getting close to others. Instead of being jealous, think about how you still have your friend and how they will never turn their back on you. If they do, get new friends. Spend time with people you enjoy being around.
 Friends make stupid mistakes all the time and you just gotta accept that. Don't give the silent treatment, cold shoulder or even worse, be mean to them. We are all human. But if they purposely do something that hurts you, in a mean way, then get another friend.

