 Sorting out your reasons for becoming a vegetarian and having strong convictions concerning your diet will help you stick to your new lifestyle. Knowing your reasons is also important to help you explain to other people why you are a vegetarian; having a ready answer for the inevitable questions makes the journey a little easier.


Common reasons for becoming a vegetarian include moral or ethical concerns regarding the treatment of animals on factory farms and in slaughter houses, a desire to ensure equal food distribution, religious convictions, health needs, environmental concerns, or a combination of any of these.
For some vegetarians, an intense disliking of the taste and texture of meat begins early on, and is later bolstered by innate feelings of interconnection with animals and the world as a whole.;
, Start with those with whom you're close, such as your parents or partner. This will alert them to the need for dietary changes in the home and also gives you the first opportunity to explain your choice to people who are close to you and are hopefully likely to be supportive. Be ready for disagreement from some people. It is not considered the "norm" in many cultures to eat vegetarian only, and while few people ever ask a meat eater why he or she chooses to eat meat, very few people hold back on asking a vegetarian why he or she does not eat meat.


It's a good idea to have some solid research to back up your choice to be vegetarian. While it shouldn't have to be the case that you need to justify your decision, there will be times when being armed with the facts can ward off unkind or unhelpful comments about your diet. Good things to point out include how being vegetarian will improve your health and help you fit with your moral or religious views about the importance of kindness to animals, etc.
When informing your family of your choice, stay calm and polite, even if they find it difficult to accept.

Avoid arguments. Some people will treat your choice to be vegetarian as a political statement or even as a personal affront. This is both annoying and unfair and can often result in "baiting" you into an argument about how human beings are supposed to eat meat, and so on. Avoid getting into a fight by restating why it matters to you and how you feel healthier for your choice.
Offer to make a vegetarian meal for family and friends. A tasty meal is often the best advertisement for vegetarianism.

