 To take the test you will need to talk to the AP coordinator at your local school. He will organize the testing location and time. He will also collect fees.


According to College Board, you do not need to attend an AP course to take the test. However, your school might not be willing to offer you the test if you did not take the course.
If you are homeschooled, you can contact AP Services to be put in touch with schools that have AP coordinators. Schools with AP coordinators can administer the test to homeschool students. You should contact the coordinator at the local school by no later than March 15.;
, Every year you have the option of sending one free cumulative score report to a college of your choice. You should know in advance what college you want to send the score to and you should list it on the first “registration” answer sheet on your exam day.The report will include every AP test that you have ever taken.
If you take an AP test before your senior year, you can send your existing to the college of your choosing. High scores can help you get into rigorous universities. However, you will need to resend the scores after your senior year to receive credit for AP exams taken during that year.
You should bring with you the name of the college you want to send your score report to, as well as the city and state that it is located in. Also, you should find the four digit college code for the university on the college board website. The college board uses the same college codes for the AP and SAT exams.If you sign up to send the score before taking the test you will not be able to prevent the college from seeing poor scores. However, if you do wait, you can have a poor test score canceled for free before sending the report., To request score reports for additional colleges, you will need to obtain the proper information from the exam to identify yourself. There are two ways to do this. You can either provide your student ID or the AP number.


Some schools provide their students with a unique student ID number. If your school follows this practice, you can write your student ID number on your AP answer sheet. You will then be able to use this ID number to access your score report online.
In your AP student pack you will receive bar-coded number labels that you attach to your exam materials. Keep one for yourself. Under the barcode is an eight digit AP number that can be used to identify your test. The AP number changes every year, so you will need to keep track of the year you received the AP number, which should also be listed on the barcode.
 If you have registered online for the SAT or ordered AP scores in the past, you should have an online account with the College Board. If this is the first time that you have taken either exam, go to colleboard.org and click on the “Sign Up Now” button.


You should refrain from creating more than one account with College Board; it can make it harder to access your scores.
If you have forgotten your username or password, use the “forgot username” or “forgot password” option to retrieve them. The site will ask you for some identifying information. If you cannot provide sufficient information, College Board will email your account information to the address you have provided., In early July, your scores should become available. Visit Apscore.org for more detailed information about when your scores will become available. You will need to use either your AP number or student ID number to access the score.If you lost your AP Number click on “I do not have an AP number” when requesting your scores from APscores.org. The number will be sent to the email address you provided when signing up for the test. If your email address has changed, you can call AP Services at 888-225-5427.
 Some colleges require AP scores to be sent by July 15th. It costs $15 dollars to send a score report, and $25 to send it express.


Any orders placed between July 6th and July 15th will automatically be expedited without any additional fees.Rushed deliveries will arrive between 5-9 days.
 Scores are stored by the College Board for 4 years. If your exam was administered more than 4 years ago, you will need to fill out and mail or fax an archived score report. The form is available on the College Board Website. The necessary address is provided on the form.

