 The old rules still apply: no jeans, no revealing clothing, and no running shoes. Men should wear a suit or a collared shirt, nice shoes, and a tie. But women have more freedom with the “suit only” approach for job interviews.Pair a silk blouse with a pencil skirt, a cropped jacket, and heels, or a graphic collared shirt with fitted dress pants and dressy flats. You could also wear a sheath dress with a belt and a cardigan to keep your look professional and unique.
 It can be tricky to not underdress or overdress for a dinner party. So go straight to the source and casually ask your host what they would suggest wearing for the party.If you aren’t sure about the dress code but don’t want to bother the host, women can stash a pretty scarf and dangly earrings in their bags to dress up an outfit. Men can carry a blazer with them or put a tie in their pocket to spruce up their look if need be.
 Dressy casual could be a top with interesting details and a skirt or tailored pants for women. Or it could be trousers and a dress shirt for men.


Women can wear heels or fancy flats. Men can wear a leather loafer, oxfords, or a slip-on shoe.Finish your outfit with a blazer or sports coat for men, and a fitted jacket for women.
 Think about the culture of your office. Is it conservative? Or more laid back? No matter how relaxed your office environment is or the occasion, avoid wearing anything too provocative.A too-revealing outfit can prevent you from being taken seriously in the office.
Women can go for fitted trousers with a nice top or blouse and a blazer. A wrap dress and simple jewelry is a great way to look evening-appropriate and still professional.
Men can wear a patterned or textured tie and a collared shirt in a print or with interesting pocket detailing. Go for fitted pants, instead of jeans.
 You can wear other hues like black or red, but white is still reserved for the wedding party. Consider the season and setting of the wedding when deciding what to wear.A backyard summer wedding means you could wear a simple silk dress in a bold color for women or print, or a simple collared shirt and cotton pants for men.
A fall or winter wedding may call for a form fitting sweater dress and boots for women, or a v-neck sweater over a collared shirt for men.
 Your outfit doesn’t have to be black but it does have to be respectful. Clothing in dark neutral colors like navy, brown, or forest green are all good options. Skip any clothing or accessories that are too festive, unless you’ve been told otherwise by the grieving party.