 Start your oven when you begin preparing the ingredients so that it is hot and ready to go once your dough is ready.
 To cream the butter and sugar, make sure the butter is already at room temperature and mix it with a wooden spoon until it's creamy. Then, press the sugar into the butter with a fork and stir the ingredients together until you've made a whipped-like, light yellow mixture.As you cream the ingredients, use a rubber spatula to scrape the extra mixture off of the sides of the bowl, so you make sure you fully mix all of the butter and sugar together.
You can use a stand mixer or beaters if you have them.
 Once the butter and sugar mix is nice and creamy, add the vanilla to the mix before beginning to add the dry ingredients.
 Just hold a sieve or sifter over a different bowl and gently pour in the flour and baking soda, shaking it lightly to allow the ingredients to absorb some air while falling into the bowl. When you're done, mix the ingredients together until they are fully incorporated.
 Once the ingredients are mixed together, roll little balls a bit smaller than a lime, either onto a board or into your hands, until you've used up all of the dough.Alternatively, you can roll the cookie dough out flat between two pieces of wax paper and cut into shapes with a cookie cutter.
Placing the dough in the freezer for 5 minutes may make it easier to cut shapes because it will be less sticky. , Place each cookie on an ungreased cookie sheet or on parchment paper. If you are making round sugar cookies, squish each ball with the bottom of a glass or another handy kitchen item.You may want to sprinkle the top of each cookie with granulated sugar.
 Check up on them periodically to make sure they don't burn. When they're done, remove them from the oven and let them sit for 5 minutes.


Larger cookies will take longer to bake than smaller cookies. If you wish to make mini-cookies, check the time before 10 minutes.
 After a brief period of cooling, enjoy these tasty eggless sugar cookies on their own or with a glass of milk.


Store cookies in an airtight container for up to a week, but be sure they have completely cooled before placing them in the container.

