 The thyroid gland plays a very important role in a number of critical functions. The thyroid helps maintain energy levels, normal temperature, weight, clear thinking, the response of the body to other hormones, and the synthesis of proteins. The thyroid is located at the base of the neck and wraps around the front of the neck, like a bow tie or a butterfly. Thyroid problems can develop suddenly or develop over the course of years.The most common conditions that affect the thyroid are hypothyroidism, which is an underactive thyroid, and hyperthyroidism, an overactive thyroid.
The most common form of hypothyroid disease is Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder where the body is producing antibodies to the thyroid. This leads to the decreased production of thyroid hormones and an underactive thyroid.
 There are a number of factors that may put you at risk for hypothyroidism. Knowing the risk factors can help you determine if any symptoms you have may be related to your thyroid function. If any of these risk factors apply to you, talk to your physician about thyroid screening. Screening can help diagnose thyroid disease early. These risk factors include:Age: As with many disorders, the risk of hypothyroidism increases as you age.
Gender: Women are at greater risk for hypothyroidism.
Family History: Thyroid disease tends to run in families. If a close relative has had thyroid disease, you are at greater risk.
Autoimmune disease: The presence of any autoimmune disease increases the risk of thyroid disease.
Medical history of radiation to the neck or chest.
 Thyroid disease is diagnosed by both physical symptoms and lab results. Your doctor will take blood and test your thyroid stimulating hormones (TSH) to determine if you are at risk.


Symptoms of hypothyroidism include fatigue, depression, difficulty concentrating, weight gain, slower heartbeats, dry skin, thinning hair, sensitivity to cold, irregular menstrual cycles, constipation, and swelling around the neck.

