 Try to choose the softest washcloth you can find. After all, it will be going on "boo boos."


Try to find something measuring about 13 by 13 inches (33.02 by 33 centimeters).Use white, brown, or cream for a realistic bunny.
A soft color, such as baby blue or pastel pink, is ideal for a baby.
Consider using your child's favorite color.;
, You want to end up with a triangle shape. If your washcloth as a soft side and a not-so-soft side, then fold it so that the soft side is on the outside.
 Start rolling from the top, pointed part towards the flat, folded part. Make sure that you roll it up tightly, or the bunny will be too loose and drop the ice.
 You should end up with a narrow U-shape. The two loose ends will become the ears.
 Grab hold of the two loose ends and bring them toward the folded, center part of the U-shape. Hold your bunny tightly.
 This will make the head, of the bunny.
 Cut a 12 to 14 inch (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) long piece of ribbon, and tie it around the bunny's neck in a bow.Position the bow just to the left or right of the ears.


Try to use a thinner ribbon. ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) would be ideal.You can use any color of ribbon you like, but consider using a contrasting color. For example, if the bunny is white, use a pink ribbon. If the bunny is cream colored, try a blue ribbon.
 Use fabric glue to glue a small, pink pompom to the middle of the face to make. Add some googly eyes right above the nose. Use fabric glue to attach them, even if they are adhesive.If you don't have googly eyes or pompoms at home, try one of the following options instead:


Draw the eyes, nose, and mouth on using a permanent marker.Make the nose pink, and the eyes blue or black. If you want, you can add some whiskers as well.
Sew or glue on a pink button for the nose, and two black or light blue buttons for the eyes. If you are using glue, be sure to use fabric glue.
 This will make the tail. Do not use a cotton ball, however; they fall off too easily, and can be swallowed by very young children.
 You can use a regular ice cube or "reusable" ice cube. Reusable ice cubes are made from plastic, so they don't get wet or soggy.If the hole is too small, you can carefully widen it with your fingers. This will move the rubber band closer to the front of the head.
 The washcloth doesn't allow the ice to touch the skin, so it numbs it in a more comfortable manner. This is what makes it more suitable for children than an ice pack.To help your child feel better, consider saying one of the following poems:If you fall and bump your knee,/Ask for a little help from me./I’ll hold a piece of ice for you./Your boo-boo will be good as new!
If a boo-boo has you feeling crummy,/Stick an ice cube in my tummy./Hold it to your boo-boo tight,/Soon everything will be alright!
When the tears begin to flow,/From a bruise or bump or blow,/Boo-Boo Bunny is so nice,/In its tummy holding ice,/Gently soothing all the while,/Sadness turning into a smile.
Boo Boo Bunny is here today,/To help your boo boo go away./This funny, fuzzy, furry friend,/Will cool the hurt to help it end./She'll make the ouch go bye-bye fast,/So hold her until the pain has passed./And when the boo-boo is all through,/She'll still be here to play with you.

