 This list might include names passed down from beloved family members, friends, or influential figures in your lives. There are no rules or limits to what your baby’s name can be.Don’t be afraid to consider significant names from many different sources. Beloved book or movie characters, songs, childhood pets, or even the street you grew up on can be turned into a special and meaningful baby name.;
, Perhaps, you two were introduced by your mutual friend, Dora, your first conversation was about Charles Dickens, or you shared your first kiss under the Eiffel Tower in Paris.


If you and your partner both have an equally long list of personal name ideas, a good way to compromise might be to decide on a name with mutual significance from your shared past.
 Family trees are a great source of inspiration as you’re searching for significant baby names. Some families have incorporated common middle names or used specific ethnic origins for generations.


Don’t feel pressure to conform to your families’ naming norms, but it’s always a good idea to ask about them so that you keep your options open.Asking your families about naming traditions or trends may also help you and your partner compromise on a meaningful name.
For example, you may find out that you both had a great-grandmother named Mary or that you each had an ancestor from Ireland.
 Let inspiration come to you during the special and tender time of pregnancy. The good news is that you have approximately 10 months to decide, so you have lots of time.


For example, you or your partner might feel the baby’s first flutters during a walk by the ocean, which might inspire an ocean-themed name, like Ariel or Kai.
Vivid dreams and memories are a common symptom of pregnancy, and many expectant moms claim that the names they choose for their babies came to them during dreams they had while pregnant.
 Perhaps your baby will be born right when summer roses are in full bloom or during the very first snowfall of the year, alluding to names like Summer, Eden, Rose, Rosalie, Snow, Elsa, Winter, or December.
 You and your partner might decide on the perfect name once you’ve met your baby and have a chance to get acquainted.She might surprise your family and be born with red hair, just like your great Aunt Josephine.
If you have a boy with serene features, perhaps he’ll remind your partner of a poem by your favorite poet, inspiring you to choose a name like Walt or Earnest.

