 It's also best not to participate in combat if you're planning to complete the bar crawl in one sitting, as your skill ability will drop significantly.;
, Using a Games Necklace is the fastest method. You can also walk north from Seer's Village.
 To start the bar crawl, you must get a bar crawl card. Know that if you lose the card at any time, you must start the entire mini-quest all over again.
 You must talk to the bartender and choose the answer option that you are there for the bar crawl. Each bartender will give you a specific drink with a different cost. You will automatically drink them after talking to them. After successfully drinking the drink, it will be crossed off your card.


Blurberry's Bar: Go to the 2nd floor of the Grand Tree. If you have an agility level of 37, take the shortcut to the back of the tree from the outpost. Order a Fire Toad Blast from Blurberry for 10 coins.
Forester's Arms: Travel to Seer's Village. The bar is right next to the Lonestone. Order a Liverbane Ale for 18 coins.
Dragon Inn: Go to the bar in Yanille. Order a Fire Brandy for 12 coins.
Flying Horse Inn: The bar is located on the west of the north Ardougne bank. Order a Heart Stopper for 8 coins.
Dead Man's Chest: Take the charter ship in West Ardougne to Brimhaven for 30 coins. Go to the bar, southwest of the agility arena. Order a Supergrog for 15 coins.
Karamja Spirits Bar: Walk East to Musa Point and go to the bar in the southeast corner of the island. Order an Ape Bite Liqueur for 7 coins.
Rusty Anchor: Take the charter ship from Musa Point to Port Sarim. Order a Black Skull Ale from the bar for 8 coins. This is the only drink with no side effects.
Rising Sun: Go to the bar in Falador, which is right next to the west bank. Order a Hand of Death Cocktail for 70 coins. This is the worst drink in the list, as it takes away 200 of your life points, so come prepared with food for low levels.
Blue Moon Inn: Go to the Varrock bar, near the south entrance. Order an Uncle Humphrey's Gutrot for 50 coins.
Jolly Boar Inn: This bar is located in the Northeast corner of Varrock, just East of the Lumberyard. Order a Olde Suspiciouse for 10 coins.
 Talk to any guard and show them your completed card.

