 During the process of obtaining a green card, the US government will require proof of your marriage.This is to prevent people from faking marriages to gain citizenship. A marriage license will be required. In addition, US officials may look for the following proofs of marriage.Joint bank accounts, or adding your spouse as a beneficiary on other accounts.
If you've lived together, deeds and/or leases that have both partners' names.
Joint tax returns.
Evidence of a long relationship, like phone records demonstrating that you've called each other, or receipts for large purchases.
 The American citizen spouse must fill out Form I-130 and file it with the proper office. This will establish a relationship between the two of you and start the process of bringing you to the US.Depending on where your spouse lives, they may file in one of two locations. Click here to find the right office based on their location.
This form also requires a $535 filing fee. It is payable via check or money order.
Also include copies of evidence of marriage.
 If you're living overseas, you'll have to apply for an immigrant visa after Form I-130 is approved.There are a number of steps to this process.


Fortunately, there is no quota on the number of visas issued to immediate family members of US citizens. This should cut down the wait time on having your visa approved.Fill out Form DS-260. This form must be completed online. The link is here. When you complete the form, be sure to print the page and bring it in for your interview.Send any required documents to the National Visa Center. The specific documents that will be required will depend on your case. They can range from financial data to proof of your current address.Complete your interview. After all of the supporting documents have been submitted and approved, then the US State Department will want to interview you and your spouse. Be sure to attend this interview and honestly answer any questions they might ask., If all goes well, then you'll be granted an immigrant visa to enter the US. Use this to enter the US and begin living with your spouse. When you enter the US with your immigrant visa, you immediately become a permanent resident. The immigrant visa stamped upon entry serves as a temporary proof of permanent residence while you wait for the plastic green card., After you enter the US, the green card will arrive within a few weeks.

