 This can be your biggest clue that she may have romantic intentions. When you hang out with her in a group of friends, does her body face yours more often? Does she tend to sit closer to you than anyone else? Does she touch you more often than her other friends? If the answer to these questions is yes, she may have more than platonic feelings.Some other examples of body language that may indicate interest when she’s talking to you:


She touches her hair a lot.
She smiles more frequently.
She fiddles with random objects.
She sits or stands with her shoulders slightly back, accentuating her cleavage.;
, If she has developed romantic feelings towards you, she may be a little more awkward around you. Conversely, she may also start hanging out with you more. She may start responding to your texts quicker or initiating contact more often. If you find she’s bringing up her family and background more often, she may be trying to get you to reciprocate. This may mean she’s feeling out issues of long-term compatibility and a possible future romantic relationship.This is the easiest sign to misread and can mean a number of things. If she wants to spend more time with you, don’t jump to conclusions! While this may mean she’s romantically interested, it’s just as likely that she simply wants to strengthen your friendship.
 If she’s reluctant to share her feelings, she may start to avoid eye contact with you. Conversely, you may catch her staring a bit too long at you. If you notice her eyes are consistently dilated when she looks at you, there is a good chance attraction is there., If she constantly compliments you or mentions wanting a serious relationship with “someone,” she may feel the same way you do and is just as nervous about making that first move. If she’s including you in important life events that she isn’t bringing her other guy friends to, this may be a big hint. These can be anything from a vacation to an office Christmas party to meeting members of her family.

