 The condition actually begins with the deposition of plaque (a slimy substance) around the teeth. Plaque is the media where the harmful bacteria thrive and form colonies. These bacteria produce acids which not only damage the tooth enamel but also affect the gums.


Plaque is a transparent layer and hence sometimes goes unnoticed.
Regular flossing can help to remove the film from below your gum line.
Hardened plaque is called "tartar" and can only be removed with professional cleaning.;
, Gum disease not only affects the gums, but can cause your teeth to decay or to loosen, requiring removal. Gingivitis is the early stage of gum disease, while periodontitis is the more serious condition affecting the bones of the jaw through a complex process that leads to several clinical forms. For example, severe periodontitis can be mutilating for patients who lose their teeth in just two years


Gingivitis can only be fully diagnosed by an expert, as the symptoms may be mild.
Periodontitis needs quick medical attention because, if it's not treated early, it can lead to tooth loss.
 This is the primary indicator of periodontal disease, and should not be ignored. Lack of pain during bleeding may cause many sufferers to delay treatment that might have prevented more severe problems. Periodontitis is well known to affect healthy teeth, such as in cases where decay is rare and pain is absent, making patients avoid going to the dentist.
 Gums that are swollen, spongy, or red or purple in color are irritated and may be showing the signs of gum disease.


Healthy gums are pale pink, not dusky red or purple.Gums that protrude or bulge around your teeth can be a sign of gum disease.Teeth that have more root exposed or seem "longer" may be a result of your gums receding as a result of bone loss, which is a sign of gum disease. This means that periodontitis is present.
 Pain is less common in the early stages, but as your gums recede, you may experience greater sensitivity to changes in temperature because the roots of your teeth are exposed.


If your bite feels different, then your teeth might not be fitting together in the same way as they get loose, which may be an indicator of gum disease.
Pay attention to new spaces between your teeth, which not only affect your eating or aesthetic look, but may indicate a loosening of your teeth.
 Bad breath (halitosis) and a consistent unpleasant taste in your mouth may be a sign of gum disease. If you feel comfortable, ask a friend or family member to take a whiff; otherwise, use your best judgment.
 Only your dentist can make the final diagnosis of gingivitis or periodontitis, and the sooner you visit his or her office, the more likely you are to successfully treat your gum disease.
 Your dentist is an expert on oral health, so he or she will ask you a number of questions about your oral hygiene habits and lifestyle. Bring a list of concerns that you have, along with any notes you've made about your gums' appearance and any pain you've experienced.


Bring a list of questions about gum disease, your symptoms, risk factors, and treatment options.Be ready to discuss any family history of gum disease or oral health problems.
 Your dentist will inspect your gums, paying attention to the shape and color of the gums on both sides of your teeth. He or she may test for easy bleeding of the gums, Then, he or she will then use a tiny periodontal probe to test for pockets between the gum and teeth greater than 3mm-5mm, which may demonstrate disease.This process is usually painless, although advanced root exposure may lead to more sensitive teeth and gums.Your dentist may also test your tooth movement, as loose teeth may indicate loss of bone support.
You may also need to have X-Rays of your teeth and jaw to evaluate any bone loss.
 Once your dentist has diagnosed your gum disease, you should work together to decide the best treatment options for your situation. Early stage gingivitis might only require non-surgical options, while more advanced periodontitis may need more invasive treatments.For earlier stages your dentist may recommend scaling and root planing. Scaling is a deep cleaning of tartar and bacteria from below the gum line, while root planing smoothes the rough surfaces of the root that may trap bacteria.
Topical or systemic antibiotics may also be recommended for less advanced gum disease.
Surgical approaches include flap surgery, gum grafts, bone grafts, and guided tissue regeneration to heal the damage and prevent future recurrences of disease.
Another option is enamel matrix derivative application. The periodontist will apply a special gel to the root of a diseased tooth that will stimulate bone and tissue growth, which will improve the gum attachment to your teeth.
 If you're uncomfortable with the plan that you and your dentist have created, or if you think your dentist may be pushing you to treatments that you don't think you need, then ask your primary care provider for the name of another dentist. The answer may be the same, but you'll feel better having heard the information from another source., Plan to come back to your dentist, after your treatments, more regularly than before your diagnosis. Patients with gum disease should have cleanings every 3 months to prevent further problems and adopt a complete cleaning procedure at home using helpful products such as mouthwash, floss, and an oral irrigator.Consider restorative procedures to improve the appearance of damaged teeth and gums, such as crown lengthening or dental implants.
Continue to practice good dental hygiene at home.
 Removing food particles from your teeth, gums, and tongue will lower the chances for an overgrowth of bacteria in your mouth. This bacteria can lead to gum disease as it becomes trapped between your teeth and gums.Choose a toothbrush with a soft head so that you can clean more thoroughly without irritating your gums. Medium or hard bristles can expose more of your teeth below the gum line and bacteria may become trapped, causing inflammation.If possible, brush after every meal and snack. If not, rinse your mouth with water after every meal to reduce bacteria by up to 30%.Replace your toothbrush every 1-4 months, as worn bristles aren't as effective at removing plaque and can become a home for bacteria.Electric toothbrushes may be more effective a cleaning away plaque and tartar., Fluoride strengthens teeth and helps to remineralize your tooth enamel, which can help protect your teeth from decay. After you eat, when your mouth is more acidic, fluoride curbs the growth of acid-loving bacteria, which is a primary cause of gum disease.Triclosan, another common ingredient in toothpaste, has anti-bacterial properties and may reduce the effects of gingivitis.
Metal salts, such as zinc and stannous, may have reduce gingivitis in a small degree.
You can also brush two times a week with an herbal toothpaste that contains sage, clay, and aloe.
 Flossing helps you to clean the between your teeth and just below your gum line where food particles and plaque can collect and cause bacteria to grow. Flossing and then brushing helps you to fully remove bacteria and food particles.Slide the floss between your teeth and move it gently in a horizontal direction to clean gums. Then, curve the floss around each tooth and slide it up and down to remove plaque.
Standard wooden or plastic toothpicks are not effective for dental hygiene and worse, they can even hurt your gums if used with pressure.
 A diet that is nutritious and balanced, including fruits and vegetables high in Vitamin C supports your oral health.Drink plenty of water throughout the day to rinse away plaque and to increase saliva, which inhibits infections.
Malnutrition is a risk factor for periodontal disease.
 Smoking is not only a risk factor for gum disease, it's also damaging to your oral health in general, causing your gums to recede and your teeth to deteriorate. The more cigarettes you smoke, the higher your risk of gum disease.Pipes and cigars bear the same risks for gum disease.
Chewing tobacco can cause your gums to recede, allowing room for bacteria to grow and cause periodontitis and tooth loss., A number of health conditions are risk factors for gum disease or can cause it to worsen if your oral health is not monitored. If you have any underlying or chronic illness, pay particularly close attention to your oral health.


Sufferers of autoimmune disorders, such as HIV and AIDS, are at a higher risk for gum disease.
Diabetes (both type 1 and 2) is a significant risk factor for gum disease. Diabetes changes to blood vessels and increases some inflammatory chemicals, which increases your chances of developing periodontitis.
Pregnancy and other female hormone changes can raise the risk of gum disease, especially if you already have diabetes.
Medication used to treat epilepsy, heart disease (calcium antagonists), or after organ transplants (cyclosporine) can also cause gum disease

, Early detection of symptoms helps in quick recovery of the problem. The symptoms of these diseases are sometimes very evident, but not always. This is where medical intervention may be needed.


Visit your dentist every six months to one year, or more often if you're a smoker, have diabetes, have dry mouth, or are elderly.
Plan to have a Comprehensive Periodontal Examination (CPE) every year to monitor any significant changes to your oral health., Some risk factors are preventable, such as smoking, while others are beyond your control, such as genetics and your age. If you're over 35, you're at a higher risk for gum disease.


Make sure you provide a full dental history to your dentist so that he or she can have a more accurate picture of your genetic predisposition to gum disease.
Stress can add to the risk for gum disease, due to the hormones psychological stress can cause your body to produce., Spaces between your dental work can provide a breeding ground for bacteria and room for plaque to become trapped. Ask your dentist to check your dental work for fit on regular basis.Also, make sure that you can floss properly between interproximal filings. These are the filings between two adjacent teeth.

