 Set up a space for your dog that they can easily navigate without too much trouble. This should include at minimum a dog bed selected for your dog’s comfort, nearby food and water, and a pet training pad for potty emergencies and accidents.Your dog’s bed should be soft and comfortable but not so padded that your dog struggles to get out of it. Many pet owners find that a heated bed helps greatly for dogs with joint pain.
If you have a large dog, you may want to consider a raised bed that enables them to get in and out without having bend as much. Raised food and water dishes, such as those that fit into a bench, are also recommended.
 Joint pain can be exacerbated by excess weight. Choose a dog food that will help keep your dog at a healthy weight. If you have a senior dog, opt for a senior dog food, which also often contains ingredients to help joints.If your dog is not elderly, make sure you are using a size-appropriate dog food. Larger dogs have different nutritional needs than smaller dogs.
Many pet food companies also offer healthy weight formulas, purpose-made to help nourish dogs struggling with their weight.
 Cool, damp conditions may make joint pain more pronounced for your dog. Keep your dog in warm, dry, indoor areas whenever possible.If you live in a cold climate, keep the temperature inside your house warm enough for your dog’s comfort. Equip your dog with a jacket and shoes if you need to take it out in snowy or cold conditions.
If you take your dog out in the rain or snow, towel your dog dry once you are back inside and make sure the room is warm enough to keep your dog comfortable.
 You are a major source of comfort for your dog, so it is important to make sure you are as physically accessible to your dog as you were before they began experiencing joint problems. Ensure your dog has ways to access you in the areas you permit.If you typically allow your dog on the furniture or in your bed but they can no longer get up and down from these areas, consider investing in a furniture staircase for dogs, or help your dog up and down as necessary.
If you typically do not let your dog on the furniture, take time every day to be down on the floor playing with or petting them. Your attention helps keep your dog relaxed as they transition to their new care routine.

