 Soups are a great choice for helping to fill up without a ton of calories and can be full of extra protein and vegetables without adding calories.


Avoid starters like Chinese noodles or fried wontons. While they may stave off hunger pangs while you wait to be served, it is an easy way to add hundreds of extra calories and unnecessary carbohydrates to your meal.;
, The difference in calories isn't significant, but it provides additional fiber and is a much healthier choice.


Brown rice also significantly lowers the chance of developing Type 2 diabetes. It has a lower glycemic index and contains more vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants., Chinese cooking incorporates mostly fresh vegetables, fruits, fish, and rice, with very little red meat.Traditional cooking methods include steaming or roasting, rather than frying.Tell the wait staff at the restaurant if you have special dietary needs. They can steer you toward the best and healthiest choices for you on the menu.
Make sure you inform restaurant staff if you follow a kosher, vegan, or other special diet, or if you have food allergies.
 Hoisin, sweet and sour, and other traditional Chinese sauces are highly caloric. By serving it on the side, you can moderate the amount of sauce on your dish.


As for low-sodium soy sauce instead of regular. One tablespoon of regular soy sauce as 1,000 milligrams of sodium, which is about half of your daily recommended sodium intake.Choose mustard-based and chili-based sauces to boost flavor without the calories.
 If you are concerned about possible allergies, then ask that your meal be prepared without MSG. MSG is a flavor enhancer commonly added to Chinese foods, but it also occurs naturally in many foods including tomatoes and cheese.Sometimes called “Chinese restaurant syndrome,” some people report symptoms such as facial swelling or chest pain after consuming MSG. See a physician if you experience these symptoms after eating Chinese food.The FDA has classified MSG as a food ingredient “generally recognized as safe.”However, the FDA requires MSG to be listed on the ingredients list.
 Many traditional Chinese restaurants serve tea as a beverage option or at the end of your meal. This helps signal your brain to stop eating and cleanses the palate.