 Environmental punishers—also called "remote correction"—involve disciplining the cats without being present yourself, so the cats don't link the punishment to you. If you punish your cats for jumping on off-limits surfaces yourself, they will learn to keep off counters only when you're at home. You can create some devices for remote correction yourself, but never create a deterrent that might hurt your cat(s).;
, This simple means of discouraging your cats from jumping on the countertop works because the cats will land on the sheets when they jump onto the counter. The noise and unexpected movement will frighten them, but not physically hurt the cats. Over time, they will associate the countertops with this sound and the stress it creates and avoid jumping up there.


You can also fill baking the trays with water and set them on the counter. Cats will be startled not only by the noise, but by the water as well. The drawback here is that cats can slip in the water, so if your cat is old or not especially spry, it would probably be better to avoid this method, as they might slip and hurt themselves.
 String a line of twine across the access point where your cats usually jump onto the counter. Attach one end of the string to empty cans that can be easily knocked over. If you position it just right, a cat jumping onto the counter will move the string enough to knock over the cans, creating a startling noise that will deter him or her from jumping up there again.


For an even more startling noise, add coins or other small objects to the cans.
 The tape can be lightly applied in just a couple of spots to hold it on, then, when the cat jumps upon it, it will stick to his or her paws, deterring them from going there again. Cats are easily distracted and annoyed by objects that stick to them, so the double-stick tape should be effective.


You can also try putting aluminum foil on surfaces. The noise will deter cats should they land on it.
 There is quite a market for these types of deterrents, so do some research to see what works.


Motion-activated air blasters are one example of electronic devices meant to deter cats from countertops or other unwanted surfaces or areas. A motion sensor detects the cat in the off-limits area and immediately sprays the animal with a strong gust of air, startling them.
Motion-activated alarms are another device that can help deter cats from countertops. A motion sensor activates a loud alarm that startles the cat and alerts the owner. Some motion-activated alarms are pressure sensitive, so they are activated when the cat touches them or what they are positioned under. There are even mats that are pressure sensitive that you can roll out on the countertop so they will be triggered when the cat lands on them.
Silent motion-activated alarms provide a less bothersome alternative to other motion-activated alarms. These alarms emit a tone of such a high pitch that they are inaudible to humans and even dogs, but they will deter cats.
Textured mats are a harmless deterrent that require no electricity, batteries, or compressed air. These mats are simply-textured with a minimally-pointed nub that is uncomfortable for the cat to tread upon. Encountering them, the cats will generally jump off.
 Conceal yourself from the cat's view and use a noisemaker of some kind as soon as you see the cat jump on the counter. There are many noisemakers from which to choose, and there are even some that are manufactured for this specific purpose.


An air horn can be an effective way of startling the cat enough to get them off the surface from which they are banned if you can catch them in the act and remain concealed. Just be sure the air horn you choose is not so loud the you damage the cat's or you own hearing.
Some manufacturers have created air horns that are loud when activated, but that also spray a pheromone which further deters the cat from unwanted behavior.