 It is difficult to set up a successful advertising campaign, if you don't already have a system for setting up Internet advertising campaigns. The following are things to ensure you have set up before paying for search engine advertisements:


Choose a goal for your search engine advertising. Paid advertisements require that you choose keywords, so promoting specific content or products in a campaign is often more successful than trying to promote your business in general. Choose a single campaign to set up when you are just starting paid searches.
Establish your budget. Consider labor, pay-per-click bids, tracking and the duration of the budget.
Establish your baseline of search engine traffic. Spend 1 to 3 months tracking your search engine statistics without paid advertisements. Create a report, so that you can compare each campaign against your baseline traffic.
Invest in tracking software. If your website infrastructure does not already include high-tech tracking software, you will not be able to determine if you have a successful campaign. Investing in installing tracking pages that tell you where your traffic comes from will allow you to save money on redundant marketing campaigns.
Choose key performance indicators (KPI). These are factors that you use to judge the performance of an advertising campaign. They should be numbers, comments or sales that you can track through the course of the campaign.
 Try 1 of each type and track what is most successful for your website. The following are the most commonly used ways of paying for search engine advertising:


Try paid placement listings. These sponsored listings may or may not be Pay-Per-Click. They are usually highlighted at the top, bottom or side of the search results. AOL, Google, Bing, Ask and many other search engines offer sponsored listings.
Try a paid submission with Yahoo. You will need to develop a keyword-rich description of your website and pay to have it listed with Yahoo's directory.
Try banner ads on search engines. Banner ads are used all over the Internet, but they can also appear on the top, bottom and sides of a search results screen when people search for your keywords. It should be a well designed graphic that has proven results with attracting people to your page.
Try content promotion. If you are looking to advertise a specific piece of high-quality content, you can pay to have it listed as sponsored content. AOL, Ask and Yahoo use sponsored content schemes.
 You should assign someone to track the progress of your campaign and to develop data with it. Do not let a campaign go for more than a month before evaluating whether it is giving you results.
 Remove any campaigns that have not been successful and evaluate them for future reference. Stick with types of advertisements that show profitable results.
 Many of your classic keywords and brand name focused paid advertisements will stay up for a long period of time; however, you should also develop a system for promotion via search engines. Make it part of your marketing plan.

