 Fill a deep saucepan with about two quarts (two liters) of water. Place the pan on the stove over medium-high heat. Once the pot has large bubbles rising rapidly to the surface, the water is boiling.


For more flavorful noodles, use chicken broth instead of water.;
, Pour a tablespoon of salt into the boiling water and stir it with a long spoon.Continue stirring until all of the salt has dissolved into the water.


If you’re using chicken broth, don’t add salt. Chicken broth has a high sodium content.
 These noodles can be found in the pasta section of your local grocery store. However, egg noodles are not the same as pasta. These noodles are made from a mixture of wheat or rice flour and eggs, while pasta is made from semolina dough.You can substitute pasta or other noodles for this dish. However, the flavor of the dish will change dramatically.
 Let the noodles sit in the hot water for six to eight minutes, or until they’re soft and flexible.If you want to test the noodles, use tongs to pull a noodle out of the water and let it cool on a paper towel. Eat the noodle to see if it’s ready.


Avoid overcooking the noodles. They will become mushy and flavorless.
 As soon as the noodles are ready, remove the saucepan from the heat. Place a sturdy metal or plastic colander in your sink. Pour the noodles and water into the colander, allowing the water to drain away.


Once the noodles have drained, immediately place them in the serving dish.
 Cut two tablespoons of butter into small pieces. Next, add the pieces of butter to the hot noodles. Use tongs or a large spoon to stir the noodles until the butter has completely melted.


Don’t wait too long to add the butter. If the noodles are cool, the butter won’t melt.
 Once the butter has melted, sprinkle salt and pepper over the noodle dish. Use tongs or a large spoon to toss the noodles, coating each one in seasoning. Taste a noodle to see if you need to add more salt or pepper.


Add less than you think you’ll need. You can always add more salt or pepper.
 Buttered noodles are delicious all on their own. However, many people like to add additional seasonings to take the dish to the next level. For example:


Sprinkle in garlic powder to create a buttery garlic noodle entrée.
Mix in a tablespoon of chopped fresh parsley to give the noodles an herbal flavor.Grate some parmesan over the noodles to give the dish a strong, cheesy kick., Even though the recipe is simple, this noodle dish is decadent and filling. Additionally, the ingredients are inexpensive and easy to find at most grocery stores. Therefore, many people like to serve this dish by itself, without any side dishes or toppings.
 To serve this dish, place a pile of noodles in a bowl. Top the noodles with a ladle of gravy and a few juicy meatballs.


Make your own Italian-style meatballs or find precooked meatballs in the freezer section of your local grocery store.
Use homemade brown gravy made from pan drippings or quickly mix up a store-bought seasoning package.
 Any kind of chicken pairs wonderfully with buttered noodles. You can use sliced chicken, shredded chicken, or whole chicken breasts. Additionally, serve the chicken and buttered noodles dry or with a sauce. For example:


Dice some grilled chicken and mix it into the buttered noodles for a protein boost.
Serve a filet of parmesan-crusted chicken over a pile of noodles.Sautee small cutlets of chicken in lemon and butter and mix them into the buttered noodle dish.