 To do this method, you simply need to stop smoking. The way to start is to get rid of your cigarettes. You can't have them around if you expect to quit smoking, so get them out of the house, give them away, or throw them away.While this method only works 1/5 of the time for the general population, pregnant women usually have a better chance of succeeding because they are motivated by the fact that they don't want to harm their baby.
Some women think that quitting will put too much stress on the baby. However, the truth is, the stress doesn't harm the baby, and you're damaging them much more by continuing to smoke.Another option is gradually cutting back on cigarettes, so you have less of withdrawal. In other words, if you smoke a pack a day, you may cut back to half a pack a day the first week, then a quarter of a pack the next week. Finally, cut back to one cigarette a day, then none at all.;
, Your friends and family will want to help you stop smoking if they can. Let them do it by telling them you want to quit and telling them the ways they can help you stop. For instance, they can help remind you if you take out a cigarette to smoke absentmindedly, or they can be there if you need to talk.They can also help you stay out of situations where you typically smoke. For instance, if you typically light up will playing pool, you may want to stay away from playing pool for a while.
 You'll want to stay busy while you quit to help you not think about smoking, so instead, consider taking up a new hobby. A new hobby has the added benefit of keeping your hands busy. For instance, you could take up crocheting and crochet something for your new baby., Just Alcoholics Anonymous, you can find groups in your area that support those who are trying to quit smoking. One group of this type is aptly named Smoker's Anonymous. Check to see if there are any local groups in your area, and then go to the meetings to join with others in the same situation who can offer you support.Another resource is the Quitline, which can also put you in touch with local support. This line is available free through the government. It offers free counseling for pregnant women too. Simply call 1-800-QUIT-NOW or 1-800-784-8869., The government offers a texting program specifically for pregnant women. Basically, once you sign up for the free program, it sends you texts to encourage you as you quit. You can even text a keyword back to the program to receive extra encouragement. The program is based around the quit date you decide on. You can sign up at http://women.smokefree.gov/smokefreemom.aspx., Basic counseling could just be sitting down with your doctor, or even joining one of the support groups already mentioned in the article. However, you can also have a session with someone who specializes in helping people to quit smoking. These sessions can help you create a strategic plan for quitting designed just for you., Managing stress can become more difficult when you try to quit because you probably used your smoking time as a way to take a break and give yourself a moment of quiet.In other words, you're going to need to find new ways to take time out from your day to relax.


One method is deep breathing. Take a moment to close your eyes. Draw in a deep breath through your nose to the count of 5 (in your head). Hold it for 5 to 10 counts, then slowly let it out through your mouth. Repeat until you feel yourself calm down.
Start a stress journal. Take some time each night to write down things that are stressing you. The action of writing it down can actually help you de-stress.
Exercise when possible. Exercise is a great way to deal with stress. While pregnant, you may decide you want to try some different exercises than you normally do, such as swimming or walking., You'll have symptoms of withdrawal for up to 3 weeks or so. These symptoms can include restlessness, depression, having trouble concentrating, and being abnormally irritable. Of course, pregnancy can lead to some of these symptoms, as well.Many of the suggestions in this section can help with withdrawal symptoms. For instance, deep breathing can help with restlessness and having trouble concentrating, while exercise can help with anxiety, depression, and restlessness.
Another way you can help yourself with these symptoms is to cut down on caffeine if you're feeling restless or having negative thoughts. Also, don't forget to tell yourself that these thoughts will not last. You just have to get through a week or two.
It can also help to lean on your friends. If you're feeling down, plan a fun get-together with a couple of friends., Nicotine replacements include patches, gums, and sprays, though you want to skip the tablets while pregnant. While nicotine may not be completely safe for your baby (not enough research has been done on just nicotine to determine how safe it is for pregnant women), it's safer than cigarettes since it only has one chemical (nicotine) rather than the wide range of chemicals in cigarettes. Plus, it makes it easier for many people to quit. Make sure to talk to doctor before starting on one of these regimens.The nicotine in these replacements can help with your withdrawal symptoms. For instance, you apply a patch to your skin once a day, and it provides a steady supply of nicotine to help reduce your cravings.
Generally, you taper off on these medications, as well. For instance, with the patches, you usually switch to a lower dose after 2 weeks., This drug is sometimes used as an antidepressant, but it can also help you quit smoking. Science hasn't quite figured out why it can help you quit smoking, but it can help for many people. Once again, you'll need to talk to your doctor about this drug, especially since it's a prescription medication.Unfortunately, this drug can have some side effects for many people. It can increase your chance of a seizure if you're already inclined to have them.
 Some women have success using alternative medicine, such as hypnosis or acupuncture. While they may not work for you, they're at least safe to try, and they are sometimes even covered by insurance., When you smoke, you get less oxygen in your body, which in turn means your baby isn't getting as much oxygen. In addition, it affects your placenta, also making it more difficult for your baby to get nutrients and oxygen.In addition, smoking can cause the placenta to separate from your womb earlier than it should, which can make you bleed, a dangerous side effect.After every cigarette you smoke, your baby moves less for at least an hour, including practicing how to breathe.
 Smoking, even secondhand smoke, can cause issues for your child. For one, it can lead to a baby who's underweight. While that doesn't sound terrible, that can lead to further health problems with your baby., Smoking can cause your baby to be born too early, which in turn can cause a whole plethora of health problems, as your baby is not fully developed and ready to be out of the womb. In addition, it can cause you to miscarry completely., Smoking puts your baby at risk for birth defects. One common birth defect associated with smoking is cleft lip. It can also put your baby at a higher risk for Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) after birth, which is a syndrome that causes your baby to die suddenly, though the exact cause of this syndrome isn't known., You may think that cutting back is enough to save your baby from harm. However, the truth is that even smoking a little every day can still harm your child, as the chemicals from the cigarettes are still being passed from you to him or her., You may think that if you're already partway through your pregnancy, quitting doesn't matter as much, as you've already exposed your baby to harm. However, the truth is that quitting even partway through your pregnancy can increase your baby's chances of being healthy, particularly if you quit before the first trimester is over.