 To begin the process of applying for a Supercuts franchise, you need to make an initial inquiry. This is a very brief application that you can submit online. You simply need to provide your personal information and someone from Supercuts will contact you to discuss your qualifications.If Supercuts thinks you would be a good candidate, they will send you a UFOC, which is a disclosure required by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).This document will tell you about the business you are looking at by providing you with 23 required disclosures, which in part include:Information about the franchisor (i.e., Supercuts)
The franchisor's business experience
Litigation
Bankruptcy
Fees
Your obligations as a franchisee
How intellectual property is managed
Financial statements
Contracts;
, Part of the process will involve introducing you to other Supercuts franchise owners. Take advantage of this opportunity to ask them any questions you may have and get any tips they can give you about opening your own business., Within a few days after you submit your initial inquiry, you will receive a call from the Supercuts Qualification Manager. He or she will discuss with you the qualities that you possess and what it takes to run a Supercuts franchise. The decision to open a franchise needs to be a mutual selection by you as well as the company. Some of the qualities that Supercuts is looking for are:previous or current business leadership experience. While prior experience is not absolutely required, it does help.
the ability to implement and execute company strategies. As a franchisee, you will need to follow the model and style that already exist for Supercuts. In your initial conversation with the Qualification Manager, he or she will be looking for your level of willingness to be a team player.
the vision and desire to open multiple locations. You are not required to open multiple stores, and at the beginning you are limited to only one. Nevertheless, if you prove to be successful, the company would prefer to work with someone who has the desire to grow and open additional locations.
 If you pass the initial conversation with the Qualification Manager, you will then be invited to complete a confidential questionnaire. This will ask for personal and financial information, to help Supercuts determine your worthiness to operate a franchise. You should treat this like a job application and provide answers that are as complete and thorough as possible., The next stage of the application process will be a meeting with the Supercuts development director. This person will gauge your ability to operate a Supercuts franchise. He or she will also be able to answer any questions that you have about opening and running a Supercuts franchise. Once you begin working with the development director, he or she will continue to work with you throughout the process until your store is open and running., You need to ensure you have the financial capacity to proceed with the franchising opportunity. To do this, look through the UFOC and determine the financial requirements necessary to start. Fill in any missing information by asking franchise representatives. While the information does not need to be particularly specific, it does need to be accurate enough that you can make an informed decision.
 As your paperwork is being considered, you will begin the training process for opening your franchise. Supercuts and Regis Corporation provide a range of webinars that cover topics you need to know to open a franchise. Specifically, these cover the basics of real estate, marketing, business operations and technology., Minneapolis is the business headquarters for Regis Corporation. You will be invited to the corporate offices to meet many of the business leaders and other prospective franchise owners., After your application process is complete, and you have successfully worked through all the stages, you will be invited to sign a franchise agreement. This is the legal contract between you and Regis Corporation that allows you to operate a Supercuts franchise.Make sure the franchise agreement includes the proper contingency provisions. For example, the franchise agreement should include a provision that makes it clear that if you cannot get the location for your Supercuts that you want, you will not be obligated to open the franchise.
Give the agreement to your lawyer and make sure they approve of it before you sign it.
 Opening a business franchise is costly and time consuming. It is strongly recommended that you consult with an accountant, business attorney, or both. They can help you determine whether you can afford the costs and will advise you regarding contracts along the way.Additionally, Supercuts is owned by Regis Corporation, which provides financial advice for all franchisees. When you choose to open a Supercuts franchise, you become eligible for financial advice and assistance. By contacting the Finance Department, you have access to the following support:QuickBooks and general ledger setup
Finding the best long-term and working capital financing
Performing a break-even analysis
Financial audits and business reviews

, Capital costs are one-time costs associated with a project, in this case the one-time costs associated with starting your Supercuts franchise.In your case your capital costs will likely include the cost of getting your location set up, the cost of your capital equipment, and your cost to start the franchise. Make sure you identify every capital cost you will incur as well as their amounts. This will help you determine how much financing you need to get your business off the ground.
 You will need to plan for all the expenses and costs of operating a business, and balance that against the income that you can realistically expect. A pro forma financial statement includes hypothetical and estimated costs and earnings, which helps give you an accurate portrayal of how your Supercuts will financially operate.Supercuts is an enterprise that has proven to be successful, but its past performance is no guarantee that your particular franchise will succeed. You need to plan out all your costs and expenses very carefully.The pro forma financial statement should include, among other things, projected month-to-month balance sheets, income statements, cash flows for the first year and quarterly cash flows for the second and third year.
When your business is operating, you will need to pay a continuing franchise fee to the Regis Corporation. This fee is set at 4% of your net income for the first year of your operations. After the first year, the fee rises to 6%.This should be included in your pro forma financial statement as well.
If you have not retained an accountant yet, you should seriously consider hiring one once your franchise is approved and you begin operations.
 The financial advisers of Regis Corporation can help you with continuing financial advice for your franchise. You should contact them for help with any of the following:52-week comparisons
Payroll planning
Bonus and incentive programs
Scheduling efficiency and hours analysis
Budgeting and goal setting
Sales and inventory analysis
Price surveys and menu boards

, Opening a franchise may be lucrative, but it is also an expensive prospect to begin. You need to plan to have between $110,000 and $250,000 in liquid assets (cash) to cover the fees and start up costs. The costs will vary depending on your location. The cash that you need will be used for a range of start up costs, including the following:initial franchise fee
location lease
furniture and supplies
opening inventory
advertising
training fees
initial capital expenditures
operating costs until you break even

, When you finance your business with equity, you are exchanging a portion of your ownership in the business in return for a financial investment. Equity financing can be great because you avoid taking on debt. However, if you start a business with too much equity financing, you risk diluting your ownership interest in that business. Therefore, while equity financing is important, it should not be your only form of raising money. Sources of equity financing can come from:Your personal savings
Life insurance policies
Friends and relatives
Venture capitalists
Angel investors

, Numerous private banks offer loans to start-up business operations. Ask your own bank or search online for small business loans. Compare interest rates and loan terms. Consider working with a smaller, local bank, rather than a large national institution. You may have better luck getting approval, and smaller banks are more likely to want to work with a single start-up franchise., Unless you have adequate cash immediately available, you will need to obtain a business loan. The SBA is a good place to begin your research. The SBA provides instructions and support for individuals who are starting out in business. They also provide a variety of loan programs.You can access all the SBA materials and learn about their loans at http://www.sba.gov.
 Once you have pinpointed all of the areas where you can pull funding from, you need to secure it. One way of doing this is by physically retrieving cash from equity and debt sources. Another way you can secure financing is through the execution of formal agreements (either debt or equity). These agreements will lay out exactly how financing will be given to you as the franchising process unfolds.


If you are executing agreements, make sure you run them by your lawyer before you sign them.
 The financial staff at Supercuts and Regis can support you in identifying a potentially successful location. The real estate department will help research neighborhoods for you, and the asset management department will help you research leasing options., You will want a location for your store that can generate interest for you. A location that is visible, near plenty of foot traffic, and easy for customers to enter is ideal. You will want to consider such details as the price of the lease, availability of parking, and storefront visibility. You should also research and consider what your nearby competition is likely to be. You don’t want to set up a new Supercuts franchise too close to other established hair care locations.Talk with other business owners in the area you are looking and get details about traffic, parking, and lease pricing.
Compare all the sites you look at to determine which one will be the best fit. Do not compromise and agree to locate your new franchise in a disadvantageous area. If the location doesn't work, don't start the franchise.
 You will work with Supercuts design staff to make sure that your store has the look and feel that will be consistent with other Supercuts franchises. Your salon must meet the brand standards that Supercuts requires. The design staff can also help you maximize the space that you have available.While the store will be required to meet certain Supercuts standards, it can also be novel and establish an inviting ambiance.
 When you have found the ideal location for your franchise, the Supercuts construction department will work with you and oversee all aspects of the necessary renovations and building operations.Make sure that any real estate lease you sign will allow you to conduct whatever renovations Supercuts may require.
 Before construction, renovation, or other physical work can begin on your new location you must get your agreements in writing. In addition, if you are leasing a space, the lease must be signed before you can begin transforming that space into your new Supercuts. Make sure your lawyer is involved in the drafting and executing of all of these agreements. In addition, make sure every agreement is approved by Supercuts before you move forward.
 Before you can open your Supercuts for business, and before you can begin hiring staff, you need to secure certain licenses and permits to make sure your business is being run legally. The types of permits and licenses you will need to acquire will differ depending on what state you live in, where your business is located, and what your business plans on doing. Talk to your lawyer to make sure you have everything you need.


For example, if your business is located in a historic area of town, you may need to get a special permit to hang a sign outside your Supercuts.
If you plan on displaying merchandise outside of your store, you might need to obtain a Stationary Vending License or something similar.
You might need an annual permit, which is usually required by the fire department in your city.
Most importantly, each hair stylist that works for you will need a professional license if they will be touching customers., Unless you plan to answer phones, make appointments, greet customers, wash and style their hair, and manage the finances all by yourself, you will need to hire a staff of employees. The Supercuts financial advisers can help you determine exactly what staff members you need, as well as the number of employees, for the size of the operation that you intend to run.To find the best people to work in your salon, you will need to advertise. Try some of these techniques:


advertise on Internet job sites, such as Craigslist, Monster.com, SimplyHired, or many others
emphasize the perks of the job. If you can offer a signing bonus, paid vacation time, or any other benefits, make these part of your job posting.
refer to the Supercuts training program. Applicants may be encouraged to know that they will receive free training as part of the Supercuts franchise.
sound positive! Your advertisement is the first connection you make with your future employees. If you want an upbeat and energetic staff working for you, make that point in your ad.
 As part of the Supercuts brand, you will be expected to carry certain hair care products, for use by your staff as well as for retail sale to the customers. The product sales support from Supercuts will help you with tracking inventory, optimizing displays, and streamlining product ordering., Before you can open, you need to make sure the employees you hire understand what is expected of them. Not only will you have your own rules for running your business smoothly, Supercuts will require your employees to know their corporate policies and procedures. Make sure your employees are well trained before you open for business.
 Supercuts is a well-known operation that is likely to draw some customers as soon as you open. Nevertheless, any successful business needs an advertising campaign to let people know you exist and to encourage new customers. Make sure you marketing costs stay within the budget you established in your business plan. The marketing staff at Supercuts will be able to assist you with all aspects of marketing and advertising, including:Digital display advertising
Print advertising in local and regional publications
Storefront signage
Promotional materials
Direct mailings to current and prospective customers
"Out-of-home" (out of the salon) advertising

, A soft opening allows you to open your doors to a limited set of customers to see how your business is running. To have a soft opening, invite your closest friends and colleagues to your new store. let them get their hair cut and allow them to provide feedback. At the end of the day, you want to make sure everything is working well, without glitches, prior to opening to the public.
 After all your hard work, open your business to the public.

