, Find somewhere that you can perform a workout that has at least these things: squat rack, bench, dumbbells, Olympic or standard weight bars, at least enough weight for you to max out on squats, and a treadmill or a space to run in.
 These 4 movements are the best movements that you can ever do while bulking for football. Some other great movements are barbell rowing, hammer curls, triceps extensions, pull-ups, pushups, military press, calf raises, and decline situps. Also any plyometric or agility movement is very helpful.
 If you are well conditioned, as far as cardio goes, then when fourth quarter comes around and everyone else is to out of breath and tired to play you get to go in because you've conditioned yourself.
,


You can probably figure out what is healthy for yourself. However if you need some help you should check with a nutritionist to see what is healthy.






Also a common misconception is that fats aren't healthy at all. THAT IS NOT THE CASE. UNHEALTHY FATS ARE UNHEALTHY.
Some of the things that are healthy sources of fat are olive oil, fish oil, vegetable oil, and some peanut butters.






The diet is one of the most important factors of the bulking phase so you don't want to waste it by wasting your food.
You want to eat 4-8 times a day. when you do eat you want to eat smaller meals. A sample day of a bulking diet would look like this:






MEAL 1) 3 cups of oatmeal, 2 eggs, 10oz of low-fat milk mixed with one scoop of protein powder
MEAL 2) 1 apple, 2 slices of whole wheat bread, 4oz of deli sliced turkey, 24oz of water
MEAL 3) 4oz of a green vegetable, 6oz of chicken, 20oz of water, whole wheat roll
MEAL 4) 1 scoop of protein powder, 18oz of water, 1 banana
MEAL 5) 2 cups of cottage cheese, 10oz lean steak, 6oz of a green veggie, 10oz low-fat milk, 1 large sweet potato
MEAL 6) 1 scoop of protein powder, 18oz of water, 1 peanut butter sandwich



, no matter what anyone tells you if you want it then you need to work for it and eventually the results will be satisfactory and you can look back and say "Wow, i really did it. it feels good."


"The spirit, the will to win, and the will to excel are the things that endure. These qualities are so much more important than the events that occur." Vince Lombardi

,