 You'll be cutting paper into narrow strips and then taping these together in a pattern to create your frilled cuff. You can use different colored paper to make your cuff more colorful, or add designs of your own to it with crayons or markers. It goes without saying that you'll need scissors and paper, but including these, you'll also need:


Crayons or markers (optional)
Paper (normal size; 2 sheets)
Ruler
Scissors
Tape;
, Depending on how long or short you want to make your cuff, you'll need between four and eight strips of paper. Use your ruler to measure your strips equally to give your cuff a polished look, and then cut the strips longways.


The thicker your strips, the thicker your frilled cuff will be.
Be careful when working with thin strips; these can tear more easily.
 Take two strips by the ends and layer one over the other. The edges should be even with no overlap and should form an L shape. Now you can use your tape to join the strips together.
 Begin with the bottom paper of the two. Take it and fold it so that it crosses and folds over the layered ends that you've taped together. Crease the fold where it crosses the layered square of your two edges.


Repeat this motion with your other strip, which should now be sandwiched between your bottom strip of paper.
Continue this pattern, alternating folds between your strips one at a time.
 When you begin to run out of paper you can simply add another strip to the ends of each of your starting strips. Tape the ends of your new strips to your starting strips and continue folding.
 Stretch your frilled cuff bracelet out at various points throughout the folding process. Hold it against your wrist or lay it on top of your wrist to check its length. When you are satisfied with the length:


Trim the ends of your bracelet so each lines up evenly.
Tape the loose ends together so your bracelet doesn't come unfolded.
 Bend the bottom squares of each end together to form a circle. Then, using your tape, connect the bottom tabs of both ends to complete your frilled cuff.

