 There's no need to get into a complicated yoga pose to practice deep breathing and meditation, especially if you're a beginner. Sit or lay in a position where you feel stable and won't be distracted by pain or discomfort.Spend a few minutes simply allowing your mind to wander as you slowly relax all of the muscles in your body.
You can focus on specific muscle groups, or guide your mind toward the idea of relaxing and easing the tension in your whole body.;
, Deep breathing can provide a gentle massage for your digestive system and gastrointestinal tract. As you inhale, expand your belly and engage your diaphragm to pull the air deep into your lungs.Expanding your belly will maximize the space in your lungs, allowing you to take in more air. Lift your chest as you inhale slowly through your nose.
As you inhale, imagine you are filling a glass with water. The first air you take in goes to the bottom of your lungs and you continue to fill your lungs all the way to the top with air.
 Pull in and squeeze the air out gently as you exhale, but don't contract your stomach or tense your abdominal muscles. If you allow your stomach to fully relax, it will naturally fall in towards your spine as you exhale.Think of your exhale as emptying a glass of water. Release the air at the top of your lungs first, gradually exhaling all of the air all the way to the bottom.
Exhale fully, allowing a pause after you exhale before you inhale again. It can take some practice, but over time you'll become used to resisting the urge to inhale immediately after exhaling.
 When you first start meditating, your mind will tend to wander and urge you to think about various things. When this happens, openly acknowledge the thought and gently guide your mind back to your point of focus.Don't criticize yourself or engage in negative self-talk because your mind is wandering.
If you're new to meditation, it can help to listen to music or use a guided meditation audio file, so you have something external to direct your concentration. As you gain practice, you can move to focusing solely on your breath.
 Regular meditation can help restore the processes that control digestion. The practice also calms you and eases anxiety, which often is responsible for gastrointestinal irritations.To reap these benefits, try to get in the habit of brief meditation periods in the morning and in the evening.
Start with five-minute meditations, gradually increasing over time as your mind becomes more accustomed to the practice. Ultimately you should be able to meditate for 20 to 30 minutes twice a day.
 With cat-cow pose, you alternately compress and lengthen your intestines as you move. Deep breaths throughout the pose give your digestive organs a relaxing massage that can ease pain and discomfort.To enter cat-cow pose, get on all fours with your hands under your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips.
Inhale, then drop your belly button toward the floor as you lift your heart and hips upward. This is cow pose.
Exhale and round your upper back, looking down toward your navel. Press your hands and the tops of your feet into your mat. This is cat pose.
There's no need to hold these poses. Simply follow the breath and keep your movements smooth and controlled. Continue alternating between the two poses for 10 rounds.
 The extended puppy pose stretches your midsection as well as your spine and shoulders. This pose can be especially helpful in relieving cramps or bloating after you've eaten a large meal.From the same position on all fours as you were in for the cat-cow pose, slowly walk your hands forward in front of you. Make sure your hips stay in the same place. Your back should be a straight line from your hips to your shoulders.
Let your head drop to the floor and breathe deeply, feeling gravity open your chest.
 The apanasana is also known as the wind-relieving pose, if that gives you any indication of how it works to improve digestion. The pose can help you gain relief from pain or discomfort related to gas or bloating.Lie down flat on your back, relaxing all of your muscles and allowing your head to rest on the floor. As you exhale, pull your knees up.
Grab your shins with your hands and hug your knees to your chest. To maximize the stretch, you can rock your knees from side to side, or you can stay motionless.
Take five to ten deep breaths in the position, then release your legs and return to a flat lying position. You can repeat the pose a few more times if you want.
 This pose compresses your colon, which stimulates nerves to help you eliminate gas, reducing the pain from gas and bloating. You may want to make sure you're not around people when you do this pose – just take a hint from its name.Lay on your back on a yoga mat or on the floor. Place your hands on the underside of your right thigh and bring your right knee up to the right side of your ribcage.
Press your straight leg down into the floor. Move your hands to the top of your right shin to pull it closer to you.
Hold this position for a minute or two, then release and repeat the same action with the other side. This pose is a variation on the apanasana or wind-relieving pose.
 The seated forward bend is a simple stretch that primarily serves to relax the body and ease stress, which can cause digestive issues. This pose also provides a good stretch for your spine and hamstrings, and can soothe a headache.To begin this pose, sit on the floor with your legs straight out in front of you. You may want to sit on a folded blanket to raise your buttocks off the floor and give yourself some cushioning, particularly if you're on a hard floor.
Slowly hinge forward from your hips, keeping your back flat as you lower your upper body down to fold over your legs. You should only lower yourself as far as you can do comfortably – don't try to force yourself into a forward bend, especially if you're a beginner.
Stretch your arms out in front of you, resting your palms on the floor in front of your feet if you can. If you're not able to bend that far, rest your hands on the tops of your feet or your shins.
Breathe deeply for five to ten breaths. With each exhale, push yourself deeper into the bend.
You may want to place a rolled-up blanket under your knees to make this pose more comfortable, particularly if you are extremely stiff.
 If you've had a particularly large meal, you can use this pose to stretch out your belly and encourage healthy digestion. The seated heart opener also gives you a good upper-body stretch.Sit on the floor on your heels. If you have stiff knees, you may want to place a rolled-up blanket behind your knees to reduce the stress on your joints.
Lean back and place your palms on the floor behind you. Your fingers should be pointing away from you. Press your hands firmly into the floor and lift your chest as high as you can.
Arch your back, pushing your hips down into your heels.
If it's comfortable for you, release your head behind you and stretch through your neck. Hold the pose for five to ten breaths, then lower your chest and move your hands to your sides.
 You can move straight from the seated heart opener into child's pose, which provides a relaxing stretch. This pose naturally massages your intestinal tract to aid in digestion, as well as easing stress and tension.If you're coming from the seated heart opener, move your legs further apart. Your knees and feet should be balanced at about hip-width.
Lean forward with a flat back and reach out in front of you. Rest your head on the floor, or use a block or a pillow if you can't reach the floor.
As you take deep breaths, feel your belly being pushed into your legs.
Child's pose is a true resting pose, so you can hold it as long as you like.
 This pose relaxes your gastrointestinal tract as well as giving you a deep whole-body stretch. Alternating between child's pose and downward-facing dog is both energizing and calming.From child's pose, raise up so that you are standing, your feet about hip-width apart.
As you exhale, hinge forward from the hips and press your palms flat on the ground. Your back should be flat. If you have trouble keeping a flat back, try doing the pose from your knees rather than your feet.
Hold the pose for five to ten breaths, then lower yourself back down into child's pose.
 This pose works well if you move into it straight from the half gas release pose. This twist effectively wrings out your digestive system like you would wring out a wet cloth, stimulating waste removal from the body.Laying on your back, hug your right knee into your chest. Spread your arms out on either side of your body to form a "T."
Allow your right knee to fall over to your left side. Keep your neck neutral or twist it to the right.
For a deeper twist, press your right thigh further to the ground with your left hand.
Hold the pose for at least five breaths, then switch to the other side.
You can hold this twist for longer than many others, which enables you to reap more benefits from it.
 The spinal twist soothes your midsection, as well as toning your abdominal muscles and obliques. The twisting motion squeezes toxins out of your gastrointestinal tract to improve your digestion and ease pain associated with indigestion.Lie flat on your back and hug your knees to your chest as you did in the apanasana pose and inhale.
As you exhale, drop your knees to the left, using your left hand to push them down. Stretch your arms out to either side and turn your head to the right.
Hold this position for five to ten breaths, then move your legs back to the center. Take a couple of breaths, then repeat the twist on the right side.
 The seated twist will help you wring out the toxins in your digestive system and ease your digestive process, allowing for smoother flow of waste through your intestines.Start these poses by sitting with your legs out in front of you. Bend your right knee, placing your right foot just outside of your left knee.
If you keep your left leg outstretched, you are doing a one-legged seated twist. If you fold it in as you would to sit cross-legged, you are doing a full seated twist. You can do either or both of these poses, whichever is your preference.
Place your right hand palm-down on the floor behind you with your fingers pointed away from your body, and wrap your left arm around your right leg.
As you inhale, open your chest and lengthen your spine. On exhale, pull yourself deeper into the twist while keeping your hips forward.
Hold the twist for five breaths, then release and repeat the action on the other side.
 The chair pose works the muscles in your abdomen and lower body. Adding a side twist to the pose tones your kidneys and digestive organs, helping improve your digestive process.Move into this pose from a standing position. Lower your hips and reach your arms overhead to get into chair pose. Don't allow your knees to push out over your toes – keep your shins straight and perpendicular to the floor.
Press your palms together at the center of your chest and inhale.
As you exhale, twist to the right and hinge your body from the hips, placing your left elbow on the outside of your right thigh.
Inhale and move back to center, then exhale and repeat the twist on the left side.
Complete the twist five times on each side.
 This pose gives your entire body a good stretch and a twist, lengthening your torso and strengthening the muscles in your abdomen, which can improve digestion.From a standing position, take a big step backward with your right foot and turn it toward the side of your mat.
Spread out your arms and keep your back long and straight as you hinge forward, resting your left hand on the mat next to your forward leg. If you can't reach the mat, you may want to place a block next to your leg to assist you, or you can just place your hand on your shins.
Look up toward your right arm, stretched upward toward the sky. Hold this position for between five and ten breaths, then release and repeat on the other side.
 The high lunge stretches your chest and abs, while the twisting motion gently massages your digestive organs to stimulate and smooth your digestive process.Start in high lunge position with your left foot forward and your right leg extended straight behind you. Your left knee should be at about a right angle with your shin perpendicular to the floor. Don't allow your knee to press forward over your toes.
As you inhale, straighten your legs and raise your arms overhead towards the ceiling, lifting and lengthening your spine.
When you exhale, return to high lunge position and begin your twist, reaching your right arm forward over your left leg and your left arm behind you.
Inhale back to center, then repeat the same twist 20 times. Inhale back to center and switch legs so you can twist in the other direction.

