 One of the main problems with binge eating is mindlessly eating when you are not hungry. This can lead you to overeat because you are already eating when you aren't hungry. Instead of eating whenever the feeling strikes, when you are stressed, or for any other reason, only eat when you are hungry.You can prevent this by only eating when you notice you are hungry. Take an assessment of how your body feels and see if you are hungry.
You should also eat a meal or snack as soon as you realize you are hungry. If you wait until you are starving, you may be tempted to binge eat as much as possible., You may start mindlessly eating because you are bored.If you aren't hungry but have the compulsion to binge eat, ask yourself if you're eating just because you're bored. Are you peering into the fridge just because you're looking for something to do? If so, avoid eating.


Instead, drink a glass of water or find a way to stay active. Take a walk, call your best friend, or pick up a new hobby instead of eating., One way to lessen the chance of binge eating is to maintain portion control. Don't ever eat anything right out of a bag or box because you won't know how much you're eating. Measure out your meals and snacks, putting them in bowls or on plates. This will keep your eating habits within a normal range instead of pushing you to overeat or binge.Instead of deprivation, focus on moderation.If you're having a craving for peanut butter, have a spoonful of peanut butter with a banana. This will keep you from reaching your breaking point five days later and eating an entire jar of peanut butter.
 If you go for half a day without eating, you will be much more likely to indulge in a binge. This may look like three meals or five to six smaller meals — consider talking to a nutritionist to figure out the best meal plan for your lifestyle. Find a way to eat healthy foods that you do love so your meals are nourishing and delicious.


This will help your not feel like you're just making your way through a boring tasteless meal instead of eating what you really want.Keep healthy snacks around the house to eat in between meals. You should eat three distinct meals, but keep around healthy options like fruits, nuts, and veggies to snack on in between meals.
 If you pay attention to everything you eat, you will be less likely to get lost and not know what you are eating. Take time to consider what your food looks like, feel the food in your mouth, smell what it smells like, and taste what it tastes like. This will help you be aware of what you're eating.Each meal should have a distinct start and stop. Don't graze for twenty minutes while you're cooking your dinner, or snack while you're cleaning up after a meal.
 Make sure you eat your meals at the kitchen table or another place designated for eating. Don't eat in front of the TV or your computer, or even when you're on the phone, or you won't be focused on what you're eating and will be less likely to enjoy what you're eating or to truly feel full.


Those who while distracted — watching TV or while working — tend to eat more than those who focus on their meal.You should also not eat standing up, since this will make the act feel disconnected from the eating process.
 Eat your meals and snacks on smaller plates with smaller forks or spoons. The smaller plates and bowls will make you feel like you're eating more food, and the smaller forks or spoons will make you take more time to digest your food.


This will help you avoid overfilling your plate, which may make you more likely to eat more.
 Another way to avoid binging is to keep yourself away from situations or foods that could lead to a binge.Taking measures to prevent binges in and out of your home will have a big impact on how you address your cravings. Avoiding triggers means recognizing a high-risk situation and creating a game plan to deal with it.


Try to spend more of your social time doing activities that don't involve food. Take a friend for a hike or a walk, or meet your friends at a bar that you know doesn't serve food.
If you're going to a family party or a potluck that you know will be filled with delicious foods and desserts, set out food limits for yourself. Tell yourself you can only have one plate of food and stick to it.
Bring your own snacks to places with tempting snacks. If you know you'll be tempted to binge eat popcorn at your local theater, sneak in your own portion controlled snacks, such as trail mix or microwave popcorn.
 Many individuals with eating disorders consider getting help from a dietician. She can help you make a meal plan, decide what you need to eat every day, what portions you should eat, and how to change your relationship to the food. Your dietician can help you come up with sample menus, food lists, and portions to each per meal.This will help prevent you from binge eating because your food will be preset for each meal.
Your dietician can also help you get back to listening to your body's natural cues on when to eat and when to stop eating, which is important for BED.Be aware that the term "nutritionist" is vague and could refer to someone with a PhD, or someone who has just done a quick course on nutrition — that is, she may not be qualified to give you sound nutritional advice. A registered dietician is considered a health professional with the requisite education and certifications, and is legally allowed to "prescribe" a meal plan or treatment.