 One of the simplest ways to stay informed about baby product recalls, is to register the baby products you buy or receive. You can either fill out a product information card that comes with the product and mail it in or fill out the information on the company's website.


Be sure to update your contact information if your address or phone number changes. This way, the company can get a hold of you in case of a recall.;
, You'll probably have some baby products that you couldn't register online. If you'd like to know if the items have been recalled, you'll need to do some research. You should check government websites every few months to stay informed about recent baby product recalls. A few government safety sites you can refer to include:


www.cpsc.gov: The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission
www.recalls.gov: A website made up of 6 government agencies
www.saferproducts.gov: The Publicly Available Consumer Product Safety Information Database

, If you'd like to know if a specific baby product has been recalled, you can also check parenting or baby care websites. These sites often have user-friendly search features to help you determine if the product is unsafe.For example, most sites will let you search by product category, time period, and the product name or model.
 You've probably seen a lot of used baby equipment being sold at garage sales or thrift stores. While you may see a good deal and be tempted to save some money, do your research about whether or not the product is safe before you buy it. Many thrift stores and garage sales will not accept returns, even if the product turns out to be unsafe.If you're planning on checking thrift stores for a specific type of baby product, it's a good idea to know which products to avoid. For example, if you're looking for a crib, avoid buying any over 10 years old or ones that have a drop-down crib rail since these have all been recalled.
 You may hear of a big baby product recall that's affecting millions of products. Before you throw yours out or return it, find out if your product is actually affected by the recall. Use one of the government or parenting websites and enter your specific product into their database. This will let you know whether or not you'll need to handle a product recall.


Sometimes you may have the same product that is being recalled, but models of a different year are being recalled. Be as specific as possible when entering your item information to get accurate recall information.
 Once you've determined that the product has been recalled, you should stop using it right away. To prevent these problems from happening to your child, you should immediately stop using the product. For example, if you've learned that your child's car seat has been recalled, remove the car seat from the car and put it away until you can return it or throw it away. You'll either need to use a different car seat or wait until you get a replacement from the company.You may be inconvenienced by the recall, but try to act quickly so you can get a refund or replacement as soon as possible.
 If you or your child has harmed by a baby product, go to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission website and file a report. You'll need to provide basic contact information, a description of the product, and describe the problems caused by the harmful product.If you or your child has been injured by a baby product, you should file a report regardless of whether or not the item has been recalled. If the CPSC receives enough reports, it may issue a recall.
 Sometimes a baby product is recalled because it needs a basic repair. If this is the case, contact the manufacturer for a repair kit. They'll send you the free kit along with instructions on how to fix your item.


For example, you may need to swap out a car seat buckle or install longer screws on a crib. These are usually simple repairs that will make the product safe.
 If the baby product can't be repaired or is dangerous, the manufacturer may tell you to return the item for a replacement. In this case, you can return it to the store you purchased the item from and get a replacement product.


If an exact replacement isn't available, the manufacturer may send you a newer model to replace the one you had.
 If you've decided that you don't want the replacement item or don't want to repair the product, you may be able to return it for a refund. Contact the manufacturer to discuss their refund policy regarding recalled products. The manufacturer may ask for you to send the recalled product back to them.


Call or email the manufacturer so you can set up a way to ship the item back for free.
 If you know other parents who have similar products to the one that was recalled, let them know about the recall so they can check their items. You should also ensure that a recalled product isn't sold or traded. For example, if you have a garage sale, avoid selling recalled baby products that could be repaired.


You should also avoid donating recalled items that couldn't be repaired. Many thrift stores have strict policies about what kinds of baby products they'll accept, so check before dropping your items off.

