 The initial step of your fire risk assessment is to assess your premises for fire hazards. This includes looking for sources of ignition that could start a fire, flammable materials or chemicals that can cause fires. Another important factor to look for is source of oxygen, fires need oxygen to start and any dangerous material that have a large source of oxygen can be a big cause for starting fires.;
, Once you feel you have identified all possible fire hazards you must then look at the people who are at risk from these hazards. This will include everyone from employees, customers, visitors and any individuals that need extra attention such as children or elderly.
 Now that you have assessed your workplace for fire hazards and looked at who could be in danger, you must now evaluate all this and start to remove the risks. You must evaluate the dangers and remove them completely or add precautions that will prevent a fire. This can include lighting, signs, fire fighting equipment, detection and warning but always considering the security of individuals.
 You must record everything that has been done during this assessment, such as, fire hazards found, how they were removed, any precautions implemented. Once this steps have been taken you must create a manageable plan of how to monitor any precautions and what must be done to maintain a safe, fire free environment. This includes creating an evacuation plan, fires cannot always be prevented so you must have an escape route in place so everyone can evacuate safely. You must inform all relevant individuals of what was done during the assessment and teach them the evacuation route. If you have a particularly large premises, fire training may be beneficial for your staff so people can manage an evacuation safely and in the correct way.
 Once all above has been completed and you have a constructed fire safety plan, you must review it on a regular basis to ensure it is up to date and reflects any changes to your workplace.

