 Chamomile tea can help to reduce the inflammation that diarrhea causes and it is also well-known as a natural sleep aid. Try sipping cup of chamomile tea about one hour before you go to bed.To brew a cup of chamomile tea, steep one tea bag or 1 teaspoon of dried chamomile flowers in one cup of boiling water. Then remove the tea bag or strain the tea. Drink the tea after it has cooled down a little bit.;
, People who suffer from chronic intestinal problems such as irritable bowel syndrome are often encouraged to use relaxation techniques on a daily basis. Regular use of relaxation techniques is recommended because feeling stressed can worsen intestinal problems, such as diarrhea. To reduce your diarrhea symptoms, try using a relaxation technique for about 10 to 15 minutes before you go to bed. Some good options include:Deep breathing
Progressive muscle relaxation
Meditation

, Over the counter anti-diarrheal medicines such as attapulgite, loperamide, and bismuth sub-salicylate may make it easier for you to sleep by stopping your symptoms for a few hours.Try taking a dose right before you go to bed to make it easier to fall asleep and stay asleep.


Keep in mind that over-the-counter medications should not be used on children unless the doctor approves.
If your diarrhea is due to a bacterial or parasitic infection, preventing bowel movements may make you sicker. In these cases, you need antibiotics. If you are unsure about whether or not to try over-the-counter anti-diarrheal medications, consult your doctor., Diarrhea can be painful enough to prevent you from sleeping. If this is occurring to you, you may want to consider taking an over-the-counter painkiller to help you fall asleep at night. These medications will not treat the diarrhea, but they may give you the pain relief you need to sleep:Try taking a dose of acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Read and follow the instructions on the packaging. Be aware that over-the-counter medications can interact with prescription medications, herbal remedies, and dietary supplements. If you are unsure whether these medications are safe for you, consult your doctor.
Aspirin should never be given to children due to the risk of Reye's syndrome. This is a serious condition that some children develop after taking aspirin and it can be life threatening.
 Since it may not be possible to avoid having to get up during the night when you have diarrhea, you may want to consider spending the night closer to a bathroom. This will make getting to the bathroom less of a hassle and the security of knowing that a bathroom is nearby may make it easier for you to sleep through the night.


For example, if your bathroom is at the other end of your house or apartment, then you might consider sleeping on the sofa or in a spare bedroom that is closer to the bathroom.

