 Although there are general guidelines for the time you should cook a pork loin, the best way to avoid food poisoning through undercooked meat is to buy a meat thermometer.









Your pork loin should reach a temperature of at least 145ʡF (63ʡC) in the center before you stop cooking it. Some people prefer to cook meat to 160ʡF (71ʡC), which used to be the recommended temperature to kill organisms, but has recently been amended.;
, Place it in the refrigerator overnight. Use the tenderloin within 1 to 2 days of thawing.
 If you see a large chunk of fat and you would like a leaner meal, cut it off with a boning knife or chef's knife.
 It should be packaged with a weight written on it by the supermarket. Knowing the weight will help you cook it for the right amount of time.
 Some people prefer using these simple seasonings to bring out the natural flavor of this excellent cut of meat.










You can marinate the pork for 1 to 8 hours. Find a marinade that you like. Pork marinades often include sweet ingredients like brown sugar and apple juice or hot spices.
Rub the pork with additional herbs and spices to create a dry rub. You can use an Italian seasoning, rosemary, garlic powder, thyme or store-bought seasoning mixes.
For a more complicated recipe, consider stuffing the pork tenderloin. Butterfly it to create an opening for the stuffing. Mix a breadcrumb, rice, cheese or other stuffing. Spread between the 2 pieces and secure them with string. Bake in the oven.
, (15ml) of oil.
 Once it starts to turn a caramel brown, turn it over to brown the next side. Browning the entire loin should take between 5 and 8 minutes.
 The one you choose may depend upon the time you have and the seasonings or marinade you used.









Preheat your oven to 425ʡF (218ʡC) to roast the loin. Place it in the skillet in which it was browned or on a roasting pan. Place the loin in the oven for 20 to 40 minutes. A smaller loin will take 15 to 20 minutes to cook, while a larger loin will take longer. Use a meat thermometer to determine whether it is done.
Preheat your grill over medium high heat to grill the loin. Turn off 1 side of the grill after it is preheated. Place your tenderloin on the side of the grill that is turned off. The loin should be grilled with indirect heat. Turn it every 5 minutes. Cook for 20 to 40 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer to test doneness.
, Cover it with aluminum foil.
 This will allow the juices to settle and the tenderloin to stay moist.
 Serve it with salads, grains or vegetables.
