 Go to the Google Play store (for Android products) or the Apple store (for Apple products), search for Spotify, and download the official app to your phone.


If you have a tablet, the instructions to set up Spotify Offline are the same as the tablet's phone counterpart.;
, Spotify Offline--the feature that allows you to download and listen to music without wifi--is for Premium members only, which means you'll have to pay for the service. If you don't already have an account with Spotify, you'll need to navigate to their website and click "Get Spotify Premium" on their front page. Follow the site's instructions to create a Premium account.If you already have a free account with Spotify, log in and click the "Premium" tab in the upper right-hand area of the screen. Follow Spotify's on-screen instructions to upgrade.Instead of signing up with an email account and specifically entering your personal information, you can simply click the "Sign up with Facebook" option to use your Facebook account.
 Spotify recommends downloading over an internet connection, since cellular data can prove costly. If you absolutely need to download using data, go to Settings and tap "Download using cellular" to enable this feature., Go to "Your Library" at the bottom of the app's interface, select "Playlists", hit "Edit", press the white plus sign, and tap "Create" after entering a name. Add songs to this playlist by tapping the "Options" button next to a song, selecting "Add to playlist", and selecting your playlist's name.
 On your phone's interface, navigate to the Library page and select the playlist, songs, artists, or albums that you would like to download. At the top of your song, playlist, artist, or album screen, slide the button under "Available Offline" to the right. Your music should start downloading.


On iPhone or iPad, your download progress comes in the form of a green bar underneath the "Library" heading on your Library page, though you will still see green downward-facing arrows next to successfully-downloaded songs.
Android phones don't have the bar under "Library" as part of their download interface, though they also display green arrows next to tracks once downloading is complete.
 Once your tracks are done downloading, find the "Your Library" tab at the bottom of the screen and select it to bring up the Settings option. In the Settings menu, select "Playback", then slide the button next to "Offline" right. It should turn green, signifying that you've successfully implemented Offline Mode!


If you leave wifi range or are in Airplane Mode, your phone should automatically switch to Offline Mode.

