 Before you start, you should unplug the dryer to prevent accidents. The plug is usually located behind the machine. Test it to be sure that you have unplugged it correctly.


If you have a gas dryer, you will also want to shut off the gas.;
, You've probably noticed that lint gets everywhere. There seems to be a cloud of it anytime you open your dryer or fiddle with the trap. Of course, this means that lint works its way into all the cracks and crevices of your machine and you'll want to be sure to clean it at least once a year to prevent problems.


A dryer blocked up with lint can dry inefficiently and even cause fires.
The lint trap should, of course, be cleaned out after every use. This is very important because if you don't, new lint won't have anywhere to go, creating a mess and increasing the amount of time needed to dry a load of clothes.
 Use a vacuum cleaner to clean out behind the lint trap every few weeks to every few months, depending on how much lint your items create and how well your trap catches the lint.Pull out the lint trap and vacuum the tube that is on the other side.
You might also want to vacuum out the exhaust tubes, although these are often difficult to reach or inaccessible.
 The moisture sensor, which is on most modern machines, tells your dryer when the clothes are dry. If it's covered in lint it won't work correctly, which can lead to your dryer turning off before everything is dry. Wipe the bar down with rubbing alcohol to clean it and keep your dryer running correctly.


These are usually found near the lint trap or at the back of the machine. They will look like two long, silver strips of metal and are usually surrounded by or mounted on plastic.
If you don't clean these often, you might need to scrub with something a little more substantial, like a Magic Eraser.
 Much like you can lift the top of your stove to clean below the heating elements, you can open up your dryer if you're brave and clean the lint that builds up around the drum. Different dryers open in different ways, so check the user manual for your model or look it up online.


Generally, either the top or front panel will come off (or both). Look for screws around the lint filter, since this is usually the spot to start. With the screws undone, the panel can be removed, though there is sometimes a catch you will have to get around by pulling forward (for a top panel) or using a screwdriver at the gap (for a front panel).With the panel removed and the drum exposed, remove lint and lost items by hand or with a vacuum.
 Once you're done, snap the panels back into place and then replace the screws.

