 If you don't have a lot of cash to spare, you can create a very basic Trash Can Punch using just two ingredients and a lot of fruit. Get a large container, and fill it with 3 parts fruit punch, 2 parts Everclear, and 1 part sliced fruit. Add some ice, and serve.Use fruit such as: lemons, limes, strawberries, and oranges.
 If you don't have any fruit punch, or just don't like the taste, use 3 parts orange juice, 3 parts pineapple juice, 2 parts lime juice, and ½ part grenadine or pomegranate syrup., If you can't find any oranges, strawberries, watermelons, or grapes, you can always use other types of fruit. Almost anything will do, so long as it is "firm." Try any of the following: apples, apricots, lemons, limes, peaches, or pineapples.Remember to wash and slice these fruits as well.
 Get a large container, and fill it with 1 bottles of Everclear and 1 bottle of Malibu coconut rum. Add ½ bottle of Stolichnaya Vodka, ½ bottle of Bacardi 151 rum, and ½ bottle of Apple Schnapps. Finish off with 10 to 12 gallons (37.85 to 45.43 liters) of Hawaiian Punch. Stir, and serve., Fill a large container with 1 bottle of each of the following: Everclear, vodka, tequila, and whiskey. Add some sliced fruit, such as oranges and grapes. Finish off with 2 cans of each of the following: frozen pineapple juice, frozen fruit punch, frozen limeade, frozen apple juice, and frozen orange juice. For extra chill, add a bag of ice. Stir, and serve., To make a single serving, fill a tall glass ¾ of the way with ice. Fill it with 0.5 ounces (14.79 milliliters) of each of the following: light rum, gin, vodka, Triple Sec, Peach Schnapps, and Blue Curacao. Snap open a can of Red Bull, and place it upside down on top of the ice. Insert a bendy straw, and drink. The Red Bull will slowly fill the glass while you drink., The day before the party, cut up lots of fresh fruit, such as apples, bananas, oranges, and strawberries. Put them into a large, clean container. Add the alcohols listed below, and store in the fridge overnight. The day of the party, add 4 bottles of sweet wine, 2.64 gallons (10 liters) of Sprite, 33.8 ounces (1 liter) of orange juice, 2.11 gallons (8 liters) of Hawaiian Punch, and 2 orange juice concentrate. Stir, and serve. For the alcohols, you will need:33.8 ounces (1 liter) of Everclear and Triple Sec
1.38 gallons (5.25 liters) of Vodka
16 ounces (1 pint) of Bacardi 151 Rum
59.17 ounces (1.75 liters) of Gin
1 bottle of Peach Schnapps and Apple Schnapps

