 In order to know what kind of information you’ll need to provide in order to prove a chronic illness, you should contact your insurance company directly to see exactly what information you need to provide, and how that information needs to reach them.


You may even be able to have them send you a list of items that you need to submit.
Be sure to read your policy carefully before calling, that way you’ll know what’s in your policy, and they won’t simply tell you that they cannot help you.;
, Your doctor (or someone who deals with insurance in the office) may be able to give you helpful information about the steps you need to take to prove your illness to your insurance.


If you haven’t discussed this with your doctor before, try first calling the office and asking if there is someone you can talk to about insurance issues. Many times, the doctor doesn’t deal with the insurance directly, and there may be an employee who spends their day working with the insurance who can provide you with better advice than the doctor can.
 Many people never take the time to read through their insurance policies carefully, but there is a lot of useful information in there. If there is something you don’t understand, call the insurance company to have that information clarified.If you can afford to do so, and if the insurance company has been giving you a hard time about covering your illness, you may want to consider hiring a lawyer who can fight the insurance companies. Remember that insurance companies don’t want to pay for anything they don’t have to pay for, so it can be helpful to have someone experienced with these matters on your side.
 If you have been seeing several doctors and specialists, it will be helpful if you can make a list of the names, addresses, and phone numbers of every medical provider you have been seeing for your illness. You may need this information to prove your illness or you may need to contact all of your healthcare providers to request information. Either way, you’ll have all the information you might need in one place.While you’re at it, write down the names of all the medications you are taking and the dosage.
 Even if you cannot submit it as proof of your illness to the insurance company, having a copy of your medical records is not a bad idea. Getting all of your medical records can be a somewhat time-consuming process, so getting this done early means you’ll have everything you need should these records be requested.Additionally, having your medical records means that you can check for mistakes, and make sure that you aren’t being overcharged for medical services.
 This is an extra feature that you might have purchased when you purchased the policy, and will help you cover your medical expenses, at least to some extent.If you do have a chronic illness rider, then you may need to submit documentation to the life insurance company to prove this. Contact the company directly to determine what you need to send in or have sent in by your doctor.
 If your insurance company has asked that you submit the necessary documentation yourself, then you can do so once you have gathered all of the documents. Make sure that you have included everything they have asked for. It may even be helpful to include a table of contents in the documentation. It may not seem important, but if the insurance company sees that you have done your homework, they may be less likely to challenge your claim.


In many cases, the insurance company may ask to get the information directly from the doctor’s office. In this case, you’ll need to call your doctor’s office to coordinate this information exchange. You may need to sign a medical release form.
 The best place to start is with your doctor. Ask the doctor to give you an idea of what you should expect in terms of medical care to find out what kinds of medication you will need to take and what (if any) kinds of medical procedures you will need to have.For example, if you will need to have several costly procedures it is probably a good idea to look for an insurance plan that will cover at least some (or all) of those costs. This type of policy will likely be more expensive, but it may save you a lot of money in the end.
 For many health insurance plans, there are certain doctors and hospitals you can go to that are called “in network.” It will be a lot easier to get the insurance company to pay for visits to in network doctors and hospitals than one that is out of network.If you have a specific doctor, healthcare provider, or hospital that you want to go to, look for a policy where that provider is covered.
 If you have a common chronic illness, you may be able to find a plan that has a disease-management program. Though this may not be the most important thing to consider, having an insurance company with a disease-management program means that they will help you manage the care of your disease.If you are trying to choose between two similar insurance plans and one has a disease-management program for you while the other doesn’t, then this would be a good deciding factor.

