 Mix together 1 Tbsp (15 ml) honey with 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) organic, raw whole milk. Massage the cleanser into your skin, focusing on the areas polluted by wrinkles.


After 10 minutes, rinse the cleanser off with lukewarm water.
Honey has humectant compounds, meaning that it is capable of absorbing and retaining moisture in the skin, thereby increasing the elasticity of skin and reducing the appearance of wrinkles.
The lactic acid in milk is capable of cleaning the debris found deep inside of your skin's pores. As a result, more natural collagen is secreted.
 Mix 1 tsp (5 ml) raw organic sugar with 2 Tbsp (30 ml) real lemon juice. Massage this over your skin but do not get it in your eyes.


Rinse the solution off with cool water after 10 minutes pass.
The glycolic acid in sugar repairs skin damage.
Lemon juice contains citric acid, which is abrasive enough to gently scrub away dead skin cells so that layers of soft skin can show through. The vitamin C in lemon juice also contributes to collagen production.
 Whip the separated egg whites of two organic eggs using an electric mixer or whisk until soft peaks form. Apply the egg whites on your face, focusing on your wrinkles.


Rinse the egg whites away with cool water after 20 minutes.
Egg whites provide a quick but temporary fix.
The egg whites have astringent properties that temporarily cause the skin to become firmer.
 Steep a handful of lemon balm in 2 cups (500 ml) of boiling water. Once cool, use the solution to rinse your face each morning.


Lemon balm is an herb in the mint family.
This plant contains astringent properties that can quickly yet temporarily tighten your skin, thereby reducing the appearance of wrinkles.



Try a mix made with 2 tsp (10 ml) extra virgin olive oil and 2 drops of carrot seed oil. Massage the combination into your skin for 30 seconds before rinsing with warm water.
 Certain foods have properties that can improve the quality of your skin.


Antioxidants can fight the free radicals responsible for worsening your skin condition, including those leading to the production of wrinkles. Consume foods high in antioxidants, like blueberries.
Note that many vitamins also double as antioxidants. B-complex vitamins can be found in meat, eggs, and whole wheat. Vitamins A, C, and E are often found in fresh fruit and leafy green vegetables. Almonds also contain a high level of vitamin E.
Eat more chocolate. Dark chocolate with at least 72 percent cacao contains antioxidants. It also contains epicatechin and catechin, both of which protect your skin from harmful UV sunlight.Look for foods containing omega-3 fatty acids, like salmon and other cold-water fish. These fatty acids keep your skin hydrated.
 Focus on massaging your lymph nodes to drain away excess water-weight in your face.


Rub in a circular motion using your index and middle finger.
Start below the ear and travel down the side of the neck and toward the collarbone.
Afterward, move from beneath your chin, under your jawbone, and out toward your ears.
Massage the skin from the inner corners of your eyes to the outer corners.
Move to the temples and travel down both sides of your face.
Repeat each step five times for maximum effect.

