 Whether you speak up at a school assembly, community meeting, or town hall, your opinion will definitely be heard. Prepare yourself ahead of time with the arguments you will present, and you will be more effective at communicating your viewpoint.


For example, maybe you believe that education should be a right for all. You've heard that your city is talking about taking more money away from education. You can show up to town meetings that are aimed at discussing the issue and present what your thoughts.
Be clear in your presentation and don’t beat around the bush. Say what you want clearly and concisely.Others may be unwilling to speak up on something, but they may be inspired if they see you take action first.
 A great and effective way to express your viewpoint is to write a letter to the people that represent you in government. You can write letters to people who govern your city, such as your school board or your mayor. You can write to people at the state level of government, such as members of congress or your governor. You can write to your national representatives, including the president, your representatives, and your senators.All of these people represent you, so you have a right to make your point heard. Express your point simply but completely, and keep the focus on your primary topic.
For instance, say your city is starting a new project that you think is a complete waste of taxpayer money. You can write your mayor to tell them how you feel about it.
A letter is sometimes more effective, but you can also contact your representatives through email or phone, if you prefer.
 Another way you can make your voice heard is through avenues like blogs and podcasts. A blog is just an online space where you make posts about anything you want. You can focus yours on issues you care about. How you set up your blog is up to you. That is, you can tell personal stories, bring up issues, or tell others' stories, just to name a few.A podcast is a audio recording available through online and mobile channels that's updated regularly. Like a blog, you can focus on whatever issues you want.
One key to creating a blog or podcast is to update regularly. Most readers/listeners will want regular updates.
You can share your blog on your social network to start gaining followers.
 Often, it is easier to take a stand when you’re surrounded by people who share similar opinions because you can strengthen each other's conviction in your beliefs and keep each other well-informed. Additionally, working with an advocacy group can help you find more ways to advocate for your cause or create change. Since there is greater strength in numbers, you may be able to do more for your cause if you work with a group rather than alone.Advocacy groups are available for all types of issues, such as environmental groups or human rights organizations. If, for example, you have decided not to experiment with drugs or alcohol while in high school, you may benefit from joining a drug-free teen group.
Check local organizations that support nonprofits in your area, as you'll find lots of places where you can put your beliefs into action. You can also use social media to find groups in your area, as well as the internet. Your local library may also be able to connect you with advocacy groups.
You can also ask people you know who have similar beliefs. Often, they may already be involved in these groups, and they can help get you involved, too.
 Some jobs are just too large to accomplish on your own. Inform friends and family about what you're doing, and ask them to help or spread the word. The more people you convince to fight for your belief, the better off you'll be.


Try galvanizing efforts on social media. You can organize meetings, online or offline, to take action together, or you can use social media to spread information about your cause by writing informational posts.
Start a petition. Online petitions are a great way to gather signatures for a cause. You can use social media to spread the word.

