 The density of blood vessels in the lip promotes fast healing for most injuries in the area, but a few things can help the process.








Keep any cuts or injured areas on the lip thoroughly clean with soap and water.
Apply pressure with a clean cloth if there is bleeding.
Use ice/cold compresses to reduce any swelling or bruising.
Small punctures should be treated with antiseptics and/or hydrogen peroxide. But these will usually close on their own. Larger ones will require treatment by a medical professional--and likely stitches.
Any more significant injuries should be seen by a doctor immediately.
 Use a lip balm, preferably oil based, to lock in moisture and keep your lips in healthy condition. This will prevent the skin of the lips from being irritated and swollen.








Lip balms with olive oil, shea butter, lemon, and other ingredients high in anti-oxidants are recommended.
You can apply daily and/or whenever you feel your lips are becoming dry and chapped.
This is especially important to do during periods of cold weather.
 If this is the cause of your lip(s) appearing larger, you can remove them fairly simply.Use tweezers or wax. Tweezers can be used to individually pluck the hairs out by the root.
Waxing. Wax will be applied across the area if it's a swath of hairs and then a tape will be placed on and peeled off to pull the hairs out. Waxing is more efficient, but could be slightly messy and painful.
Electrolysis is an option. This will require an expert who will use a small needle inserted into each hair to destroy it root and all with electric current.
Pulsed laser. This is similar to the electrolysis option in that an expert will use a small but strong powerful light beam to permanently destroy each hair follicle.
Avoid shaving or creams. Shaving or creams, while they can cut the hairs or the creams can slow growth, will not permanently remove hairs on the lip.
 There are other things that could be causing your lips to look large that may not be in your control. If so, you may not not want to pursue a reduction method prematurely.If you wear other gear like braces, you should wait until they are removed before determining if your lips need any action taken regarding their size.
If you have another, more serious medical condition in the area, like a cleft lip or cleft palate, then anything you do to the rest of the lip area will involve complications and should be guided by a doctor.
 If none of your lip care techniques have helped your lip(s) appear smaller, then you may reconsider surgical approaches.


Review if you've exhausted conventional cosmetic and hygienic approaches to reducing the apparent size of your lip(s).
Identify other potential causes of your lip(s) large size.

