 Some higher-end amplifiers feature what is called an “effects loop”. Typically located on the back of any power amp, the effects loop consists of an input known as the FX Return and an output known as the FX Send.

The FX Return is connected to the output of an effects pedal, while the FX Send is connected to the input of an effects pedal.
The FX loop allows the guitarist to place certain effects after the distortion generated by the amplifier's distortion channel (if applicable). The term “in front” refers anything plugged into the main input of the amp, which in this case would exclude anything plugged into the FX loop.
While sonic beauty is in the ear of the listener, the FX loop is typically used to house delay, reverb, tremolo, and chorus pedals. The reasoning behind this is that delay, reverb etc tend to sound better after distortion (echoing a distorted sound, rather than being distorted). If your amplifier has a distortion channel (which you plan on using), the effects loop will let you run delay, reverb etc after the distortion stage.
If you only use effects pedal distortion, simply placing the delay/reverb after that pedal will achieve the same result. With all this in mind, this guide will set up the delay pedal in the FX loop, while the other effects will go “in front” of the amp.



 

;
, Make certain the amp does not have a “stand-by” switch engaged! If this switch is on, turn it off first, then proceed to shut the amp down.
 If you are using a tube amp, wait about a half hour after turning it off before disconnecting the power source. This allows the tubes to “cool down” properly.
,, The input is on the right side of the Dunlop Wah-Wah pedal.
 The output of the Dunlop Wah-Wah pedal is located on the left side of the pedal, while the input of the Boss DS-1 distortion pedal is located on the right side of the pedal.
 The output of the Boss DS-1 distortion pedal is located on the left side of the pedal, while the input of the Korg AX100G effects processor is located on the right side of the processor.
 The output of the Korg AX100G effects processor is located on the left side of the processor, while the power amp input is located either on top of the unit, or on the “face” of the unit (the input is almost always located near the amp’s tone controls).


Using an instrument cable, connect the input of the Boss DD-6 delay pedal into the FX Send output of the FX loop. The input of the Boss DD-6 delay pedal is located on the right side of the pedal.






Using an instrument cable, connect the output of the Boss DD-6 delay pedal into the FX Return input of the FX loop. The output of the Boss DD-6 delay pedal is located on the left side of the pedal.



Each of the 4 effects pedals has an input for a power supply (usually located on the rear of the pedal). It is very important you use the correct power supply for each pedal (for the DS-1 and Crybaby a Boss PSA-230P DC adapter will work fine). Most effects pedals use regulated 9 volts DC, with a center negative plug (make sure the symbols on the adapter and pedal matches). Other pedals have other requirements. Smaller/simpler pedals (like the DS-1 and Crybaby) can often share the same power supply - assuming their power requirements match up. Bigger things - delay pedals, multi-effects etc - may require their own separate adapter. In any case, never plug in a power supply if you aren't 100% sure it is the correct one!

, Because DC adapters take up a lot of outlets, it would be beneficial to use a power strip to connect all adapters to one electrical outlet.



If you are not using the recommended “half stack” combination (consisting of a power amplifier and a speaker cabinet), skip to step 16.
Locate the speaker output of the power amp and make note of its impedance level(s). For guitar amps, the OHM level is usually 4, 8, or 16 OHMs, while bass amps usually feature a 2 OHM level. If one output features a “dual impedance” level (ex: 4/8 or 8/16), this means it can connect to a speaker cabinet that accepts either of the impedance levels listed.
,,,

Turn the amplifier on, being sure to disengage a “stand-by” switch if present.






Turn on all the effects pedals, making sure that a light or some other LED display turns on along with each device.






Using either a switch or rotary control, engage the FX loop.






Make sure your guitar’s volume is turned up, and you’re ready to go!







,


##Turn off the power amplifier before anything else. Wait about thirty seconds to make sure the amp is completely shut down.
Turn off all the effects pedals.
Disconnect the power supplies from each of the effects pedals. This keeps the adapters from “running hot”, as effects pedals still use electricity even if they are set to the “bypass” setting (“bypass” refers to the setting in which an effect is used in an effects chain, but is not activated. For example, there may be four effects in the effects chain, but only two are activated during a particular song).

