 Meanwhile, prepare a 3 qt (3 L) glass baking dish by lightly coating the sides and bottom with nonstick cooking spray., Fill a medium saucepan with at least 4 qt (4 L) of cold water. Set the saucepan on the stove over medium-high heat, and let it reach a rolling boil.


If desired, you can lightly salt the water once it reaches a boil. Doing so can draw more flavor out of the pasta, but it's not strictly necessary.
 Add the dry pasta to the boiling water. Cook it for 1 to 2 minutes less than the time indicated on the box, then remove it from the heat and drain away the water.


The pasta will continue cooking as you bake it, so you shouldn't cook it to full tenderness during this step. Ideally, it should seem firm or "al dente" at the completion of this step.
Use short, medium-sized pasta for this dish. The exact cooking time will vary based on the specific type of pasta used. Following the package guidelines will typically produce the best results, but you can use the following cook times as a guideline:Egg noodles, regular: 8 minutes
Egg noodles, extra-wide: 10 minutes
Elbow macaroni: 8 minutes
Farfalle: 13 minutes
Penne: 9 minutes
Rigatoni: 12 minutes
Rotini: 8 minutes
Shells, medium: 9 minutes
Wagon wheels: 10 minutes
Ziti: 14 minutes



, In a large bowl, mix together the drained tuna, prepared pasta, cream of mushroom soup, milk, and vegetables. Transfer this mixture into the prepared baking dish.


Sprinkle the mixture with the shredded cheddar cheese.
Do not cover the top of the baking dish with foil. Allow the cheese to remain exposed to the direct heat of the oven.
 Place the tuna pasta bake in the preheated oven. Cook it until the cheese begins to brown and the sides begin to bubble.
 As the dish bakes, mix together the bread crumbs and melted butter (or oil) in a small bowl.


Continue mixing until the bread crumbs completely soak up the fat.
 Temporarily remove the tuna pasta bake from the oven. Evenly sprinkle the moist bread crumbs over the top of the dish, then return it to the oven for another 5 minutes.Keep the baking dish uncovered, and cook the bake until the bread crumbs turn golden brown.
 Remove the tuna pasta bake from the oven. Let it rest for about 5 minutes before serving.

