 Running out of power when you are filming is all to common a problem that even effects professionals. Reduce the risk of running out of power by keeping at least 4 spare batteries and keeping a charger near to where you are filming (if this is possible). If you are working in a remote area power may be inconsistent, so make sure you have a backup to relying on power. Taking these steps reduces power used by camera:


Use viewfinder instead of LCD (this makes a huge difference).
If its not possible to use viewfinder(DSLR), dim LCD.
Keep batteries warm.
Turn off auto focus.
 A poorly lit subject not only looks amateur, it is also distracting. To make sure you don't underexpose, use a simple tin foil reflector to light the subjects face and at night use a fast lens. if you cannot light the scene it is easier to recover a slightly underexposed shot than an overexposed shot.
 Although there are distinct advantages in being a one man film crew, having others assist you saves both time and a lot of stress, as well as this they can help keep an eye out for your equipment.
 Poor sound is a common problem because it is overlooked, you should have someone assist you by recording sound on an external sound recorder, using headphones to monitor it.
 Make sure you get more than one angle of something, so you have more options when editing. This is most easily achieved by using a second camera. Follow a 30/1 ratio, so if you are making an hour long documentary film 30 hours. It helps to log your footage while you are shooting, so you can see what else you need.
 Heat and humidity can cause problems for your equipment. If you think this will be a problem have a backup camera.
 If you are shooting on tapes this is not a problem just make sure they are stored in a cool safe place. The basic principle of backing is you backup in three different locations.




Computer.
External hard drive. To back footage onto. Consider a lacie rugged. Recently the Solid state drive, a very stable and fast storage system has come onto the market but it is still very expensive.
Online backup. If you are near somewhere with a fast and cheap internet connection, this is a safe way of backing up footage. Beware even with a fast connection it still takes a long time so only back up top priority clips.
 When you start editing your documentary you may realise that you need to return to film more. If you are on a small budget this may be challenging, one way you could deal with this is create a trailer using the material you have and try to get more money through crowd funding.

