 While rings are symbolic as a sign of unity, they are also bedecked in traditions that may or may not be applicable to you. Not everyone appreciates the symbolism of rings, nor even using symbolism as part of their wedding ceremony. If you are not a traditionalist, if you have thought carefully about the purpose and intent behind your marriage, rings may not not feature highly as an outward display of your commitment. Bear in mind:


Rings don't make the commitment, you do. There is nothing to say you have to have rings.
Rings can be annoying to some people, who will accept them as part of the ceremony but then rarely wear them again. This can be the case with people who don't much like jewelry, who do a lot of sport or outdoor activities or who don't like the look of wedding rings. In some cases, it concerns modesty, about not wearing jewelry for faith or environmental reasons. Whatever reason, there is no point getting something that will never be appreciated afterward.
Temporary rings might work for some couples. For example, a ring woven from flax or other plant material could be used during the wedding as a token gesture that does not need to be worn after the wedding. This might be nice if the plant has some meaning (cultural or personal), if you're both nature lovers or if you simply love plants!
;
, It wouldn't be fair to the other partner if he or she does want a ring but you insist on no rings because you don't want one. It is acceptable for one partner to have a ring while the other partner does not. After all, in many Western weddings, rings for the man are a recent addition.If one of you does want a ring and the other does not, you can still incorporate this as part of the marriage ceremony.


In some cases, brides prefer a charm bracelet, to which charms are added as important life events occur as a couple, such as births, major transitions and promotions. This might be a suitable alternative where one person in the couple wishes to have something to show outwardly that isn't a ring.
 In some cases, it may seem like wearing a ring turns into publicly displaying a binding object. If your reason for not wearing a ring has anything to do with being afraid of commitment or feeling as if you're going to look like someone you don't feel you are, perhaps you have commitment issues that go to the heart of the marriage. If so, ask yourself:


Are you ready for marriage and the long-term commitment it entails? Be honest with yourself!
Is the ring a tangible sign of deeper concerns? If so, consider talking all of your concerns through with your partner and/or someone you trust to divulge such confidences with.
Be sure about getting married. You need to push past your commitment issues before making a commitment.

