 Use a metal soup can to make a reaction chamber. Peel all of the labeling off of the can so that it doesn’t catch on fire. Open the can at the top, empty out any soup, and clean the can.;
, Sugar will be the fuel source for your reaction. It will burn, producing heat and smoke. Fill one third of the chamber with sugar to leave room for other reactants., Saltpeter, also known as potassium nitrate, serves as a good oxidizer. This means it helps enable the sugar to burn faster, producing a more realistic pyroclastic model. You can use different ratios of potassium nitrate to sugar for different results. Start with a 1:1 mixture by adding the same amount of potassium nitrate as you did sugar. Mix the reactants thoroughly, but do not heat them.You can change the ratio to have more or less potassium nitrate and see which explosions you prefer. More potassium nitrate will oxidize the sugar faster, resulting in in a faster reaction. Less potassium nitrate will result in a slower reaction.
Your fuel is now live and can be ignited. Keep it away from any heat source, flame, or spark.
You can purchase saltpeter at most local hardware stores or online.
 If you have made a model volcano, you can place the can inside the opening of the volcano. Another option is to build a volcano around the soup can. Either way, be absolutely sure that your volcano is not made with any flammable materials. The reaction gets very hot.Do NOT use paper mache volcanoes. If you have a paper mache volcano you need to do the baking soda and vinegar reaction.
Volcanoes made of clay, stones, or metal will not catch fire.
 You can get a model rocket ignitor at a hobby store like Hobby Lobby. You can also order them online. This ignitor will allow you to set off the reaction from a safe distance using a small electrical current. Simply put the end of the ignitor into fuel mixture, and make sure that the end of the ignitor is buried into the fuel mixture.If you want to hide the ignitor leads, you can cut two small holes in the side of the can to feed the leads through, but this is not necessary.
 Fill any remaining chamber space with ash or soot. While this does nothing for the chemical reaction, it will be thrown into the air. This will make your model resemble a pyroclastic event more accurately.
 This experiment can be very dangerous if it is done in the wrong place. If you do this inside, you are likely to burn down the building. Take the volcano to an open place outside. Get away from any buildings, trees or power lines., The ignitor will have two leads coming off of it. Connect a piece of stereo wire to each lead. Each length of wire should be at least 25 feet (8 1/3 meters) long to keep you a safe distance from the volcano., Touch one lead to the positive end of a nine volt battery and another lead to negative side. It doesn’t matter which lead touches which end of the battery. This will send current to the ignitor and ignite the fuel. The resulting explosion will send heat, smoke, and ash up into the air in true volcanic style.,