 To make sure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cake, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it has reached the desired temperature. It will likely beep and/or flash an indicator light as an alert.;
, For the coffee cake, you need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20- by 20-cm) baking pan. It’s important to grease the pan to ensure that the cake won’t stick to it, though. Rub a small amount of butter over the interior of the pan to grease it.You can grease the pan with non-stick cooking spray if you prefer.
 Add 3 tablespoons (40 g) of granulated erythritol and 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon to a small bowl. Mix the two together well so they’re fully combined, and set the bowl aside.Erythritol is a heat-stable natural sugar substitute that is ideal for baking. It is a sugar alcohol that has no calories and doesn’t affect the blood sugar, so it works well in low-carb recipes. You can usually find it at health food stores and online retailers.
 Add 3 cups (288 g) of almond flour, ¼ cup (24 g) of unflavored whey protein powder, 2 teaspoons (12 g) of baking powder, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of baking soda, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together so they’re fully combined, and set the bowl aside.You can substitute macadamia nut or cashew flour for the almond flour.
 Add ½ cup (113 g) of butter that’s been softened to room temperature to the bowl of a stand mixer. Beat the butter on medium speed until it is smooth, which should take approximately 30 to 60 seconds.You can use an electric handheld mixer to make the coffee cake batter if you prefer.
 Once the butter is creamed, add ¾ cup (161 g) of granulated erythritol. Mix the two on medium speed until the mixture becomes light and fluffy, which should take approximately 2 minutes., After you’ve beaten the butter and erythritol together, mix in 3 large eggs one at a time on medium speed. Next, blend in ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract until fully combined.Be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula after the addition of each egg to ensure that they’re fully mixed into the batter.
 When the eggs and vanilla are mixed in, beat in half of the flour mixture on medium until just incorporated. Next, beat in ¼ cup (60 ml) of almond milk at the same speed. Repeat the process with the remaining flour mixture and ¼ cup (60 ml) of almond milk until both are fully incorporated.The batter should be fairly thick but smooth when you’re finished mixing it.
 Once you’ve finished mixing the batter, transfer half of it into the greased pan. Use a spatula to smooth it into an even layer, and then sprinkle two-thirds of the cinnamon filling over it.If you prefer, you can pour all of the batter into the cake and sprinkle all of the cinnamon filling over the top.
 After the filling is in place, pour the rest of the batter over it. Spread it through the pan with the spatula so all of the lower layer is covered.If the batter is sticking to the spatula, grease it with some non-stick cooking spray.
 Place the cake in the heated oven. Allow it to bake for approximately 35 minutes, or until the top of the cake becomes golden brown.You can be certain that the cake is finished by sticking a toothpick or a knife in the center. It should only come out with a few moist crumbs on it.
 When the cake is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Use a pastry brush to spread 1 tablespoon (14 g) of melted butter over the top while it’s still hot. Next, sprinkle the remaining cinnamon filling over the cake as a topping.If you don’t have a pastry brush, you can fold a piece of parchment paper into a strip and use it to spread the butter over the cake.
 Once you’ve added the topping, allow the cake to cool in the pan for 10 to 20 minutes. You want to make sure that it’s not too hot when you ice it, so the icing doesn’t melt off., Add 3 tablespoons (42 g) of softened cream cheese, 2 tablespoons (23 g) of powdered erythritol, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract to the stand mixer bowl. Beat the ingredients together on medium until the mixture is smooth, which should take approximately 1 minute.If the frosting is too thick, add a little bit more cream.
If you prefer, you can skip the frosting and the cake will have even fewer carbs.
 When the frosting is mixed, use a spoon to drizzle it over the top of the cake. Cut the cake into squares, and serve on plates with your favorite coffee or tea.If you prefer, you can put the frosting into a pastry bag and pipe it over the cake.
Cover any leftover cake with foil or plastic wrap, and store it at room temperature. It will stay fresh for 3 to 4 days.

