 These include:


Budokai Tenkaichi is the best of the Budokai Tenkaichi installments you can get out there, not only it is cheap but it is great to let go of yourself such as anger. Choose a character and take out your anger on your opposition in ranking challenges or other game modes.
Characters- There are 75 characters including never seen before in the previous Budokai Tenkaichi-Zangya, Pikkon and many more. There are 120 unique character forms to unlock giving you the full arsenal of weapons to launch your bid to take over the DBZ world in ultimate battle Z. The best thing yet, like in the previous game, you do not need to choose separate characters, they will trans form in the game if you wish to transform.
Battles- In dueling, like in BT3, which is quite expensive, you can do tag battles so for example while fighting as Goku, you can swap places with your other character if you're running out of health. Free battles are 5 v 5 battles, so you swap places with your companions a lot more than in tag battles. Battle settings have been made better such as you can choose your referee such as Supreme Kai and choose the seconds or time you want to battle.
Data centre- Best reason yet, you can create a custom character, this does not mean like choose skills, hairstyle, it means you unlock one of the characters from the Dragonball world and they are way more powerful. For example normal Zangya will be level 8 but unlocked Zangya in data centre will be level 120. You need passwords to unlock the characters, there are a lot of videos which can give you the passwords for specific characters including Uub.
Attacks- Just before your enemy hits you, by pressing o and directional buttons, you can teleport out of the way. Also the attacks has been made more realistic, that is according to the dragonball world. By realistic, opponents will fly out of the way or teleport to avoid attacks. The hard mode really puts you to the test. Your opponent will try crazy moves to dodge out of the way such as back flips and you can do the same as well.
Battlefields- 16 battlefields have been introduced to give you the battle like never before so you can fight in a random planet or in the burning Namek for the first time since BT1.
Dragonworld- You can live the story of Goku and his friends in dragon adventure. You can choose your difficulty and go for it. Also there are extras, if you complete those extra events, you get more rewards. The story mode starts of from Saiyan saga and runs till the Db Gt, also it includes adventures from Dragonball.
Dragon library- Unlike before, you can view the dragon profiles with the voices of the character and fighting stance includes. Also there is dragon text that explains dragonball as it happened. Also there is a playlist of music you can listen to of your choice.
Ultimate battle z- Like never before you can choose which section to fight like in Kakarot road, you only fight the opponents that are Goku's rivals such as Vegeta. Beware you cannot choose difficulty, they will come after you like wolves and eat you alive if let your guard down! There are other sections to explore and eventually the difficulty level goes to very hard.
Z items- Unlike in Bt1, you will have to earn money to buy yourself an upgrade, which can be earned while doing dragon adventure or fighting in dragon tournaments.;
, These include:


Misleading- Such as data centre, it misleads you to thinking that you can create your own characters from scratch, which is not true.
Characters too strong- Some characters are too strong to even challenge on easy mode. Easy mode is to give the beginner an idea of the game but if he or she gets beaten straight away, its useless as the player cannot learn the basics. Also if you do com v com, Zangya always loses to Android 18 so you cannot learn the moves. So when it says loses, that means in only less then 50 seconds or less then 60 seconds.
 Other than the small list of negatives, the game is decent and cheap to buy compared to bt3. It can get you hooked for hours if you get the hang of it.

