 Most card collectors use binders to keep their cards. A binder offers safety and an accessible showcase if you want to show your cards off to someone. You should prepare to buy a high-quality binder that's appropriate for displaying such high-value items. Boxes, on the other hand, offer more safety, but don't have the same readymade presentation. If you get a box, index card dividers will act as a trusty partition between categories.Each of these index partitions will help you categorize the cards within each box. Sticky tabs may be used to the same effect in binders.


If your cards are too valuable to be worth storing in basic binders, it may be worth it to buy high-protection plastic sleeves for each of the cards.This will reduce smudging and tear risks. Toploaders are recommended for the most hardcore, high-value collectors.Depending on the size of your collection, you may need multiple binders and boxes. If this is the case, you should try to turn each binder/box into a broad category.;
, Most card brands offer prescribed categories. You may choose to follow these categories if you want. Otherwise, you can order them numerically (if applicable) or alphabetically. A numerical or alphabetical ordering system can be used within each category as well.


Sports cards might be categorized by player type, team, year, set and the sport itself. Some collector choose to specialize in specific teams. Collecting all of the cards in a given team will increase your collection's value.
Pokemon cards might be categorized by the particular card type or its rareness. Other "character" cards may be sorted according to the unique categories of that given product.
For duplicate cards, you can place them side by side. For less valuable cards in binders, a common trick is to make the cards share the same sleeve. It is helpful to make a note somewhere that the duplicate exists, as it won't be readily visible from the start.
 Place each card in its assigned pile. Keep a healthy distance of space between certain piles. If you are dealing with enough cards, the piles may get big enough to the point where separate piles eventually merge.
 Once you have your card piles sorted out, it's time to list the categories listed in your box or binder. With a permanent marker, neatly list the category on a tab and place it at the beginning of a given category. It helps to have all of your categories planned out before you get to this stage. That way, you can allot enough space to each section in your storage.


Though it may seem obvious, you should make a point of marking the box or binder itself. If you're storing them in your attic, they can get lost amidst a number of other things.
There's a tendency for collectors to scribble the categories. While you obviously don't need to make the lettering perfect, it is a good idea to ensure the writing is legible for anyone who might see it. Furthermore, giving your lettering some creative flair might add to the aesthetic value of your collection.
It's a good idea to count out the number of cards in each category before marking your sections. That way, you can give each category ample space in your binder.
 Put on a show or listen to music while you arrange the cards by type. This will make your time feel more worthwhile. Make a point of placing the cards in carefully. If your cards have a monetary worth associated with them, the slightest crease or tear could ruin their value.
 If you're a passionate collector, you'll always be on the lookout for new additions. With this in mind, it's good to organize your binder with future finds in mind. Leave some extra space at the end of each category to accommodate for this.


If you're ordering within each category itself, you can save yourself organizing in the future by taking account of the cards you still need. If there's a limited amount needed to complete a collection, leave an open space where that card will eventually go. This also gives you a visual reference as to how complete your collection currently is.
If your collection expands beyond the capacity of your given storage, it may be time to reorganize the collection. Luckily, with your cards already in their proper categories, reorganizing will only take a fraction of the original time it took to get things together.
 With that in mind, finding a spot where they'll be safe and untouched is paramount. A temperate basement or attic is a good place to store basic hobby cards for the long-term. More valuable cards should be kept somewhere heat and moisture controlled, like an office. Renting out a moisture-regulated lockup to keep your cards in is recommended if they're sufficiently valuable. If you want quick access to your collection, a filing cabinet is a good idea. Binders are more frail than boxes, and should be placed in a storage box if you're storing them for a long time.


Make sure your basement or attic is free from excess issues like heat or moisture. If this is the case, you should store it somewhere more temperate, such as a bedroom closet.
If you have to store your cards in a damp or hot area, you should invest in rigid snap-cases. This will protect your cards from most of the environmental issues. They can run up a cost if you need enough of them, but they're worth it if your cards are sufficiently valuable.If your collection carries some significant monetary weight, it's not unreasonable to lock it up in a safe.
 While a digital representation of your card collection may be redundant for smaller collections, it becomes increasingly useful once your collection crosses over into needing multiple boxes or binders.


Make sure to include the essential card data, including the name, category, and estimated monetary value. Sports cards will indicate the maker of the card, the year, sport, player name, number, condition and whether or not the card itself is signed. Other card systems (such as "character" cards) should be catalogued according to each of that brands specific properties.
There are software programs specifically designed for card-collecting. If a spreadsheet is too impersonal for your needs, you should look up a card organizing program., This offers a shorthand method of referring to certain cards. Again, this is a card-keeping method that only really makes sense if your collection gets really big.
 A lot of things factor into a card's market worth, including condition, rarity, desirability and historical significance. If you aren't sure of the values themselves, you can show them to trading card specialist. For a fee, a specialist will appraise the condition and rarity of a card and give you a rough estimate of its worth on the market.
 Having more than one card isn't usually seen as a particularly desirable, but a card copy can come in handy if you're trading with other collectors. With this in mind, it's a good idea to set aside the cards you want to trade. At a convention, you may run into another collector that has a card you want. By trading your duplicates for cards you want, you'll be able to get a solid use out of them.
 The longer you let your collection grow unchecked, the more harrowing it will be to ultimately get it in order.If you're starting out with a trading card collection, it's never too early to start sorting them out by type. As time goes on, your categories will get more elaborate. However, even a basic set of 5-10 cards can be arranged in a way that makes logical sense.

