 Practice at least three times a week at your house or local gym.;
, This will help you to get better with making passes and being a good team player.
 Be sure to exaggerate and pretend to do fake moves that you are not actually going to do. Move around with fast control to confuse your opponents.
 In particular, practice with older kids who are better than you. This helps you to improve your playing skills.
 If it's not a practice day, just do some handles.
 This shows how responsible you are.
, Picture yourself doing really well at tryouts. Imagine yourself making insane passes and hitting tons of shots. This will boost your confidence.


Watch plenty of highlights around when your tryouts take place. Seeing how others are doing will help you to spot the little details that pro players do, so that you can mimic them.
,, This will help your coach to observe your potential.
 Avoid showing off, and be sure to pass to teammates who are in good position to make plays. Most coaches want a team player and one that knows what she or he does. Don't try to show off and use any of your streetball skills too much.


Don't yell at your teammates if they mess up a play. Simply encourage them.
 Hustle on defense and look for opportunity to make plays on offense. Don't hesitate and follow your instincts when it comes to an open shot or layup.
 Act as if you own the courts.
 Make assists, grab rebounds, play good defense, try creating some turnovers that can lead to points.
 Most schools will not allow you to participate in a sport with a failing grade. This will also give coaches an idea of what kind of student you are and will reflect it to what type of athlete you are. Students with better grades tend to have an advantage of making the team. It's not all about how good you are at certain sports., Sports take up a lot of your extra time, but make sure you find some time to study or do homework. Colleges might consider giving you a scholarship for sports, but when they see that your grades are not what's expected at their level, they have every right to skip over you. You might be the best of the best or you might be better than Michael Jordan, but that's not an excuse to be getting bad grades. Although some may think sports are more important, school comes first.