 If you have a passcode lock on your phone, it must be turned off for the jailbreak process. You can turn it on again once the jailbreak process is complete.


Tap Settings on your home screen.
Tap General.
Scroll down and tap Passcode Lock.
Toggle passcode lock off. You will need to enter the passcode to turn it off.;
, Use the USB cable that came with your device to connect it to a USB port on your computer. iTunes may open automatically. You can leave it open if you are backing up your data in iTunes (see next step), otherwise you can close it.
 Before jailbreaking your phone, it is highly recommended that you backup your data and settings. This will allow you to easily restore your iPhone to its regular state if your jailbreak messes up or you are unhappy with it. You can either backup your data using iTunes or upload the backup to iCloud.



Backup through iTunes. Open iTunes. Open the Summary tab for your device. You can access this by clicking View and then selecting Show Sidebar. Your iPhone will be listed in the left frame of the iTunes window. Click it to open the Device Summary. Click Back Up Now. iTunes will proceed to store your phone’s data in an image file that will be saved on your computer.

You can verify that the backup was successful by clicking preferences and then selecting the Devices tab. You should see your new backup in the list of Device backups.



Backup through iCloud. Open the Settings app on your Home screen. Select iCloud, then Storage & Backup. Slide the iCloud Backup switch to On. Your device will automatically backup when connected to a power source and a wireless network.

You can change what is backed up by clicking Manage Storage. In this screen you can see how large your backup file is, and you can toggle which Apps to backup.
 In iTunes, click on your device and uncheck the “Encrypt Local Backup” box. You will need to enter your password and backup your device.
 This is the jailbreak tool created by the iOS hacking community that will allow you to jailbreak any 6.1.3 to 6.1.5 iOS device. This is an untethered jailbreak, meaning you don’t have to plug it in each time you turn it on.


p0sixspwn is available for free from the developers.
Extract the ZIP file once you download it. You can place the folder anywhere that is easy to access, such as your desktop.
 Select “Run as Administrator” or, if that option is not available, “Open”. The program should open, and your device should be detected and shown in the main window. If your device is not shown, make sure that it is properly connected and that iTunes can detect it.
 Your device will begin jailbreaking automatically, and the progress will be shown in the program. Your device will reboot multiple times during the jailbreak process.
 Once the program tells you that the jailbreak process is complete, you can disconnect your device from your computer. Your device may still reboot a few times as the installation is finalized.
 Now that your jailbreak is complete, you are free to start downloading apps through Cydia and customizing your device. If you ever want to return to the standard version of iOS, restore the device from the backup you made.

