 In some countries you can work completely unqualified as a professional (paid) riding instructor. You must however be honest about you qualifications with all your clients.
 Liability insurance is expensive, especially for unqualified, free-lance instructors, but without it you are risking everything you own. Unfortunately for someone with only one or two clients, the cost of insurance will mean you will make a loss.
 Try teaching a friend to ride and encourage them to enter shows when they feel confident with their ability. Some one might see your student, comment on how well she rides, and ask who taught her. This will spread your name around the show ring and you may just get a few new pupils.
 By becoming a member you may be covered by their insurance for volunteer club activities. It is a great advertising platform to gain paying clients

, Ask at livery yards if they allow outside instructors to teach their livery clients in their faculties, and if they will allow you to advertise on their board. Be aware that some won't allow it, most will want to see proof of insurance. Keep an eye out in horse magazines and your local newspaper, as they might have advertisements looking for an instructor or a coach.
 This will probably be the most sensible route for you to take too, as your instructor will know what will be expected of you and will be able to help prepare you better.
 The Internet is good resource for this but make good use of the phone too. You want an internationally recognized and respected qualification.
 Working student positions are common and if you do not have family commitments, you are free to move to the best opportunities. Your employer will pay for your training; however you must be prepared to work hard for little money. Taking a college course is another option, though it will probably only take you so far in your instructor rating. If you are under 19 years old, in a country with free education, this is often the most affordable option. Organizing and paying for the training and exams yourself is the most expensive option. For most people it will mean working another job outside the low-paying equine industry, thereby cutting your studying and experience-building time. Your instructors, riding school and riding club will be vital if you choose this method.

