 By sharing materials, you are either informing people or asking them to act by donating, volunteering, joining or supporting.;
, Determine how they will best respond to marketing materials.


Use printed materials such as postcards, newsletters and brochures if your audience is older or less likely to use computers.
Invest in digital materials such as websites, social networking and e-newsletters if your audience is younger and more likely to get their information online. Digital materials are also good for attracting funders and volunteers.
Use both printed and digital materials if you want to reach multiple audiences. You can use the same graphics and text for both platforms.



Publicize a special event with creative graphics, encourage people to join your organization with a card that is easy to fill out and mail in and develop an interactive website that will invite people to spend some time learning about your organization.
Large non-profits may have already have materials available to your office for less money or free for participation in some types of events.



Set a budget and decide what it will pay for. Make a list of the materials you want to create, and prioritize them. Examples might include a website, social networking profiles, blogs, newsletters, brochures, pamphlets, postcards, annual reports and direct mail.



Explain that you are a nonprofit organization with limited funds. Some vendors might be willing to donate their time, or give you a discount. Any donated time or materials will need to be disclosed as a gift.
Compare the quotes you receive and choose the vendors who will give you the most quality for the lowest production price.
 You probably have talented and creative staff and volunteers who can do some of the writing and designing for these materials. This will cut down on the costs of professional designers and copywriters.
 You can order these in bulk online and all you need to do is provide your organization's logo.
 This will keep all of your marketing materials consistent.


Keep your logo on everything you create and your tagline, if you have one. Make sure your contact information and website is also on all your materials.

