 If you already have a bank account, you can get a debit card from your bank. It is a relatively easy process. You just need to complete an application with the bank to get a debit card. Since you have already established your identity with the bank, the only paperwork is the application. The bank will review your application and, depending on your history with the bank, approve your account for a debit card.


The bank typically mails you a card once you have been approved., Once you have received your new card, you need to activate it. Activating the card is usually done with the help of a banking representative at your local branch. You will pick a PIN (Personal Identification Number) and make a simple transaction. Make sure you chose a unique number that isn't easy to guess but that is something you can remember. Once the PIN is chosen, the same one will be used for any debit transaction.


If the bank gives you the choice of using or not using a PIN in your debit transactions, always choose to have one. It is an important safeguard for the security of your account.
Your PIN should not be obvious, such as your birthday, social security number, address, or phone number. Don't write your PIN and keep it in your purse or wallet. Don’t share it with anyone. If they use it, you will likely be responsible, even if they didn’t have permission for that particular purchase., You can buy a prepaid, reloadable debit card at some major retailers, convenience stores, discount stores, pharmacies, or online. These locations sell Visa or MasterCard debit cards. These cards work much like the debit cards attached to other accounts. The difference is that you load them with a balance that is only accessible with the card.


One problem with prepaid cards is that they typically require an activation fee when you put money on the card for the first time. However, the activation charge is a one-time fee and does not occur again while you are using the card.
You can load money on them online, in person at a participating retailer, and through direct deposit from another account.