 Raw foods are more susceptible to spoilage and will not keep anywhere near as long as processed foods. Be prepared to consume raw foods quickly and to replenish them regularly.


Use up fresh food within the times recommended for consuming them. Their quality deteriorates after this time.
Harvest homegrown produce as you need it; that way you benefit from its growing, "live" goodness right up to the last possible moment.
Freeze such items as shelled nuts, seeds, dried fruits, carob, coconut, grains, etc., for optimal retention of their health benefits., Introduce raw foods slowly into your current diet.


Eat a variety of foods. Make a list of produce, herbs, nuts and seeds from A to Z that you would like to include in your raw food diet. Keep it seasonal but be sure to include as much variety as possible.
Begin with fresh fruit for breakfast. Or try a fresh fruit smoothie every breakfast, minus dairy.
Transition fresh, raw plant food into your remaining meals on a weekly basis. For lunch and dinner, have a large salad with the other items you're used to having. Include nuts, seeds, sprouted seeds, and sprouted beans.
Use raw food plant-based pates, non-dairy seasonings, fresh herbs, etc., to season raw food meals. Hummus can add zap to many meals. Added flavoring is very important for food not broken down by cooking, and helps to transform a "salad" into a "meal".
Use different food preparation techniques to add variety, such as sprouting seeds, grains, and beans, juicing fruit and vegetables, soaking nuts and dried fruit and blending.
Learn to make raw food desserts. You don't need to abandon your sweet tooth; many raw food desserts are possible beyond simple chopped up fruit.
 Not everyone appreciates the intensity of the work seemingly required for this diet if you follow the fussier food preparation examples.It is advisable to leave the trickier, fancier raw food diet suggestions for special occasions if you find they consume too much of your time in preparation. A raw food diet should not add to your anxiety levels, nor turn you into a crazed martyr to a cause that's rapidly depleting your patience.


Initially, expect some of the learning to be time-consuming as you switch preparation methods; after all, you are unlearning "cooking" and that can take some doing until it becomes second nature. After a time, it should become a lot faster, especially as you learn to prepare suitable items in batches.
You can always just add in some raw food to your diet rather devoting your entire dietary habits to it. Some people do a raw food diet on certain days of the week, or only do raw food at home and eat what they want when they go out. Find out what works for you, your body, your health, and your lifestyle!

, You may find that you need to supplement your diet to make sure that your nutritional needs are met. Try Vitamin B12 to prevent anemia. You may also need to include an iron and calcium supplement.Getting enough protein can be difficult on a raw foods diet.You may want to experiment with adding things like sushi or raw-milk cheese.
 Optimal health is about being healthy in a well-rounded way. What goes into your body is important but so is getting adequate exercise, relaxing properly to reduce stress, and thinking positively to ensure that you aren't bombarding your body with negative thoughts, emotions, and resentments.
 Many people will feel ill soon after abruptly starting a new diet. Although this is often referred to as a "detoxification reaction", it's actually your digestive system adjusting to your diet, and it happens with any diet.Increased fiber can cause temporary diarrhea or constipation. The change in diet can cause frequent flatulence, a notorious side-effect of those new to raw food diets.Some experts recommend easing into a new diet by slowly phasing in new foods and phasing out old ones, to allow your system time to adjust. However, if feelings of illness continue, this diet may not be for you and your body's individual needs.

