 Decide you believe and profess belief in the Gospel. If asked about your beliefs, say that Jesus Christ is your Lord and savior, and that you trust Him for "salvation by grace, through faith, not by works or good deeds you are to do".
 There is singing of worship songs, a few hymns and listening to a sermon. It is not about reciting sermons, written prayers and going on with business. This church involves personal spiritual and emotional growth, and giving , not necessarily financially, but getting involved in a fellowship which promotes learning, growing, healing and restoration.
 Ask around for a church. Look for church signs, look online, or in the phone book for a church that calls themselves charismatic, or evangelical, some are called Pentecostal. It may be difficult to find in a phone book, so try getting references from contacts.


When you find the church that appeals to you, no need to call the pastor and introduce yourself. If you do, he might ask why you want to attend this sort of church and how you came to find God.
 Friendly members will be happy to see a new face, so politely introduce yourself to someone who greets you, and tell them that you are currently searching for a new church. It takes more than one session to know if this is your church, so don't feel that you should join that church immediately.
 By introducing yourself to members, forming mutual attachments, and going to the external activities, people will know that you intend to stay. In a very small church the pastor may agree to pay a visit to your home.
 Ask to join and you can. Some churches have lessons, or training, but it is usually very informal, up to you;., People will definitely ask you why or how you came to find Christ. Tell them the truth, if it seeking God was say to overcome an addiction or spiritual ordeal just let them know. As you get to know members you will discover that they also have undergone similar experiences and emotions as you have. Evangelical churches are open to hear people's testimonies.
 You can commit to any activity you want, such as sharing Bible studies, youth groups, healing-prayer groups, old people groups, alpha courses, choir, music, whatever suits you. Cooperate in such a way as to know and grow with others.
 You will want to if you genuinely like the church then you've found home!

