 Before starting everything, make sure that you have the latest version of Filezilla, it's an open source software and it's recommended to use a new updated version for better speed and to avoid some error messages that you can see with slow connections. Type Filezilla in Google and you will get their official website, then, download only the client version and not the server.;
, Put all your plugins you want to upload in that folder, so later, you can upload all your plugins at once, this is an option but will save you time managing every plugin file.
 This is the most important step, you need to find your Ftp server connection details from your welcome email that you've received in the sign up process with your web hosting company. You will need your Ftp host name, in general it will be in this form "ftp.websiteexample.com" and then, you need also the ftp username and password. If you can't find these details for any reason, then, find them in your cPanel account under the "Ftp Accounts" section.
Then, you can see your default ftp account, or simply use the second section that says "Special FTP Accounts" and click on "configure FTP" and you will get the details instantly below that line. Now, copy these details and launch your Filezilla software.
 Before starting the upload, you need to know that the standard FTP software takes more time than the PC file manager, so, be patient and prepare yourself for some time that can be 30 minutes or a few hours depending on your plugins file size and your internet connection speed.
When you launch Filezilla, you will get 4 boxes at the top of the screen where you need to add your ftp login details there, forget the last box that says "Port" simply because it's always 21 in the majority of servers and you can leave it blank.
The first box is the "Host" and it's your domain name with "ftp" at the beginning "ftp.domain.com" and it can also be your server IP address if the host not work. The second box is the ftp "username" and the third is your ftp "Password". When you enter these 3 details click on "Quick Connect" button and you will see some log details in real time. If something wrong happens, you will get all in red warnings, if you're on the right details, you will get all with green.
 Please note that you can only upload regular files, and not compressed folders, so make sure that you extract the plugins files in your local computer first, then, you can move them to your distant server. By default, WordPress plugins come in zip files, so, you need to extract them.
To find your blog "plugins" folder, open your home directory, then, find wp-content and open it, you will find subfolders, such as "themes" and "plugins". Now, you have your "plugins" directory and you can start moving your files.The upload is simple, just move the files from the left section that's your local machine and place them to the right section that is the hosting server. You can also copy and past your "plugins" files as usual. You can upload your plugins one by one or simply delete your blog folder called "plugins" and put all your local plugins in a folder called also "plugins", so WordPress will recognize your plugins later.
 When the upload complete (that will takes some time) you will have the plugins installed and not active, so you need to login to your WordPress dashboard and click on "Plugins" then, activate theme one by one or all at once. Now, you should have plugins that works normally after the upload process using Filezilla.

