 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (176 C). Place cupcake liners into two muffin tins so you'll have enough for 24 strawberry banana cupcakes.If you don't have liners, you could just spray the muffin tins with baking spray or you could grease and flour the tins.
 Peel three large bananas and set them in a mixing bowl. Mash the bananas with a potato masher, rubber spatula, or fork until they're completely smooth. Stir in 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and set the mixture aside.The lemon juice will prevent the bananas from browning a lot and give a slight citrus flavor to the cupcakes.
 Put 3 cups (375 g) of all purpose flour and 1 1/2 teaspoons of baking soda, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Whisk the dry ingredients for about 30 seconds so they're incorporated. Set the dry ingredients aside.You could also sift the ingredients together into a bowl to combine the dry ingredients.
 Place 3/4 cup (170 g) of softened salted butter into a large mixing bowl and beat it on medium speed for 30 seconds. Add 2 1/4 cups (450 g) of granulated sugar and continue beating the mixture until it's light and fluffy. It should take about two minutes to cream the butter and sugar together.Creaming the butter and sugar will make the cupcakes light and fluffy, instead of dense and tough.
 Add three eggs one at a time and beat the creamed butter and sugar well after each addition. You should also scrape the bowl with a rubber spatula after adding each egg. Stir in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.Avoid turning the mixer on to a high speed when beating in the eggs. A high speed could cause the egg to fly out of the mixing bowl.
 Stir in one third of the dry ingredients on low speed. Add 3/4 cup (176 ml) of buttermilk and continue to beat on low speed. Add another third of the dry ingredients. Finish adding the last 3/4 cup (176 ml) of buttermilk before mixing in the last third of the dry ingredients. Carefully fold in the reserved mashed bananas.To fold in the bananas, hold a rubber spatula in your hand and twist your wrist in a circular motion. This will incorporate the bananas and will keep the batter light.
 Scoop enough batter into each liner so that it's two-thirds full of batter. You'll probably need to divide the batter among 24 muffin liners. Put the muffin tins in the oven and bake the cupcakes for about 15 minutes. Test the cupcakes to see whether or not they're cooked by inserting a toothpick. If cooked, the toothpick should come out clean. Remove the cupcakes and let them cool on a rack.You can also carefully touch the top of the cupcakes. The cupcake should spring back once you've removed your finger. If your finger leaves an indentation, the cupcakes need to cook longer.
 Get out 1/3 cup (73 g) of frozen and sweetened strawberries. These are usually sold in a sweet syrup. Place them in a bowl and let them thaw completely. Transfer the thawed strawberries and syrup to a blender and puree them until they're completely smooth.If you're short on time, you could purchase canned strawberries in syrup to puree.
 Place 3/4 cup (170 g) of softened, salted butter and 4 ounces (115 g) of softened cream cheese into a large mixing bowl. Beat the butter and cream cheese on medium speed until the mixture is light and fluffy. Slowly stir in the pureed strawberries and add 3 1/2 cups (437 g) of powdered sugar on low speed. Once the powdered sugar is mixed in, you can turn the speed up to high and beat the frosting for a minute.Ensure that the cream cheese and butter are at room temperature. This will prevent the frosting from being lumpy.
 Spread the frosting onto the cooled banana cupcakes or pipe the frosting. To pipe the frosting, fill a pastry bag or plastic freezer bag with the frosting. Use a pastry tip of your choice or cut a corner of the plastic bag so you can pipe the frosting onto each cupcake. To garnish the cupcakes, consider topping them with:Sliced strawberries or bananas
Banana candies
Pink sprinkles
Strawberry sauce

,