 If you are going to rid your yard, you'll need to learn which tunnels these moles use. Cover the nearest molehill to you and wait a day or two. If the molehill has been uncovered then there's a good chance that the mole is actively using it.;
, These traps tend to be the most effective method of ridding your yard from moles. You can purchase these traps online or at your nearest hardware/home center. These will typically be spring loaded traps that will require you to assemble and set up in an active tunnel. Look into these popular types of mole traps:


Lure traps. This style of trap is an easy and quick one to set up. Set up the trap by placing it firmly in the middle of a tunnel. You won't need to dig anything up, but instead, shove it into a tunnel using your shoe.
Circular rodent traps. These types of traps are more economical and can work for gophers and rats as well. For this trap you'll need to dig up the mound carefully. Then place the trap into the mound and seal any cracks that release light with dirt.
Loop choking style traps. This type of trap probably requires the most work, but the community suggest it is very effective once you get the hang of it. You'll need to cut two slots into an active tunnel. The trap is then lowered into the tunnel in a way that the choker loop is ready to catch unwanted moles., Unless you are a trained professional, you should not use any type of gassing agent other than dry ice. You should also avoid using anything that becomes poisonous when it comes into contact with water. These can be very dangerous, and even fatal.









If you do decide to use a gassing agent, you'll need to be extremely careful. If you successfully gas a major nest or repeat gassing them, you should have positive results. You can find different types of gas solutions, such as "Revenge Rodent Smoke Bombs" or "Whole Control".If you have children or pets, take precautionary steps to ensure they are not exposed to the gas.
 Lots of traps don't require bait, but you can always better your chances by luring the mole to you. Some baits are poisonous to the mole. Other baits you could acquire easier like earthworms. You could catch earthworms yourself by overturning clumps of your yard, or simply buy them online from amazon.com.
 Mice and moles are about the same size, so mousetraps can be effective for capturing moles. Prepare a piece of bait when setting up the trap. Then, place the mousetrap at the opening of a mole tunnel. Check back on the trap several hours later to see if it has captured any moles.









If nothing's been caught, it's possible the trap was not concealed well enough, or the moles have moved to a new tunnel.
 Sometimes solving your mole problem is best left up to the professionals. They will rid your lawn of moles without you having to worry which method is safest. There are plenty of pest control services in your area.

