 Humor is good for distracting yourself from negative thoughts or memories. Looking at a meme account with a long history is also a great way to keep yourself chuckling and in good spirits. Head to Instagram and search for "#meme" until you find an account that has a style of humor that you enjoy.


Beware that watching TV in excess is a sedentary behavior which can be linked to a shorter lifespan and obesity.Avoid snacking while watching TV as this can lead to mindless eating, and may only make you feel worse.
Try balancing your TV time with physical activity such as watching while walking on a treadmill or an elliptical. If you do not have access to such equipment, you can simply perform a series of exercises during commercials or about every 15 to 20 minutes.
 Music has been used to express feelings since humans first figured out how to make it. Research has also shown that it's helpful to reduce stress and promote relaxation.Music with about 60 beats per minute can encourage your brainwaves to synchronize with that beat, resulting in a relaxed state.
While popular conceptions suggest that only "soft" music, such as classical, jazz, or New Age, are relaxing, new research suggests otherwise. A recent study showed that listening to "extreme metal music" helped participants process feelings of anger and return to feeling positive and even inspired.What seems to matter the most is what feels best for you. Listen to music you enjoy and connect with.
 A moderate amount of computer use can be entertaining and relaxing. Online you can play games, go window shopping for clothes or accessories, catch up with old friends via social networks, read interesting articles about your favorite topics or write some articles for wikiHow. Take note of how much time you're spending on the computer.


Research shows that more than two hours of screen time for kids can be potentially damaging to health, leading to weight gain, aggression, and disrupted sleep patterns. Try to budget your screen time with other things like spending time with friends or family or going outside., Find an intriguing novel, comic book, or magazine to keep you engaged. Leisure reading provides an escape from everyday activities, allowing you to boost your creativity and imagination. Reading also enhances cognitive skills and vocabulary.Be sure to read something that is light or humorous rather than an upsetting topic that might cause you to think about what you're trying to avoid.

