 The NCSC provides both automated information and live assistance concerning immigration.You can call the NCSC toll free at 1-800-375-5283. However, keep in mind that the NCSC is only available if you are calling from within the U.S. If you are outside the U.S., you must contact your nearest U.S. embassy or consulate.Automated information is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. However, live customer service representatives are only available during regular business hours, generally from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. local time, Monday through Friday.If you have a pending application, you can also use NCSC to change your address, request an emergency rescheduling of an appointment, or make a general case status check., Although the USCIS recommends the customer service options available online or using the toll-free number, field office staff do provide limited customer service and answer general questions.


For the most part, field office personnel are only available by appointment to conduct an interview or discuss a pending application., If you have a pending application with the USCIS, you can check your case status using the USCIS's online system.MyUSCIS is a single account through which you can view and track your entire case history, including any applications or petitions you have filed, as well as view your most updated case status.
Applicants can register for a myUSCIS account free of charge.You also can use your online account to submit online requests about your case, get automatic updates, make appointments, or file an address change., If you are an employer, you can enroll in e-Verify for free and use this system to make sure all your employees can legally work in the United States.If you are an immigrant employee, you can use the employers search tool on the USCIS website to find out if a particular employer uses E-Verify.Immigrants can also use "myE-Verify" to confirm their own eligibility to work in the United States. Creating an account is free of charge, then you complete four steps to get your results., Whether you are doing government and political research, or studying your own family tree, you can request records from the USCIS.


The USCIS Genealogy Program allows you to obtain official immigration records online for a fee, generally between $25 and $35.Records available include Naturalization Certificate Files dating back to September 27, 1906; Alien Registration Forms from August 1940 to March 31, 1956; visa files from July 1, 1924 to March 31, 1944; registry files from March 1929 to March 31, 1944; and A-files from April 1, 1944 to May 1, 1951.If you want to file a records request under the Freedom of Information Act, you must submit your request in writing to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, National Records Center, FOIA/PA Office, P.O. Box 648010, Lee's Summit, MO 64064-8010.You may use Form G-639to make your FOIA request, but it isn't required.