 The first time you meet a cat, they will probably be very cautious around you. Make slow movements and try not to make too much noise. Approach slowly, and crouch down so you don't seem as big. Hold out your hand.;
, This may seem like something you should do for dogs rather than cats, but you really should do it for both. Hold out your hand straight, and let them sniff your fingers. If they put their sent on you (rubbing their mouth against your hand) that's a good sign!

, To animals, staring can seem like a challenge or a sign of aggression.
 Some cats love being held, others despise it. Either way, most cats probably aren't comfortable with you picking them up the first time they meet you.


If you do pick them up at some point in time, make sure they feel secure. Never take a cat when their legs are dangling, this may make them feel uncomfortable or even cause them pain. Pick them up with a hand on their back and a hand on their rear. Hold them close to you, so they don't feel like their dangling.
 Cats can be very sensitive and there are certain spots on their body that they tend to prefer not be touched.


Be careful touching a cat's face. Be extremely careful touching the bridge of their nose, which is also a weak spot. Don't cover their face in anyway, this may cause them to become afraid. Don't blow or breathe on their ears, their ears are very sensitive.
Never touch their stomach. Cats' stomachs are their weak spots, something they protect very much and would rather have you not touch. Some cats may seem like they want a tummy rub. They may roll over, or lay on their side, both exposing their stomach. That doesn't mean they want to be pet there. Try to avoid touching their stomach as much as possible. They aren't like dogs, tummy rubs aren't their thing!
Don't touch a cat's tail! This may cause them great annoyance.
Be careful when scratching a cat. Try to rub, and only scratch their back when they seem like that's what they want.
 Most cats will hide if there are many people around them, or even just one. Do not chase the cat or follow them to their hiding spot. If they run from you, they clearly don't want to meet you right now. Never take a cat out of their hiding spot, either.


If a cat comes out from their spot, that might mean they reconsider. Don't grab them quickly, or even pet them. Always let a cat come to you when your first meeting them.
 If a cat rubs against your legs, that means you've succeeded! A cat rubbing against a human's legs means they like you very much.

