 Many essential oils have antibacterial and antiseptic qualities, which means they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the skin and cause pimples.


Spearmint or peppermint. Peppermint or spearmint may be irritating to some. Start with one drop/quart of water. Both peppermint and spearmint contain menthol, which has antiseptic and immune-boosting properties.Thyme boosts the immune system and has antibacterial properties. It also increases circulation of the blood by opening up blood vessels.Calendula accelerates healing and has antimicrobial properties.Lavender is soothing and can help with anxiety and depression. It also has antibacterial properties.Tea tree oil. Test an area of skin free of acne first. Tea tree oil can irritate some people’s skin, which risks making the acne worse.If you don’t have essential oils, you can substitute 4-5 tablespoons of the dried herb of the respective oil. The result will be messier but just as effective.
 Since different people have different reactions to essential oils, experts recommend that you test any oil on a smaller portion of skin before using it in a full bath. Add one drop to eight ounces of water before soaking a cotton ball in the water. Squeeze out the cotton ball, then apply it to a patch of skin. Make sure you test each oil separately since you won’t know which causes the irritation once you mix them.
 Make sure your bathtub is clean, then fill it with water. Hot water won’t harm the essential oils you’ll add, so make it hot enough to be comfortable.
 If your skin did not have any reaction to the sensitivity tests, start with 5-10 drops of the oil in a full bath. You can increase to 10-20 drops if the 5-10 drops do not have any effect on your skin.


If you want to turn the aromatic, herbal bath into a real spa-style treat, you can even add up to a cup of sea salt to the bath.
 You want to give the oils/herbs plenty of time to take effect. Soak in the tub for around 20-30 minutes.
 You will want to rinse off thoroughly with clean water before getting out of the tub. This is especially the case when using herbs in the water.
 Pat your back dry instead of scrubbing your back with the towel. Scrubbing can irritate skin.

