 Try cycling or walking to your destination. These are the most eco-friendly means of transportation because they don’t use fossil fuels. Find bike lanes/cycleways wherever possible. They’re safer than dealing with vehicles and getting hit in the face with their emissions. If your community doesn’t have bike lanes/cycleways, contact your city council and campaign for them to be added., Cities are increasingly using clean energy for their mass transit systems. However, even systems that still use fossil fuels can carry many passengers at once. In most cases, each passenger equals a vehicle that’s not consuming fossil fuels.If your city doesn’t have mass transit, try to organize a carpool or vanpool in your neighborhood. This can reduce fossil fuel consumption by taking up to 15 vehicles off the road., Unless you’re in traffic, turn off your engine if you don’t plan to move for 10 seconds or more. Idling wastes fuel, increases smog, and endangers people with respiratory conditions. In a growing number of cities, it’s also illegal and can cost you a hefty fine., Depending on where you live, you could greatly reduce fossil-fuel emissions with these options. Electric vehicles (EVs) run entirely on electricity. Hybrid vehicles use gas-powered engines as a backup after the battery loses its charge. Plug-in hybrids are charged by plugging them into a wall, while traditional hybrids are charged by an on-board generator.If you live in a location that relies on coal-based electricity, you’ll still be using fossil fuels when you charge your car. However, you can reduce your impact by charging overnight when the grid is under less pressure., Planes burn jet fuel at high altitudes, which causes chemical reactions that worsen climate change.Make a list of the places you absolutely must visit by plane. For example, a trip for business or an important family occasion is important. On the other hand, flying off to an exotic island on a whim isn’t all that crucial.


For business trips, ask your employer if you can telecommute instead of flying. The company will save money on airfare, and you’ll cut back on your carbon footprint.
If you have family members who live thousands of miles away, download video chat software like Skype. If your relatives also have it installed on their computers, you can talk for hours “face-to-face” without spending money or burning fossil fuels.