 Be sure that you report any changes in your health or your symptoms right away if you have a more serious condition that requires frequent medical supervision.
 Deficiencies in protein, calcium, magnesium and vitamins B1, B5 and B6 may lead to problems with water retention.


Your doctor or another qualified nutrition specialist can help you determine what nutrients you may be lacking based on your food diary or a basic summary of what you eat.
 Some herbal remedies are known to increase the kidney's fluid output, which helps control water retention.


Dandelion has no harmful side effects and can be used indefinitely. Add 10 to 20 drops of dandelion tincture to salads or other foods daily.
Dong quai is best added to an herbal tea and taken at bedtime because it has a mild sedative effect. Some teas are sold with dong quai in them, or you can purchase it as oil and add a few drops to your favorite tea. In addition to being a diuretic, dong quai is known to inhibit the growth of bacteria.
Essential oils used in vaporizers, gargles, baths and massage may help combat water retention. Lavender, rosemary, geranium and cypress are known to have good results.,


"Loop diuretics" such as Lasix are most common, and they inhibit sodium reabsorption into the bloodstream, causing more water to drain as urine. This type of diuretic is especially helpful for patients suffering from renal impairment, liver cirrhosis, or heart conditions. While they can drain the body's store of potassium and contribute to osteoporosis, there is a kind that includes an extra potassium supplement in it (Lasix K).
Other types of chemical diuretics include thiazide diuretics, which produce similar effects as loop diuretics, and potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone, which only inhibit the absorption of sodium and not potassium.
Some prescription and over-the-counter medications interact with or counteract diuretics. Check with your doctor to make sure a diuretic will not negatively affect any medication you are taking.

