 Make it an ongoing website that will document your time spent together. Include pictures, videos, and stories that define your marriage.Sites such as WordPress or Weebly allow you to easily build a low-cost page that is suited to your needs and tastes.
Alternatively, you can find local professionals or online companies (like GoDaddy.com) to create your website for you.
 Bring back memories and milestones in your marriage by recreating events. Think of the most romantic and happiest moments in your marriage and reenact them. Plan down to the smallest detail: where were you, what was the occasion, what were you wearing, what was said?


For instance, take your partner back to the place where your marriage proposal occurred. Instead of asking them to marry you, vow to never be apart from this day forward.Reenact your first date. Go back to the same place, order the same food, do the same activities. Remember to fill your spouse in on the significance of the memory for you; what is memorable to one person, might not be to the next. Either way, it is meaningful to the relationship.
Relive the first kiss. Once again, go back to the same place and demonstrate why the memory has had such a lasting impact on you. This is also a great time to create new memories.
 What better way to celebrate your life together than to have it immortalized in a work of art? Choose a specific item (whether person or thing) that represents your love for one another, and have it drawn, painted, or sculpted into something you can share.


You don't have to go with a traditional drawing or painting of yourselves. Instead think of objects that represent your love: your wedding bands, a customized home portrait, or even an abstract creation will do.Think about the medium of the work of art and what will fit your personal style. Would you prefer a painting, a sculpture, a drawing, or photography?

, Definitely non-traditional, but nothing says forever like identical wedding ring tattoos. Choose a symbol or design that represents you and your loved one. Popular items include words or phrases, signs and symbols, important dates, or basic bands.


While they are growing in popularity, they always come with a warning: remember, tattoos are forever.
The placement of the tattoo on the ring finger makes it both small and intricate to tattoo. Be sure to research your tattoo artist prior to obtaining the tattoo to make sure they have the experience and skill level needed.