 Scoop enough ice into a 16 oz (500 ml) drinking glass to fill it roughly halfway.


Consider using crushed ice or similarly small chunks of ice. They tend to work better and look better than large ice cubes.;
, Pour 2 to 4 Tbsp (30 to 60 ml) of flavored beverage syrup into the glass of ice. You can use commercial or homemade syrup.


If you prefer a milder flavor, add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of syrup. For a stronger flavor, use 3 or 4 Tbsp (45 or 60 ml). When in doubt, start with a smaller amount and add more later.
Flavors like vanilla, raspberry, peach, and hazelnut are popular, but you can use any flavored syrup you want. Commercial syrups come in a wide variety of flavors.
You can even combine flavors. For example, mix equal parts raspberry syrup and almond syrup for a raspberry-almond blend.

Combine equal parts banana syrup and Irish cream syrup to create a banana cream pie Italian soda.
Create "tiger's blood" Italian soda by combining equal parts strawberry syrup and coconut syrup.
 Add the club soda to the glass, filling it to the top.
 Give the contents of the glass a quick stir with a spoon. Drink the Italian soda immediately, before the ice melts.


Only stir the contents briefly. If you stir the drink too much, it could lose its carbonation.
Taste the Italian soda. If you would prefer a stronger flavor, add a little more syrup and stir it again.
Garnish the drink as desired. You can use slices of fruit, leaves of fresh mint, or whipped cream.
 Use enough ice to fill a 16 oz (500 ml) clear drinking glass halfway.


For best results, use crushed ice or small pebble ice instead of large ice cubes.
 Dump the flavored syrup into the glass, pouring it evenly over the ice already inside.


You can use either commercially prepared beverage syrups or homemade syrups.
When using commercial syrups packaged in a pump bottle, adding two to four pumps of syrup usually provides the right amount of flavor.
If you've made standard Italian soda before, use the same amount of syrup for an Italian cream (French) soda. If you're starting with this drink, then you'll need to experiment a little. Add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) for a milder flavor and up to 4 Tbsp (60 ml) for a stronger, sweeter taste.
Use any syrup flavor you want. For a twist, you can even combine syrup flavors. Add equal parts of both syrups when combining two flavors. Some combinations that work well include: banana and Irish cream, strawberry and coconut, raspberry and almond, and peach and vanilla.
 Add the club soda to the glass. Do not fill the glass completely; leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of empty space in between the top of the club soda and the top of the glass.
 Pour the half and half over the contents of the glass. Slowly stir it in until the color of the soda softens throughout the entire glass.


Do not stir the contents of the glass too much since doing so can cause the soda to become flat. Only stir the French soda a few times, just enough to spread the half and half through the top two-thirds to three-quarters of the glass.
For a slightly different variation, add the half and half before adding the club soda. Adding the half and half after the soda is more traditional and allows the half and half to spread gradually, creating a smoother drink. Adding the half and half before adding the soda will create a foamier beverage.
If you don't have half and half, combine equal parts heavy cream and whole milk. Stir the two ingredients together in a separate dish before adding the mixture to the glass.
Use almond milk if you need a dairy-free alternative to half and half.
 Drink the French soda (also known as an Italian cream soda) immediately, before the ice can melt and water down the taste.


Consider garnishing the glass with pieces of fruit or fresh mint. Whipped cream can be added, as well.
 Place the pieces of fruit, sugar, and water in a small saucepan. Set the saucepan on the stove.


A few different fruit options worth considering include: blackberry, strawberry, raspberry, blueberry, mulberry, cherry, pineapple, apple, and mango. Finely chopped rhubarb stalks are another option.
Unless you're using small berries, dice the fruit into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) pieces before adding it to the saucepan.
 Set the stove to medium heat and gradually bring the contents of the saucepan to a simmer, stirring occasionally.
 Place the lid on the saucepan and cook the contents for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the sugar completely dissolves and a moderately thick syrup forms.


Note that the color of the syrup should be similar to the color of the fruit at this time. The fruit itself should be significantly softened.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan through a sieve. Collect the syrup and discard the solid chunks of fruit.


To squeeze out as much flavor from the fruit as possible, lightly mash it with the back of a fork or mixing spoon before pouring the contents of the saucepan through the sieve.
 Allow the syrup to cool to room temperature before using it for an Italian or French soda.


For best results, let the syrup cool at room temperature on your kitchen counter. If you need to speed things up, cool it for 30 to 60 minutes in a refrigerator.
Do not add warm syrup to the Italian soda since it will cause the ice to melt too quickly.
Store any excess syrup in the refrigerator.
 Place the two ingredients in a small saucepan and stir them together until the sugar is thoroughly soaked.


Do not add the extract yet.
 Set the saucepan on a stove over medium heat. Cook for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the sugar completely dissolves and a clear syrup forms.


Do not cover the pan as the syrup simmers.
Stir the contents of the saucepan occasionally to promote even cooking.
 Remove the saucepan from the heat. Add the extract of your choice to the syrup and stir for several minutes to incorporate the flavor.


Do not add the extract while the saucepan is still on the stove. The intense heat can quickly burn away the flavor if you do so.
Use any extract or imitation extract you want to use. Vanilla, coconut, and almond are popular choices, but any option will work. You can even use fruit extracts, like raspberry or lemon.
 Set the syrup aside and let it cool. It should cool to room temperature before you use it in an Italian or French soda.


For best results, cool the syrup at room temperature. You can cool it in your refrigerator if you need to speed the process up, however.
Do not add warm syrup to the Italian or French soda.
Keep any excess syrup in your refrigerator.

