 For an ab workout, incorporate dynamic stretching into your warm-up that will target your abdominal muscles and get them ready for more intense work.Start your warm-up by walking or jogging in place for a few minutes to elevate your heart rate a little and increase your core temperature.
Then you might try the "good morning" stretch, which is a good way to start engaging your core. Stand with your feet about shoulder-width apart and your hands at your waist. Hinge forward from your hips with a flat back. You can keep your weight on your heels, or roll forward onto your toes to engage your abs more. Then rise up to stand and repeat. Do this for about 30 seconds, aiming to do 10 – 15 forward bends in that time.
Planks also are a good warm-up for an ab workout. If you have difficulty with a full plank, you can do a half-plank by coming onto your elbows and knees. Just make sure your back is flat and you're engaging your core.;
, After your warm up, start your exercise routine off with basic flutter kicks. Start the exercise by lying on your back on the floor with your legs straight.Lower your arms to your sides and place your hands, palm-down, under your rear end for cushioning and greater stability.
Lift your legs so they're hovering just a few inches off the ground, and lift your shoulders and upper torso off the ground to engage your upper abdominals. Make sure you're not crunching your neck — keep it long and soft, an extension of your spine. Try fixing your eyes on the spot where the wall and ceiling meet; this can help you position your head correctly.
Kick your legs up and down, keeping them straight and the movement even. As you kick, slowly move your legs up higher off the ground. If it helps, you can imagine that you're walking up a wall or an incline.
When your legs are straight up so that your body is in an "L" shape with your legs perpendicular to the floor, reverse the movement to kick back down. Resist the urge to simply drop your legs down.
Stop when your legs are a few inches off the floor, roughly where you started, and begin the upward movement again. Do 22 repetitions in a set. You can start with one set, and add more sets as your fitness improves.
 The Superman exercise is a great complement to flutter kicks. It targets your spinal erectors as well as working your hamstrings and glutes.To start this exercise, roll over on the floor so that you're laying flat on your stomach. Extend your legs straight behind you and your arms straight over your head. Basically, you look like Superman flying in the air, except that you're on the floor.
Raise your left leg and right arm off the ground, anywhere from 6 to 15 inches – just as far as you can comfortably and with controlled movement. As you lower, begin to raise your right leg and left arm to make the same movement.
Alternate sides for 10 to 15 repetitions as one set. then lower to the floor and rest for a minute before doing another set. You can do as many as three sets of this exercise.
 Bicycles (or oblique crunches) are a good way to modify basic flutter kicks for even greater results toning and firming your abs. This exercise targets all four abdominal muscle groups, but really focuses on your obliques.You'll start this exercise lying on your back, either on the floor or on an exercise mat if the floor is too hard for comfort. Place your hands behind your head with elbows out, and raise your straight legs about one inch off the floor.
Raise one knee to the opposite elbow, trying to touch your elbow and knee together. Then immediately lower and repeat with the other side. Do as many repetitions of this exercise that you can do while maintaining proper form and control.
As you do this exercise, make sure you're not crunching your neck. The work should be coming from your core, not from your neck and shoulders. You also want to make sure you aren't holding your breath. Your breathing should be deep and even.
 The cool-down portion of your exercise routine gives your heart rate and core body temperature a chance to return to normal. Stretches are a good way to cool down as well as loosen up the muscles you just worked.Many good static stretches for your core come from yoga. For example, you can do the cat-cow flow for a good stretch of your core and back. Get on all fours on a mat. On an inhale, raise your tailbone and head to the ceiling, arching your back. Then as you exhale, drop your head and round your back, drawing your tailbone down toward the floor and pressing your navel toward your spine. Repeat for about 30 seconds, following your breath.
Try an oblique stretch. Stand and raise your right arm, leaning your torso to the left until you feel the stretch along your side in your obliques. Try to square up your hips and keep them pointed straight ahead. Then slowly rise back to center and do the other side. Repeat once more on each side if you want.

