 Suffering from low energy levels or lack of motivation can be an indicator of stress, so it should be taken seriously. Long term exposure to stressful conditions can cause a lack of energy and motivation.


If you find it difficult to make it through your daily routine, don’t have much energy for your hobbies or social events, and even have a difficult time getting out of bed in the morning, take note.
All of these signs of fatigue indicate increased levels of stress and might even mean that you are on your way to burn-out, a very serious conditions that are easier to prevent than treat. , Another typical sign of increased stress levels is a change in appetite. Think about the amount of food that you would eat on a daily basis under normal circumstances. If you find that that amount has significantly increased or decreased, that could mean that you are under stress and should take precautions.39% of American admit to overeating or eating unhealthy foods during stress.


Additionally, stress is associated with weight gain due to increased levels of cortisol, which contribute to higher levels of fat in the body and can increase cravings for comfort food. In the short term, eating comfort foods is linked to the release of opioids, which combat the hormones causing stress. However, long term patterns of using unhealthy foods or over eating to deal with stress can cause disordered eating patterns and an increased risk of health problems such as diabetes and weight gain., Chest pain and increased blood pressure is a common sign of anxiety and stress. Muscular aches and muscle tension are another physical sign of stress.Headaches are another common sign of stress, and sometimes stress can even cause stomach pain or upset.Tension headaches are particularly associated with stress, and over long-term headaches can become more frequent.However, it's important to see a doctor to rule out other possible causes before attributing physical pain to stress.
 If you are frequently having trouble getting to sleep or experience sleep disturbances throughout the night, this could be an indication that you are stressed. Insomnia associated with stress usually involves waking up in the middle of the night or early in the morning. It appears that the cause of the insomnia is psychological arousal caused by stress.Lack of sleep will also make you feel more tired the next day, which can make the symptoms of stress worse.

