 Take two pieces of PVC piping -- one ½ an inch in diameter and the other ¾ of an inch.


Use a saw to cut the PVC pipes to the desired length. Keep in mind that the combined length of the two PVC pipes will be the approximate length of your finished fishing rod.
For example, for a small child-size fishing rod you could cut each pipe to a length of 10 inches (25.4 cm).
Use some sandpaper to smooth the sawed edges and remove any markings from the body of the pipes.
 You will need two slip caps: one ¾ inch and one ½ inch fitting.


You will also need a ¾ inch to ½ inch threaded connector (female/male) and a ½ inch to ½ inch threaded connector (female/female).
These fittings are available very cheaply from the hardware store. Slip each fitting onto the corresponding piece of pipe, but do not glue in place.
 Take a power drill with a 3⁄32 inch (0.2 cm) drill bit and drill 3 to 5 holes all the way through the ½ inch PVC pipe.


The number of holes will depend on the length of the pipe you are using. No matter how many holes you make, ensure that they evenly spaced.
 Take a number of medium sized binder clips (to match the number of holes you drilled) and remove the silver wire from the clip.


Use a pliers to bend one leg of the silver wire across the other. When you’re done, there should be a closed loop on one end of the wire and on the other end the legs should point inwards towards each other. Repeat with the other wires.
Take a wire and clip the legs into the holes on either side of the ½ inch pipe. The loop at the end of the wire forms an eyelet for the fishing line. Repeat with the other wires.
 Buy a premade fishing reel and attach it to the side of the larger ¾ inch PVC pipe.


You can do this by using the same drill bit as before to make two holes in the side of the pipe, then screw the fishing reel into place

, The last step is to screw the two pieces of PVC pipe together to form your fishing rod and run the fishing line through the eyelets. Attach a hook, bobber and sinker to the end of the line.


The great thing about this fishing rod is that you can remove the slip caps from either end of the rod to store tackle or anything else you want!

