 Take your piece of clear string and make a loop around the crystal tying it in place. The string needs to be tight enough to hold the crystal in place once it is suspended. Alternatively, you can glue the string to the crystal with a dab of superglue.Clear string is recommended because the crystal will grow around it. Darker colors will be seen in the crystal.
Tie the other end of the string around a pencil or popsicle stick.
Use caution if you choose to use superglue to attach the string.
 Use the original solution that you used to grow the seed crystals. Place the pencil across the mouth of the jar so that the crystal hangs down into the solution.If you didn’t already, you can add more alum to the solution to replace what formed into crystals during the seed formation stage.
Make sure the solution is cooled to room temperature before placing the seed crystal into it. If the water is warm, it will dissolve., To keep out dust and dirt, tightly cover the jar. Dust and dirt particles can mess up the crystal formation. Cover the top of the jar with plastic wrap or foil. Even placing a napkin or piece of paper over the top will be sufficient to cover it.


You can make a tighter seal by placing a rubber band around the plastic wrap or foil.
 Store the jar in a place that it will remain undisturbed. If the jar gets bumped or moved around, the crystals will not grow. It may take a few days for the crystal to start to grow in size.Keep the crystal in a cool place so it doesn’t dissolve.
After a few days, check on the crystal. You can tell how much it has grown by the location of the clear string within the crystal.
 After a few days, you may notice that the crystal doesn’t seem to be growing. This is likely due to the fact the solution is no longer saturated. As the crystal grows, alum is taken out of the solution and added to the crystal. To keep the crystal growing, simply add more alum.Remove the crystal, add a spoonful of alum and stir until dissolved. Replace the crystal and let it grow for a few more days.
You can repeat this process until your crystal is at the desired size.
 You can keep it in a glass case or out in the open. Make sure you don't get it wet as it can dissolve the crystal. To clean off dust, take a dry, soft rag and carefully pat the crystal.


Try making crystals of different sizes and colors.
If you do accidentally get your finished crystal wet, quickly take a paper towel or a cloth and pat dry until the water is mostly dry. It might dissolve, but it won't dissolve as much.

