 Perhaps the most popular way to use stevia is in its liquid form. A few drops of stevia can be used to replace 1-2 teaspoons of white sugar. Use stevia drops in drinks (hot or cold), sauces, salad dressings, or soups.Stevia can have a bit of a bitter and/or licorice-y aftertaste. Experiment with the number of drops you need to gain optimal sweetness with minimal aftertaste.;
, Stevia drops are also available in flavored varieties, such as lemon-lime or root beer. Add a few drops of flavored stevia to sparkling water for a low-calorie alternative to soda.Read the labels of flavored stevia options.
Avoid flavored stevia that contains aspartame or other chemical sugar replacements.
 Another popular way to use stevia is in its pure powder form. This refined stevia looks similar to sugar, and can be used anywhere you would normally use powdered sweetener. Stevia extract powder is more potent than sugar, however. Use half (or less than half) of the amount of stevia as you normally would for sugar.Stevia extract powder can be used in drinks (hot or cold), on cereal, or in recipes.
It can be purchased in large containers, or in individual packets you can take along with you.
Look for pure stevia powder. Read all labels and avoid stevia powder with additives.
 Stevia extract powder can be used to replace sugar in baking. When you bake with stevia, you’ll want to use 1/2 the amount of sugar you would normally use (or even less). This means you will need to add more bulk (such as flour) and liquid (such as milk, applesauce, or butter) to account for this difference.When you are just starting out, it is best to seek out stevia-based baking recipes.
Although stevia can replicate the sweetness of sugar, it will not caramelize.
 Many packaged stevia products contain additional additives--such as sucrose or aspartame--to mask this. These additives are often artificial, and (unlike pure stevia) can have negative effect on your blood sugar.Be sure to read all labels on your stevia products, and seek out products that contain pure refined stevia.
 Stevia can have a licorice-y aftertaste, which some find bitter. Rather than using stevia that contains artificial additives (intended to mask the taste), you can add a small squirt of agave nectar (which has a low glycemic index), lemon juice, or lime juice to help mask this bitterness.