 Regardless of whether it’s a new diagnosis or you’ve been living with this condition for a while, the changes to your life can be stressful. That stress may trigger a depressive episode.When you acknowledge that having MS is stressful, it also clears the way for you to acknowledge that you may be having a depressive episode.


Write down a brief statement explaining how having multiple sclerosis has impacted your life. Include the stressful parts, but also think about the positive things that have happened. For example, you might write, “MS has made me miss out on some things, but I have made new friends at my support group.”
Say, “Having MS is stressful and I recognize that,” out loud as a way of acknowledging it to yourself. You may even say this to other people to profess your acceptance of the situation.
 Some of the medications that you are taking to treat your MS, such as corticosteroids or interferon medications, may be the cause of your major depression.Make sure you review your medications and talk with your primary care physician about the side effects of any MS treatments you receive.


Read the medication information provided by your pharmacist and ask them how the medication might affect you. For example, you might say, “Can this medication cause depression?”
Ask your physician, “Do any of my medications or treatments have depression as a side effect?”
If you notice that you’re having negative side effects from any of your medication you should let your primary care provider or mental health professional know.
Never stop taking or change your medication without talking to your physician first.
 Even outside of the challenges of having MS, juggling the everyday responsibilities of life itself can be stressful. Not to mention, the stress unexpected life events can cause you. Recognizing other situations and circumstances that cause you a lot of stress will help you begin to understand what triggers a depressive episode for you.Take a stress inventory like the Life Change Index Scale at https://www.dartmouth.edu/~eap/library/lifechangestresstest.pdf to see how much stress you have in your life.
Make a list of the things in your life that you feel are stressful to you. For example, you might list completing chemistry homework, paying off your loans, or trying to move to a different city. Take this list to your next therapy appointment and discuss how to manage these stressors.

