 There are a lot of investment options, and you shouldn’t feel pressured to swiftly invest the money. Instead, you can store your it in a safe account, such as a money market account or a savings account.Take your time doing thorough research.


Wait at least six months before making an investment decision. If possible, wait up to 12 months., Make a list of your goals and the deadlines for reaching them. For example, you might want to pay for your children’s college education in 10 years, or you might want to open a business in the next five years.Your goals will drive your investment decisions.


If you have a spouse or partner, remember to involve them in the discussions, too. Although it might be your money, how you invest or spend it will have an impact on them as well.
 You might never have invested any money before and not really understand your options. Go to the library and find books on investing.Good choices for the novice investor include The Only Investment Guide You’ll Ever Need by Andrew Tobias and The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham.
 Depending on how much money you have, you might want to hire a financial professional to make investment decisions for you. You’ll have to pay, so hiring a financial advisor isn’t for everyone.


You can find a financial advisor online. Check the Garrett Planning Network or the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors.Look for a fee-only advisor. This is someone who will only charge an hourly rate instead of commissions., You can invest your windfall by increasing the amount you save for retirement. Many employers will match your contribution up to a certain amount. If you haven’t yet maxed out your contributions, then increase your contribution and use your windfall to cover shortfalls in your paycheck.You can also set up a Roth IRA or a traditional IRA. With a Roth IRA, you contribute after-tax income and invest it. At age 59.5, you can withdraw the money tax-free.Roth IRA’s are reserved for people who make under a certain amount, so consider whether your windfall puts you over this income threshold.You can also invest in a traditional IRA on a pre-tax basis. You will pay income taxes when you withdraw.
You can set up a Roth IRA or a traditional IRA with a bank or other financial institution.
 If you still have money left over after maxing your retirement savings, you can buy mutual funds with a broker. Talk to your financial advisor about what accounts you should invest in based on your financial goals.


For example, if you want to invest but keep your taxes low, then you can invest in tax-free municipal bonds or low turnover stock mutual funds.If you’ve been investing for a while, then you might want to change the allocation of your investments. For example, you might have been focused aggressively on growth. Now that you have a large windfall, you can rebalance your portfolio so that it is less risky., A home is also an investment. If you pay off the mortgage, then you will have a place to live rent free when you retire. A home will also typically increase in value, so you might be able to sell it and then move into a smaller place, pocketing the difference in the process.


Depending on the size of your windfall, you can also invest in rental property, which can provide a steady stream of income.However, spend time considering whether you would like to be a landlord.

