 Usually, you can rotate the screen on your iPhone simply by disabling the default rotation lock, then turning the iPhone on its side.


You can also tap your iPhone's Lock button, since your goal here is to "wake up" your iPhone's screen.;
, This will open the Control Center, from which you can enable or disable rotation lock., This is in the top right corner of the Control Center menu; it should have a red background before you tap it.


When you tap this icon, you should see a line of text at the top of the Control Center menu that says "Portrait Orientation Lock: Off"; the red background should also disappear.
 If you have a passcode or a Touch ID registered with your device, you'll have to enter the passcode (or press your finger to the Home button scanner) to unlock; otherwise, tap the Home button again.
 You can't rotate the Home screen, but you can rotate the screen in most available apps.


Note that some apps, such as the "Clock" app, will not support a portrait shift. Similarly, any apps that impose a forced screen rotation (many games do this) can't be rotated back.
 Doing this should prompt your screen to follow suit; if the app you're in supports screen rotation, you should now be viewing the app in landscape mode!


When rotating your phone, make sure you're holding it either upright (Portrait) or sideways (Landscape) with the screen facing you.
If you re-enable your phone's rotation lock while in landscape mode, your screen will re-adjust to portrait mode.
 AssistiveTouch is an accessibility feature that allows users to perform actions normally reserved for physical buttons (e.g., the Lock button). You can also use AssistiveTouch to rotate the screen in a specific direction while using a supported app. Note that you will need to disable your phone's rotation lock prior to doing this.


Settings resembles a grey gear and houses all of your iPhone's basic to advanced options., This opens the "General" menu, from which you can change aspects of your iPhone's appearance, functionality, and performance.
 You'll need to find the "AssistiveTouch" tab in here.
 This is in the "Interaction" group of the Accessibility menu. Depending on your phone's screen size, you may have to scroll down to access this option.
 It will turn green, signifying that AssistiveTouch is now active; additionally, you should see a grey square appear on your iPhone's screen.
 "Photos" or "Notes" are both good options since they are guaranteed to allow rotation.
 It should expand into a menu with options such as "Notification Center", "Device", and "Control Center".


Note the "Home" option at the bottom of this menu; tapping it will perform the same action as tapping the physical "Home" button.
 This will lead you to a menu with more options.
 As long as you have rotation lock disabled, this option lets you rotate your screen in a direction of your choosing.
 If the app you're using allows rotation, this will rotate your screen!


You can tap anywhere on your screen to minimize the AssistiveTouch menu.

