 Choose your container based on how you will use it. Pick a refrigerated container (also called a “reefer”) to ship and store anything perishable. Choose a dry container for shipping or transporting dry goods or for a mobile office or home. Select a tank container for liquids, like oil or chemicals.Get a flat rack container for heavy machinery or for construction materials.
Choose a top loading container for cargo like logs, machinery, and oversized goods that need to be loaded from the top.
Buy a ventilated container for cargo that needs ventilation, like coffee beans, onions, and potatoes.;
, Base your decision about a new or used container on cost. You’ll spend more on a new container. You can easily find used containers that show little wear or damage because they are made from heavy-gauge steel.


Look for used containers from countries with high import-export ratios, like the United States. These countries often have surpluses of used containers.
Be aware that a used container will have common problems like some dents and rusting.
 Choose your container’s size based on the freight you will transport or its overall purpose. Freight containers are produced in standard sizes according to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) specifications. Nearly all containers are 8 ft (2.4 m) wide by 8 ft (2.4 m) high with lengths of either 20 ft (6 m), 40 ft (12 m), or 53 ft (16 m). Note that interior dimensions may vary between manufacturers.Account for the fact that reefers will have less interior space because they also have refrigeration and ventilation units inside.
 Look for a dealer through the Intermodal Steel Building Units (ISBU) Association. Members of the ISBU have a vetted business history and are certified. Consult with one or several members to find the container you need. Verify the seller will inspect the container for you and send you photos., Visit your local port and consult with the freight container dealers there. Ask for their bona fides and references before you start working with them. Clearly explain what you are looking for and your price range once you do begin working together.
 Try to find container warehouses if you are buying near a port. Check the credentials and business histories for warehouses before you buy from them. Warehouses will have stock immediately available with a wide selection for you to choose from and you can negotiate prices at the warehouse., Do a search engine query to find companies that sell freight containers online. Check eBay for sales from reputable companies. Look for an online seller who posts detailed photos. Ask for the same level of information about the seller and the container that you would request from an ISBU member or a seller at your local port.
 Request photos and details about the condition of a used container if you are buying it remotely. Specify that you want high quality photos of all sides of the container inside and out. Also ask for photos of the top and bottom, floor and ceiling, and doors. Ask for a written or oral report on the condition of the container.
 If you can see the container in person before you buy it, examine it thoroughly. Check the top and bottom, floor and ceiling, and doors. Look for corrosion, excessive warping, holes, damaged door seals, and other major problems. Also smell the container for mold or toxic smells.Be prepared to remove excess mold.
Also be ready to seal or remove any wooden flooring that might have toxic residue.
 Check that you can open the doors. Dents or rust can make the doors of a used container difficult or impossible to open. Take a look at the hinges and make sure they aren’t preventing the doors from swinging properly because they are rusted or out of line.


Examine the doors in the photos if you cannot access the container in person before buying it.
Ask the seller to include a description of the doors in their report to you.
 Make sure the locking gear is rust-free. Also check that its location is suitable for your needs. A low locking gear works well when the container is mounted on a trailer. Opt for a high locking gear if you will be using the container at ground level, you should opt for a high locking gear., Go inside the container and look for any sunshine that comes through holes or cracks - these indicate the container is not watertight. Ask a remote seller to demonstrate this to you by photographing the container's roof from the inside on a sunny day. Any holes or cracks will show clearly in the photo.
 Compare the seller’s price to prices from other sellers. Check the web to compare costs for containers similar in size and condition to the one you are buying. Try to negotiate a better price if you see similar containers similar that are selling for less.


Factor in the condition of the container when determining or negotiating a good price. Used containers will typically be priced according to their condition.
 Determine that the container you want to buy is not owned by a shipping company when you buy it from any source. Write down the container number and call the company that should be listed on the side of the container.
 Ask the seller if they will deliver the container and how much delivery will cost. Find out if they will deliver by tilt-bed trailer, which allows you to position the container where you want it, or by flatbed truck, which will require a forklift or crane to unload the container. Be aware that international shipping companies will typically include delivery for a significantly higher price.Inquire if you will need to rent a forklift or crane if the seller will deliver by flatbed truck. Also find out if you’ll need a license to operate either piece of equipment.
Try to buy from a local company if you want to avoid high delivery costs.
 Be prepared to rent a flatbed or tilt-bed truck to pick up the container if the seller will not deliver it. Find out if you’ll need a license to rent the truck. Arrange for a forklift or crane to lift the container out of a flatbed truck. Also look into required licenses for operating that equipment.

