 Consult employees at your local pet store about potential gifts you'd like to give your dog on Christmas. Ask them if they have any best sellers this season or what might be a good gift to give your specific dog.


Ask about your specific breed and if there is anything particular for your dog. A luxury dog bed might be more common with larger breeds whereas a custom collar might be more popular with smaller breeds.
Check pet stores like PetSmart or Petco as well as small family-run dog stores in your area.;
, Considering what activities, treats, and toys your dog likes will help point you in the direction of a certain gift. Try taking something your dog likes and spinning into a fun and thoughtful gift. For example, if your dog happens to love walks at night, get them a glow-in-the-dark leash or a leash with LED lights.


Buying your dog a Christmas gift can also be an opportunity to give them an item that can be used for training, like a custom harness.
 There are many different gifts you can get for your dog, from custom accessories to toys, treats to beds, and novelty items to seasonally themed gifts. Choose a gift that you wouldn't buy for your dog any other day. Try browsing online vendors or viewing blogs geared toward Christmas gift options for dog(s).Give your dog something meaningful, like a customized collar, or something playful, like a box full of cigar dog toys.
Remember, this is an excuse to give your dog something that you would not normally buy them. Be creative and have fun!

, There are many online vendors that can offer you custom made gifts that you think up or imagine. Many online vendors also regularly stock custom items. Be sure to contact your online vendor to place custom orders a few weeks, if not months, before the holiday season in order to ensure your gift arrives on time.


Check online vendors, like Etsy, for custom and hand-made dog gifts.
 Your dog will likely not be able to unwrap a gift wrapped in normal wrapping paper without making a mess or eating some paper in the process. Most wrapping papers can be toxic to dogs and possibly make them sick, even in small quantities.


Try using pet friendly wrapping paper, like Pet Party Printz, that is free of toxic chemicals to wrap your gift., Once you have your gift, you are ready to place it under the tree or in a stocking. Placing your dog's gift in a stocking is a good way to also keep the gift out of your dog's site and avoid them getting into their gift before Christmas morning.
 Call your dog over and give your gift with a treat to let your dog know that it is receiving something special. Present them with their gift first and let them smell and become familiar with it. If it is an unusual or custom gift that it will not be familiar with, like a custom water fixture or light-up toy, show them what the gift does. After your dog has seen, smelt, and become familiar with their gift, give them a treat.


If your dog's gift is something to wear, place your gift on your dog before giving them a treat.

