 You can try pleading with them, but mostly, you should have friends who are willing to help. Copy their work as needed, but also study class notes to make sure you understand the material. Otherwise, you'll be in trouble come test time.;
, For example, if you have Algebra homework, don't whip out the huge textbook during English. But, if you have something like Algebra and you need to do some English, you can take out the small book you're reading and read it behind the person who sits in front of you. Just position the book so that the teacher can't see. It's not really that hard. If you sit in a closer row to the teacher, flatten out the book a little and put it under the notebook you're supposed to be writing in.
 Get them from a friend. If the notes are easy though, and it's not a lecture where you're just writing down what the teacher is blabbing on about, you could probably take the notes with no problem.
 Do it at lunch (after you eat), during homeroom (if you have it), or stay after school for a short time. For a change of pace, actually study in study hall!

, If you have to fill out a worksheet, for example, and you know the teacher doesn't read over the whole thing (most don't), your answers don't have to be perfect.
 The assigned books in high school are usually a decent read, but you may need that boost every now and then. CliffsNotes (available at most bookstores) are also good to get you over the hump.
 Don't waste time with minutiae. For example, if you have a problem in math, and for some reason can't get the answer to some problem, don't get someone to tell you the answer. Try to understand the concept and then you'll be able to do all those types of problems. Same thing for other classes - Don't memorize events of whatever book you're reading for English, merely know the themes and the characters.
 If you learn in class, you don't have to waste time on schoolwork outside of school. The teachers are teachers for reasons - they're probably better than your friends at explaining things. You're stuck in the room, at least make some use of the time.
 If writing just doesn't come naturally to you, you might not be able to just sit down, crank it out, and print it out. But there are ways to expedite the process. First, instead of just trying to write a paper line by line, think about your topic and just make up an impromptu little speech and try to make sure it flows well and transitions between ideas. Then, translate that into a paper by adding the appropriate details and analysis, keeping the smoothness of the speech. Another helpful technique that saves time is making an outline. Just get all your ideas on a paper in order and you won't get stuck while writing, and you can be at your most productive. As for proofreading, you can avoid this if you get in the habit of writing in the same tense consistently and then just spellcheck. General typing skills help also. And although this may go against the spirit of this wiki-how page, it is recommend that you know something about whatever topic you're writing about. Having the information in your brain ready to go facilitates writing greatly.

