;
, They are all going to go into the dish at the same time anyways, so you put them all together and then put all of their containers away. This helps to maintain a clean cooking space.



Do not add the parsley flakes into the dry spices! The parsley only goes in the rice.
 Cut the ends off and then cut it in half lengthwise and, using a small spoon, scrape out the seeds.


You don't have to do this, but in this dish, it's better with just the crunchy part of the cucumber. Just toss the seeds in the trash. From there, cut each half into three long pieces. Then cut each of those into smaller slices no wider than a 1/4" thick. The cucumber will be going on the side of the dish to give it a cooling effect (because the curry will be spicy) and a fresh aspect. With that said you can just place the sliced cucumbers into a baggie and toss it in the fridge until it's ready to use.
 In a small bowl, add the ginger powder to the diced garlic and mix it all up well. Let this sit to the side until it's time to add it to the dish.
 The tomato will also be placed on the side of the dish with the cucumbers as a sort of salad so you can just place these into a baggie and put them in the fridge until it's time to use.
 Cut only one half into strips and then dice up the strips. These onions will be going along-side the curry with the tomatoes and cucumbers so just toss them into a baggie and put them in the fridge until you're ready to eat. Remember, only dice up one half of the red onion and put in a baggie. With the other half you will coarsely chop it up to go into the curry. When that half of the red onion is chopped, slide it all onto a paper plate and set aside for now.


Separate the tomatoes, cucumbers, and red onions because we don't all like the same stuff on our bowls of curry; so this way no one complains. If you like all of it you can just go ahead and mix in the cucumbers, tomatoes, and diced red onions together and toss it in with your curry when you’re ready to eat.
 Cut the ends off, cut them in half, cut into slices, and coarsely chop them up and put it all on the same paper plate with the red onions. This will all go into the curry soon, so just set it aside.
 Cut up each potato into bite sized pieces. Put them all into a bowl and fill the bowl with cold water and set them aside.


Do this because when you cut potatoes, the air oxidizes them and they start turning brown. This way, in cold water, they don't turn brown. When it's time to use them you'll just dump out the water and put it in the curry.
 Make sure to rinse the rice well.


Rice is very dirty and gritty, so be sure you run it under hot water and use your hands to get in there and swish the rice around. Then drain out the water, add more hot water, swish around, drain and keep doing this over and over until you see the water is becoming clear. Once you can clearly see the grains of rise through the water you should be good. Rinsing will also remove some of the starch therefore making the rice less sticky.
 When it is done, it beeps and lets you know it's done.
 Rinse the chicken under cold water and pat them dry with paper towels, then cut them into bite sized pieces and set them aside on a paper plate until it's time to cook them.
, Now you're ready to cook.
 The second you see the oil smoke toss in your whole spices (cinnamon, peppercorns, cloves, bay leaves, and cardamom). Stir them around a bit until they become fragrant.
 Let the onions cook until they become transparent, stirring every 1-2 minutes.
 Cook this for about 3 minutes or so or until you can smell the garlic become fragrant.
 Stir this all together to combine. This will start to stick to the bottom of the pot so now, quickly, walk to the sink, and fill a coffee cup with hot water. Pour this water into the pot and stir. Make sure to scrape the bottom to make sure you pick up any stuck on flavor bits.


Do not be tempted to turn down the heat. Leave it just under the high setting. This is a fast process I know, but thanks to all of your prep work, it shouldn't be too hard. Let this bubble until it cooks down by half. You will notice the mixture has become a very dark brown color and smells amazing. You're doing great. Let's keep going.
 Simply pour the chicken right into the pot. Give it all a stir to coat the chicken. Now, pour in 6 cups of hot water. Let this boil and bubble until it’s cooked down by about half.
 Open up the top, and toss in the parsley flakes and about a stick of butter's worth of margarine.
 Then just close the lid back up and set it warm.
 Wait until you see the water come back to a rolling boil and then turn the heat down to medium. Let this bubble for a while to ensure the potatoes get nice and soft and all of the flavors have married together.
