 During a volleyball match there are rules about which players may strike the ball and when. Front row players are going to be the ones who are focused on this task while back row players are forbidden from striking the ball. However, if the back row player jumps from behind the attack line, they are then allowed to attack and score a point.Back row players cannot attack while standing in front of the attack line.
Front row players will be more likely to score points.
Front row players can reach over the net to block but only after the other team has used their three moves.;
, The original rules in volleyball stated that only the team serving could score a point. However, the rules have been updated and now any team can score a point regardless of which team served the ball. Stay focused and always look for your opportunity to score whether your team served or not.The ball is now allowed to touch the net on a serve.
 The game of volleyball has many rules that must all be carefully followed. If the rules are broken a violation is leveled against a player. Avoid some of the more common violations to keep your team strong and increase your chances of scoring:Do not touch the net when the ball is in play.
Do not hit the ball more than four times.
Do not catch the ball or hold it.
Servers cannot step beyond the back-line when serving.
 There are many free and easy to understand score sheets available on-line. These score sheets can be printed off and will allow you to quickly and accurately track a large amount of information during a game. Look over some of the following common elements of a volleyball score sheet to get familiar with their structure:Information about the match including time, location, date, and the level of the match.
Places to list the players numbers, names, serving orders, and substitutions.
An area to track the running score.
Charts to track any sanctions against players for violations of rules.
Names of the referees and scorekeeper.
A place to write the final scores and for the judges to sign off on them.

