 A big part of keeping your teeth clean involves eating the right foods.Naturally crunchy foods contain fiber, which helps increase saliva production in your mouth, removing many of the sugars and chemicals that can cause tooth decay. About 20 minutes after you eat something, your saliva begins to reduce the effects of the acids and enzymes attacking your teeth. Additionally, saliva contains traces of calcium and phosphate, which can also restore minerals to areas of teeth that have lost them from the bacterial acids.


Avoid sticky, chewy, sugary foods. Instead, eat fresh, raw, crunchy fruits and vegetables to help clean your teeth. Cucumbers, carrots, broccoli, celery, and raw nuts are great choices to eat to keep your teeth clean.
Limit your intake of fruits that contain citric acid, such as oranges, lemons, berries and tomatoes. Too much citric acid can cause enamel erosion.However, don’t completely avoid these fruits unless you have a digestive condition or allergy. These fruits contain many nutrients that are essential for bodily functions and contribute to creating a strong immune system.
 High fructose corn syrup is commonly found in many processed snacks and beverages, and it is the leading cause of tooth decay. Always read the nutrition label before buying foods. Regularly drinking carbonated beverages can also cause discoloration of teeth and enamel wear.
 Fluoridated drinking water helps wash away food debris and bacteria and increase saliva production, while the fluoride helps strengthen tooth enamel thus preventing tooth decay.However you should test yourself before this, as fluoride in high concentrations can be poisonous. People with sensitive teeth especially benefit from drinking cool, fluoridated water, since it also reduces inflammation in the gums.


Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. The recommended daily amount for the average adult is two liters of water.
If you consume caffeinated beverages, drink one liter of water for every cup of caffeine. Not getting enough water can also lead to dehydration.
You can safely use fluoridated water to prepare infant formula. However, prolonged exposure and intake of fluoride during infancy may cause mild fluorosis, which actually weakens enamel. Fluorosis only occurs with baby teeth but it can also affect the development of permanent teeth and lead to white spots on teeth, so consider ways to minimize your baby’s exposure to fluorosis until they begin to grow permanent teeth such as using distilled, demineralized or purified water and giving your child calcium-rich foods and beverages. Since fluoride isn’t an essential mineral for the body, you do not need to worry about any deficiency.
 Both green and black tea contain antioxidant compounds known as polyphenols that either reduce or kill plaque bacteria. This means that they can prevent the production of acids that cause cavities and erode enamel.Depending on the type of water you use to brew your tea, a cup of tea can also be a source of fluoride.
Adding milk to black tea can also boost your calcium intake, making your teeth stronger and resistant to bacteria.
Keep in mind that drinking too much tea can also cause stains and, in some cases, dehydration, so try to limit your intake to two to three cups of tea per day.
 Calcium is essential to forming healthy teeth and bones.Calcium is especially important for children who have just started forming new teeth and for older people who have weaker teeth and bones. The best way to get more calcium is through food. Cook foods in a small amount of water for the shortest possible time to keep more calcium in the foods you eat. The richest food sources of calcium include:


Cheeses such as parmesan, Romano, Swiss cheese, white cheddar, mozzarella, and feta
Low-fat or skimmed milk and butter
Yogurt: This is also a good source of probiotics, which are bacteria that help boost the body’s immune system.
Tofu
Blackstrap molasses
Dark leafy greens such as spinach, kale, turnip greens, Swiss chard
Almonds, hazelnuts and Brazil nuts

, Calcium is essential to forming healthy teeth and bones. The two most popular forms of calcium supplements are calcium citrate and calcium carbonate. Taking vitamin D and magnesium supplements with calcium can help your body absorb and use the calcium more efficiently. Calcium supplements should be taken in very small doses, no more than 500 mg at any given time, in divided doses with six to eight cups of water to avoid constipation.Talk to your healthcare provider before giving a child any nutritional supplement, including calcium.
Calcium citrate is more easily absorbed and digested by the body. It should not be used if you are taking any antacids or blood pressure medications.
Calcium carbonate is less expensive and contains more elemental calcium required for bodily processes. But it needs more stomach acids in order to be absorbed. So take this supplement with a glass of orange juice.
Calcium supplements derived from oyster shells, dolomite, and bone meal are best avoided as they may contain lead, which can cause anemia, damage to the brain and kidneys, raise blood pressure and cause poisoning. Calculus (tartar) on your teeth may also increase while using these supplements, so visit your dentist for a cleaning whenever you feel the deposits on your lower front teeth.
 It is also beneficial for boosting your immune system to fight against bacteria, viruses and free radicals that can erode teeth.Getting enough vitamin D can help you maintain a healthy smile, strengthen bones and even help prevent various types of diseases and cancers. Here are some ways to make sure you get enough vitamin D:


Get more exposure to sunlight. Your body naturally makes vitamin D when exposed to sunlight. People with light skin should try to get at least 10 to 15 minutes of sunlight, while people with dark skin should get at least 30 minutes of sunlight exposure daily. Clouds, smog, clothing, sunscreen and window glass all reduce the amount of sunlight that actually reaches the skin.
Natural food sources of vitamin D include cod liver oil, eggs, fatty fish such as salmon, juices and dairy products fortified with vitamin D.
Dietary supplements are also available at most pharmacies for people with low vitamin D. Children under 12 months of age need at least 400 IU of vitamin D. Children over 1 year and most adults need at least 600 IU, including pregnant and breastfeeding women. People above the age of 70 may need up to 800 IU of vitamin D. Ask your doctor before giving vitamin D supplements to an infant or child.
Always ask your doctor before taking any dietary supplements. Taking too much vitamin D supplements can cause side effects such as dehydration, poor appetite, weight loss, fatigue, sore eyes, itchy skin, muscle and bone pain, vomiting, diarrhea and constipation.

