 One common sign of a schizophrenia relapse is having delusions. These delusions may take different forms. You may start hearing voices inside your head, seeing things that aren’t there, believing things that aren’t true, or being paranoid.You may find yourself suspicious of friends or loved ones, so you may stop being around them or stay away from them.;
, Withdrawing from your friends and family is one of the early warning signs of a schizophrenia relapse. You may stop calling or texting them, or you may start canceling plans. You may decide that you don’t want to be around anyone, and instead spend all your time alone.You may not want to be around people because you are suspicious of them or feel angry towards them. This is also an early warning sign.
 Another symptom of schizophrenia relapse is the sudden negative change in your mood or emotions. You may suddenly start being irritable, annoyed, or irrationally angry. You may also find yourself more anxious, sad, or depressed. You may feel more agitated or lose your temper more easily.You may start acting or feeling more nervous than usual.
You may start talking in a more aggressive or depressed way.
 If you are in danger of a relapse, you may experience sleep disruptions. This means that you may stop sleeping due to insomnia, or you may not feel like need sleep for one or more nights.You may be unable to fall asleep because you feel restless, have racing thoughts, hear voices, or are suffering from paranoia.
 Another symptom for a schizophrenia relapse is disorganized thinking. This may lead to confusion, racing thoughts, thoughts that won’t go away or leave you alone, or thinking that may not be connected. This may make it hard to concentrate or complete daily tasks.This disordered thinking may lead to strange thoughts or untrue thoughts.
 If you are in danger of a relapse, you may experience additional behavior changes. Your appetite may change and you may start eating less or not wanting to eat at all. You may have less energy and feel extremely lethargic or you may suddenly start acting with more energy.You may notice that you stop caring about the way you look and let your personal hygiene go. Ask yourself, “Have I taken a shower or bathed recently?”
You may stop being interested in things that you used to be interested in.

