 Eating while you're drinking can help reduce alcohol breath. Food absorbs some of the alcohol you drink while also stimulating the production of saliva. This can prevent dehydration, which can heighten the presence of alcohol breath.


Bars often provide snacks like peanuts, popcorn, and other munchies to make sure patrons don't get sick from over-drinking. Try to periodically snack on these complimentary foods while you're out.
If you're drinking at a friend's place, offer to bring a snack for the group. Bring a couple of bags of potato chips or some microwave popcorn. This can benefit you by reducing alcohol breath and also make you look generous in the eyes of the host.;
, Foods that are highly aromatic can help override alcohol breath. Red onion and garlic both stay on your breath for a long time, reducing the smell of alcohol.


You can order bar foods that contain onion or garlic. Garlic-infused items, such as garlic fries or garlic bread, are often popular bar items.Add red onions to a sandwich, burger, or salad after drinking.Some people, if they're looking for a fast cure, simply eat onion or garlic raw. While this is quite effective, keep in mind the smell of garlic or onion can be quite strong. Not only does it radiate from your mouth it also comes out your pores. If you're trying to eliminate alcohol breath because you have somewhere to be, this might not be your best option. The smell of garlic, while more socially acceptable, can be as off-putting as booze breath., Gum can be helpful in eliminating alcohol breath. Not only does the strong smell cover up the smell of booze, it can cause you to salivate. This can also reduce alcohol breath.


Try sour flavored gums. This will cause excess salivation, which can eliminate alcohol breath faster. While the flavor may be initially hard to handle, keep in mind it gets milder the more you chew.
Mint gum is also a good option. A powerful menthol flavor can quickly cover up alcohol breath and is often used as a breath freshener.
 Drinking both coffee and water can help reduce alcohol breath. Water replenishes the hydration you lost drinking and promotes salivation, which can lessen alcohol breath. Coffee has a strong smell on its own, which can cover up the foul smell of booze. However, coffee is best used the morning after drinking. Mixing stimulants and depressants can cause a spike in energy, making you feel less drunk. This can lead to inadvertently drinking more than you can handle.

