 If you are taking notes and writing an incident report that you expect may be used as evidence in a court proceeding, you must develop strong credibility. Anything you write will need to stand up to cross-examination., Whether you are writing an incident report based on your own observations or based on witness testimony, you will need to remain factual. You need to limit the written report to facts, so the conclusions can be made in court.As an example, a factual observation would be to say that the driver of the red Honda crossed the center line into oncoming traffic. It would be a conclusion to say that the driver of the red car caused the accident.
 It is important for your report to include everything that is necessary for the reader to understand what happened. However, you should limit what you say to only the important facts. Avoid unnecessary narration or description., A good, objective report should be fair and impartial, without slanting in favor of either party involved. If your report is going to be accepted in court, it should be as fairly objective as you can make it.A fair, objective statement would be to say, “Mr. Smith appeared to be approximately six feet tall.”
A subjective, slanted statement would be to say, “Mr. Smith was a big bully.”

, Do not include statements of hearsay or assumption in your report. Any such statements would only be challenged if the report is presented in court. Limit your report to things that you, or the witness you are writing for, actually observed.For example, if you are writing a report of a motor vehicle accident scene, when you did not directly observe the accident, you may write, “The rear panel of the Honda was severely dented, and the front end of the pickup truck was crumpled.” You should not write, “The pickup truck rear-ended the Honda,” unless you were actually there to see it happen.
 The credibility of your report will be judged not only on the content but also on your style of writing. It is important to use complete sentences, standard punctuation and grammar, and to proofread your report before signing and submitting it.Something as simple as comma usage can change the meaning of your report. For example, consider these two sentences:

”The second patient who was transported to the hospital died from injuries sustained in the accident.” (This suggests that at least two patients were transported to the hospital, and the second one died.)
”The second patient, who was transported to the hospital, died from injuries sustained in the accident.” (This sentence suggests that only the second patient was transported to the hospital.)



