 Maintaining a balanced diet can be particularly important after an athletic or dance career. Your profession likely demanded a strict diet to help you stay in shape. You should keep eating healthy to keep your body and mind fit.If you need help tailoring the best diet, use an app or resource to create a personalized meal plan, like the US Department of Agriculture's Super Tracker: https://www.supertracker.usda.gov/.
Anxiety, along with other moods like sadness, can be physically demanding, so taking in enough nutrients is important for both your body and your mind.
 Practice and rehearsal most likely occupied lots of your time and accounted for your daily exercise. You should create a new exercise routine to stay occupied and active. Exercise a half hour a day or more, especially if the activity helps you keep a positive state of mind.Go for jogs and brisk walks, ride your bike, or go to the gym. Try mixing things up by starting a new exercise. For instance, if you never swam much before, start swimming laps every morning.
If it is enjoyable for you to continue the exercise you used to do for your career, then you could try doing something similar, such as taking Zumba classes or salsa lessons if you were a dancer. However, if it is too painful for you right now, then it is okay to do something totally different.
 In addition to healthy routines, sports and performance typically involve rituals that feel sacred. Without those rituals, it might feel impossible to maintain a sense of order. Find ways of creating new rituals to help restore your senses of meaning and balance in life.Think of any cultural or religious traditions you were raised in, and explore ways of incorporating your tradition’s rituals into your life. You could go to a religious service every week, meditate daily, recite a poem or prayer at a certain time every day, or simply keep a daily journal.
 Teaching or coaching can help you stay engaged with the sport or art that you love, and could even be a new career option. Simply volunteering to coach a children's dance or sport team can have a positive impact on your feelings of self-worth. Knowing that others value you and look up to you will boost you confidence., Look for a job that's related to your former dance or sports career. Try to find a new occupation that will help you put your skills to use.You can also talk to other professionals who retired before you to find out what kinds of careers they pursued after retiring.
In addition to teaching or coaching, you could consider options like: personal trainer or fitness instructor, sports or dance journalist, personal assistant, or open your own gym or studio. You could even go back for a psychology degree or counseling certification and help others get through the struggle of ending a sports or dance career.
 A career transition program can offer career counseling, help you put together a resume and cover letter, help you access healthcare, and help you access emergency financial assistance. Availability and types of services offered varies by location.If you live in the United States, find a nearby regional program on Athlete Career Transition website (http://actpathway.com/) or the career transitions for dancers section on the Actors Fund’s website (http://www.actorsfund.org/services-and-programs/career-transition-dancers).
For locations outside of the US, search your national government’s website to check for state-funded programs. Do an online search for “career transition programs” or “career counseling” for dancers or athletes near your location.

