 The high cost of a private loan means you should ask yourself if what you are using the loaned money for is worth the additional cost.


For example, using such a loan to fund consumption (things like leisure spending, which offers a 0% return) may be unwise, whereas using it to fund an investment such as business supplies or education that can generate a return can make the use of private lending worthwhile.
 If the return on the purchase does indeed make the cost worthwhile, examine if it can be partially funded using existing savings, or if money can be saved over time to fund the purchase.


This can reduce interest costs through potentially smaller loans, or prevent the need for a loan all together. Seriously consider cash as an option if you intend to make a consumption-based purchase (like a vacation or a new television), that offers no return.
 Follow up on more advantageous loan options and/or loan alternatives before going with a private personal loan, which could have higher interest rates, stricter repayment terms and greater up-front costs than alternative lending options.Consider opening a line of credit, or a merchant cash advance if you are looking to borrow funds to purchase goods and supplies for your business. While good credit may play a large role in the ability to access these types of loan, it is possible to get a loan with poor credit.
Consider using a credit card instead of a personal loan if you need money for a one-time expense, such as a dental visit, or to cover the costs of a trip.
Public loans can be accessed from a wide assortment of sources including the federal government, banks and financial institutions, local chambers of commerce, as well as from non-traditional private lenders.
Historically, public loans from federal funds or subsidized programs typically come with more favorable terms, such as significantly lower, fixed interest rates.
 A private lender personal loan should be the last option you utilize when looking for money to pay for your education. Federal student loans can be accessed by simply submitting a FASFA application online, while the process for locating private lender loans can be more onerous.Federal student loans are a more attractive borrowing option because they come with significantly lower interest rates than private lender loans. Federal student loans have fixed interest rates ranging from 3%–8%, and the set interest rate is based on the loan type and use.
Private lender loans can have widely varying interest rates, but undoubtedly will be higher than 7%. While federal student loan interest rates are set in stone by Congress, the interest rate extended in a private lender loan is completely up to the lender.

