 Although everyone longs to be a tough guy that can crack skulls and take names, that doesn't always work in reality. No one wins when you and your enemy end up looking like punks.;
, This goes against any form of self-defense, but in this situation, backing out will give you a cowardly appearance - even if the other kid probably doesn't want to fight any more than you do. In the worse case, this will lead up to more confrontations.
 This may sound impossible, but threatening that you'll make them eat through a straw for the next year will make most bullies back off, yet will turn you into a bully.
 There are, however, limits you should never exceed except in a life or death situation. Never hit the head or throat or nose. Certain hits to these places can and will cause death. Use non-dangerous pressure points and hits to the shins and shoulders. A kick to the shins is enough to make almost anyone back off without long-term injury.
 The goal of school fights is to send a message. That bully just wants to look strong in front of everyone, so prove him wrong.


If you are getting attacked from the back to the head, grab their arm with your neck and shoulder. Then - with all your force - use both your hands to give them a Chinese burn.

If they continue to hit you, dodge it, and keep giving them a Chinese burn.


Refrain from getting carried away. Hurt him enough to send a warning, and if he takes the warning, let him go. Inflicting serious or fatal injuries upon the bully may get you in trouble.
Don't forget that the bully has his own mind as well. Dodge his blows, and calculate his weaknesses. Try to figure out the bully's strategy, and use it against him.
Let the bully make the first move. If you punch him first, you'll most likely be blamed.
 Screaming "are you not entertained?!" or something similar will make you look like a psychopath. The officer at your school would like it more if you made it as obvious as possible that you were merely defending yourself. Go with everything that the school staff and/or police say: you're the good guy.
 'He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster.' Also, don't brag a lot, as you're just asking for it. Make it seem like no big deal, and wait patiently until the whole thing blows off.

