 There are many types:


A coastal desert is an area near the ocean that is fairly dry (average of 8-15 cm or 3-6 in of rainfall per year) and has a very sandy soil. It is characterized by a short, cool winter and long, warm summer, with annual temperatures ranging from 35° C to -4° C (94° F to 25° F). Most plants in these deserts are brush types with extensive roots close to the surface (to catch water before it drains into the sandy soil). Because this is a mild desert, various animals have adapted to survive in coastal deserts. These include coyotes, toads, owls, badgers, and various reptiles.
A semiarid desert is the most commonly found desert in North America, Europe, and Asia since they are generally found in temperate zones. Rainfall averages about 2-10 cm (.75-4 in) per year and temperatures hover around 10° C (50° F) in the evenings. Because of this cool evening period, dew formed in the morning hours can meet or exceed the rainfall for that year, thus, providing many plants and animals with a daily source of water. Rats, lizards, rabbits, skunks, and other small rodents are frequently found in semiarid deserts.
A hot and dry desert is exactly how it sounds: excessively hot and dry. Temperatures vary from extreme cold in the evenings (-20° C or -4° F) to extreme heat during the day (49° C or 120° F). Rainfall is usually less than 1.5 cm (half an inch) per year. This makes for an extremely harsh environment for any organism to live in. However, some insects, spiders, rodents, and birds have found ways to stay out of the heat in the day (burrowing or cave-dwelling) and searching for food during the evening.
A polar desert or cold desert is generally found in the Arctic or Antarctic. Precipitation is light, and quickly forms hard snow packs during most of the year. When vast areas of a polar desert are covered in snow pack, the region is called "tundra". Rainfall is generally 15-26 cm (6-10 in) per year, depending on winds and coastal effects. Winter temperatures are rarely above 0° C (32° F), and summer temperatures about 20° C (68° F). Note: Polar/cold desert hiking requires very specialized equipment. This article does not discuss polar desert hiking preparations.
A high desert is a semi-arid area that exhibits many of the features of a cold desert because of its high altitude location. While some of these instructions may apply to high deserts during the warm summer months, traveling in these deserts during other times of the year requires the same precautions as a cold desert, which are not covered here.;
, Even if you are only taking a day hike, you can easily get lost. Provide them with a map outlining the path you intend to follow. Write down what time you plan on getting there and coming back. Tell them that if you don't contact them at the planned time, they should take action to ensure your safety. Check in with that person immediately upon return, so you don't inadvertently have authorities looking for you!

, The very definition of a desert requires the area to receive little precipitation. Most people will hike in coastal, semiarid, or hot deserts. You may not be able to find ANY water supply while hiking, so it is best to bring your own. Not energy drinks, not flavored water, just regular H2O. It's important to remain hydrated in the simplest way possible. It should last for the entire trip.
, Many deserts have cool or cold nights. It's important to understand that, while the cool air feels good, you can get sick if you aren't kept warm through the night.
 Should include topography and important geological features
Radio
Satellite phone (you won't be getting cellular service out in the middle of nowhere)
Star chart for the correct season and hemisphere

, This food should have lots of calories and good carbohydrates, with protein for energy. If the hike is particularly strenuous or lasts for more than a few hours, however, you should bring an electrolyte replacement (such as beef jerky) to replenish salts lost through sweating (see Warnings).
, Liquids should be placed in plastic zipper bags.
 This places the backpack square on your shoulders and more evenly distributes the load on your back muscles, instead of just your shoulders.
 If you have hiked in other places, you know that your food and "Smelly foods" must be protected. However, in any desert areas, there are no trees to hang traditional bear bags. The solution is to get "bear canisters" or some other secure container. Some state and national parks provide these for a small fee. Others have bear boxes in highly utilized areas. Check with park or land management to see what you may need. Bear containers should be placed at least 100 feet downwind of your campsite. Traditionally, you would make a triangle campsite with your tent in one corner, your cooking area in another, and the bear canister in a third.

