 If this is your first time looking for a marketing consultant, it will benefit you to see the wide range of people who you can employ. If you are a small business, look for 3 to 5 proposals.
 Ensure the marketing consultant you hire has the following qualifications:


They must have industry-specific experience. There is no such thing as a one-size-fits-all marketing person. Although many people have extensive experience in a handful of industries, they cannot come from a makeup background and help to market airplanes. Each candidate that you consider should have extensive experience marketing similar products or services.
The person must have a marketing portfolio. They may have this on their website, or they may decide to send you samples, but you should be able to see sample marketing materials, plans and campaign strategies. Ask if you can contact former clients who will reference their work.
Make sure the marketing consultant has been active in the past year. With the rise of the Internet, marketing changes drastically every year. If they have not led any major marketing efforts in the past year, it is unlikely they can still be called experts in most marketing fields.
Evaluate if the person is an expert. Although you will pay more for good expertise, an experienced marketing professional is likely to be more valuable. Ask if they have published articles, written marketing books, won awards, handled major accounts in the industry or if they write a marketing blog.
Ask the marketing consultant what they think of your marketing efforts so far. This will show you whether your contract matters to them, because they have taken the time to research it. It will also show you how frank they are.
Have the consultant tell you what value they can bring to your product or company. A marketing consultant should be able to tell you some percentages or numbers that you can expect from their services. This can also help you evaluate whether they are strategic problem solvers.
Decide whether they have helpful contacts or relationships. If you need your press releases to appear to a wider audience, make sure this consultant has contacts with news wire agencies and newspapers. If they need to hire creative talent, make sure they have excellent designers or writers who will complete the work on deadline.
 Then, check their references to ensure they have good relationships with former clients.
 Most marketing consultants have some variation in rates. Be respectful and able to offer something in return, like contract or repeat work, because you want the marketing consultant to feel as though they are being paid well for their work.
 By waiting to see how the consultant performs, you are able to ensure it is the right fit without too much risk.

