 This trick works best with a playing card or business card. But it can also be performed with a dollar. Get some wax or a similar adhesive like clear double-sided tape, and thin string. If you don’t have a lot of time to prepare for this trick, or are going to levitate something like a dollar, wax is better to use as tape is harder to remove from the object. The best type of string to use is an elastic string or thread which will easily stretch. You can find these threads in magic shops or online.
You are going to attach one end of the string to the back of your ear and the other to your object.
Make sure you cut the string so it’s long enough to easily stretch from behind your ear to your finger. ;
, Using your wax or a piece of tape, fix one end of the string to your adhesive. Then stick it behind your ear.


If you are using tape, place the tip of string on the tape, then wrap the string around the tape. Fold the tape over so that your string is firmly attached.
 Using the wax or a small piece of clear double-sided tape, connect it to the other end of the string. Attach this end of the string to one of your fingers so you can easily stick it to your object when you’re ready.


It’s easiest to use the hand that is on the opposite side of where you placed the string behind your ear. For example, if you placed the string behind your right ear, use your left hand, and vice versa.
Only apply the adhesive to one finger. Because you will be handling an object like a dollar or card, you want to keep most of your fingers free of wax. Doing this will allow you to hold the object without having it stick to your hand.
 If you are using a card, crumpled piece of paper, or a dollar you can transfer the string from your finger to the object as you explain that you can make the object levitate.


This part can be a little tricky as the end of your string is sticking to your finger currently. Transfer the string and adhesive from your finger to the object. Hold the object in place with your free hand as you pull away with the hand that had the string.
For example, if you are levitating a card, place the tip of the string with your tape or wax onto one side of your card. Slide your finger away to cause the string to stick to the card and not your finger.
If you are levitating a crumpled up object such as paper or a dollar, Crumple the object around the string and adhesive. Then remove your finger. Make sure the string is now sticking to the object and not your hand.
 With the hand which is on the same side of your body as your string, place the string between two of your fingers. Move your hand to catch the string making the object appear to float in the air between your hands.


You can use your hand which is touching the string to manipulate your object's movements. Think of it like directing a puppet on strings.
Place your other hand under your object to make it look like you are using the energy between your hands to make the object float.
 If someone gave you an object that you will return, such as a dollar, you need to detach it from the string.


Uncrumple the object such as the dollar and as you do so, either pull the tape off or pull the string away if you used wax.
If you did use wax, rub the area a bit to disperse the wax and wear down the adhesive property. Your audience will most likely not notice any leftover wax on the dollar.
If you used tape, you will have to quickly peel the tape off your object.

