 Google provides free analytics services to YouTube content creators, so they can track and analyze the kinds of people attracted to their videos. When you know a little more about them, you can make content that will appeal to that audience more directly. Google's analytics services provide information including:


approximate age
gender
geographical location

, Most people won't subscribe to channels with fuzzy audio and phone-quality video. If you're serious about having a successful channel, it's a good idea to invest in an HD video camera with a good microphone for recording audio. Read this article to learn more about good cameras for making videos.If you can't spend money on new camera and recording equipment, it's still important to make sure your videos are clear, steady, well-lit, and synched properly.
 One thing you'll notice about a lot of successful YouTube content creators is that their videos are heavily edited. Most popular videos are not just long, single-takes. Lots of the jokes and style of the YouTube video come from quick jump-cuts and humorous little moments.


Often, YouTubers will record a long video, but then cut it up to include only the funniest parts in the best order. Play around with your videos in a basic editing software like iMovie. Only keep the best bits.
Don't record your videos straight to YouTube. Take some time to edit them before making them live on your channel.
 Popular YouTube videos are short, clean, and neat. No long intros or credits at the end, no loud soundtrack in the background, no fancy fades or camera tricks. It should just feature the content that you want to highlight.


If you want to share links, put the links in the description box below the video. Link boxes in the video are annoying for lots of users who just want to watch. This might get your other videos more accidental views, when people click on them while trying to delete the boxes, but it won't get you more subscribers.
 It's good to have a theme for your channel, but people don't want to watch the exact same video over and over and over. Try to mix it up. Come up with a few different types of features, or a short week-long theme for your channel, to give people a reason to keep watching.


If you do cooking videos, mix up the type of recipes you feature. Aim for a dessert item one week, then an entrée the next. Do a month of only your best Italian dishes. Do a month where you try out recipes you've never tried before. Do a month of dishes your grandmother showed you.
 Some popular channels feature videos that are quite long, 15-20 minutes, while other popular channels feature videos that never go past the four minute mark. The video should be long enough to do what you want it to do, and no longer.


If your channel appeals to younger kids, keep the videos short. Humor videos and blogs should be no longer than 3-4 minutes.
If your channel appeals to an older, specialized audience, like for beer or cigar reviews, your videos should be more in-depth and longer.

