 If you just need some money to meet an unexpected bill, and it is not something a bank is likely to provide, ask friends and family before turning to an online payday loan. It can be awkward borrowing from somebody you know, but if it’s a relatively small amount of money, and you pay them back swiftly, it can work out well.


Often you will not be charged interest for small amounts, but it’s important that you repay the trust shown in you by paying it back swiftly and in full.
Even with interest it would be a better deal than an online payday lender.
If you do borrow money from a friend or family member, make sure you have written down and agreed all the terms and payment dates., Even if an online payday loan seems the quickest and easiest way to get hold of some cash, try to think about the potential longer term problems of high interest rates and indebtedness. Banks are unlikely to lend small amounts, but your local credit union might be a better option. Credit unions provide loans at much lower rates than payday lenders.Search for your local credit union online, and contact them before going ahead with a payday loan.
 Often people turn to online payday loans when they are short for an impending payment on something, such as a car, or a utility bill. Before adding more to your debt burden by way of a payday loan, contact your creditor and ask if they can give you a little extra time to make the payment.


If your creditor believes you to be acting in good faith, they are quite likely to come to an arrangement with you.
You may get an extension on your bill, but have to pay a late fee for this. This fee is likely to be lower than the cost of the payday loan., The short-term nature of payday loans, and the relative ease and speed with which somebody can get hold of the money, can lead to people taking out frequent small loans. When this is coupled with the extremely high rates of interest such firms typically charge, as well as the fees and charges associated with the loan, it can lead to people becoming stuck in a cycle of indebtedness to payday loan companies.


Typically somebody takes out a payday loan for an immediate expense, but then the cost of paying back that loan means that they struggle for cash, and take out another loan to get by.
It’s crucial that you break this cycle if you see it begin to develop.
Get some free debt advice to find how best to deal with your situation, but avoid just adding more and more to your debt.