 Most rifles are chambered in higher-pressure, heavier-recoiling calibers than handguns, and many rifles, especially precision bolt-action and semi-automatic rifles, have very light triggers than can easily go off accidentally. This makes the consequences of a lapse in safety with a rifle extremely serious.
 For a magazine-fed bolt-action or semi-automatic rifle, this will require loading a magazine and then inserting it into the rifle. Rifles with internal magazines will have a loading procedure established in the user's manual.
 The most common and likely stance you will be using at a firing range is seated at a table for shooting called a "shooting bench" or simply a "bench". Rest your rifle on the sandbags or supports provided at the bench or its bipod, and shoulder your rifle so that your dominant eye aligns with the rifle's sighting system.


Lean forward and ensure that the muzzle of the rifle clears the edge of the bench. This will help make sure that you do not accidentally "muzzle sweep" or endanger other shooters nearby and prevent blast damage from your rifle's muzzle from scorching the bench.
Press your cheek firmly down into the stock of the rifle. This is known as establishing "cheek weld". Do not worry about the stock recoiling into your face - in fact, leaving your face off of the rifle can cause it to fly back and seriously injure your face. Pressing your face into the rifle's stock will prevent this type of injury.
Seek professional instruction if you want to advance into standing, kneeling, or moving while shooting a rifle. Be aware that outside of the context of competitive shooting or institutional training there are very few places to learn how to shoot while on the move.
 Depending on the type of sighting system your rifle uses, you will need to focus your eyes differently. Your rifle's sights may need to be zeroed in order to figure out where it will shoot.


If your rifle uses a reflex sight (often referred to as a holographic or red dot sight) focus your eyes on the target and align the sight with where you want the rifle to shoot. Focusing on the dot may actually make it more blurry. This is by design; these scopes are intended for you to "focus through" onto your target.
If your rifle uses a traditional rifle scope, bring your eye into the proper eye relief for your scope. Adjust your scope's parallax settings if necessary to ensure that your scope is focused at the proper range. Align the scope's crosshairs with the desired point of impact. This is usually, but not always, the center.
If your rifle uses mechanical open sights or "iron sights", align the front and rear sights as with the handgun and focus on the front sight.
 Even minor, involuntary movements related to breathing can create significant errors in aim. Your rifle, if properly held, will contact your body at multiple points that will sway significantly when you breathe. To minimize this source of error, shoot at the bottom of your breathing cycle (when most of the air is expelled from the lungs).
 It can be helpful to think of "squeezing" the trigger - the primary goal is give the rifle a smooth, controlled input that will not disturb the alignment of the rifle's sights.


Try not to anticipate the "break", or the point in the trigger's travel from front to rear at which the rifle will go off. Anticipating the break can cause an involuntary flinch from recoil which can contribute to inaccuracy.
 For magazine-fed rifles, this will require releasing the magazine and re-inserting another magazine if desired. If you are using a rifle with an internal magazine, insert more rounds into the magazine using the procedure established in your rifle's manual.


If you are shooting a bolt-action or pump-action rifle, you will need to manually cycle the action to eject the spent round and chamber a new round.
Most semi-automatic magazine fed rifles will "lock back" the bolt when the last round of a magazine or clip is fired. This will be visible as a large opening where bullet casings usually come out of; this is meant to indicate clearly to the operator that the magazine is empty. Once a new magazine or clip is inserted, the bolt must be released, usually by means of a control called the "bolt release", in order for a round to be chambered and the weapon readied to fire.

