 Fresh caulk can usually be removed without softening it, but older caulk that has fully hardened may need to be softened first in order to make it pliable enough to remove. You can usually do this with water, vinegar, chemicals, or heat, depending on the type of caulk.

Commercial caulk remover is the simplest choice and may be your best option for silicone caulk. Apply the caulk remover by squeezing a wide bead along the caulk line, completely covering it from end to end. Let it sit for several hours as directed on the label.If you are dealing with non-acrylic water-based caulk, you can soak the caulk with saturated rags for 72 hours to soften the caulk effectively.






If dealing with water-based acrylic caulks or polyvinyl acetate resins, soak the caulk by dampening it with iso-propyl rubbing alcohol.To use heat on any form of caulk, apply heat from a hair dryer on the lowest setting for 30 to 40 seconds. Work in patches of about 8 inches (20 cm) at a time.;
,


Alternatively, you can slice from end to end, spanning the full length of the caulk and cutting the line completely in half. Doing so can free up more edge and may even cause some of the caulk to fall out on its own.
 Grab the exposed edge of the caulk with your fingers and pull out as much as possible. Pull toward the direction of the remaining line of caulk to lift it out.


If you cut along the full length of the caulk line, peel up the line starting on one end and pull in the direction opposite that end to remove as much as possible.
 Use a glass scraper to scrap out any remaining, visible caulk. Hold the scraper at a shallow angle, keeping it as flat as possible, to avoid scratching the surface.


You could also use a putty knife or similar tool. Keep in mind that the tool you use should have a fairly flat “blade” with a somewhat dull edge. You do not need to cut more of the caulk out with this tool; you only need the tool for the sake of scraping away caulk from underneath.
 If you cannot reach some of the caulk with your scraper, use needle-nose pliers to pick and pull out any visible chunks.


Needle-nose pliers are preferable to other types of pliers since they tend to be narrower and are easier to maneuver in and out of small crevices.
 Use the hook end of a painter's five-in-one tool to scrape out any remaining caulk debris from the crevice.Scrape in one direction, pulling as much of the caulk away and out as possible. Hopefully, you should be able to get rid of the rest of the chunks after completing this step.

