 Use a vegetable peeler or sharp, small paring knife to peel the skin off the potatoes.


Use the tip of the utensil to dig out any black spots or eyes.
Only peel off a thin layer of potato. The idea is the remove just the skin, with as little of the flesh attached as possible.
This does not need to be perfect. A few small specks of skin can remain without loss to the flavor or quality of the dish.
You could skip this step and leave the skin on, if desired, but you will need to thoroughly scrub the skin with running water and a vegetable brush if you do so.;
, Rinse the peeled potatoes under cool running water, scrubbing them with your fingers to remove any dirt.


The majority of the dirt is on the skin, so with the skin removed, you will not need to spend as much time scrubbing the potatoes. Some dirt from the skin will likely get onto the potato flesh as you peel, though, making it important to rinse the potatoes before using them.
Pat the potatoes dry with clean paper towels.
 Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut the potato widthwise into 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) slices.


You could also use a mandoline to slice the potatoes into thin slices. To use a mandoline, rub the end of the potato against the blade to create a slice. Continue to pass each potato over the blade to finish slicing it up.
 Spray a 9-by-9-inch (23-by-23-cm) glass baking dish with nonstick cooking spray.


A 9-inch (23-cm) oval casserole dish may be used, instead.
If you do not have cooking spray, grease the dish with butter or shortening.
Spread the cooking spray, butter, or shortening around the pan using a clean paper towel to coat the dish completely.
 You should spread out about one-third of your sliced potatoes on the bottom of the dish.


The entire bottom should be covered.
The potatoes may overlap into more than one layer, but make sure that they are evenly distributed over the bottom of the dish.
 Evenly spread one-third of your heavy whipping cream over the potatoes in your baking dish.


You could use 35% cooking cream if you do not have whipping cream.
Slightly shake the dish from side to side after adding the cream to make sure that all the potatoes are coated.
 Sprinkle 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt, 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper, 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) parsley, and 1 tsp (5 ml) minced onion over the contents of the baking dish.


Distribute these seasonings as evenly as possible.
Note that you are essentially using half of your seasonings here.
If working with dried parsley instead of fresh, only use 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml).
 Arrange another layer of sliced potatoes over the seasonings.


Make sure that the potatoes are evenly distributed.
Use roughly one-third of your potatoes, or half of the potatoes that are left.
 Pour another 1/2 cup (125 ml) of cream over the potatoes and add the remaining seasonings.


Give the dish a slight shake from side to side to evenly distribute the cream.
 Layer the remaining potatoes on in an even layer before pouring the remaining cream over them.


Give the dish one last gentle shake from side to side to settle the ingredients.
 The potatoes should be tender when pierced with a fork.


The top of the potatoes should also be slightly browned.
Leave the dish uncovered as it bakes.
 Remove the finished potatoes from the oven and only let cool for a couple of minutes before serving.
 Prepare a 9-inch (23-cm) baking dish by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray.


You can use a square or oval dish.
If you do not have cooking spray, use butter or shortening.
Spread the baking spray, butter, or shortening around the dish using a clean paper towel to ensure that the dish is well coated.
 Add the butter to a medium skillet with high sides and heat over medium heat.


Wait until the butter is melted before proceeding to the next step.
 Add the onion to the melted butter and cook, stirring frequently, until it softens.


The onions may also begin to turn translucent, but they should not be allowed to brown or caramelize.
Use a spatula or mixing spoon to stir the onions as they cook.
Note that this should only take 2 minutes or so.
 Sprinkle the flour over the onions and whisk the ingredients together. Cook for 2 additional minutes.


Cooking the flour at this stage prevents the taste of the raw flour from affecting the taste of the sauce.
Evenly sprinkle the flour over the onions to minimize the risk of clumps forming.
 Whisk the milk into the skillet, combining it thoroughly with the onions and flour. Continue cooking until the sauce thickens and bubbles.


It should only take a few minutes for the sauce to thicken. Stir frequently with your whisk to check the texture and prevent the sauce from burning to the bottom of the pan.
 Remove the skillet from the heat and add the cheese. Use a mixing spoon to stir it into the sauce until it melts and distributes itself evenly.


Season with salt and pepper, if desired, mixing the seasonings into the sauce thoroughly.
 Place half of your sliced potatoes in the prepared baking dish and sprinkle with additional salt and pepper, if desired.


The potatoes will not be in a single layer, but the layers in the bottom of the dish should be even in order to ensure even cooking.
 Spoon half of your prepared sauce over the potatoes in the baking dish.


Spoon the sauce over the potatoes as evenly as possible.
Give the baking dish a slight shake from side to side to help settle the sauce in between the potato layers.
 Layer the remaining sliced potatoes over your sauce and pour the remaining sauce over them.


Both the potatoes and sauce should be distributed evenly.
Give the dish a slight shake from side to side to settle the contents.
 Evenly distribute the remaining 1/2 cup (125 ml) shredded cheese over the top of the dish.


You can use shredded or grated cheese. Grated cheese will melt into the sauce more, while shredded cheese will create a layer of cheese over the dish.
Cheddar cheese is a popular choice, but most other varieties will also work. For instance, you could use Parmesan cheese or a commercial blend of Mexican cheeses and spices.
 Cover the dish with aluminum foil and bake in your preheated oven until the potatoes are tender.


If you want the cheese to brown on top, remove the foil during the last 5 to 10 minutes.
 Let the potatoes cool for a couple of minutes after you pull them out of the oven, but serve them while still hot and bubbling.
 Toss the ingredients together in a 2-qt (2-L) glass casserole dish with a loose lid.


If desired, you can spray the dish with nonstick cooking spray first or wipe the bottom and sides down with butter to prevent the potatoes from sticking.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and salt until well-combined.


All-purpose flour works best for this recipe.
Use anywhere from 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) salt.
 Evenly sprinkle the flour mixture over the potato mixture in your microwave-safe dish. Toss the vegetables gently to coat them with the flour and salt.


You can use clean hands to toss the contents of the dish, but an easier and cleaner alternative is to use a fork to stir the ingredients together.
 Pour the milk over the potatoes in your dish, covering all the other ingredients evenly.


Give the dish a gentle shake from side to side in order to distribute the milk more evenly and settle the contents of the dish.
 When done, the potatoes should be tender enough to pierce with a fork.


Cover the dish with a loose lid or clean paper towel to prevent splattering. Do not use a tight lid.
Stir the contents of the dish every 5 minutes as the potatoes cook.
If the microwave does not have a rotating tray, turn the dish 180 degrees during the middle of the cooking time so that all sides cook evenly.
 Let the potatoes rest for 5 minutes after they finish cooking. Sprinkle the parsley and paprika over the finished potatoes and enjoy.
 Ham is a traditional pairing for scalloped potatoes. You can prepare a ham and scalloped potatoes casserole adding cooked slices or chunks of ham to a recipe for baked scalloped potatoes.
 If you love scalloped potatoes but have recently adopted a vegan lifestyle, or if you are cooking dinner for a vegan, you can create a vegan version of this dish using soy milk.
 Stovetop cooking is simpler, quicker, and makes your kitchen a little less warm. As a result, stovetop scalloped potatoes are a perfect option when you need a fast alternative.
 Scalloped potatoes and au gratin potatoes can be prepares in a slow cooker. The dish takes a long time to prepare when cooked this way but is remarkably simple.
