 If the fabric has any creases or wrinkles in it, use an iron to remove them. Otherwise, these wrinkles could ruin the final look of your project.


Make sure that you pay attention to the make of the fabric before you iron it. Heavier fabrics need a stronger heat setting while light or delicate fabrics need very low heat, if they can tolerate heated ironing at all.
You could wait to choose your desired composition before ironing the fabric, if desired. Ironing the entire piece of fabric gives you more room to play with, but ironing it after you make your selection allows you to focus your efforts on one specific patch of fabric.
 Place the fabric right-side-up over the canvas. Gently move it around until you find a swatch of fabric that looks great when restrained to the dimensions of your canvas.


If you have a fabric with a small, symmetrical, and continuous print, choosing an exact composition is not as important since the final product will look the same no matter which section of the fabric you choose. This step is significant, however, if you are working with a large print or asymmetrical pattern.
 Trim the fabric with scissors so that you have 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of excess fabric along each edge of the canvas.


Trimming the fabric with the right-side-up can make it easier to keep your desired composition centered over the canvas.
Make sure that you have enough excess fabric around each side to fold over the edge and onto the back of the canvas frame.
 Flip the fabric so that it is wrong-side-up and center the canvas, wrong-side-up, on top of it.


The canvas must be centered over the fabric to maintain the proper composition and to verify that all of the edges will be able to fold onto the back as needed.
 Staple the center left side of the fabric to the back of the canvas. Pull the fabric taut and repeat with the right side. Continue stapling the left and right sides in this manner, pulling the fabric taut before placing each staple.


Work from the center out, eventually moving toward the edge of the canvas frame.
You will usually need about five to seven staples per edge.
If you are working with an electric staple gun, you must put the safety on when you are not actively working with it. You should also unplug it when not in use or if you need to walk away for some reason during the middle of the process.
Pulling the fabric taut means that it should look smooth over the front, but it should not look stretched or stressed, either.
 Use the same procedure you used for attaching the sides of the fabric to attach the top and bottom of the fabric, as well. Continue pulling the fabric taut before placing each staple.


Staple the center top of the fabric to the back of the canvas frame. Pull the fabric taut and repeat with the bottom side. Continue stapling the top and bottom in this manner until the fabric is completely secured to the canvas frame.
Do not worry about the corners as you staple. Those will be taken care of afterward.
 Fold the overhanging corners “wrapping paper style” and tuck them into the fabric along the back to keep them hidden. They should not be visible from the front.


Fold each corner so that the tip points inward and the two edges creating it are smooth. Staple in place.
You can cut off the extra corner fabric afterward, or you can tuck it into the fold you just created and staple it in place once more.
 This completes the process. Your canvas-framed fabric should now be ready for display.

