 It probably goes without saying because the goal is always to make your first meeting with a new person positive, but it’s especially important with college girls, who probably have plenty of date options on campus. That’s why you want to take care with your appearance and be polite and attentive when you first make contact.If you’re talking to a girl at party, make sure you haven’t had too much to drink. While liquid courage may make it easier to approach her, she probably isn’t going to be impressed if you’re slurring your words and having trouble staying on your feet.
 To show that you have genuine interest in a girl, you should want to learn more about her. Asking open-ended questions, rather than simple yes-no inquiries, usually works best because it gives her a chance to really share her experiences, feelings, and opinions with you.Be more creative than simply asking her what her major is or which dorm she lives in. She probably hears those questions a lot. Instead, try to build off of what she says. For example, if she tells you that she loves traveling, ask her what her favorite trip was and why., If you want a girl to take your interest in her seriously, it helps to show that you’re still thinking about her when you’re not together. Phone calls or texts can help establish a rapport that makes her feel comfortable with you, so she’s more willing to say yes when you ask for a date.If you’re not sure what to stay in your phone call or text, ask a follow-up question to your last conversation, share an inside joke about the last time you saw her, or tell her that you saw something that reminded you of her.
Don’t just call or text late at night -- she might get the wrong idea.
 Once you feel like you’ve gotten to know her, there’s nothing left to do but ask her out. You don’t have to be formal, though. Ask her if she’d like to hang out sometime, and if she says yes, suggest a day and time.It’s normal to be nervous before you ask a girl out. Give yourself a little pep talk before you do it, reminding yourself of all your positive qualities.
 You don’t have to take her out for a candlelit dinner right out of the gate. In fact, it’s usually best to make your first outing a low pressure situation, such as grabbing a cup of coffee or having lunch at the student union. However, you should choose a venue that allows for quality conversation, so a movie or noisy bar probably isn’t the best option. Once you’ve gone on a few casual dates, you can progress to more typical outings, such as dinner at a nice restaurant.


When you’re in college, you usually don’t have too much money. That doesn’t mean you can’t take a girl on memorable dates. Some inexpensive date ideas include a school sporting event, a picnic in a local park, or a movie marathon at home.