 If you're trying to get a new page off the ground, the first thing you should do is invite all of your current Facebook friends to like the page. As admin, Facebook will give you the option to do this directly from the page.


Make sure to include a comment where you ask people politely if they wouldn't mind supporting your new business and liking the page - people will respond more positively if you're nice.
You could also encourage them to invite their own friends to like the page - even if only a couple of people actually do, it will increase the page's exposure exponentially.;
, One of the most important ways you can encourage new fans and maintain your existing ones is to post interesting, informative and interactive content on a consistent basis. Try to post things that people will want to share with their friends, such as photos, videos, contests and relevant articles.


Remember - if even one existing fan with a couple of hundred friends shares your post on their own wall, the exposure to your page increases hugely.
Try to ask lots of questions and get people commenting on your posts, then make sure you answer each fan personally - this will encourage people to keep commenting and will inspire trust and loyalty in your brand.
You can also allow Facebook users to upload photos to your Fan Page.  People like things they can engage with.
 Offer an incentive for people to like your page, such as a special offer, coupon, or something creative. Make this offer exclusive to fans of your page, so people will have to like it in order to reap the rewards. This can be very effective and if the incentive is good, people will share it with their friends and families.


For example, if you run an online clothing store, you could do a promotion whereby fans of your page receive a special discount code which entitles them to 10% off their next purchase.
Or if your run a pet grooming salon, you could post a printable flyer which your fans can use to get one free dog wash. People love to get something for free, and once you've done it once, people will continue to check back with your page to look for more offers.
 Facebook groups can have a large influence and can share your page with many Facebook users. Groups have the power to send out e-mail alerts to followers, whereas fan pages can only send a notification through Facebook.


Try to entice the Group's admin(s) to share your page by providing good and relevant content and offer to promote their group on your page in exchange. A Facebook group won't want to send out spam to its followers, so make sure your page is related and that the relationship will be mutually beneficial.
For example, if you run an ice cream parlor which receives a lot of business from a nearby restaurant, you could ask that restaurant to promote your parlor as a good dessert option or even serve your ice cream alongside their own desserts. In return you could hand out flyers promoting the restaurant to your customers and display sample menus in the parlor.
Incentives like promotional codes and coupons will also help to encourage the followers of a group to like your Facebook page.
 This step is a little sneaky when focusing on competitors, but in the cut-throat world of business promotion, is completely fair game. Say that you notice the page of a big brand or business is constantly getting comments from their fans asking for help or advice about their products, but no one ever responds to these queries. If you run a similar type of business, you can swoop in and answer any questions and then post a link to your own page, encouraging their fans to come to you instead.You can also offer a better discount on one of your products if they join your page. For example, if you run a hair salon and you notice that fans of another local salon are always posting comments on that page looking for advice on how to achieve a certain hair style or recommendations on the best hair care products to use, but no one ever replies to them, you can take matters into your own hands and reply to those customers' comments and even advise them to like your page, as you regularly provide such helpful information.You can offer them a discount to like your page.Consumers love discounts.
Be aware that this is a bold move and might create tension between you and the owner of the other business when they realize what you've been doing. However, it might teach them the harsh reality that you cannot ignore your customers - especially in the fickle world of Facebook.As an alternative, you can search for review pages of products & services, finding your potential customers that way.
 It's really simple to add a Facebook "Like Box" to your business's home page, which makes it easy for your website visitors to like your Facebook page without having to leave the website or go to the effort of searching for you on Facebook themselves. This is a good move as chances are that if a person is on your website, they are already familiar with your service or product and will be more inclined to like you on Facebook.


You could also inform visitors to your site that by liking you on Facebook, they will be entitled to exclusive promotions, offers and content that they wouldn't receive anywhere else, even on the company's website - so if they like your brand they will need to like you on Facebook just to receive these offers.
Also consider including a "Like us on Facebook" link in your employee's email signature. Most businesses send out hundreds of emails a day so this is a very easy way to garner more likes!, This is a contest that only people who like your page can enter. The prize can be anything from an in-depth feature to one of your products. The bigger the prize, the more likely people will be to like your page and enter the contest. They might also be inclined to share the the contest with friends, encouraging even more people to like your page.


You can make the contest interactive by using fun and interesting ways for people to submit their entries. For example, you could ask people to upload pictures of themselves with one of your products. So if you run a cupcake store, you could ask fans to post a picture of themselves eating one of your cupcakes.
You could also ask people to post their stories on your Facebook page, where the best story wins. For example, if you own a flower shop and are offering a prize of a free bouquet of roses for Mother's Day, you could ask people to send in their favorite childhood memory of their mother, or the reason that their mother deserves to win.
 If you have any positions opening up in your company or business, think about posting that information on your Facebook page, along with a short job description and details on how to apply. This will encourage people to share the post with other job seekers and keep them coming back to your page for more updates. , Sometimes just letting real-life people know that your business is on Facebook is enough to drive the number of page likes upward. If your business is hosting or taking part in an event, why not take a photographer along to take pictures of those in attendance. Then let them know that can easily view the pictures just by liking your business's Facebook page! You can also hand out flyers and business cards with the call to "Like us on Facebook!" printed clearly., For a fee, Facebook will promote your page to its users, giving you access to people you never would have reached otherwise. Make sure to use Facebook Insights to track your demographics so your ads are well-targeted at the correct audience, this will ensure that you get the most bang for your buck. You should also try to make the image and the wording of your advertisement relevant to current trends in your industry.Be aware that Facebook ads can be costly, so make sure to set a budget you can afford.
You can also buy Google ads that will direct traffic to your Facebook page.
 Buying Facebook likes is a proven method of increasing the number of people who check out your page. This also increases your page's search engine ranking. Buying likes right at the beginning, just after you've set up your page, is good because it attracts real likes from people. It's the herd mentality - people will like what they see other people liking!


Be aware that buying likes is a good method of getting your page up and running, but you won't be truly successful until real people start liking it. You will still need to engage with your customers in the comments and tell people about your business to have a really successful page.
 There are many ways you can promote your Facebook page in real life. More often people notice about your Facebook page in real life, the chances of them visiting and liking your Facebook page increases.


Display your Facebook page contents live in your store television; it is like a Facebook TV (brandwand by thefunage.com).
Print your Facebook page URL and stick it in your store.
Print your Facebook page URL in the receipts or notices that you hand over to your customer.

