 Are you a morning person? A night-owl? Maybe just after lunch is your peak period. Find the time in the day that you're at your best and structure your life around that fact. There's no sense in pretending to be an early riser if you crave the 3am study session in your soul. Listen to yourself and do what works.
 Creating a plan for yourself helps to eliminate distracting thoughts and stress. Compartmentalize each thing you need to do in a given day, trying to anticipate how much time you'll need to accomplish it. Try to leave in some wiggle room in case you end up needing more time to bash out a draft of your paper, or more time to prepare for that presentation at work.


Try your best to do one thing at one time. When it's time to eat breakfast and read the paper, just eat breakfast and read the paper. You don't have to worry about studying for that English essay if you know you're going to study for it at 4:30, after you get off work and before you meet up for dinner.
 It's best if you can help to remind yourself why you're doing what you're doing to help keep you on track and remind yourself of the bigger picture. Remember your long term goals, and how the little things you do fit into your larger plan for yourself.


One of the most nagging distractions when you're trying to sit down to study trig notes might be, "Why am I doing this? I should be out partying and living my life!" In those moments, it's helpful to remind yourself why you're studying: "I've got to pass this class so I can get my degree and go to grad school and become the most powerful pediatric neurosurgeon in Whitman County. My plan is in effect." Take time for an evil laugh, then get back to it.
 Monotony can be its own distraction. Learn when you're getting bored of the same old, same old. Try to structure your day by doing different types of activities back-to-back. So you don't have to do one housework thing after another, alternate studying and housework, or throwing in some exercise. Don't answer all your emails at once, answer a few, then take a break to do something else productive. At the end of the day, you'll end up being more productive if you shake it up.


This may not be true for everyone. Learn how you work best. If it's more efficient for you to plow through and grade 20 papers all at once, more power to you. Pour a glass of wine and get to it.
 Breaks are important, but the temptation of a break can start to creep in at particularly insidious moments, like just as your essay starts to get hard and you might be better served by getting over the difficult hump of that paragraph or that page. If you schedule breaks regularly and try your best to stick to that schedule, though, you'll be able to keep yourself more productive and more relaxed.


If you've got a long day ahead of you, some people find it effective to go for a 50-10 breakdown. If you've got a bunch of work to do, go all-out for 50 minutes and then take 10 minutes to do something relaxing. Get up from your desk, take a walk, watch a YouTube video of a bulldog bouncing on a trampoline, do what you need to do to get the break you need. Then get back to it.

