 The spiritual centering consists of the personal philosophy of life. A spiritual centering should include the five principles of love, peace, truth, strength and joy. If we live with wisdom according to these five principles, we grow into happiness, into enlightenment, into a life in the light (in God, in fulfillment).;
, Health exercises are sports (walking, jogging, biking - if necessary on the exercise bike), yoga and meditation. Add to this a healthy diet. Mental work means to avoid negative thoughts and to encourage positive thoughts. Negative thoughts lead to internal tensions, the destruction of the health and to bad social relationships. They are often associated with feelings such as fear, anger and addiction.
 Positive thoughts are created by self-reflection, positive intentions and reading positive books. It's important to pay constant attention to your inner thoughts, feelings and positive life principles (love, peace, truth, strength, happiness). Recommended are the philosophy of happiness (Epicurus), Buddhism, Christianity and Yoga. The positive psychology found here offers many good ways to live a happy life. It is important that we are always in touch with ourselves, our inner truth and love. A spiritual teaching gives us an orientation. For proper application in our concrete situation we are responsible for ourselves. What is good for us? What brings us forward on the path of happiness? What is useful to create a happy world?#The easiest way of spiritual centering is the daily reading in a spiritual book. We can also read something positive on the internet. We don't have to read that much. A small text, a meditation a day is enough to keep us on the path to lasting happiness. For many people a daily oracle card is helpful to get a positive outlook on life. For this we need each day just a minute. Everyone has that much time. The gain is immeasurable in the long-term.
 How can you integrate The Five Principles of Health into your life? What is your main way of spiritual centering (Yoga, Buddhism, Christianity, Philosophy, Positive Psychology)? Which spiritual role-model inspires you and gives you energy for a positive life (Buddha, Jesus)? What exercises do you want to practice regularly?

