 If your apples came waxed, the caramel will not stick. In this case, you'll want to wash them using water and baking soda.
 If you find the sticks difficult to insert, make a shallow slit in the apple first using a sharp knife. Make sure that the apples are secure on the sticks.


The caramel coating will harden faster on cold apples than room-temperature ones.
 If you don't have wax paper, lightly coat the baking sheet with cooking spray. This will prevent the apples from sticking to it. Also, make sure that the baking sheet is large enough to fit all the apples without them touching.
 Save the remaining ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of heavy cream for later. To help the butter melt faster, cut it into small cubes first.
 Use a candy thermometer to gauge the temperature. As the ingredients cook, they will turn a golden color. This will take about 8 to 10 minutes., Avoid stirring too much. Stir just enough to mix the cream and vanilla into the caramel. You want the color and texture to be even and consistent, with not streaks or swirls.
 Once the caramel cools, take your first apple and dip it into the sauce. As you lift it out, give the stick a twist. This will help the caramel coat the apple more evenly. It will also get rid of any excess caramel.


You can dip the apple into the caramel all the way, or only ¾ of the way.
You want the caramel to still be liquid enough to drip off the back of the spoon.
 This will get rid of excess caramel, and prevent caramel puddles from forming on your baking sheet.
 This will give the apple some extra texture. After dipping the apple, be sure to scrape the bottom again with your knife or spoon. This will allow the apple to sit more evenly on your baking sheet.


You can use any type of chopped nuts, but popular choices include peanuts, walnuts/pecans, or pistachios.
If you don't like nuts, you can use other goodies, such as sprinkles, chocolate chips, or crushed candy.
 Keep dipping the apples into the caramel sauce and setting them down onto the wax paper until you have none left. Remember to leave some space between each apple so that they don't stick together.


If the caramel sauce starts to harden, simply place the saucepan back onto the stove, and heat it back up again.
 Once the caramel hardens, you can serve the apples. Some people like to leave the apples on the counter for about 15 minutes so they won't be as cold.


If you'd like extra-gourmet apples, drizzle some melted chocolate over the top of each apple.,