 Your body has two distinct types of sweat glands — eccrine and apocrine.Apocrine glands are located in areas with dense hair follicles, making them the types of glands associated with your underarms.However, neither type of sweat gland produces odor. Sweat is primarily a combination of water and salt, and the odor associated with sweat actually comes from the combination of the sweat and the naturally occurring bacteria that lives on your skin., Since the sweat itself does not actually contain a bad odor, you may notice specific situations where you sweat without any associated smell. Try to isolate the specific situations where you become painfully aware of the odor caused by sweating.


Some of these situations commonly include after exercise, if you haven’t bathed, if you haven’t changed your clothes, or if you’ve eaten pungent foods or consumed alcohol., Showering every day helps to reduce the bacterial growth on your body and therefore the potential for body odor.You should also shower after intense physical exercise such as playing a sport or a trip to the gym because the excess sweat during the activity produces a breeding ground for more bacteria.
 In addition to showering daily, you should also change your clothing daily. Contact with your underarms spreads the bacteria on your skin to the armpit crease on shirts as well, which will produce smelly results if you wear the same shirt for several days.
 Deodorants are over-the-counter products that eliminate odor while still allowing your body to cool itself through perspiration.They’re typically alcohol based, making the applied area acidic and uninviting for bacteria.If you prefer a natural alternative to a deodorant, you can use white or apple cider vinegar or even a fresh lemon under your arms since these will also affect the pH of your underarms in ways that reduce the growth of bacteria.You may want to mix these (especially any vinegar) with a few drops of an essential oil of your choice since they can also leave you with a particularly strong smell.
 Most men will likely scoff at the idea, but hairy armpits provide a much larger area for odor-causing bacteria to spread. By reducing the overall amount of bacteria, you can reduce odor.


Even if you’re opposed to shaving your armpits entirely, you can still trim down the hair significantly, which will work better than not at all.
 The foods you eat can have an effect on your natural aroma, which is then exacerbated when sweating. Common foods and drinks associated with pungent body odors include garlic, onions, curry, alcohol, and caffeinated beverages.Try temporarily cutting these out of your diet or at least minimizing them to test for a difference in odor.


Even dietary imbalances in vitamins and minerals such as magnesium and zinc can also lead to strong body odor., In addition to avoiding certain foods, eating more of certain foods can also decrease pungent body odors. Food high in chlorophyll (green vegetables) have been shown to have the potential to decrease body odor., Foods that can affect your body odor will have more pungency if you’re dehydrated. By drinking plenty of water, you will give your body the optimal ability to remove waste products without increasing body odor.