 You will have ideas of your own that you might want to see in action, but you have to take your classmates’ ideas into equal consideration. Take the time to ask people what kind of issues they want you to work on and then try your best to address them.


Conduct periodic meetings where students can ask you questions or tell you what is important to them.
Actively seek out suggestions from both students that you interact with daily and others that you don’t see often.
Come up with different ideas to address the issues that students want resolved.
Seek students’ assistance to work with you in helping reach class goals together.
 You won’t be doing everything right as class president, and that is ok! But you need to seek constructive criticism so you can understand what you are doing right and what you are doing wrong. Doing this will help you develop into a stronger leader. Ask teachers to evaluate your leading method to see if there is anything you need to change.
Hand out “comments” cards to students so they can let you know what area you need to improve on as their class leader.
Create a “pros and cons” with fellow classmates after school for your leadership style.
Pinpoint your strengths on your own and try to apply that to areas where you believe you need improvement.
 Not everything will be easy to handle as class president. Some days will be harder than others because things will not go as smooth. Understand that nobody is perfect and that trying your best is what matters the most.


Take an hour of your day for yourself without having to worry about anything related to your position as class president if there are several issues you are trying to handle.
Divide the responsibilities you have with the rest of the student council so that you do not have an excessive load of things to do.
Remember that you can ask for help at any point to make things easier. Your classmates, teachers, and parents are more than willing to assist you in organizing workshops, planning school dances, running fundraisers, or completing any other activity for the benefit of your class.

