 Begin by smiling at the person. Smiling makes you feel happier and more confident. It can make it easier to walk up to someone to start a conversation. Plus, when you smile, the person you're smiling at automatically wants to smile back. Then, introduce yourself by saying "Hello" and giving your name.Start with, "Hello, I'm Jessica. What's your name?"
Bring up a topic to begin the conversation. In a conversation, both you and the person you're talking to need a chance to say something. You're exchanging information to learn about each other. For example, you could ask them about their favorite singer or what their favorite color is.You could also start a conversation about what's going on around you. For instance, if you're in math class, you could say, "Is there a lot of homework this year?"
If you're at lunch, you could say, "So what's your favorite food?"

, Smiling at people is a good way to show people you're open to friendship. You don't always need to be the person who says "Hello." Sometimes, other people will come up to you if you look approachable. Approachable just means you look like someone nice that another person could have a conversation with.In other words, try not to cross your arms or look angry if you want someone to approach. Try to look happy and interested in other people.
If someone comes up to say "hello," ask her to sit next to you. You could say, "I'm so glad you came over! Would you like to sit next to me?"

, When you're meeting someone new, you have to be able to hold a conversation. That means you need to both ask questions about the other person and answer their questions in return. It's a way of getting to know one another. It involves both giving to the conversation and actively listening to what the person has to say.You could ask them, "What's your favorite food?" If they say, "Pizza!" you could say, "Pizza is my favorite, too! We made it at home last week."
That way, you're offering something about yourself (what your favorite food is), as well as offering them something to respond to ("We made it at home last week.") They might say, "Really? I've never made pizza before. Is it hard?"

, Many friendships are based on the fact that you have common interests. That doesn't mean that you like all the same things. However, it does mean that you share some things that you both like. As you're talking to the person, try to figure out what things you both like. That way, you can develop those interests.For example, you discovered you both have a love of pizza. That's a common interest! You could get pizza together, or you could even invite them over to your house to learn how to make pizza.
You could say, "Since we both love pizza so much, maybe you'd like to come over sometime and make pizza with me."

, Use what you know about the person to ask questions about their life and interests. If you don't know very much about the person, ask questions to get to know them better.


For example, you could ask, "I saw you're on the dance team. How long have you been dancing?"
Or, you could ask, "How's your project for our math class going? Mine is taking forever!"

