 You’ll need a two quart calf bottle with nipple and raw cow’s milk or a bovine milk replacement formula, and possibly colostrum. Choose a milk replacement formula that is at least 25% protein.Other supplies can include a syringe or turkey baster, which you might find helpful in the beginning when getting the calf accustomed to the bottle.A calf bottle that holds two quarts of liquid is all you should need.
A turkey baster or syringe can be used to introduce the calf to the milk or formula if it doesn’t take the bottle initially. Squirting the milk or formula directly into the calf’s mouth using the baster or syringe will help the calf realize you are feeding it. You can then try offering the bottle again
The hole on the end of the nipple should be big enough that the calf can easily nurse from the bottle, but not so big that it drinks too fast and aspirates.;
, Whether you are using a newly purchased calf bottle or one that was previously used to feed another calf, you’ll need to thoroughly clean the bottle before using. The bottle will need to be washed again after every feeding.


To prepare for washing, remove the nipple from the bottle.
Rinse the bottle and nipple to remove any surface dirt and milk or formula.
Wash the bottle and nipple with hot water and your preferred soap or cleaning detergent.
Use a brush to thoroughly wash the inside of the bottle.
When washing the nipple, check for tears or cracks. If you notice such flaws, discard the nipple and use a new one. Cracked or torn nipples are hiding places for bacteria that can make your calf sick.After washing the bottle and nipple, thoroughly rinse with warm water.
Allow the bottle and nipple to fully air dry before the next use. Try setting the bottle upside down on a rack so that any remaining water can fully drain off.Keep several bottles and nipples on hand so that there is always a clean, dry bottle ready to go before each feeding.
 Colostrum is important for all mammals at birth. It is produced in the breasts before the actual milk comes in and is filled with healthy vitamins, minerals, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, and disease-fighting antibodies.Colostrum will help your calf develop a strong immune system.


Calves can obtain colostrum by nursing directly from the mother cow during the first 24 hours after birth. However, that is not always possible, particularly if the mother is used as a milk cow.In that case, if you do not have another source of bovine colostrum, a homemade colostrum replacement can be prepared for the calf. Calves should get 2–3 US quarts (2,000–3,000 ml) of colostrum as soon as possible after birth, and then 2–3 US quarts (2,000–3,000 ml) about 8 hours later.To make a colostrum replacement, mix the following ingredients together: 1 cup of dry formula, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of honey, and 1/2 teaspoon of powdered vitamins A, D, and E. Stir the mixture into a quart of warm water. Give this homemade colostrum replacement to the calf in a bottle during its first two feedings. In the colostrum mixture, the eggs give shine to the calf’s eyes and coat, and the honey helps prevent constipation. Wash the bottle after each use following the instructions previously mentioned.
 The formula is made by mixing a scoop of dry formula with warm water. Refer to the formula package directions to determine the exact amounts of dry formula and water to mix together for one quart of liquid. Instructions might vary slightly between formula types. Keep in mind that calves under 3 weeks shouldn’t have non-milk proteins.Add the appropriate amounts of dry formula and water to the bottle, put the nipple on the bottle, and shake to mix the contents together.
Give your calf one quart of formula or milk for the first few weeks, after which time you will up the amount to two quarts.If you have plenty of cow’s milk available (preferably unpasteurized raw milk) from a milk cow, then you can use that in the calf’s bottle rather than formula. Just fill up the bottle with milk and feed the calf.
Alternatives to commercial formula include dried whey protein concentrate, dried skim milk, soy protein concentrate, and modified wheat protein.
 Place the nipple of the bottle on the calf’s mouth until it opens up and begins drinking. You will need to hold the bottle the entire time while the calf is drinking.


You can stand directly in the calf’s enclosure when bottle feeding or simply offer the bottle through the fence. It is sometimes easier to stand next to the calf the first few times until it is used to the bottle. Once the calf is used to it, you can switch to feeding through the fence.
If your calf refuses the bottle at first, you can try introducing the formula or milk by using a syringe or turkey baster. Either method will allow you to squirt the liquid directly into the calf’s mouth. You can then try offering the bottle again once the calf knows to expect nourishment. Wash the bottle after each use following the instructions previously mentioned.
 Some calf owners bottle feed their calves just twice a day; others prefer to do so three times daily.Whether you feed your calf two or three times a day is your choice and can depend on your calf’s appetite.
 Continue feeding the calf two quarts at a time twice a day until the calf is four months old. At four months the calf should mainly be eating solid foods and be ready to wean from the bottle. , Cows are herd animals and do best when not alone. If you only have one calf and no other cows, sheep, goats, and even horses can make good companions for your calf.The calf can graze with the other animals when it is old enough to eat grass and solids.


If raising two calves simultaneously, you can easily feed them both at the same time by holding one bottle in each hand.
 Aspiration is when foreign bodies or liquids are breathed into the airway. Normally, your calf should drink slowly and steadily. If you see bubbles come out of its nose or hear the calf cough, stop the feeding immediately. The calf might be drinking too fast and inhaling milk into its airway. Give the animal frequent breaks to breathe and swallow.