 Make sure your actions and words benefit him/her more than they do yourself. Be loyal and giving, and expect the same back. Loyalty and insight will make any relationship go far. Don't give up if you have a fight with him/her. Assess if they're someone you want to be there for the rest of your life, and then come to an understanding.;
, A true friend does not need presents or recognition, but always give them a call to acknowledge their special day. Keep in touch. They will appreciate the thought and effort you are making to keep in touch, even if you are countries away.
 A true friend knows your personality and your likes/dislikes. Regardless of disagreements or jealousy, it is important that you recognize and respect other people around your friend in order to keep them close until old age. Help them feel better if their family or other friends give them trouble.
 Friends don't need to speak every day, every month, or even every year. But calling them once in a while to make sure everything is okay in their lives is important. It lets them know that even if it has been years, you're still there for them.
 If you want to stay friends until old age, tell them that, and remind them how important they are in your life and how happy they make you. It is important to keep up communication.
 Talk it out if you're having disagreements to remain friends, and don't keep many (if any) things from them. Be open and honest in your communication, but treat them well throughout. If you do end up in a disagreement, avoid it becoming a real "fight" by picking your words carefully, compromising, and forgiving and forgetting when the issue is over.
 Many people need more than just one individual, and it's important to allow them to fulfill their social needs. If you have an unbearable dislike of one of their other friends, then talk it over and come to an understanding.


Never let anyone get in the way of your relationship with your life-long friend, even if it's their spouse. You're in it together, so always come to an understanding!

, Try opening up and sharing your interests.
 This makes them feel important and hang on to you.

