 Whether a co-worker you admire or your new mother-in-law, be sure to state your compliment in a manner that acknowledges her good qualities or successes without sounding like her new biggest fan. She may feel threatened by any suggested ambition to take her place in the office or in her place as the most important woman in her son’s life.No one wants to be around someone who wants to be just like them. Instead, let her know that her traits inspire you to become a better version of yourself.
 Women predominantly compliment other women on their appearance, which enforces gender stereotypes instead of acknowledging her individuality. Make a practice of starting conversations with another woman off with a compliment on her character or achievements before mentioning you love her outfit. And make sure it isn’t reflective of a stereotype or social constraint. Imagine her saying it to you first and assess how you would feel.
Don't qualify a great compliment with "For a woman, you are really great at..." or "Most girls can't do ______ well."
Instead of telling a stay-at-home mom she is great at managing her kids and husband, tell her you are amazed by her ability to manage time or multi-task. Make what you say about her, not about how well she fits into a traditional female role.
 Suck-up compliments can be good sales techniques for business people and customer service related jobs. But nobody wants to work with the car salesman that is obviously schmoozing them. Likewise, your fiancé’s sister doesn’t need to be your new bff. Only give compliments when you really want to, and mean them, not to “sell” yourself to them., Women tend to compliment other women on appearance right away, even though they would rather be complimented on character or performance.

Tell her she looks like she could take over the company in that amazing outfit, instead of just saying you like her suit.

Qualifying this physical compliment in this way can make her feel proud for promoting an image of herself as an intelligent, ambitious, and strong-willed business woman in a predominantly male-run field.

