 One of the most important things you should do when giving a newborn a bath is to establish a routine. By creating a routine, you’ll give your baby a sense of stability and predictability. This will help soothe them and make future baths go a lot easier.


Choose a specific time of day, if possible. For example, you may want to establish the routine of bathing your baby at night.
Establish your bathing routine in relation to your feeding routine. Consider feeding your baby either before or after bath time.;
, You’ll need a wide variety of supplies ready before you start the bath. This is important as you won’t want to get up and leave your baby in the middle of the tub. Your most important supplies include:


Washcloths and a sponge
Towels
Baby shampoo
Moisturizing soap
Baby wipes
A change of clothes, While you might think any tub will work, you’ll need a tub with an infant insert that will hold your baby securely. Without an infant insert, your baby may slide down into the water. This could not only be dangerous but uncomfortable for your baby., The best place to give your newborn a sponge bath is a place with a large flat surface. This is important, as you’ll need to place the tub down and have room to move around it. Consider:


A changing table.
A firm bed.
The floor of your bathroom. In this case, you may want to put a blanket or towel under the tub to pad the hard floor., Before you get your newborn wet, you need to make sure that the room you’ll sponge bath your baby in is between 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (24 to 27 degrees Celsius). If the room isn’t warm enough, your baby could get cold and may get sick., Fill the tub with water that is warm, rather than hot. Water should never be higher than 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) when you place your infant in it. The tub should also not be full. Instead, try to fill it about a third of the way – no more than several inches deep.


Never expose your baby to water that is hotter than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius). This could cause third-degree burns very quickly., Make sure to make a serious effort to soothe your baby and keep them calm during the bath. You can do this by making noises, telling them they’re good or holding their hand. Ultimately, it is important to make sure the bath is not a traumatic event for the infant.Consider putting on white noise during the bath.
 When washing your infant’s body, you need to make sure you are gentle around the umbilical cord stump. While it is okay to clean around it, you don’t want to hit it or get it directly wet.


If you do get the stump wet, make sure to dab it dry., Slowly put your infant in the tub. Start by sliding their feet in and then slowly move their legs and body into the water. As you do this, make sure that they are snuggly and comfortably settled into the infant insert., It is important to regularly pour warm water over your baby while they’re in the tub. This will stop your baby from getting cold on parts of their body that are above the water line.


Use a cup or similar object to pour water on your baby., Take a little soap, lather your hands up, and soap your baby’s body up. Make sure to use as little soap as possible. Pay special attention to areas where they accumulate dirt or germs, like the diaper area and hands., Dampen a sponge or washcloth with warm water and wash your baby’s entire body. Start at the neck and move downward toward the torso and then legs. Make sure you get as much soap off as possible. Remember to:


Get in between their buttocks and private parts.
Clean between their fingers and toes., Dip a corner of a microfiber washcloth in warm water and use it to wash their face. Do this systematically and wipe from side-to-side. Make sure to get around the mouth, under the nose, and around and behind their ears., Tip your baby’s head back slightly. Take a very small amount of baby shampoo and gently massage it into your infant’s hair. Make sure you get full coverage of the scalp, as a baby’s hair can become oily and dirty just like an adult’s hair.Be careful as to not get any shampoo into your infant’s eyes.
 After you’ve wiped your baby down with soap, you need to make sure you wash off all the shampoo and soap you cleaned them with. Residual soap or shampoo could dry out their hair or skin., Gently remove your baby from the tub and place them on a clean, flat surface. This is important, as you’ll need a safe place to dry your baby off and dress them.


If it is convenient, you may want to place your baby on a changing table. If this isn’t convenient, you may want to place your baby on a clean towel next to the bathtub.
 Take a dry towel and gently pat your baby dry. Patting is important, as you could irritate your baby’s skin if you rub them. Also, if your towel gets wet, make sure to replace it with a dry one., After you’ve dried your infant, you’ll need to wrap them in a towel. You may want to consider using a hooded towel to cover your baby’s neck and head. Ultimately, though, the towel should be clean, soft, and large enough to cover their entire body.


You may want to wrap your baby up right away after placing them on a flat dry surface. This will keep them warm and help dry them., Make sure to dress your newborn quickly after they are dry. This is important, as the baby could become cold almost immediately. As a result, use the change of clothes you set aside earlier to dress them.

