 Before doing anything else, thoroughly clean the area where the bite occurred. Use soap and warm water to do this. If there’s swelling in the area of the bug bite, you can put a cold compress or ice pack on the bite to help reduce the swelling. The cold will also temporarily help relieve the pain and itching.Apply a cold compress or ice pack for a maximum of 10 minutes at a time. After the 10 minutes of application, leave it off for another 10 minutes. Do this rotation for up to an hour.;
, The bite area will most likely be itchy and you will be tempted to scratch — don’t. Do your absolute best to resist the urge to scratch. Unfortunately, scratching a bug bite can make things worse by causing an infection., If the bite continues to be itchy, you can apply calamine lotion, a topical antihistamine, or a corticosteroid cream to help relieve it. All of these lotions and creams are available as over-the-counter medications at your local pharmacy. If you aren’t sure which one might work best for you, talk to your pharmacist., You can take acetaminophen (e.g. Tylenol), ibuprofen (i.e. Advil), or an antihistamine (e.g. Claritin) orally if you need to relieve the pain or itching.If you take a daily allergy medication, be careful if you want to take an additional antihistamine. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you can increase the dose, or combine it safely with another type of medication.
 Combine warm water and baking soda in a bowl until it turns into a paste. Apply the paste directly to the insect bite. This should help alleviate the itching temporarily. Wash the baking soda paste off after 15 to 20 minutes.In general, this paste should contain three parts baking soda and one part water.
 Yes, you read that right! Mix a non-seasoned meat tenderizer with warm water until it forms a paste. Apply that paste directly to the insect bite to help ease the itching. Wash the paste off after 15 to 20 minutes., Steep a tea bag for a short time in warm water, then apply the wet tea bag to the insect bite to help relieve the itching. If you used the tea bag for an actual cup of tea first, make sure it’s cooled down enough before putting it on your skin. Leave the tea bag on your skin for 15 to 20 minutes., There are several fruits and vegetables that contain enzymes that may help reduce swelling and itching. Try one of the following options:Papaya — Lay a slice on the bug bite for an hour.
Onion — Rub a slice of onion on the bug bite.
Garlic — Crush a clove of garlic and apply the garlic to the bug bite.
 Immediately after the bite has happened, soak the area in apple cider vinegar (if possible) for a few minutes. When the bite is still bothering you, pour apple cider vinegar on a cotton ball, and tape the cotton ball on top of the bug bite with a bandaid., Use a spoon or a mortar and pestle to crush a pill of aspirin. Add some water to turn the powder into a paste, then apply the paste to the bite. You can leave the paste on your skin (similar to what you would do with calamine lotion) and wash it off when you have your next shower or bath., Put one drop of tea tree oil onto the bite once day. This may not help with the itching, but it may help reduce and eliminate the swelling.As an alternative, use one to two drops of lavender or peppermint oil to help stop the itching.
 There are some homeopathic remedies that have been shown to work on bug bites. But which ones should be used and how much is based on each individual person. Visit a homeopath, or a homeopathic store, for assistance on selecting the best possible option for you.