 If you encounter someone you don’t want to talk to because this person is rude, or you two have a history, remember to stay polite. Being courteous and not letting someone’s attitude toward you goad you into retaliating is an effective way to keep any conversation short.

You won’t always be able to completely avoid someone you don’t want to talk to. However, you can minimize your interactions with this person by keeping a polite poker face.
Pause, and take a deep breath. Focus on yourself. Your goal is to end this interaction as quickly as possible.
Politely excuse yourself from the conversation. Instead of acting similarly to this other person. Remain calm and say that you have to meet a friend or have an appointment. Then you can leave the situation.
 You don’t always have to express what your boundaries are to someone you wish to avoid, but you should know what you are willing to tolerate. Stand your ground and stick to it.These can be both mental and physical boundaries. You have a right to your personal space and it’s ok to be clear about what that space means to you.
Whether you’re dealing with a co-worker, schoolmate, or ex, be clear about how and when you are willing to interact with this person. Though it may be difficult, don’t be afraid to be blunt.
If someone has a history of invading your personal space, the next time you have an encounter, simply tell this person to give you more space physically. You can also be upfront at the beginning of conversation that you only have a certain amount of time to talk. Additionally, you can inform someone that you prefer to communicate via email or text.
 Chances are that you are not the only person who wishes to avoid a certain person. Pay attention to how others deal with someone you wish to avoid. If you’ve tried more upfront methods that haven’t worked, simply ignore this person. Ask other people how to best deal with ignoring this person.

Sometimes you have a relationship with someone that just isn’t going to work out. This person can be someone you were in a relationship with, or even a coworker. If you have made attempts to create distance that have not worked out, simply ignore this person.
Ignoring someone isn’t always the easiest, especially if this person is insistent, but over time, not giving in can prove effective.
Ignoring someone doesn’t mean ridiculing a person or making mean face or gesture. It simply means you act as if this person isn’t around you. Don’t pretend this person isn’t there in an immature way, however. Sometimes ignoring someone means you have to be the bigger person and excuse yourself from an gathering or area.

