 One of the first steps in letting a man know you’re attracted to him is showing a genuine interest in what he says or does. Whether you’re hanging out together or as part of a group, you’ll have the perfect opportunity to show him that you like him.

If you happen to score one-on-one time with him, ask him questions to learn more about him. Try not to pepper him with questions like you’re conducting an interview. Allow the questions to flow naturally while you’re having a conversation. You could start off asking, “So, what do you like to do for fun?” Or if you’re out at a bar or some other kind of venue, “Do you come out here often?” Ask him specific questions as opposed to saying, “Tell me about yourself.” And focus on light topics or simple things. Ask him about his job, his taste in music, or his favorite foods or sports team.
If you’re in a group, show him more attention than everyone else. While you don’t want to make things awkward by acting as if the rest of the group doesn’t exist, show him he has your attention by hanging out in a spot near him and by positioning your body toward his. Remain active in the group’s conversation, but make an effort to respond when he says something interesting and laugh at his jokes.;
, If you’ve managed to have a decent conversation with him and asked good questions, then you should know enough about his interests to figure out where he may hang out. Does he play in a band or participate in a sport? Do you know who his favorite team is? What bar does he like going to on the weekend?


If he mentions he attends local sports games, grab a friend and arrange to run into him at a game.
Add him as a friend on Facebook or follow him on Twitter to keep up with his social calendar. Attend a couple events you think you may also enjoy, so you won’t feel out of place.
Get close to his friends to find out what they often do as a group. When you find out their plans for an evening, suggest you and a few of your friends attend. By making plans this way, it won’t seem so obvious that you’re intentionally trying to arrange quality time with the man you like.
 If you’re across the room from him, allow him to catch you looking at him. When he does, smile at him for a couple seconds while looking into his eyes, and then look away. Likewise, whenever you catch him looking your way, show you appreciate his attention by smiling.
 Get him a gift that lets him know you’ve been thinking of him. You don’t have to spend a lot of money, or any money at all, if you’re crafty. Choose a gift that you feel reflects his interests or is a reminder of some memorable moment the two of you may have shared. You could buy the bobble-head figure of his favorite sports player. Get him tickets to a concert you’ll both enjoy. If you like making crafts, you could decorate a picture frame and include a cute picture of the two of you, or create a collage of your favorite moments together.

