 Place your vacuum on the bare floor, or wood floor, setting. Go over your floors a few times. Picking up any dirt on the surface will make it less likely that they will stick to your cleaning solution and the floor.As you vacuum, try to move in the direction of the floor panels or grooves. This will make it easier to pull up any debris from the crevices., If your cleaning solution is in a spray bottle, then give it a quick shake. Watch to see if the various liquids appear to be mixing. If your solution is in a bucket, use a long-handled spoon to give it a quick stir., Before you do a general application of your cleaning solution, spray a small bit in an obscure area of your floor. Then, watch to see if your floor is discolored or warped as a result of the solution. This will give you an idea as to how the rest of your floor will respond to this cleaning process., Hold your spray bottle a few inches above the floor and coat the surface with a fine mist of cleaning solution. Your goal is to get your floor damp, not overly wet. It is best to do this in sections, so that you can follow up by drying your floor quickly. If you see any standing puddles from the solution, make sure to wipe them up immediately., Get a microfiber cloth or mop and run this over every damp surface on your floor. Repeat this process until you have picked up all of the moisture that you applied. This is very important as any moisture left on your floor may cause warping.A microfiber mop has the benefit of preventing back strain, while also providing a very even dry. Some people prefer to use the mop for the entire process, wetting down one pad to apply the cleaning solution and then following up with a dry one., If you choose to use a mop, be aware that you may need to remove soiled pads and replace them with fresh ones as you wet down your floor or dry it. It is important that the pads are clean, otherwise you are just moving dirt around.Most pads can be rinsed off the sink and left out to dry. Or, place them in your washing machine under a “quick wash” setting.
When washing your floor pads or microfiber cloths, make sure to not use a fabric softener or laundry sheet. The chemicals from these products can damage the fibers in your cleaning cloths.