 Smiling is something you do physically, but a truly great smile must be felt as well. This is something many people overlook when they're trying to improve their smile. People smile when they want to show affection, amusement, confidence and pride. All of these expressions have their place in a successful life, and will benefit you in different ways. A confident smile, for example, will be great for professional situations, while an affectionate smile may earn you new friends along the way.


It's been widely documented that people will make assumptions on everything from intelligence to career success based on someone's smile., Think of a smile you thought didn't seem quite right. If you're not relaxed and feeling the smile sincerely, it will probably show on your face in some way. Let your face relax, and try to get in the proper mood of smiling.


Give yourself an honest break with smiling if you find yourself fixated on it. You're not going to make any progress with it if you're feeling tense. Giving yourself a minute to relax is sometimes worth far more than an additional minute of effort.
 Longer faces work well with open smiles that show teeth. Wider smiles from ear to ear are great for boxier face shapes.


Keep in mind that re-teaching yourself how to smile can be a very frustrating process, especially if you're trying to act natural while you're at it.
 A moderate brand of lipstick can brighten the look of teeth and attract eyes to your smile.If you wear lipstick and want a better smile, work lipstick into your solution. You can get a lot out of it if done correctly.


Red lipstick is a standard choice specifically because it is eye-catching. The colour contrast will brighten your teeth. Less bold colours may work better for darker skin tones. It's most important to find a colour that matches your skin, and from there you choose a bolder shade than you're regularly used to.
It's important not to overdo it with lipstick or any type of cosmetics. Going overboard has a cartoonish effect.
 Not everyone has a perfect, symmetrical smile. One way you can make your smile more flattering is if you tilt your head nonchalantly to the side. This can be very endearing if done subtly, and any visible imperfections you have will be lessened as a result., While it's a good thing to make a regular habit of smiling whenever, smiling in the mirror gives you the opportunity to see how your smile actually looks. From there, you can tweak your smile until you've got one that matches what you want. Don't be worried about perfection. If you feel a natural smile coming out, chances are that's the best one to suit you and your personality.

