 There are a number of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that can help you sleep better. The best nutrients for better sleep include magnesium, potassium, calcium, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and vitamin D. These help various chemical messengers in your brain, which are starved for these nutrients, accomplish their functions related to sleep.These vitamins and minerals are also great for your overall health. This means that improving your sleep through food may also help improve your overall health.
 The best way to get these nutrients is by eating foods rich in each of these nutrients every day. This means you need to watch what you eat and try to incorporate as much of these minerals as possible.


You may also be able to increase these minerals with supplements, but your body will absorb the nutrients better if they come from food., When you are trying to get the right minerals and nutrients, you should spread them out. Eat healthy, nutrient-rich foods across multiple meals. This means you shouldn’t load all your nutritious food into one meal and then eat food devoid of nutrients at other times of the day.


Try to get at least eight to 10 servings of these foods throughout the day.
If you find this hard, start small. Add just one new type of food, such as a leafy green salad or a small cup of fruit, to each meal. This will help ease you into larger portions of these nutrient-rich foods throughout at day. As you get used to them, slowly replace other foods with these foods., When you are eating for sleep health, try picking foods that have more than one of the helpful nutrients in them. This will allow you to get the most benefit from these foods each time you eat them.


For example, avocados have magnesium and potassium in them, so eating them raw, in a sandwich, or on a salad may help you get better sleep by increasing two different sleep helping nutrients., If you are prone to getting bored with what you eat, try out different types of snacks rich in these vitamins and minerals. Don’t make it hard on yourself, either. If you know that you don’t like one thing rich in sleep-helping nutrients, change to another. It is better to find what you like than to keep yourself from any of the nutrients at all.


For example, if you really hate bananas, which are strong in magnesium, switch them with a handful of berries or a serving of cashews instead.
You can also incorporate them into recipes, such as making chicken stir-fry with cashews and broccoli or a large kale salad with almonds, salmon, and cherries.