 Your home may be a treasure trove of items that you do not want but someone else is willing to purchase. Go through your home and separate out the things that you have not used in a long time or never used and sell those items online. There are a number of online websites that allow users to sell goods to other individuals around the world or locally. If you conduct and internet search for “where can I sell things online,” your search will return numerous online marketplaces for you to choose from.


Choose an online marketplace, such as eBay or Amazon Marketplace, that appears reputable and has numerous reviews from people who used the website to sell their goods.
For the sake of your personal safety, if you choose a website where people will pick things up from your home, consider having someone else with you at your home when the buyer is scheduled to visit.
If you are selling books online, there are websites that will allow you to scan the barcode of the book and give you guidance on the book’s resale value online. You can locate these websites by searching the internet for “scan book barcode for resale price.”, In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of people making and selling homemade goods online. If you knit, sew, take photographs, or are good at making a number of different crafts, there is probably an online market for your goods. People use both Etsy and eBay to sell their homemade goods., You can make your home or apartment work for you by renting out your home for a limited period of time. If you are not concerned about strangers staying in your home and you have a place to stay or were planning a trip, renting your home through an online rental website is a great way to make money with minimal effort., If you are an empty nester or you have a spare room, you could consider renting the room to a person who is looking for a home in your community. If you choose to rent a room to someone, consider the following:


Be sure to draft a written lease agreement that outlines the amount of rent that they must pay, and any rules for the home.
Collect a security deposit in case they damage your home or fail to pay rent.
Ask for and check their references.
Check their employment status and salary to ensure they can afford the room., If you do not want to get involved in selling items online, you can hold a garage sale where people come to you and you sell your goods face-to-face. There may be more haggling over prices than you would have with online sales, however you will receive cash for your goods and you will not have to ship any large items.


In order to increase foot traffic, consider asking your neighbors to have a yard sale at the same time, advertise online, and put flyers up in and around your neighborhood.

