 Use a measuring tape, to measure out a piece of white felt that can cover the front of your baby carrier. Alternatively, you can drape a large piece of felt over the front of your baby carrier and mark off the appropriate amount of felt needed to cover its entirety with a pen or marker.


Leave extra felt so that the felt can wrap around the front of your baby carrier.;
, Cut small triangles out of the top of the felt. Each cut should only be a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) long. The idea is to make the top of the costume appear like the top of the popcorn bag. Once you're done, the top of the felt rectangle should look spiky.
 Go into a word processor or graphics program and print out the words POPCORN. Using a bold or blocky font will make cutting out the letters easier.
 Try to make the straightest cuts possible when cutting out the letters. Remember to cut out the centers of the p, o, and r.
 Tape will hold your letters in position and allow you to cut straighter lines when cutting the felt.Apply clear tape over the corner of each letter. Test the tape on a small area of felt before using it. Some highly-adhesive tapes will ruin cheaper felts, so make sure to use a tape that isn't very adhesive.


If you find your felt coming apart, switch to scotch tape.
 Use sharp scissors to cut through the felt. Sewing scissors are the most adept at cutting through the felt and leaving clean and straight cuts. Do not hack away as you are cutting.


You can also use an Exacto knife on a flat desk to get cleaner cuts.
Some of the best brands of sewing scissors include, Fiskar, Gingher, and Kai., Discard the letters and tape because you won't need them anymore. Once you do this, you should have clean, felt letters that read POPCORN.
 Use a hot glue gun to apply your felt letters onto a larger piece of white felt. Arrange them according to how you want them to appear on the front of your baby carrier. The white felt needs to be big enough to fit all of your letters. If you don't have a hot glue gun, you can purchase one at most craft, hobby, and sewing shops.


You can use regular glue as an alternative for hot glue, but it will take much longer to dry. You'll also have to wait for it to dry in between each step.
Glue guns typically cost anywhere from $11 - $53 depending on the model., Cutting out the white felt behind your letters will give them depth. In addition to the added aesthetic benefit, it will also make it easier to secure them to the popcorn bag, and help prevent them from falling off of your child's costume.
 Cut 2 to 3 inch thick strips that are as long as the large white piece of felt that you cut out earlier. To test if they are the right size, you can lay them over your white piece of felt. As you continue to cut additional strips, put them equally far apart from each other so you know when you have enough.
 Glue the red strips over your large white piece of felt. Your costume should now look somewhat like a bag of popcorn from the theater. Lay the strips down as flat as possible and run your hand over them once they are glued to get out any wrinkles.
 Take the letters that read POPCORN and use the hot glue gun to attach them to the front of your baby's costume. Because you've created the white and red outline, the words should pop.
 Drape the costume over the baby carrier and wrap it around the bottom and sides. Find an area on the side of the carrier where you can attach safety pins to a piece of cloth or fabric.
 You can also use an old beanie or sock hat that you already have for your baby, but keep in mind that you'll probably have to dispose of it afterward. The best colors to use are yellow or white because they will blend in with the popcorn.
 Cut small squares of felt so that you can secure the popcorn to the hat. The size of the small squares don't need to be exact but must be large enough to fit a single piece of popcorn.
 Attach your popped popcorn to the small pieces of felt that you cut out. If you don't have a hot glue gun, you can use Elmer's glue or a glue stick.
 Glue on your pieces of popcorn. The top of the baby's hat should look like the top of a bag of popcorn from the movies. If you run out of popcorn, cut out more pieces of felt until the entire top of the hat is covered.
 Before you put the popcorn hat on your baby, you should make sure that the glue is totally dried. You don't want it to come off, and you want to allow it time to cool down if you used a hot glue gun. A great benefit of this costume is that your baby doesn't need to be dressed in any uncomfortable clothing.

