 One of the easiest ways to gauge whether or not your employees are motivated is to monitor how they work; how much they talk as a group and interact with their colleagues, how much work they do, the quality of their work and so on and so forth.


Consider how much of their time is actually spent working and how much of an output they accomplish in that time, consider whether their conversations with colleagues are an asset to their work or a distraction and remember to ask the customers, suppliers and anyone else who comes into contact with your employees what they think of the service provided and the attitudes of the employees.;
, If you have monitored your employees and established that they perhaps aren’t as motivated as they could be, then you should consider taking into account what it is that is causing them to be distracted, or what it is that is reducing their productivity. It can be hard to simply figure this out, so you may want to send out a survey which will help you to understand what the employees think works well and what they feel isn’t working so well.
 Sending out a survey would be a complete waste of your time if you weren’t going to take the results into consideration and act on them. You want to ensure that there is a difference that comes as a result, so analyze the responses to the survey and try to understand more clearly where the problems actually are.
 Also take into consideration those that can be left for the meantime but taken into further consideration later – if they are likely to become a bigger problem in the future or if they are not considered to be as serious a problem as some of the others. 

, Take into account whether or not your employees are going to require training in order to make the most of the changes that will take place or whether a quick briefing as to how the changes will impact the office environment will suffice.
 Think colour, plants, posters, personal items. Let them have some say in the decoration and make the office look a little bit more interesting to keep employees happy and make the office environment more attractive as a whole.
 Look for something more accessible and suited to the available space. Give your employees the right to input on how the organisation of the office environment, you should allow them to decide on where paperwork will be accessible from, where desks will be placed, where printers and other such equipment should be kept.


Giving your employees options for everything from colours to the organisation of their storage systems can help them to feel more confident and capable in their working environment, which can help improve motivation and productivity within the office.
 Just because you have acted on the results of your research doesn’t mean that the work is done; you need to be sure that the changes you have made in your efforts to improve motivation and productivity have impacted positively on your business and your employees.
 Consider the potential problems that could arise as a result of your changes and take measures to prevent these problems from occurring.


For the next few months continue to consider the impact of the changes and the progress of the improvements, employees and monitor progress and costs carefully, so you can be certain whether or not further improvements later will be required, beneficial or cost effective for your business.

