 Cover your face with a cool pair of sunglasses so the enemy doesn’t uncover your true identity. They can be real, or pretend ones made of pipe cleaners., This is a classic spy move. Throw your enemies off your trail by concealing your face with a fake moustache and/or beard.Buy false moustaches at a dollar store or toy store.
Color onto cotton balls with markers, and attach them to your face with double-sided tape.
Cut a beard and/or moustache out of construction paper and attach it to your face with tape or string.
Draw on facial hair with an eyeliner pencil or makeup kit (with an adult’s permission, of course).
If you have long hair, bring it in front of your face and tie it at your chin, so that it covers your face like a beard.
 Of course the classic spy hat is a trilby, the iconic narrow-brimmed felt hat worn by James Bond, but any hat with a brim will help cover your face. Besides, a trilby isn’t appropriate for every spying situation. Depending on where you’re spying and whom you’re spying on, you might be better off with a baseball cap, a fedora, or even a cowboy hat. It’s all about blending in, and staying hidden., A trench coat is the standard spy uniform. It’s black, which helps you fade into the night, it conceals your entire body from enemy eyes, and it has lots of pockets for your spy gadgets. That said, in some situations a trench coat will make you stick out like a sore thumb, which isn’t ideal for a spy.


If you’re going undercover, dress up as the kind of person you’re going undercover as.
If you’re sneaking into a high-security vault, skin-tight black clothing is a good idea, especially if you’re worried about tripping any laser-activated traps.
If you’re worried about leaving footprints, be sure to bring a pair of gloves., You need to be able to contact HQ at a moment’s notice, and you don’t want to worry about your phone falling out of your pocket while you’re sneaking around. Strap a digital watch (preferably one with a big timepiece) to your wrist, and pretend it’s a communication device.

