 Part of handling your lacrosse stick and proper cradling technique is having your hands in the correct position. By putting your dominant and non-dominant hands where they need to be, you will be able to get the most out of your practice and effectively cradle the lacrosse stick.Place your dominant hand a few inches below the head of your stick
Place your non-dominant hand at the other end of the stick.
 While you don't want to drop your lacrosse stick, keeping a grip that is too tight will prevent you from cradling the stick properly. Both your grip and your wrists will need to be kept just loose enough to properly perform the movement and keep the stick in your hands.The stick should be able to slightly rotate under your grip.
When cradling the stick, your wrists will need to go with the motion, twisting with the head of your stick.
 The two-handed method of cradling will require you to move the stick from waist level up to head level. During this motion you will need to use your wrists to rotate the head of the stick, keeping the ball from falling out of the mesh. Practice the following steps to learn the proper cradling movement:Start with your stick at hip level. The open side of the mesh should be facing upwards.
Place the ball in your mesh.
Bring the head of the stick up to head level, as if you were curling a dumbbell.
As you bring the head up, both your wrist and the head should rotate so that the open face of the mesh points downward at the top of the motion.
Bring the head back to starting position to complete the motion.
 A good exercise when learning how to cradle is to incorporate the technique into the rhythm of your running. Since you will need to cradle as you move, practicing your cradling technique in conjunction with running will allow you to do the motion naturally and make you a more effective lacrosse player.Bring your stick up at the same time as you are leading with the leg on your dominant side.
Bring the stick back down as your opposite leg leads.
Keep working until this movement is natural and the ball stays securely in your net.

