 You can do this either through your partner or through other methods on your own time.

If your partner has come out to you as asexual, they clearly want you to understand them; there are lots of variations on the asexuality spectrum! For example, some asexuals are sex repulsed, some never experience sexual attraction, some rarely experience sexual attraction (grey-sexual) and some will experience sexual attraction only when they have a very close relationship with someone (demi-sexual).
AVEN has a great Q&A for people who know someone is asexual.;
, Many people don't know that you can have sexualities and a romanticism, meaning you can be sexually attracted to something and still be romantically attracted to something else. Because your partner is asexual, it means they don't desire sex or have a relationship to have sex. That doesn't mean that they don't love you or they don't want to date you.

Your partner most likely would have already told you if they were aromantic, as most aromantic people want a completely different kind of relationship as alloromantics (people who experience romantic attraction)!

, They are sharing an intimate detail about themselves that has most likely been ridiculed before. Lots of asexuals have had negative feedback after coming out, so it takes a lot of courage and trust- in you.

Don't assume that your partner just doesn't find you attractive.
You've probably heard the 'It's not a phase, mom' joke before; well, asexuals will get told that they 'just haven't met the right person' and that they're just prudes a lot of the time. Remember that your partner has probably had bad experiences in the past.
Do not think that there is something wrong with your partner. They have never experienced anything different; this is how they are. Do not tell them to go to a doctor about their sexuality. They have most likely been told how there is something wrong with them enough!

, They can explain what they want and what they don't want. While asexual people do not experience sexual attraction, this does not always mean they don't want to have sex! They may not want to have sex with you, or they will be willing to have sex because they like you to experience pleasure, even if it isn't their preferred activity.

Sit down and have a conversation and talk about what you both want. It's important that you know where each others limits are, and that, as partners you understand each other.
 This means accepting what is attractive to you, not breaking up due to being uncomfortable without sex.

This also means that even though you are thinking about what is attractive to you, that you are thinking about whether a relationship without sex (if that is how your partner has told you it will be) is really a relationship to you.
You need to ask yourself whether a romantic connection is less important than a sexual connection. This is the sort of thing you need to think about by yourself, and also talk other with your partner.
If you need time to think it over, you can ask for a break so that you can understand the situation more in depth. Although remember, asking for a break can come off as you wanting to break up with your partner!

, Be gentle, coming out as asexual is coming out, nonetheless. It took a lot of courage for them to come out to you about something they knew would be compromising to your relationship. Commend them on their bravery and respect their sexuality and feelings.,
Decide to continue the relationship, with sexual interactions with yourself, if it's comfortable with your partner.
Decide to continue the relationship, compromising with sexual interactions.
Decide to end the relationship.
 Whatever you do, do not make your partner feel bad for being asexual. Accept them and make them know that you love them still. If you break up, stay friends and support them. Being asexual, or part of the LGBTQ+ community is hard for anyone and they need someone they can trust.