 Also, rehearse how to respond to questions or negative comments.


Practicing can also help you to feel more comfortable voicing this information aloud. Role-playing different scenarios may even help you decide to whom you will feel most comfortable disclosing.
You may even be able to schedule to meet with your immediate family members, like your parents and siblings, in the presence of your therapist. That way, he or she can help you share news about your diagnosis, and also provide professional answers to any questions your family may have.;
, Remove any emotion or opinions from the conversation and simply explain the condition to the best of your ability and the treatment you are getting for it. This will help you maintain some objectivity in sharing this difficult information and take some of the pressure off.Say something like “I wanted to talk to all of you about something important…An incident happened at my job last month that required me to see a doctor. After getting some tests done, they determined that I have schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a type of thought disorder. I will need to take medications and go to therapy to manage this condition.”

, Providing information from trusted sources—like your therapist, if he or she is present—can help your family gain a better understanding of your psychotic disorder, treatment options, and the general prognosis. Gather books, pamphlets, and websites that give info about your condition and present these resources to your family.Your therapist or mental health provider may have pamphlets that describe your condition in easy-to-understand terms. You may also give a list of reputable websites like PsychCentral, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, or the National Institutes of Mental Health.
 Your family will likely have many questions about what’s going on with you. Call on your rehearsals with your therapist in guiding you on how to respond. You may not choose to give every detail about your symptoms or condition. Use discretion and only share what you feel comfortable sharing.


Also, a loved one may react negatively with a comment like “Are you just pretending?” or focus on stigma like “So you’re mentally crazy? What will people think?”
You have a right to set boundaries and tell your loved one how you would prefer them to not use words like “crazy.” You also have the liberty to try to educate this person more, or simply agree to disagree., Every person battling a mental illness has different needs. Don’t expect your immediate family members to naturally know how to handle this situation. Instead, give them some suggestion on how they can support you.Your loved ones can show you support by going to appointments with you, participating in family therapy, joining a support group, or by helping out with some errands or chores.
Let them know what would actually be helpful for you. Try not to let them do things that you can handle on your own.
Say “I would appreciate it if you guys attended at least one session of therapy with me. If we do this, my therapist can help all of us learn how to manage my symptoms so that I can improve.”

, After you have successfully shared news of your psychotic disorder with immediate family, you may choose to tell a few extended relatives. If you decide to do this, it can be a comfort to have a member of your immediate family there for support.


This person can help redirect inappropriate questions or comments, or even help you manage your emotions as you share the news. Select someone who makes you feel emotionally supported for this role.
 Keep in mind that you are not obligated to tell everyone you know about your mental illness. In fact, there will be some people who are not great candidates for self-disclosure. Some people simply are not capable of offering emotional support or of navigating difficult situations. Use your judgment to determine who else in your family or network of friends should be informed., Those extended relatives whom you do choose to disclose to do not have to know the whole story. You have the flexibility to decide not only to whom, but also how much you want to tell. The best approach is to keep your disclosure short and simple.You might briefly say something like “I went to the doctor and learned I have a brain disorder. It’s going to require that I stop working for a time to get the necessary treatment.”

, Despite advancements in research and greater public attention and advocacy, there is remains a stigma associated with mental illnesses in society. Before you make it a point to share news of your diagnosis with others, it’s a smart idea to take some time and actually acknowledge your own feelings about the news.Take a few days or weeks after your diagnosis to gain acceptance for your condition and overcome any negative feelings you have.
 If you are bothered by stigma or negative feelings associated with your psychotic disorder, self-compassion can help you to feel better. Use this time to process your emotions and show yourself kindness.


There are many ways you can practice self-compassion.Go to your therapist for support. Treat yourself as you would your very best friend. If you don't mind being touched, get a massage. Read a good book. Give yourself a hug. Listen to guided meditations to help you move towards acceptance of your diagnosis.
Another thing to focus on is that you are not alone. Joining a support group or participating in group therapy can help you acknowledge this. A mental illness is only an illness—it does not have to define you. Just like people living with diabetes, there are millions of people living active and productive lives with mental illnesses. So can you.
 Learning more about your specific psychotic disorder can guide you in how and what to share with your family. In general, psychotic disorders are conditions in which a person loses touch with reality. Some of your symptoms may include hallucinations, which are having false sensory experiences (e.g. seeing, hearing or feeling something that is not really there), or delusions, which are false beliefs (e.g. believing you are being targeted by the CIA).Talk to your health care provider, mental health therapist, and other trusted sources about your diagnosis. You can also turn to trusted online sources for more information, such as the National Institutes of Mental Health or the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
 It can be tempting to want to keep your mental illness a secret or only share with a close friend or two. For some people, this may be sufficient. However, sharing with at least a few core family members can actually prove beneficial to your recovery.


Being able to talk about your psychotic disorder with people who care can help you relieve stress and cope with the disorder.
You may be surprised by the reaction you get. In some cases, disclosing your condition to your family and friends can make them feel comfortable enough to discuss their own mental health struggles.
Plus, sharing info about your illness may also help you gather assistance in areas such as getting help with childcare, getting rides to therapy appointments, or having people help you develop a crisis plan, if necessary.