 Frequently, Venn Diagrams are used to solve mathematical word problems, such as, "20 students out of 40 are taking Algebra, and 13 out of 40 are taking Creative Writing. If 5 students are in both classes, how many are in neither class?" Venn Diagrams, however, are versatile and can be used to reflect data for a variety of purposes, such as:


Outlining a comparison and contrast paper for English class.
Weighing out pros and cons of a complex decision.
Classifying data into various subsets.;
, Referring to the example above, a Venn Diagram can be as simple as a pair of overlapping circles. Yet, Venn Diagrams can also be complex a collection of variously-sized, overlapping circles used to create classifications. Depending on the complexity of your problem and the comparisons being performed, it may be a good idea to draft a few versions of your diagram with a pen or pencil before committing yourself to a design.
 Once you've determined the purpose and complexity of your diagram, decide on the correct tool. For the example from the first step, since there are only two circles, and the data required is minimal, the best tool is probably a pencil or pen.


If presentation matters, a compass can be employed to ensure that the circles are precise or, if the template will be reused, design software might be the best option.
 This really depends on the problem being solved. If your problem is similar to the word problem from the prior section, since there is only one number that goes in each part, a relatively small diagram (with circles roughly the size of the circumference of a tennis ball) would be more than enough space.


When using a Venn Diagram non-mathematically, it is best to err on the side of too much room rather than too little. So if you are using your diagram to brainstorm for an English essay, you might want to build a diagram that takes up most of a sheet of notebook paper.
 If slight irregularity of the circle(s) is not an issue, simply hold your writing tool in your hand at a 45-degree angle, and depending on the desired size, make a circular motion with your wrist or elbow while the tip of the pen or pencil is on the paper surface. Repeat as needed.
 First find a "guide." A roll of masking tape, a cookie tin, a coffee can, or some other flat-bottomed, circular container is ideal. Place it on your sheet of paper, being sure to leave room for additional circles as needed. Take your drawing implement and place the tip on the paper at the edge of the guide, then move the tip along the perimeter of the object's bottom. Move the guide and repeat as needed.
 Hold your drawing tool at a 45-degree angle and put your hand on the paper, firmly enough that you can pivot on the bone at the heel of your hand, but lightly enough that the paper can be rotated. Put the tip of your writing tool on the paper so that it will draw, but not stop the paper from moving. While keeping your hand still, slowly rotate paper. You MUST keep the point of the pencil in the same place. Continue turning the sheet until the circle is complete.
 If you find yourself frequently drawing Venn Diagrams, this may be the best method to choose. There are different types of compasses available-- some made for drafting blueprints, others for completing math home work. In either case, they work by creating a pivot point affixed to the paper, with an adjustable arm that guides a pencil tip across the paper in a circular shape.
 Nearly every standard operating system installation comes with a "Paint" program with basic drawing tools. For a standard Venn Diagram, this is usually sufficient; however, any graphic design software can be employed, provided it has a tool specifically for drawing circles. To access "Paint" from a Windows operating system:


Mouse over to the Windows icon in the lower left-side of your computer screen.
Click on the icon and select "All Programs" from the bottom of the pop-up menu.
Click on the "Accessories" folder to display its contents.
Double-click on "Paint" and wait for it to open.
 While you could still freehand a circle using paint, design software offers the unique advantage of being able to create symmetrical designs by use of special commands. To use the circle tool:


Open paint, and locate the circle drawing tool within the "Shapes" command tab at the top of the screen.
Click on the circle tool and small, cross shaped cursor will appear on the white canvas under the command tabs.
Press and hold the left-mouse button, then drag the cursor a few inches down, creating what looks like a black line. While still holding the left-mouse button, now drag the cursor roughly the same distance to the right. You've just created a circle. Practice a few times to get the hang of it.
 To draw a circle, click on the "File" command at the top left-hand corner of the screen, then click on "New." With the new file open, follow the instructions from step 2. Before doing this, you may wish to change the color and thickness of the lines by using the settings provided in the command tabs.
 For simpler Venn Diagrams, once you've drawn a circle in the size you need for your diagram, rather than attempt to draw a second circle of equal size, it's easier and more precise to use the Select, Copy, Cut, and Paste tools.


Click on the circle tool in the shapes command tab, then click on the "Fill" command located on the right of the tab, ensuring that it is set to "No Fill."
Draw a circle in the size you need. You can use the box that appears around the circle to adjust the circumference and height as needed.
Locate the "Select" command tab at the top of the screen. Click on the down arrow below the word "Select." A drop-down menu will appear.
Select "Transparent Selection" from the drop-down menu commands. This ensures that when you copy, cut and paste your circles onto one another, only the outline will overlap.
Click on the "Select" tool, then press and hold the left mouse button just a few millimeters to the left and above the top left-side of your circle. While still holding the left mouse, drag the cursor down to just below the bottom of the circle and then an equal distance to the right, enclosing the circle in a box made of dotted lines.
Press "Ctrl+C" while the circle is in the box to copy it; next, press "Ctrl+V" to paste a duplicate copy of your circle into the top left hand side of your canvas.
Mouse over to the duplicate copy and, using the cursor, hold down the left-mouse button and drag the duplicate over to the original. Adjust the overlap as needed.
 While you can always print your diagram and fill it in by hand, design programs have a text function that will add Text boxes to your diagram as needed.
 Once you've created a basic Venn Diagram, you can save the file to your desktop and reuse it as much as you like.
 This requires knowing what you intend to compare. Using the mathematical word problem from section one, in order to solve the problem, we would label one circle "Algebra" and the other would be labeled "Creative Writing." Other more complex deigns will require multiple labels, one for each circle.
 For the same word problem, we are told that 5 students are in both classes, so the number "5" would be listed in the overlapping area between the circles, while the number "13" would go in the Creative Writing circle and "20" in the Algebra circle.


A non-mathematical use for a Venn Diagram might be creating a visual comparison to catalog the similarities and differences between two breeds of dog, or comparing hamburgers from two different restaurants. In these cases, the circles would be named for the two dogs or restaurants, respectively, with a list of common attributes in the overlapping area, and a list of differences in the circles themselves.
 The word problem mentioned above asks the reader to solve for a specific value, but not all Venn Diagrams require the reader to provide an exact answer. Often, the purpose of the diagram might be to organize thoughts on a complex topic, or help with decision making. Depending on what type of comparison is being made, the results and how to interpret them will vary.

