 One way that people feel love is through verbal expression, meaning words. Compliments definitely fall under this category, so try giving your lady a compliment. Pick out a quality about her that you absolutely love and put it into words. Or, you might just go with a general compliment, along the lines of “You are absolutely wonderful.”Tell her how much you adore her – and aim for everyday or multiple times per day.
Some compliments might include, “How did I get so lucky to have you in my life?” “Nobody could make me as happy as you!” or “You’re so smart.”
A compliment about a woman’s physical appearance, and how lovely you find her, can also go a long way. Try telling her that you love her eyes, her nose, or just her overall: “Sometimes I can’t take my eyes off of you.”Don’t compare her to others, unless it is in a positive way. If watching a movie, for example, rather than saying, “You know, sometimes you sort of look like Angelina Jolie,” say, “You’re much more attractive than Angelina Jolie.”;
, Expressing your love in words includes affirmation, so encourage your lady to show her that she’s loved and appreciated and that you want her to grow. All of these will show your love.Gently encourage her passions. Say that your lady loves photography and sent in some work to a competition but was not selected. Express your support, i.e. “It didn’t happen this time, but you should try again. I believe in you.”Other ways to express the sentiment might include, “You inspire me” or “I’m always in awe of your creativity (or ambition/insight/mind).”
Be careful not to turn encouragement into nagging. Encouragement focuses on something that your loved one wants to do, while nagging focuses on something that you want her to do.
Tone is also very important. Make sure that your tone is loving and kind, otherwise she might interpret your sentiment in the wrong way.
 For many people this is obvious – why not tell your loved one that you love her? However, it bears repeating that expressing your love in words is really important, as everyone wants to know that they are loved and appreciated. There are also many ways to say it beyond the usual “I love you.” Be creative!Try “I adore you,” “I cherish you,” or “My love for you is unconditional.” Alternatively, you might use a phrase that starts with her: “You are my treasure,” “You mean the world to me,” or “You have my heart.”
Tell her that you miss her when apart. “I miss you” is good, but also consider “I can’t stop thinking about you while you’re away.”
Depending on your lady, terms of endearment can also say “I love you” in different terms. Sweetheart, dear, my love, and honey will work. There are also plenty in other languages, like mon petit chou (in French, “my little cabbage”), terron de azucar (in Spanish “little lump of sugar), or habibi (in Arabic, my darling).
 Asking your lady for advice shows that you trust and respect her judgment. While it’s not explicit, and whether a big or small issue, you are affirming her with your words in a way that she will appreciate.Actively solicit her ideas. “Dear, you’re so good with colors that I wanted to ask you what you think looks better here, red or blue?”
Every time she is speaking to you, make an effort to look her in the eyes to show that you’re paying attention. Ask questions, as well. Engage actively instead of listening passively.
If you don’t understand something she says, tell her instead of playing along. This will show her that you’re listening and want to really understand what she has to say.

