 Review the proposed or current custody plan and decide whether you agree with it.


If you don't agree with it, you may prepare and submit your own parenting plan instead., If you don't agree with the other parent's proposed custody arrangements, you can propose your own plan instead.


Unlike most states, South Carolina law does not presume joint custody is in the child's best interests. Thus, if you want to challenge the other parent's arrangement and request joint custody, you must be able to show the court that joint custody is in the child's best interest.You may be able to find a form you can use for your answer and counterclaim, or a similar document previously filed in another case in the same court that you can use as a guide.
 You must file your answer and counterclaim within 35 days of being served with the lawsuit.


South Carolina law gives you 35 days from the day you are served with the other parent's complaint or petition to respond.You don't have to pay a fee to file an answer to the original complaint., After you've filed your answer and counterclaim, the other parent must be served so they have notice of your response.


You may serve your answer using certified mail or a private delivery service such as FedEx or UPS, or by arranging personal service through the sheriff's department or a private process serving company. You will have to pay a small fee for service., The court may require you and the other parent to attempt mediation in an effort to come to an agreement on the custody arrangement on your own.If you can come to an agreement settling your differences on your own or through mediation, the court will hold a shortened hearing to approve your agreement.
The court also may order you and the other parent to attend parenting courses so you understand the issues children may deal with when their parents are divorcing., If you cannot come to an agreement in mediation, the judge will have to decide the matter at a full hearing.


At the hearing, the judge will evaluate your position and the position of the other parent and make a decision based primarily on the best interests of the child.
When evaluating the best interests of the child, the judge will review any relevant factors, including the child's preference, the child's developmental and educational needs, the financial capabilities of each parent, the social and cultural background and education of each parent, the mental and physical health of everyone involved, and any other factors the judge considers necessary.