 You might be in need of temporary work in between performing tours or looking for a full-time, permanent job as a graphic designer. Clarity about your professional needs will assist you in choosing the best recruitment agency.To further clarify your objective, write down a one-sentence statement about what you are looking for and keep this statement handy as you begin your search so that you don’t lose focus. Try to make it specific. For example, “I am looking for a recruitment agency that can help me to find an immediate opening for temporary, part-time office work that pays a minimum of $12/hour.”;
, Certain recruitment agencies are more geared towards certain professions, while others are more generalized. If you are seeking a job in information technology, one agency might have more potential employers than another. Also, certain skills are transferrable to a number of jobs, so your computer skills might also allow you to branch out to data entry if you are open to this. Decide whether you want a specific position or are willing to work in any area for which you are qualified.If you aren’t sure exactly what job position you desire, start by using a more general recruitment agency that works with a wide variety of industries. To find this, you can search online or call up a few agencies to ask about their specialties.
Consider the recruiter's knowledge about your specialized skills. If speaking to a software engineering search firm, for example, the recruiter must be familiar enough with programming terminology and tools to adequately promote your services to a prospective employer.
 There are a wide variety of recruitment agencies, some with only a few employees and some with thousands. The advantage to a larger agency is that they are often well-established and have a solid reputation. The advantage to a smaller agency is that they are often more specialized and can understand specific expectations and trends within your industry. It simply depends what you are looking for., Some recruitment agencies are strictly temp agencies, while others include permanent positions. Even temp agencies often offer jobs that can turn permanent. If your hope is to enter a company on a temporary assignment that turns permanent, ask the agency for its success rate in this regard. Companies typically are required to buy out the contract in this case. An agency with many temporary to permanent placements is likely doing a good job of matching people to jobs.Recruitment agencies that place permanent employees can help you to market your resume and negotiate your salary. They can help you find jobs that aren’t posted elsewhere.
 Some agencies excel in placing executive level positions, while others tend more towards working class positions. Based on your previous experience, skill set, and industry, determine how much is a reasonable amount for you to make. Other factors to consider are whether you have a college degree and the amount of time you have been working in a specific field. Both of these will help you to earn more. You can look online to compare average salaries in your field. This will help your agency to narrow down the search and will clarify whether or not they are able to help you.Recruitment agencies typically offer a designated rate of pay to employees and charge a markup to the client. To ensure that you are not shortchanged in this process, become familiar with the market value for your services.
Take into account any benefits you need as well. Temp and part-time positions often do not include these, but permanent, full-time positions often will.
Look at the salary you made at your previous position as well. Are you looking for a substantial increase or do you feel you have been fairly compensated? If you desire a larger salary, make sure it is justified based on the current market value of your job. Recruitment agents aren’t magicians!

, You should decide ahead of time whether you are willing to relocate for a good job or are only willing to search locally. This will help to narrow down your search and eliminate any agencies that service areas where you are not willing to work.


If you know you want to work locally, try to find an agency that is locally based and start there. They will be a good resource for offerings in your area.

