 Hippies traditionally and to this day have long hair. It isn’t required, but for both girls and guys, natural, long hair is viewed as hippie. Don't use a flat iron or a curling iron, but instead let the hair do its natural thing.


Many modern hippies also like to dread their hair. This can take some time.
Hippie girls usually wear their hair long and wavy without any coloring.
 Hippies usually wear long, flowing shirts, long skirts, tie dye, bell bottom pants, halter tops, headbands, and clothing items with floral prints. Thrift stores often sell clothing like this for a good price. You can also make your own clothing or buy from individual stores that aren't brand name.


Modern hippies who follow electronic music closely wear flat brimmed hats and attach metal twined crystals., Try to go all natural without makeup, but if you do decide to wear makeup (some girls don't feel comfortable going out of the house without it on), put on a natural look. For example, instead of using that black lipstick, wear a light peach or pink color instead. Use natural products that don't contain harmful chemicals.
 Boys normally have facial hair, but if you have trouble growing facial hair, don’t sweat it. It’s also a popular choice for girls to stop shaving. If you’re uncomfortable keeping your leg hair, just grow out your arm pit hair. Modern hippies get clumped into the “granola” category which values natural people in all facets., The classic shoe in the heyday of hippies was Birkenstocks, but today the sandal has changed. You could still wear Birkenstocks or a similar look, but more modern hippies are wearing Chacos and Tevas. Chacos and Tevas are built to be durable and comfortable sandals regardless of weather conditions., Modern hippies enjoy crystals and jewelry that incorporates crystal healing. Other popular forms of jewelry are various stones and natural rocks that are artfully wrapped in copper wire. The old school hippie wore large straw hats, but today the flat brimmed hats are popular.


Fanny packs are also a popular bags for modern hippies to carry around., Modern hippies don’t use deodorants that are mainstream and can be found in a drug store. Instead, you should go to a natural foods store and find a scent of essential oil to wear as a fragrance. A popular scent among modern hippies is patchouli, but you can use whatever catches your nostrils.