 Some college teachers may not always check your homework so it is important to remain motivated motivate yourself to do your homework. Homework helps to reinforce what you have learned in class and identify what you don’t understand. study. If you don't have any homework on a subject, read your notes or read any textbooks on the subjects.


On average about 10% of your grade is homework but how it is incorporated into your grade really depends on the teacher.
 Never stay up late doing an assignment unless you have not finished it and it is due very soon. Instead, if you have two weeks to do your assignment, spend the first week outlining and doing the basics. Over the weekend, neatly put it together, and the next week, just put the finishing touches on it, do some editing, and print it out. Don't forget to hand it in to your teacher one day before you actually should. This will show your dedication and give your teacher time to suggest revisions.


Starting an assignment ahead of time will also give you time to meet with your teacher and discuss any problems you have, directions you can take, and get other assignment help that is crucial to getting A’s. Just going to the extra trouble of asking for help and taking your teacher’s advice may earn you a slightly higher grade.
 Find a quiet place, maybe in your room, lock the door and imagine you are the teacher explaining the subject to a student. This is also a good way to measure your understanding of the material and explaining it to someone who doesn’t understand it at all can often help you develop a better understanding of the material yourself. If you can participate in tutoring programs in school, this serves the same purpose.
 Find a space that is only for studying. This may help to minimize distractions and keep you on track. Studying is just another habit and if you teach your brain that a certain desk or room is just for studying then you should have a much easier time focusing and getting work done.
 You can always go onto the internet or go to the library and find more books or information about the subjects you are studying. Learning some additional information and adding it into papers or test questions may impress your teachers.
 There's nothing wrong with getting in some extra learning and it may make a difference in your grades.

