 Trademarked or copyrighted characters (like Iron Man or Mickey Mouse) belong exclusively to the owners of the trademark or copyright (like Marvel or Disney). If you own such a character, these protections are important for many reasons. Primarily, you should protect your IP so (1) you can make sure you get paid whenever that character is used and (2) you can control the image of your brand. If a person dressed as Mickey Mouse shows up at a children's party drunk, using foul language, and chain-smoking cigarettes, everyone present at that party is likely to think less of Mickey Mouse.Courts are particularly concerned with unauthorized use in front of children, as they are more likely to be negatively affected by misuse of a popular brand.If companies do not rigorously police their brands, they might lose rights to them. Therefore, you are incentivized to do whatever you have to in order to protect your IP.
 If someone who owns a birthday character-appearance business doesn't have a license to use your IP, they still likely wish to make use of popular characters to entertain children. To skirt legal trouble, they may try to alter the appearance of the character in an attempt to make it their own. So, before deciding to initiate legal action against a potential infringer, you should determine if the alterations made are enough to legally distinguish the new character from your IP.


This type of use is known as a "derivative work," and for a particular use to be protected, the law requires the new costume or character to be a "non-trivial distinguishable variation" from your protected IP.While intellectual property law is complex and often lacks clear standards against which to judge this type of behavior, a good way to start is to ask yourself if someone who sees the new character would likely confuse it for the real thing (i.e., your protected IP).
Generally, the person using your IP must have added "independent artistic expression" to your IP such that the new character would support its own copyright or have "recast, transformed, or adapted" your IP in order for it to be considered a derivative work.It is likely that most unlicensed characters that evoke your IP do not meet this standard, as it is a difficult one to meet. If you see more of your character than someone else's when you look at a particular birthday-appearance offering, you would probably win in an infringement suit. Think about whether a child might confuse someone's costumed character for one to which you hold IP rights., The "public domain" refers to characters or works to which no one can lay an ownership claim.This is either because these characters existed before copyright law, they are too old to be protected anymore, or because their original owners simply failed to renew their copyright. The use of these characters—even though they were created by someone else—is free for anyone and is perfectly legal.


A simple internet search can quickly reveal which characters are in the public domain.If for some reason one of your characters has become part of the public domain, you won't be able to sue for IP infringement.
 If someone goes into a Halloween store, for instance, and legally purchases an officially licensed Iron Man costume, he or she is not be able to use this in his or her business simply because he or she bought it. In most cases, buying a costume allows someone to use it for personal use—not for commercial gain.

