 If you wear a bra, it is extremely important it should be clean. Try to wear a fresh one each day. Your straps should be tight enough so as they do not rub against the acne when you move, which irritates it. If possible, wear a strapless bra as this reduces redness on your shoulder blades.;
, Ensure any material touching your back is clean and, if possible, made of primarily natural fibers such as cotton. Try to avoid tight-fitting clothing. Finally, the clothes should be laundered regularly--preferably after each wearing.


Try to wash clothes in a gentle detergent with minimal or no scent. Acne can be caused or worsened by overly harsh or highly perfumed detergents.
If possible, bleach your whites. Bleach kills any lingering bacteria on your clothing and impedes acne growth. Be sure to rinse completely to prevent the bleach from irritating your skin chemically.
 After going for a run or basketball practice, remember to hit the showers. Sweat that's not washed off your skin after exercise effectively creates a summer playground for bacteria that cause acne. Additionally, this sweat can also clog pores, causing acne to rear its ugly little head.
 One potential cause of bacne is conditioner that hasn't been properly washed from hair. Conditioner is great for your hair, but not so great for your back. There are several ways that you can help keep conditioner from invading your back and causing nasty little zits:


Turn the water temperature down before you rinse conditioner out of your hair. Warm water will open up pores, while cool water will close them. Having open pores right when your conditioner is slurrying down your hair is not a good recipe for a pimple-free back.
Wash your back last, after you have shampooed and conditioned.
Instead of conditioning your hair in the shower, condition it after you get out with a leave-in conditioner.
 If you have sensitive skin, the laundry detergent you use may be irritating your skin. Try switching detergents. Or try selecting a laundry detergent that is unscented, or even designed for babies with more sensitive skin.
 Dead skin cells and dust collect quickly on sheets. Pets that sleep on the bed will also be tracking in dirt. Remove the sheets and wash them twice weekly or change them twice weekly.


If you can bleach your sheets, doing so eliminates any acne bacteria still lingering through washing. Be sure they are rinsed completely to avoid any chemical-based irritation.
Be sure to wash blankets, comforters, and other bedclothes regularly as well.

