


For the sugar cane, have dispensers at the ready that are full of water. Have them all flow to a special place that places them in a storage minecart, which was placed when the water went off but will send the minecart on its way when the lever is turned off. The dispensers activate when the lever in the sugar cane or wheat farm is flipped, then you wait for everything to be harvested, then turn it off to deactivate the water and send the minecart on its way.
The egg farm has chickens floating in a glass funnel. When an egg is laid, it is carried under the farm. It is placed in a chest, and when the user flips a switch, it sends the minecart to the ingredients room, where it is unloaded and sent back. When the minecart is gone, a block above the hopper is blocked off with a piston, so eggs stay where they are until the minecart returns.
Milk farms are slightly less complex. You do everything the same except the water under the cows. When you milk the cows, you throw the buckets of milk in a chest, then flip a lever to send it on its way. You send it back, and repeat. The milk farm is the easiest room to set up with redstone, so you shouldn't have a hard time with it.
 Up until this point you might of had the room lit by torchlight. Use the cherries on the roof to make solar panels. Half should allow you to generate energy during the day, and half should allow you to do so at night. The redstone signal is sent to glowstone lamps, which will light up when the signal is received. They also produce their own redstone signal, so any other glowstone lamps directly touching one of the lamp's sides will light up as well.
 These features are just for protecting the factory, and ensuring that everyone gets cake for supper in minecraft. Have a factory lockdown switch, including iron doors, iron bars deploying, covering all doors from two sides in the event of an emergency, and a security feature within the lockdown feature. This should include:


All chests including special items being moved down by pistons, and covered up by a floor block.
Make all dispensers unable to work, and prevent hoppers from dispensing items.
 Have one going to a minecart station. This one is used for players to travel to and from "work". The other should be where cake and other goods from the cake farm are exported, and this one comes from the factory and travels underground until it reaches your house. From there, you can export goods of all kinds to places where you want them to go.

