 In the womb, babies get their iron supply from their mother. That means that newborns will have iron stores for their first 6 months of life if they get enough before they’re born.Pregnant mothers should eat red meat and other iron-rich foods throughout pregnancy like poultry, lentils, beans, green leafy vegetables nuts, dried fruit, eggs, and enriched grains.If you're pregnant, focus on getting enough iron by discussing your diet with your doctor - you can take supplements if they suggest it. If you will be caring for another person's child, consider having a conversation about prenatal diet with the baby's biological mother.
Iron deficiency during pregnancy increases the chances that the baby will be born early or underweight. These are both risk factors for iron deficiency anemia for infants.;
, Breast milk is a good source of iron, and will keep your child’s iron stores up through their first six months of life. If you do not want to or cannot breastfeed, be sure to feed your baby a formula that is rich in iron for the first year while you introduce solid foods.Infants up to the age of 6 months require 0.27 mg of iron daily. Iron requirement increases to 11 mg per day for infants age 7-12 months. The recommended daily allowance of iron for toddlers age 1-3 is 7 mg per day., At 6 months old, your baby starts to need more iron from their food.At this time, start to incorporate iron-fortified cereal mixed with formula or breast milk into your baby’s daily diet. When they acclimate to the cereal, you can begin to feed them pureed fruits, vegetables, and meats. Waiting too long to add solid food to their diet increases their risk of iron deficiency. However, introducing solid food too soon is not recommended either. It’s best to start at introducing solid food at 6 months.
 Poor diet and malnutrition, especially after age 1-2, when your child is having huge growth spurts, can cause anemia from low iron. Children who eat little or no meat are the most at risk. Add lean red meat to their meals 3-4 times a week, if possible.Other iron-rich foods you can give your child are lentils, beans, chickpeas, green leafy vegetables, dried fruit, nuts, fish like salmon and tuna, eggs, poultry, and enriched or fortified whole-grains.If you or your family are vegetarian or vegan, consider feeding your child additional foods with high iron content, especially beans and lentils. Seek advice from a dietitian to create a diet that is healthy for your child’s development.You may also need help from a dietitian if your child is a “picky eater,” limiting variety in their diet.
Don't give children younger than 5 years old whole nuts to eat, because they could choke.
 Cow’s milk, goat’s milk, and soymilk all have low iron content, and may even make it harder for your child’s body to absorb iron.If milk replaces solid food in the first 2 years, your child may not get the iron they need in their diet.


You don’t have to avoid milk altogether, but be sure it doesn’t replace more iron-rich breast milk and foods by limiting milk to less than 24 ounces (680 grams) a day for children under 2 years old.,
Tropical fruits like mango, papaya, pineapple, cantaloupe and kiwi
Watermelon, strawberries, cranberries, raspberries and blueberries
Leafy greens like spinach, cabbage, and turnip greens
Broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower
Tomatoes, green and red pepper, potatoes, and winter squash
Foods and beverages labeled as “fortified” with vitamin C.

