 Given how easy it is to be online all the time, you've probably stopped counting the hours and noting when you're doing internet things rather than offline things. Start making a note of all the time spent online. This includes work time when the internet is used for research, updating, social media purposes––it's still online time and needs to be accounted for in the overall scheme.


Keep a diary of times for at least a week. At the end of the week, tally up the time spent.;
, If you think it's a lot of time but still think it's reasonable, what are the good reasons by which you are justifying this? Reasons that are not helpful for supporting your case include loneliness, boredom, frustration, anxiety, everyone-else-is-there and can't-be-bothered-doing-anything-else. Good reasons might include doing work, researching for studies and connecting with a long distance relationship.
 This involves a lot of self discipline but you're already thinking about making a change just by reading this, so you're bound to have this discipline in there somewhere. Decide which part of the day is going to be internet.


Obviously, work decreed internet time is already chosen for you. But maybe you can do even less time here by being more efficient with research, etc.
Choose a daily time, and if needed, vary it to account for sports practice, hobbies, after school or work activities, catching up with friends, etc.
 This is really important––only allow yourself a certain amount of online time, especially when it's goofing off or updating your profile or posts.
 In some cases, a lot of time is spent uploading posts, update statuses, images, tweets, etc. Try to automate these things if you're a blogger, tweeter or Facebook user. In this way, you can reduce the amount of time just fiddling with posting and shift your saved time to more interesting uses of the internet.


If you're searching for information, instead of using the internet try to go to a library. Even if you use the internet there, you'll more efficient as you will have less reason to waste time.
 If you can't find the self discipline to stay off, use software blockers to keep you offline. There are several apps and programs through which you can block certain websites for a certain amount of time try those. Or, get your very organized or kindly bossy spouse/sibling/parent to time you and pull the plug on the WiFi.
 Get out of the room, out of the house and out into the wider world. Leave the smartphone behind or turn off its internet connection. Spending too much time on the internet is often due to the simple reason that you have nothing else to do, so fill your time with fun activities that need your time.


Play a sport, go for a run or walk, go cycling, try a local hike or do a discovery walk of your local neighborhood.
 Take back those lost sleep hours and regain the energy to do more active things. Turn the internet off early, grab a good book and sleep earlier.
 Take up a volunteering opportunity which requires your help at least a few hours a week. That way, you can spend time helping others and doing something not related to being on the internet all of the time.
 Start a book club in your area of interest or for your local friends and neighbors. You will have to read the book in time for each meeting and then you'll have a great time getting together to talk about it.
 Take the kids to the zoo, to the movies, to a hobby event, to the beach or on a hike in the local woods. Take the dog for a walk. Wash and groom the cats. Grow a garden of rabbit food. Get re-involved in the people and creatures you care about.

