 It might seem like using a medium or hard-bristled brush will get your teeth cleaner, but using such an abrasive brush can wear away the enamel on your teeth. When the enamel gets worn off, the teeth feel sensitive because the dentin has been exposed. The dentin contains nerves in small dentinal tubules that are instantly stimulated by external factors, such as hot and cold liquids.Switch to a soft-bristled toothbrush, which will get your teeth just as clean without causing further sensitivity issues or hurt your gums. Use gentle pressure and remember that power is nothing compared to good technique.


Avoid toothbrushes with tough plastic bristles - those aren't necessary for getting your teeth clean.;
, The way you brush your teeth matters as much as the toothbrush you use. If you tend to press hard and use a back-and-forth sawing motion, you're probably wearing away the enamel and causing gum recession by exposing the root of your teeth. This creates a double negative effect by affecting the look of your teeth and causing increased sensitivity. Instead, use a gentle circular motion to brush your teeth. Always brush with vertical strokes which should start from the gum line covering the entire tooth surface. Run the brush over the gums above your teeth and this way you will prevent gum recession and also stimulate the blood circulation in your gums for better protection against bacteria. Take your time and spend about three minutes going over all of your teeth in one brushing session.


If you have trouble applying the right amount of pressure and using a circular motion while brushing your teeth, it might be helpful to get an electric toothbrush. The bristles spin in a circular motion and all you have to do is hold the head of the brush next to your tooth. Your teeth will get perfectly clean with little effort on your part.
 Fluoride strengthens tooth enamel and leads to reduced sensitivity and pain.Start using a fluoride toothpaste so that your teeth get coated in fluoride every day. In addition, you can use a mouthwash with fluoride.


Your dentist may recommend doing a fluoride treatment using a more concentrated amount of fluoride applied directly to the places where your enamel has worn away. However, this should only be applied locally and you must take care not to ingest the fluoride.
Note that some organizations advise against the use of fluoride, stating that it has negative effects on human and environmental health. Conduct your own research and talk with your dentist about the right choice for you.
 Desensitizing toothpaste is formulated to coat the teeth and shield them from the substances that cause them to feel sensitive and painful.They basically seal any porous enamel or exposed dentinal tubules. After using it for several weeks, you should notice a decrease in sensitivity. If this doesn't work, then you should ask your dentist about other treatments for sensitivity.
 Sensitivity can also be the result of gingivitis, which results from the buildup of plaque and tartar on the teeth. Gingivitis causes the gums to bleed, swell, change their color, and sometimes cover various portions of your teeth and feel sensitive. Gingivitis can be avoided by practicing good dental hygiene, including brushing your teeth twice a day using the proper technique and flossing once a day.


Be sure to get regular dental cleanings as well, since it's not possible to remove plaque that accumulates with flossing and brushing alone.

