 It’s best to start your test prep at the beginning of your senior year, about eight to nine months before the exam. Review your notes after each class. This will allow your brain to absorb the material into your long-term memory. Make it a habit to have one- to two-hour study sessions most days of the week. The longer you give yourself to prepare, the calmer you will be on test day.;
, Don’t try to “wing it” without a course for each subject test you want to take. AP courses allow you to absorb the material before your after-school study sessions. They also give you access to teachers who can answer your questions and offer good advice about the test.Before the summer vacation, ask your AP teacher if you need to complete a reading list before classes start in the fall.Other questions might include:

“Where is the testing center?”
“How much time should I dedicate to outlining on each free-response question?”
“Do you recommend any books (aside from what was on the summer reading list) that go into greater depth than the course booklet?”



, Read over your study material as you wait for or ride the bus. Make flashcards to review during commercial breaks. You could also record yourself reading the material aloud and save it to your MP3 player. This will allow you to listen to the material while you walk home, do your chores, exercise, etc.
 Research shows that students learn best from their peers.Studying with trusted classmates will also keep you accountable and motivated. Discuss material from class and practice exams. Quiz each other. Ask questions about material you don’t quite understand. Take notes on everything you learn in your group.


If material is still unclear after a study session, contact your AP teacher(s) for assistance.
 You can find these in the back of many AP study guides or online at CollegeBoard.org.Treat each practice as a “dress rehearsal” for the real thing. Work in a quiet, distraction-free area. Set a timer for the allotted time of each test section. Stop working when the timer goes off.
 Familiarize yourself with what you need to enter the testing center. Know what you can and cannot bring on test day. Read the fine print regarding your additional rights and responsibilities.If you don’t have this information in paper form, save the information from the website as PDFs for future reference.


Check the AP section of the CollegeBoard.org for multiple-choice and free-response time limits of each subject. Know your time limits, and calculate how much time those limits give you per question.
 Treating yourself to some “fun” time will help you avoid burnout. Spend some time with your family and friends. Listen to music. Read a non-academic book. Watch your favorite movie or TV show. This will allow you to enjoy yourself while also giving your brain a chance to rest and better absorb the material., Don’t postpone healthy meals until the last minute. Drink plenty of fluids. Focus on foods high in omega-3 fatty acids and B vitamins for brain health. Foods rich in Vitamin C and zinc will keep your immune system healthy. Eat foods rich in fiber and complex carbohydrates to maintain your energy.Some examples include:



Omega-3: Walnuts, winter squash, flax seeds, fish.

B vitamins: Bell peppers, dark leafy greens, broccoli, beets, B-12 supplements.

Vitamin C: Citrus fruits, berries, kale, broccoli.

Zinc: Beans, peas, nuts, oatmeal.

Fiber: Legumes (beans, peas, nuts), whole grains (wheat, barley, long-grain rice).

Complex carbs: Oatmeal, quinoa, nuts, seeds.
 A regular exercise routine is a great way to reduce stress.Use the treadmill or elliptical machine for some cardio. Hit the weight machines for some strength training. Go for a jog or a swim. Play team sports with your friends. If high-intensity workouts aren’t your thing, try yoga or pilates.
 Relaxing, along with exercising, will help you to unwind from a stressful day. It’s best to practice relaxation about 30 minutes before going to bed. This will help you to fall asleep more quickly and sleep more soundly.Try meditation, tai chi, or deep breathing exercises.
 As a teenager, you need about nine hours of sleep every night.Stick to the same sleep schedule every day, including weekends and holidays. Never pull all-nighters. They wear down your immune system and harm your ability to retain the information you need., Do this the night before the exam to avoid any undue stress in the morning. At the testing center, you will need your photo ID and official letter stating that you have permission to take the test. You will also be allowed to take several non-required items into the test area. These include:Several sharpened #2 pencils for multiple-choice questions.
Pens with blue or black ink for free-response questions.
A ruler or straightedge if you’re taking the physics exam.
One or two approved calculators for biology, calculus, chemistry, physics, or statistics.
An analog watch that doesn’t beep and cannot connect to the Internet.
 This is especially crucial if your testing center is not your school. You will have enough time to find the building and the designated room. Look for signage to direct you to the right place. Don’t be afraid to ask for directions if you get lost!


If the test is held in your school, early arrival will give you enough time to collect your thoughts.
 This is especially crucial if you prefer to work in silence. When you’re under pressure, the slightest sound can be a major time drain. Even if background noise doesn’t usually bother you, keep the headphones handy just in case.


Don’t bring your own headphones. They may be confiscated by the proctor(s).
 Time limits on each section vary between each of the 30 subject areas. How you budget your test-taking time will depend on the limits of each section on your specific test. Here are some general strategies to remember:


Take a minute or two to scan the layout of the test.
Skip questions you can’t immediately answer, but circle them as a reminder to come back.
Answer the multiple-choice questions first. After that, proceed to the free-response questions.
If you're struggling on a multiple-choice question, try to find at least one obviously wrong option. This will increase your odds of a correct answer.
Always have an introduction, a body and a conclusion of each free-response question.

