 If you are considering having a one-night stand, you should make safety a priority. It might be exciting to feel lost in the moment. However, in today's world it is always best to take the proper precautions to stay safe.Text a friend the vital details. If you decide to go home with a man you don't know, let someone know where you will be and who you will be with.
You can send a text that says something like, "Spending the night with Bob Smith. Met at The Bar. Please check in with me if you don't hear from me by 8 a.m."
Arrange this system ahead of time. If you think there is a possibility you will meet someone, give your friends a heads up. Ask if she will be willing to be your contact person.;
, When you have a one-night stand, you don't want to have any unpleasant reminders of the experience. That means that you certainly don't want to be left with an STD or unwanted pregnancy. Make sure to always have protected sex unless you are in a monogamous relationship. Use a condom. Ask your partner to wear a condom. Bring your own, so that you know there is one available.
If he objects to wearing a condom, do not agree to have sex. This should be a deal-breaker.
You can also use other forms of protection, such as the female condom. To protect from pregnancy, consider a diaphragm, IUD, or birth control pills.
 Many people who choose to have a one-night stand choose to have sex with someone they recently met. If this is the case, it is a good idea to have the encounter at your own home. It is generally safer to avoid going home with someone you don't know.Remember that safety should be a priority. By going to your place, you will be going where your friends and family will know where to look for you, if necessary.
You will likely feel more comfortable in your own territory. This will allow you to more fully enjoy the experience.
 If you are under the influence of drugs or alcohol, it's probably not the right time for a one-night stand. When you are intimate with someone you don't really know, it's important to remain in control of your faculties. If you anticipate having a one-night stand, limit yourself to one or two cocktails.Drugs and alcohol can lower your inhibitions. This means that you might not make responsible choices.
The point is to enjoy your one night stand. You'll be better able to do that if you don't wake up hungover and wondering what happened.

