 Load 10 Building Modules and 10 Tools onto your ship from your island then make your way to Captain Lester to repair the damaged oil tanker. Once you reach Lester, drag the resources to his ship to repair the ship.
 Due to the recently polluted waters from the oil platform leak, you are producing much less fish than before. You will need to build an additional 3 Fisheries, which cost 125 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 2 Tools each. Place these fisheries near your warehouse, and connect them by road so resources can be delivered., After you build the Fisheries, Yana will contact you asking to visit her Ark. Send your ship to her Ark to receive new orders., Yana will ask you to construct 10 new Worker Barracks so new residents may move in. Each Worker Barracks will cost you 2 Building Modules. Place the Barracks near your City Center, and make sure they are connected by road so residents may move in., Once you have built 10 new Worker Barracks, one of the new Barracks will begin to light up. Click on this highlighted house to receive a Fire Protection Expert, which will automatically be placed in your warehouse., Yana will request that you take the Fire Protection Expert from your island to her Ark. Drag the Expert onto your ship, and make your way to her Ark. Once you reach the Ark, you will automatically be given a new ship called a hovercraft., Send your hovercraft to the designated location where the fire is erupting. Using the fire extinguish equipment on board the hovercraft, put out the fire. This can be done by approaching the fire and simply clicking on the equipment., Once the fire has died down, you will be required to take water samples in the area. Send your hovercraft to the selected locations, including the Oil Platform and the Beach. When the hovercraft is beside these locations, click on the analyzing filter to generate water samples. The analyzing will only take a few seconds to complete., When you finish gathering the water samples, Yana will ask you to take them to her Ark. The samples are automatically put onto your hovercraft so you only need to head towards her Ark. Yana will proceed to analyze these samples and inform you that you must build up your Eco community., To start fulfilling your citizen’s needs, you will have to build one Tea Plantation. The Plantation will cost 100 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 1 Tool. Make sure you connect this building to either a depot or your warehouse by road., Next you will have to make a Concert Hall. The Concert Hall will cost you 600 Credits, 4 Building Modules, and 3 Tools. When placing the Hall, make sure its radius covers your Barracks and is connected to your City Center.

If you are unable to build the Hall, you will need to build more Worker Barracks until you reach 144 Eco Workers. Each Barracks will cost you 2 Building Modules.
 Your island will already have 1 Distillery but require 2 more to be built. Each Distillery will cost you 50 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 1 Tool. Remember to connect your Distilleries to either a depot or a warehouse by road. You will be rewarded with an item that boosts productivity for your distilleries by 25%., You will be asked to construct an additional 2 Tea Plantations on your island. Each Tea Plantation will cost you 100 Credits, 2 Building Modules, and 1 Tool. Once complete, you will be rewarded with an item that boosts Tea Plantations by 25% for your entire island., Choosing either the Wind Parks or Power Plants will not have a major difference in the game but will give you small rewards.

If you build 3 Wind Parks costing 120 Credits, 1 Building Modules, and 1 Tool each, you will be rewarded 1 Optimized Rotor Blade. These blades will improve the efficiency of your Wind Parks.
If you decide to build 2 Coal Power Plants costing 350 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 4 Tools each, you will be rewarded 2200 Credits.
Choosing either option will yield no greater benefit as the Credits or improved blades can help your city.
 Once your houses are fulfilled of their Needs, which you already supplied, and have fully populated, you will see them begin to upgrade to Eco houses. To ensure that they upgrade, make sure your houses are covered by the Concert Hall and connected by road., One of your Eco houses will begin to flash and become highlighted. Click on this house to receive the Technician. The Technician will be placed into your warehouse so you can take him to Yana., Yana will contact you asking that you deliver the Technician to her Ark. Load the Technician onto your ship by dragging him there, and deliver him to her Ark. Once you deliver the Technician, Yana will reward you with special pump equipment, used in cleaning up the polluted water., The Coast can be found near your main island. When cleaning the water, make sure to click on the special pump equipment on your hovercraft. You will briefly lose control of your hovercraft as it automatically will clean the water., When scanning the water, make sure to use your hovercraft to initiate the scan. This can take a couple seconds and the results will be put onto your hovercraft for delivery., Once you have scanned the clean water with your hovercraft, take the sample to Yana at her Ark. Once you reach her Ark, simply drag the water sample onto her Ark. This will complete the mission and move on to the fourth mission.