 Set up your Wi-Fi network using your router and provider’s instructions.


Check that you are currently running an 802.11 a, g or n network. You can confirm using the numbers on the back of your router. In order to use AirPlay, both devices must be using the same Wi-Fi connection.
It is a good idea to create a difficult password, so that people cannot steal and slow down your Internet connection.;
, The following restrictions apply to AirPlay.


iPhones should be models 4s or later.
iPads should be version 2 or later.
iPod Touches should be fifth generation or later.
iPod Minis of either generation should work.



If possible, use a TV that connects using an HDMI port, so that you can connect the Apple TV with a single cable for video and audio.
You can also use a component cable and separate audio cables, if necessary. Plug in the power cable to an outlet and Apple TV.
Select the input, either HDMI or Component, using your TV remote.
Your Apple TV should start up.
Go through the Apple TV setup prompts.
 Type in the network name and password.


Wait a few moments to make sure everything is connected.
 Go to the home screen.
 Click on the Settings icon.


Choose “General” and “Software Update” to see if you need to update the OS.
If it says you need to update it, type in your Apple ID password and install the download.
 This will give you access to your Control Panel.
 It looks like a TV with an arrow in it.
 Choose the Apple TV.


If you are planning to use AirPort Express to listen to iTunes, you can select it from the list in the same manner.
Tap “Done” when you are finished.
 Open a video or music application.



Make sure your TV is turned on and your Apple TV (or AirPort Express) input is selected.
 Tap it to push the content to your enabled Apple TV. ,,, This process will not work with AirPort Express. , Slide the radio button to on. It should be green once it is on.


Everything that is displayed on your iPhone, iPod or iPad should appear on your Apple TV.

