 Place a bed of scrunched up tissue paper, shredded paper pieces or other soft item at the base of the vase. Gently lower the baubles into the vase. Continue until you are satisfied with the amount of baubles on display. Place the vase somewhere safe where it won't be knocked over.;
, Choose cupcake cases in differing sizes if the baubles are of various sizes too. Arrange the cupcake cases on the plate in a pleasing way, then add each bauble to a cupcake case. Keep this simple––a nice approach is to have larger baubles to the back, medium ones in the middle, and smaller ones in front but the end display will be determined by where you place the plate and your own designer's eye. Display somewhere out of harm's way.
 Arrange a favorite old toy or decoration in a bowl on a stand or on a stand. Place the vintage baubles around the toy or other item. If using a toy or doll, consider having the inanimate item "hold" the baubles between its legs or in a basket. Place these items on display where they won't be knocked.
 Find varying sizes of Mason jars and place something soft at the base of each jar, such as a round of felt in Christmas colors. Gently lower in the vintage baubles in a pattern you find pleasing. Screw the lids back on top and place the jars on display where they won't be knocked over.
 Fill with scrunched paper to almost the top, then add a pretty layer of something like felt or a fabric skirt. Arrange the vintage baubles so that they're peeking over the top of the container.
 Another plate approach to displaying vintage baubles is to arrange something around the rim of the plate to prevent the baubles from rolling and to give the display a little something extra to look at. For example, choose Christmas figurines, little Santas or reindeer, or perhaps miniature pine cones. Arrange the baubles directly on the plate. Place where the display won't be touched or bumped.


Tinsel can also be used on the inner rim of the display, and the baubles tucked into the tinsel loops.

