 Set the backing and glass aside; you will not need them for this project. You can also use a back-less frame instead.


If you were able to find a framed screen meant for paper making, you can skip this section and start making the paper pulp.;
, Measure the entire frame, including the outside edges. Cut a piece of window screening down to fit those measurements. If you can't find window screening, you can use another type of stiff, mesh screening.


Do not use tulle or mesh fabric. It is too soft.
The mesh must be finely woven. If the holes are too big, the paper will fall through.
 Turn your frame over so that the back is facing you. Place the screen on top of the frame. Secure it with nails, tacks, or stables. Trim off any excess screening.Consider wrapping duct tape around the back edges of the frame. This will prevent the screen's sharp edges from accidentally scratching you.
 This will help soak up any excess water. Make sure it's one you don't mind possibly ruining. Sometimes, paper can leak out dyes.
 Make sure that the screen side (the back part) of the frame is facing down. You want to front of the frame to form a rim around your screen.
 Choose plain, non-glossy paper, such as printer paper, construction paper, newsprint, and paper napkins.Tear the paper into ½ to 1-inch (1.27 to 2.54-centimeter) scraps. How much paper you use depends on how many cards you want to make.
 Place the shredded paper into a mixing bowl. Cover the paper with boiled water. Wait 10 to 15 minutes, then give it a stir.If you don't have colored paper, but want to make it colored, stir in a few drops of food coloring into the water first., Pour the entire mixture, including the water, into a blender. Pulse the blender until the paper turns into a pulp. Pour out any excess water.


If you don't own a blender, you can use a food processor instead.
Don't over-blend the paper. You want there to be a few chunks., Pour the pulp back into the mixing bowl. Stir a few spoonfuls of your favorite type of seed. Choose seeds that are small and flat, such as: forget-me-not, poppy, or herbs.Other great seed choices to consider include carrots, radishes, and wildflowers., Use your fingers to spread the paper around into a rough rectangular shape. If you wish to make shaped cards, such as hearts, place a cookie cutter on the screen first, then fill it with about 1 tablespoon of the pulp., If you used cookie cutters, make sure that you smooth the pulp until it fills the entire bottom of the cookie cutter.How thick you make the paper is up to you. Keep in mind that the thicker it is, the longer it will take to dry.
 If you used a cookie cutter, wrap a towel around your finger first, then gently press the pulp inside the cookie cutter. Once you have most of the water drained, remove the cookie cutter.


If the towel under the screen becomes too soggy, replace it with a fresh one.
If the baking dish becomes filled with water, dump the water out, and replace the towel.
If you plan on making more shaped cards, now is the time to do so. Leave some space between each "card."

, Take the screen out of the baking dish; leave the towel behind. Set it down on a wire cooling rack, a couple of blocks, or a clothes drying rack. Make sure that air can flow freely under the screen., Make sure that air can flow under the rack.
 If the underside is still damp, flip the paper over, and let it finish drying. Your paper is now ready to turn into beautiful cards.
 This will make the base for your card. Choose a color that works well with you paper. You can also use a blank card, with nothing written or printed on it.
 The seeded paper you just made will eventually go on the front of your card. If you make a rectangular sheet of paper, you can cut it down into smaller shapes using a pair of scissors. If you made shaped paper using a cookie cutter, or if the paper is smaller than your card, leave it as it is.


Save the scraps and plant them in you garden!

, Do not get carried away; you want the paper to be easily removable so that the recipient can pull it off and use it. A few drops of glue are all that you need. You can also outline the seeded paper with a glue stick instead; glue sticks are much easier to remove than regular glue.
 These cards look best if they are left simple, but you can add some designs, if you wish. For example, you could draw designs or write messages onto the seeded paper or cardstock using a pen. You can also stamp a design onto the seeded paper instead using a rubber stamp and ink.
 Cut down a sheet of thin paper, such as printer paper, so that it is a little smaller than you card. Place a strip of double-sided tape along the top, narrow edge. Open your card, and set the sheet down on the right side. Make sure that it is centered, then set the card aside.


If you don't have double-sided tape, you can use a glue stick instead.
This not absolutely necessary, but it will give your card a fancier touch. This would be a good idea if your cardstock is a bright color.
 Be sure to include planting instructions for your card.Listed below are general instructions. Keep in mind that you may need to include additional instructions based on the type of seed you used:Pull the seeded paper off of the card and tear it into smaller pieces.
Plant the scraps under ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) of soil.
Water the soil generously. Allow the excess water to drain.
Keep the paper moist until the seeds sprout. Once the seeds sprout, water them only as needed.

