 Before you start ripping up that carpet with nothing but elbow grease and ambition, it's best to get prepared for the job by getting all the tools you'll need to do it right. There's nothing expensive required, and everything should be available at any hardware store:


Heavy duty leather gloves with a padded palm are essential to keeping you hands safe. You might encounter sharp nails or tacks while pulling up carpet, and a good pair of gloves will also help you grip the carpet. A dust-mask is also a good protective barrier to use, especially if you have asthma or other respiratory problems.
To pry up the carpet and tacks, you'll need a pry bar, pliers, and a hammer. While you can start ripping the carpet up with your hands, getting it started and tearing it free will require some help.
To keep the job clean, it's also good to have a roll of duct tape to roll up the carpet and move it after you've cut it loose, as well as a utility knife to cut strips of carpet.;
, Obviously, you'll need to move everything on top of the carpet out of the room and off the carpet before you start pulling it up. This can actually be more time-intesnive of a process than pulling the carpet up, which shouldn't take more than 45 minutes or an hour to remove with the right technique.


Find temporary homes for beds, chairs, bookcases, and other furniture in the room that's having carpet replaced. Move the furniture carefully into the new space. Don't worry about pushing it over the old carpet and ruining it, since it's coming up anyway.
 You need to get anything out of the way that will keep the corners of the carpet from coming up easily. Take off any molding or other edging that might be found between the wall and the floor.


For the most part, carpet shouldn't be caught beneath the molding or the baseboard, because it's not usually installed that way. If you're replacing it you should probably remove it anyway, before you start with the carpet, but if you're going to keep it, it's best to leave it on.
 If you’re remodeling an entire room, it’d be silly to put in brand new carpet before you paint the walls. Using the old carpet as a drop cloth to collect all the paint drippings before you move forward can be a real time saver. In most remodeling projects, it's best to replace the carpet as the final step in the job.
 Old carpet can be a real dust trap, and you’ll make it a lot easier on yourself by cleaning it up a bit before you tear it out. Don't wrestle with damp, dusty, or super-dirty

, For most jobs, it's recommended that you start in the back corner and move toward the door, but anywhere is fine. Corners are the easiest places to work the carpet up, because you've got a nice little edge to grab onto.


If the carpet is already coming up anywhere, start there. Sometimes carpet will start to peel at the edges, or pets will dig at it and make your job a whole lot easier. Start wherever makes your job the most convenient.
 When you've selected your starting point, grip onto the carpet with your pliers and tug upward firmly. Don't jerk too hard, or you may rip the carpet and have to start over. Once you get a good chunk of it up, you can use your hands to start pulling backward.
 From the corner, work the pry bar along both edges, helping to ease the carpeting up and away from the floor. There will likely be carpet tacks that will be quite sticky, making it a lot easier to use the pry bar. Continue pulling and using the bar to separate the carpet from the floor as evenly as possible.


Remove the carpet tacks as you find them. Look for tacks that might be attached to the bottom of the carpet. Use a pry bar and run it across the bottom of the carpet to ensure they come off before you roll it up.
 Follow the carpet down one wall and then another until the carpet has been pulled up and is loose in a large, flag-shaped portion. Keep pulling and folding the carpet back on itself until you've got a big manageable strip that you can carry.Don't try to pull all the carpet up at once, or you'll have a mess on your hands. To keep it clean, it's best to take off substantial, but manageable pieces at a time. A good eyeball estimate is no more than two or three feet deep, when the carpet is folded over. In other words, pull up six feet of carpet, times the width of the room. That'll be plenty heavy for you and a helper.
 When you fold the carpet back, use the utility knife to cut that section of carpet away and roll it up as evenly as possible. Even if it's a misshapen section of carpet, try to roll it up into a little bundle so it will be easier to carry. Use duct tape to secure the end of the roll, then have an assistant take one end and you take the other end, and discard the carpet.


Eventually, you’ll work through the entire carpet in this basic way. Pull up a section, cut it into a strip using a utility knife, and roll it up. This will make it easier to remove from the room and dispose of.
 Carpet pads are vapor barriers that are installed under some types of carpeting. Some floors might not have any carpet pad at all. If there is a pad, it should be lighter and easier to remove than the actual carpet, but you can use the same basic technique if necessary. Start at one corner, pull up the pad, and cut it into manageable strips.
 For the most part, you can dispose of old ratty carpet at any garbage drop site in your town. Different areas have different rules about putting carpet out on the curb, though, so you'll want to check with the local authorities to find out about garbage pick-up where you live.


Carpet American Recovery Effort (CARE) is an organization that collects old carpeting to recycle and use as the foundation for a variety of products, including new carpet padding and even lumber.It's available in 26 states in the US and makes for a good alternative to throwing it out.
When you replace your carpeting, consider purchasing from Mohawk, Shaw, Miliken, or Flor, which are all carpet dealers that incorporate recycled materials into their new products.
 If you're not going to reinstall carpet on the new floor, pull up the tackstrips by hand. They should come up relatively easily, as long as you're wearing your heavy gloves. Use the pry-bar if necessary.


If you are going to reinstall carpeting, inspect the tackstrips for wear and determine whether or not they're reusable. If they're dull, loose, or otherwise worn out, consider pulling them up and replacing them anyway.
It's also a good idea to keep an eye out for any extra carpet nails, screws, or tacks that might be on the floor after removing the carpet. Sweep them or gather them up by hand and throw them out. Sometimes there'll be a lot of staples, which can be a pain to remove. Use your pliers to pull them up, and make sure you get them all.
 Carpeting uses different types of adhesives, and some require a simple scraping while others will require a more thorough cleaning. Clean up the sub-floor as best as possible.


Look for a floor cleaner that removes adhesives, if scraping doesn't the glue off like you want. You can find it in your local hardware store.
 It's very important, regardless of what you want to do with the room next, that you inspect the condition of the subfloor and make any repairs necessary while you've got the carpet off. It'd be a shame to install $800 worth of new carpet over a squeaky floor, or a floor showing signs of mold.


Walk around the sub-floor and bounce on it. Subfloor panels should be attached to the wood joists with screws or nails, and if you find some panels that squeak, you can secure it to the joist with ring shank nails. These are grooved nails with more secure gripping power, decreasing the chances that this squeaky area will ever squeak again. About two or three inches from the previous nail or screw, hammer in a shank nail and you'll be set.
If your carpeting was damaged or wet, it might have impacted the subfloor. Look for signs of rot or mold. If you see any signs of serious damage or rot, you need to have these panels replaced before installing new flooring.
 Once you're done making your repairs, sweep or shop-vac up the remaining debris and glue-scrapings from the job before moving forward with installation. Once you've removed old carpet, you can install new carpet, laminate, or other types of flooring.

