 This crucial step makes it possible to complete the rest of this method with minimal annoyances.


Safari: In the “Safari” menu, select “Preferences.” Click “Security” and select “Block pop-up windows. Deselect “Allow WebGL” and “Allow Plugins.”
Chrome: In the Chrome menu (the three horizontal lines), click “Settings,” and then scroll to the bottom to click on “Show advanced settings.” Click “Privacy,” then “Content Settings,” and select “Do not allow any site to show pop-ups.”

, If not, set it to the search engine you use regularly. Safari has some defaults pre-programmed into the software. Choosing Google is a safe bet.
Chrome: In the Chrome menu, select “Settings,” then “Extensions.” Click the trash icon next to any extensions you don’t recognize. Next, click “Settings” on the left menu and scroll down to “Advanced Settings” and follow the link.

Scroll down to “On Startup” and make sure “Open the New Tab page” is selected.
Scroll down to “Search” and click “Manage Search Engines.” Make sure every search engine listed in the top box is one you recognize. Pay special attention to the URL on the right side, as adware programs might pretend to be Google but actually be pointing you to another website. Delete anything suspicious by clicking the X next to the site.
 Point your browser to https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT203987. Once the site has loaded, click “File,” then “Print,” then “Save as PDF.” Select your Desktop as the saving location so you can easily find it in a moment.
 You’ll be using this action a lot, so try to become familiar with it.


Open the PDF file you just created and scroll down to the list of files that begins with /System/Library/Frameworks/v.framework. Highlight the first line in that list of files (it’s the one in the example) and click “Edit,” then “Copy.”
Open Finder and click “View,” then “As Columns.” Click “Go,” then “Go to Folder.”
Click “Edit,” then “Paste” to paste the file you highlighted previously into the box. Press ⏎ Return to search for the file. If the file is found, drag it to the Trash. If not, copy the next file in the list from the PDF and do the same.
Repeat the “Go to Method” with each of the files in the list. When finished, empty the Trash by clicking “Finder,” then “Empty Trash.” Restart the computer.
 If the computer comes back up and there’s still adware, open Finder, click “Applications,” and select “Utilities.” Click “Activity Monitor.” On the CPU tab, click “Process Name” to alphabetize the column and look for processes called either “InstallMac” or “Genieo.”


If you see either of these programs running in Activity Monitor, repeat the “Go to Folder” process with the following text: /private/etc/launchd.conf. Once that’s finished, restart your computer again.
Return to the Apple PDF and scroll down to “Remove Genieo, InstallMac” and repeat the process with each of the files listed beneath “Restart your Mac.” Once you’ve gone through each file and dragged any necessary files to the Trash, restart your computer.
Use “Go to Folder” once the computer comes back up, this time with the file /Library/Frameworks/GenieoExtra.framework. Empty the Trash (in Finder).
 Your computer should now be adware-free. If, when the computer comes back up, it is still infected with adware, you’ll need to install an Adware removal tool.
 Click “Download” and choose a location to save the file. Once it has downloaded, double-click the file to run it.


If you’re unable to download Anti-Malware for Mac because of the adware, use a different computer to download the installer and save it to a flash drive or CD/DVD.
The first time you run Anti-Malware for Mac, you’ll likely be asked if you’re sure you want to open it. Click “Open.” If you see a different message about your security preferences, Click the Apple menu and select “System Preferences,” then “Security and Privacy.” On the General tab, click “Open Anyway” and the software will launch.
The first time you run Anti-Malware, you’ll be asked for a username and password for your administrator account. Type it and click “Install Helper.”

, Click the name of the Adware and select “Remove selected items” to delete. Restart the computer and your adware should be removed.

