 To prepare a MM100 Mesophilic Culture starter, boil and then cool 200 ml. of fresh milk, add 1/2 tsp. of the Culture and stir the ingredients together well. Then, store the starter at 25-30°C (77-86°F) until it thickens for 12-24 hours. You need to do this before you make the Gouda cheese., To prepare the milk, heat it to 32°C (90°F) and add the calcium chloride solution. This solution is made up of 2 ml. of calcium chloride dissolved in 1/4 cup of cool water (only add the cool water if you're using homogenized milk.) Then, add the prepared starter to the ingredients. Cover the ingredients and allow them to ripen for 10 minutes., of cooled boiled water. The Annatto will give the Gouda cheese its yellow coloring., Stir the Annatto through the milk until the color is consistent., Cover it and allow it to set for 60 minutes or until you get a clean break. To test for a clean break, slide your knife into the curd at an angle and lift some curd on the side of the blade. If the curd breaks cleanly around the knife and the whey runs into the crack that you've made, then the curds are ready to cut and you've made a clean break., To cut the curds, use a long knife to cut vertically across the curd one way, and then cut it again perpendicularly to the first cuts. Insert your knife at an angle to make horizontal cuts. Cut these curds into 13 mm. cubes. Let the cubes stand for 10 minutes to set., You should drain off about 1/3 of the whey to drain it to the level of the curds. To do this, stir continuously while adding just enough 80°C water to raise the temperature of the curds to 34°C. After you've done this, allow the curds to settle for 10 more minutes., To do this, stir continuously while adding just enough 80°C water to raise the temperature of the curds to 34°C (93°F). Keep this temperature steady for 15 minutes and continue to stir. Let the curds set for 30 minutes. Then, pour off the remaining whey.,, Quickly place them in the basket, taking care to break them as little as possible. Press the cheese at 9 kg. for 20 minutes., To do this, take the cheese out of the basket, carefully peeling away the cheesecloth. Turn the cheese over, dress it again, and press it with 18 kg. for 20 minutes., Repeat the process, pressing the cheese with 22 kg. for 12-16 hours this time., To brine the cheese, you must first make a brine solution, which should consist of 300 g. of salt and 800 m. of water. Remove the pressed cheese from the basket, peel away the cheesecloth, and soak it in brine for 12 hours in the fridge., To air dry the cheese, simply remove the cheese from the brine and pat it dry. Air-dry it for 3 weeks at 10°C (50°F) to complete the process., Melt the cheese wax using a waxing brush, and coat the cheese thoroughly., Age the cheese at 10°C (50°F) for 3-4 months, turning it 3-4 times a week., When the cheese is ready, enjoy it on its own, or with a tasty met or bread.