 You want to make the score about ½” from the end of each wire that will be soldered. To do this, you can use a pair of wire strippers, or a razor blade. Be careful, you do not want to cut the actual copper wire as it will take away from its conducting strength.

Determine the size of the wire and use the appropriate sized hole to properly strip the wire. If you do not know the size of the wire, test out the holes in the strippers to find the one that cuts into the jacket without cutting the wire.
Clamp down on the wire with the right sized hole. Now you will turn the wire 90 degrees in rotation and do the same thing. Do this a couple more times so that you have a good line around the whole wire jacket. If you are just using a razor blade, don’t forget to make the incision around the whole circumference of the jacket.;
, Once you have that slight cut in the jacket, you should be able to bend the jacket back and forth until the jacket comes loose. You can do this with the strippers or with your fingers. If it does not come loose right away try making a little deeper cut into the jacket. The idea is to get the piece of jacket off without sacrificing any copper threads., If you are using shrink tube to cover your connection, you will want to slide the shrink tube onto the wire before connecting the wires. The piece of shrink tube should be longer than the area being soldered.

The shrink tube should cover some of the jacket on each end and the ½” connection you are making. Use your scissors to cut a 1-1 ½” piece of shrink. You may test the shrink tube on a piece of the wire before getting started to make sure the tubing will shrink down to the size of the wire. Most shrink tube reduce to about 1/3 of its size after being heated.
 To make a good connection between the copper wires, you will want as much of the wires touching each other as possible. Typically, the best way to do this is to flay each end of the wire out. Do this by rubbing the wire between your fingers. The wires should now look like this., Twist and smooth the strands into each other so they hold together. The goal is to make the strands of copper from the two separate wires look like one. Make sure the area is smooth. This is the area that you will be soldering. If it is too bulky, you may not be able to fit the shrink over the joint., You can use your finger or a utensil to do this. Don’t be modest with the flux, but don’t waste it either. You can always add more later. The flux will help the solder flow into the wires so the more you have on the connection, the easier your soldering job will be. Start with a little glob on your finger or utensil and brush it onto the wires. The next step will involve heating the wire which will soak up this flux., Use your heat gun or blow dryer, assuming your blow dryer produces enough heat, to melt the flux. Do not just point the heat source at the wires. You will want to wave the heat source back and forth so there is not as much direct heat on the wires. Overheating the jacket may cause it to melt. Be careful, you do not want the shrink tube to receive any heat yet, so make sure the shrink tube is far from the area you are applying the heat., (If you have the correct tip on the iron to begin with, skip this step) A tip that is too small will not transfer enough heat to larger wires. A tip that is too big may apply too much heat and melt the jacket on the wire. The idea is to use a tip that applies just enough heat for the project. Most medium sized tips will work for soldering wire.

Do not touch anywhere above the handle of the iron. Iron tips can be attached by screwing off the barrel shown above. Always make sure the iron is off before replacing tips. If replacing the tip while the iron is on, metal attached to the soldering iron will be hot; so use caution!

, It is important to keep the solder box and iron in a safe area. You should only turn the iron on when you are ready to use it. Keep flammable objects away from the iron at all times. Remember to turn the box off as soon as you are done using it. Add water to the sponge below the soldering iron holder. This sponge can be used to clean the tip of your iron., Picking the solder up with the iron is easiest for smaller wires. You can do this by touching the tip of the iron about an inch from the end of the string of solder. The iron should automatically soak the solder right onto the tip of your iron. This allows you to focus solely on the iron instead of having to hold the solder in your other hand. If the iron is hot enough, the solder should flow right onto the copper when you touch the iron to it. Different sized wires will require different amounts of solder., With the solder already on the iron, all you need to do is touch it to the copper wires. The flux that was heated into the wires will make the solder flow right into the connection. If it does not flow easily you may need to add more flux to the wires. Repeat your previous process and try again. Again, you do not want to leave the heat source, the soldering iron in this case, in any spot for too long. You should smoothly wave the iron back and forth along the copper. Continue to pick up more solder with the iron and add it to the joint until the wires are full., The wires should now be fully joined. Look at all sides of the connection. Sometimes if the solder doesn’t flow properly, the back side of the connection may not have enough solder to properly join the wire resulting in a weak connection. A slight tug on the wires can be used to ensure a good bind., Cover the soldered connection with your shrink tube or electrical tape. Slide the shrink tube over the joint and apply heat to the area in the same way you did with the heat gun, by waving the heat source back and forth so there is less direct heat on the jacket. If you have forgot to put the shrink tube on the wires, you may always use electrical tape to cover the area; shrink tube just works well in most situations as it looks cleaner and doesn’t leave an adhesive residue.