 The SSA provides a starter kit with a checklist and worksheet to help you organize the information you'll need for your application.


You can download the kit at https://www.ssa.gov/disability/Documents/SSA-1170-KIT.pdf.
The starter kit provides basic information about Social Security law and the types of benefits available for people with disabilities.It also gives you an overview of what to expect from the application process and how to make sure your application is processed efficiently, including a checklist of documents you will need to include along with your application.;
, Using the SSA's checklist, pull together as many documents as you have or can easily obtain.


The primary focus of your documents should be to prove to SSA that you are disabled so your application for benefits will be approved.The more documentation you can provide to back up your claim, the better your chances of being approved.
You will need the names, addresses, and phone numbers of all doctors, caseworkers, hospitals, or clinics that provided you with medical treatment or services. You also need the dates of all visits you made to those places and copies of any medical records you have in your possession related to those visits, including laboratory and test results.Make a list of all medications you're taking, along with the dosage and schedule for each.You also will need documents related to your work experience, including the type of work you did and your W-2 or most recent tax return to validate your income., When you've gotten your documents ready, go to the SSA's website to fill out your online application.


The online application will ask questions about you, your disability, your medical treatment, and your work history. You also will be asked questions about your family members, including others who might be eligible for benefits.As you fill out your application, you will find links to help explain some questions or provide additional information to help you answer the questions correctly., Even though you completed your application online, you still must mail the SSA certain documents to verify information contained in your application.For most of these documents, you must mail your originals – not copies. The SSA will make a copy of your original and return it to you.You want to mail your documents to your local SSA office. You can find the office's address by looking it up at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp. Type in your ZIP code to find the nearest Social Security office to you.
When you mail your documents, make sure you've included your Social Security number so the documents can be matched with your application. Send your documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when the office receives them., After all of your material is received, your application will be reviewed by an SSA representative to determine your eligibility.An SSA representative may call you to schedule an in-person interview or to request additional documentation. You also may have to complete an additional medical examination.Your application will be forwarded to your state's agency for review by medical and vocational experts to determine if you meet the disability criteria necessary for receiving benefits.