 Part of letting go is accepting change. If you were set on one particular outcome, letting go can be more difficult. Accepting change means moving out of living in the past and accepting your new present and future. Change is almost always uncomfortable at first, especially if you’re not the one making the changes. Once you move past the discomfort, consider moving into a place of accepting your circumstances.For example, if you wanted to buy a house but your offer was not accepted, acknowledge that you will not get the house. While you may feel disappointed, gather your efforts into looking at other houses that may also be a good fit.
 Think about the silver lining that may accompany letting go of what you cannot change. While you may feel devastated by the outcome of certain events or experience the pain of change and letting go, look for whatever positives can come from them.You may realize you’re much stronger and more resilient than you could have ever imagined. You may become clearer in the goals you want to pursue or what direction you want to take for your life. You may even recognize who your real and true friends are.
For example, if you’re struggling to let go of a breakup, you may realize that you have excellent support from friends who love you and help you through the hard times.
 If you need to forgive someone in order to move forward, do so. Perhaps you resent your parents for not being there for you as a child or are bitter about a recent divorce. If other people have hurt you and you’re struggling to let go because you still resent them, consider how forgiveness may help you accept what you cannot change. Forgiving someone doesn’t mean you excuse their behavior or forget what happened. Forgiveness is about releasing yourself from the pain someone else has caused you.For example, to a parent you can write or say, “You did your best, but I needed more from you when I was a child. Now that I’m an adult I can meet my own needs and forgive you for not being who I needed in the past.”
You don’t need to offer forgiveness or let someone know you forgive them. You can do it privately, even with someone who has passed on.

