 A refurbished laptop is one that has been maintained and repaired, often brought back to brand-new quality. A used laptop is one that has not been touched up at all. Because refurbished laptops have been examined and maintained, they are often more reliable than used laptops and, thus, less prone to breaking down immediately. However, refurbished laptops can be a bit more expensive and less available than used laptops.


There are 2 types of refurbished laptops: manufacturer refurbished and user refurbished. When a laptop is manufacturer refurbished, the laptop has been maintained enough that it has passed manufacturer quality standards. User refurbished laptops, however, have no guarantee of quality; they have simply been maintained by the user. In most every case, manufacturer refurbished laptops are the better choice.;
, Whether you purchase your laptop used or refurbished, you'll want to buy from a reputable source. When purchasing online from sites like eBay, reputable sources have a history of providing quality goods and will have high feedback ratings. When purchasing offline, you'll want to purchase a used laptop from someone who is knowledgeable with computers, as they will know the quality of the device better than someone who knows very little.
 Ignore cosmetic damages as much as you can. They may take away from the aesthetics, but they are inadequate indicators of laptop performance quality.


Do examine the laptop screen--while the laptop is on--to make sure there is no damage to the screen. Make sure that the colors are bright and stable. If certain areas of the screen are washed out or discolored, consider purchasing another laptop. LCD screens can be expensive to repair or replace.
Test the input ports--USB connections, headphone and microphone jacks, power cord inputs, etc.--and make sure that they are working correctly. Test the keyboard and the touchpad for proper responses. A laptop with unresponsive input ports or input devices will be a pain to work with and not worth buying.
If you are purchasing online, it may be difficult or impossible to check for these things. If the seller has posted up photographs of the used laptop, examine those as closely as you can. It is also recommended that you send specific questions to the seller regarding the laptop, such as the condition of the input ports, keyboard, touchpad, etc. Ask the seller to verify that each feature works.
 Whether the battery can hold a large charge or nothing at all shouldn't impact your purchasing decision very much. Weak battery life is often expected when purchasing a used laptop. However, knowing the battery's state when purchasing can help you decide how soon you'd like to replace it.
 In almost all cases, used laptops are reformatted and reset to factory conditions before they are sold. This may mean that the laptop arrives without any useful programs or drivers. Ask the seller which software programs come with the laptop if he doesn't include that information in his listing.
 Many people believe that used laptops, and used electronics in general, do not come with warranties. On the contrary, many used devices will come with warranties--they just won't be as comprehensive as warranties on a brand new device. Do not purchase if there is no warranty on a used laptop. At the very least, you'll want a 30-day warranty.

