 This is a very delicate process. It is very easy to mess this up, so follow these steps exactly as they are written.
 Depending on the kind of bacon you use, you may want to add a small amount of canola oil to help it if it doesn't have enough grease on its own. Let that cook until it becomes light brown. You don’t want the bacon to be too thick due to the fact that it won’t cook properly because it won’t have enough grease., Once it browns a little more remove pan and let sit on metal sheet., The chicken should be brown all around after several minutes of sitting and flipping occasionally. Once the onions are in, let that sit and the flavors will mix after another couple of minutes., Once this has sat again add the sauce to the mix, now stirring the mixture together. NOTE: While it may seem that the sauce may not be enough, eventually the juices from the chicken and the vegetables will add to the total and give a good orange color.,, You can use a strainer to drain the water from the rice. Repeat this and once the water has drained a second time add it to the pot that should now be beginning to boil., Do not look into the pot during this time. You should be able to hear the pot boiling after some time, once that happens turn down the heat and let it sit for around 20 minutes., Then let it sit on the heat.

Make sure you taste a bit of the rice every so often so you know when to stop cooking it. If the rice is still crunchy when you taste it, then you have to keep cooking the rice.
 If you want to make the sauce thicker you may want to add a teaspoon of flour to a cup of water and mix thoroughly (optional step)., Let that sit as you prepare the rice. Put the pan of bacon back on the stove and turn the heat on to heat it back up. If the rice is finished take it off the stove and put it on a large platter or metal sheet.

Sometimes the rice may stick to these platters, if you wish to avoid this you can place aluminum foil over the platter and the rice on top of that.
 After this mix the rice with some utensils until it has an even brown coloring. Add the bacon and the eggs to the rice and mix so that it is well distributed. Take the smaller cut scallions and mix them into the rice as well.