 Your child develops her fine motor skills through repetitive movements, as this builds her muscle memory. Fine motor skills are skills that are performed with smaller muscle groups, such as her fingers, wrists, and hands. These types of toys will also help your child improve her eye hand coordination and be more precise with her body movements.You should encourage the development of fine motor skills in your child at an early age, from infanthood into preschool. Reinforcing fine motor skills will allow your child to get used to small movements and give her strong agility skills.
 Play with small edible object is a great and easy way to improve fine motor skills in infants, especially as they are prone to put almost anything in their mouths.Give your child Cheerios and other small, chewable foods that she can play with in her high chair or when sitting on a clean floor. Encourage her to move the Cheerios around and pick them up and put them in her mouth. You can put the food in a bowl and have her pick them out of the bowl or on a cookie sheet with raised edges so she can play with them without making a big mess.
 Scrap printer paper can act as a useful fine motor skills toy as it allows your child to use her hands and arms. Avoid newspaper, as the newsprint can be dirty and get everywhere. Have your child rip up the paper into pieces and then count the pieces together to practice numbers with her.Make sure the paper is acid free and safe for use for children. You can also use felt pieces, cut into small bits if you are worried about your child putting paper in her mouth.
 Giving your child a musical instrument made for children’s play will allow your child to use all five of her senses. Playing a keyboard, even badly, can help you child improve her eye hand coordination and her control over her finger movements.Try to teach her how to hit the keys properly and to use her fingers properly on the keyboard. You can also teach your preschooler basic chords or basic songs like “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” on the keyboard to improve her listening and playing skills.
Another option is to get your child a set of toy drums so she can hit them with her hands and improve her eye hand coordination. A xylophone is another popular toy musical instrument for children that is good for developing fine motor skills.
 A cloth toy box is usually a small box made of cloth that contains smaller plastic toys. Your child can learn to open the box on her own and take out the smaller toys to play with them. This will allow her to work on her fine motor skills and understand how to open and close boxes. She can then also be taught to put the items back into the box during clean up time.You can add larger or more complex toys to the cloth toy box as your child grows older. You may decide to include puzzle pieces or toys that require critical thinking to challenge your child in her older years.
 This could be a plastic pyramid made of stackable pieces or stackable animal toys. Stackable toys allow your child to learn how to build a structure and put together pieces to form a whole.You can also give your child Legos as a way to improve her fine motor skills and learn how to put small pieces together.
 This could be a set of colored pieces that come in match-able pairs or printed cards that require your child to match an animal to the animal sound it makes. These types of games allow your child to improve her eye hand coordination and her critical thinking skills at the same time.