 First, you need a blank disc you can put your video into. You can buy a blank DVD from any audio or electronics store for less than $1 per disc or $10 per 10-piece packs.


You can choose between two disc sizes: 4 gigabyte or 8 gigabyte, depending on the length of the video you’ll put. A 4 GB disc is about enough for a movie-length video of an hour and a half; any more, and you’ll need to use the 8 GB.
 Drives are located in front of a CPU tower or along the sides of a laptop, depending on the make and model. Press the button on the drive to open it and insert the disc inside.


If you’re computer doesn't have a CD/DVD drive, like netbooks and some models of Mac computers, you can use an external CD/DVD drive instead, which you can purchase from any computer or electronics shop for around $20. There’s no need to install it; just plug it into any USB port on your computer and you can start using it.
 This will allow you to copy files and documents on your Mac to blank DVD discs.


You can download the Burn app from this link: http://burn-osx.sourceforge.net/Pages/English/home.html.
After the download, click the “Burn” app icon (black and yellow circle) inside the folder to launch it.
 Type in any name you want for your DVD disc on the text field provided. You can use alphanumeric characters when naming your disc.
 This will allow you to choose what kind of CD you’ll be burning. From the drop-down list, select DVD-Video since you’re making a DVD disc.
, Here, click the “Region” drop-down menu and select “NTSC” from the list.


Doing this sets the file format of the DVD disc you’re about to create so that DVD players will be able to read your disc. Press the red button at the upper left of the Options window to close it.
 Open it and select the video file. Once you’ve selected it, drag it over to the Burn window. Wait for a few moments while Burn loads the video file.


If an “Incompatible file” prompt appears as you move the video file to Burn’s window, simply click on “Convert” button on the prompt, and this will change the video file to a format the program recognizes.
 On the next window, select the right copying speed to burn the DVD. Click on the “Speed” drop-down list and select “4x.”


This will ensure you that the video will be copied to the DVD disc using the right speed without compromising quality. Click on “Burn” button again to begin the process.
Once the process is done, a DVD shortcut icon will be created on your desktop.

