 You need to brush your teeth at least twice a day with a soft toothbrush. Teeth can be damaged by brushing too hard or using toothbrushes with hard bristles. Leave the toothpaste in your mouth without rinsing. You should spit out the extra foam, but don’t rinse your mouth out with water. You want to give the minerals some time to be absorbed onto your teeth.


Don’t forget to brush your tongue.;
, You need to floss your teeth daily. Use about 18 inches of floss. Wind most of the floss around the middle finger of one hand and the rest around the middle finger of the other hand. Hold the floss firmly between your thumb and your forefinger and gently guide the floss between all your teeth using a gently back and forth motion. You need to curve the floss around the bottom of each tooth.


Once the floss is between the teeth, use a gentle up-and-down motion to rub each side of each tooth. When you are done with one tooth, unwind more floss and move on to the next tooth., Before you go through the steps for remineralization, make sure you actually need to. Make an appointment with a dentist to check the health of your teeth. After you start the process, you will need to continue seeing your dentist to make sure these methods are helping. This can only be determined by a dental examination.


You should see your dentist regularly. This will keep your teeth healthier. You should also get your teeth professionally cleaned as much as is recommended by your dentist.
 When you visit the dentist, she will evaluate your dental health and assess how well you are caring for your teeth and gums. The dentist will also determine if there is a risk for cavities. This will involve a teeth exam and some X-rays. She may also ask you to swish a fluoridated remineralization solution in your mouth for a few minutes.


The dentist will also look for any signs of cancer or jaw problems.
 The dentist will let you know if your teeth need remineralization. If your teeth do need remineralization, discuss your plans with the dentist so they know about them. Only a dentist can confirm your teeth are remineralized.

