 Dry ice is very cold and should never be handled directly. Protective, insulated or leather gloves should be worn while handling the ice. An oven mitt or towel is also sufficient to protect your skin.Prolonged direct contact to dry ice can freeze your skin cells and cause an injury similar to a burn.If possible, use tongs to transfer the dry ice to different locations.
 Dry ice can be obtained in a pellet or block form. During production, the dry ice is in contact with many potential contaminants that can be hazardous to your health.For many applications, these contaminants are not hazardous as the items that are being kept cool will not be consumed.


If you are using the dry ice to keep your food cold, make sure that you get food grade dry ice that is contaminant free.
Food that comes in direct contact with the dry ice is perfectly safe and can be consumed without worry. As dry ice warms up, it turns directly in the gas carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is what gives the fizz to a sodaand is perfectly safe to consume in these small amounts.
Do not put dry ice directly into drinks or food that will be consumed as this can cause severe burns to the mouth and throat., Dry ice is much colder than the temperature of your freezer or refrigerator. If possible, avoid having the food in direct contact with the dry ice, particularly in the refrigerator. Wrapping the dry ice in newspaper also adds an extra layer of insulation that can make the block last longer.Dry ice will freeze any food it comes in direct contact with.
 If you lose power and you don’t want to lose all of the food in your refrigerator, dry ice is the best way to keep your food from spoiling. It is particularly useful if you know you will not have power for a few days. The placement of the dry ice is important: in a freezer, the dry ice should be placed above the food. When using dry ice in the refrigerator, place the block at the bottom of the freezer.Do not put dry ice in a functioning freezer or refrigerator. Because the dry ice is much colder than the temperature of the freezer, the freezer will turn off.Avoid placing dry ice near plastic or glass containers as the dry ice can freeze the container and cause them to crack or break., Frozen carbon dioxide sublimates into a gas, skipping the liquid phase. Dry ice must be contained in a cooler, fridge, or freezer that allows this gas to escape. Storing dry ice in an airtight container can lead to a hazardous buildup of gas and can be an explosion hazard.