 This is usually between 125º—200ºF (50º—90ºC).


A higher temperature risks scorching the outside and not drying the inside.;
, To make chips, slice the bananas into 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) rounds. To make wedges, cut the banana lengthwise, then lengthwise again, and slice into desired length.NOTE: Wedges can take up to 12 hours to dry! Start preparing them in the morning so you don't risk starting a fire overnight. Chips dry much more quickly.
For extra crispy chips, slice the bananas into 1/8 inch rounds instead (0.3 cm). This may be easier with a mandoline.
If the bananas are mushy and difficult to slice, chill them in the fridge for 5-10 minutes to firm them up.You don't even need a knife to make wedges! Work your finger into the end of the peeled banana and it should divide into three segments.It doesn't matter if the banana breaks in the process. You'll want it in smaller lengths anyway.
For a large quantity of bananas, soaking them in lemon juice for several minutes before slicing will save you preparation time, but the additional moisture will add time to the baking stage., This will add flavor and vitamins, but the main purpose is to prevent the bananas from turning brown.


If you don't mind brown chips, you can skip this step.
Brushing the juice onto both sides of the bananas will also work.
Pineapple juice, lime juice, or any other acidic juice will work instead. You can even use vitamin C tablets crushed in water.
If you don't like the flavor of the juice, dilute it in a 1:4 ratio with water and soak the bananas for 3-5 minutes.
 This raised wire platform exposes every side of the banana to the air and allows excess moisture to drip through. Also ready a cookie sheet or baking pan to place beneath it.


The bananas should be in a single layer, not stacked atop each other. It's fine if their edges are touching.
If you don't have a wire rack, cover a cookie sheet with parchment paper or spray it with a nonstick cooking spray. This method will be less effective at removing moisture, and could take many hours longer (especially for wedges). You can mitigate this by leaving the oven door a few inches ajar to allow moisture to escape.An electric fan kept next to the open oven door will also help air circulate., A sprinkling of sea salt or kosher salt adds a great savory flavor, perfect for eating on their own.
 Use the center rack of the oven and be careful not to drop any slices onto the oven floor.


If using a wire rack, place the baking sheet in the oven first to catch drips, then place the rack on top of the baking sheet.
 For chips, this will take 1 to 3 hours. Wedges will take 6 to 12 hours. The longer you bake them, the crispier they will be.


Flip the bananas over once about halfway through the baking process. This will dry each side evenly and is especially important if the bananas are placed directly on a baking sheet.
The bananas will become crispier as they cool, so remove them when they're still a little softer than you would like.
 They won't be completely dry or crunchy until they're cooled to room temperature.


If you don't have a wire rack, a dish-drying rack can work instead. An ordinary plate will still do in a pinch.
 If completely dried, they should stay good for months.

