 Growling puts more strain on your throat than possibly any other type of singing. It involves your vocal chords less, but it can give you a sore throat pretty quickly. It's not always necessary to warm up your local chords with fancy exercises, but warming up your throat a little is important. Never start cold.


Drink warm tea with honey to help warm up your throat. Avoid drinking things like soda and milk, which can make your throat kind of mucous-coated, making it hard to sing.
Don't smoke. Lots of inexperienced singers think a couple cigarettes is the fast-track to a rough voice. It's really the fast-track to addiction and disease. The proper form will work a lot better.
 Even though they're hard to make out, eventually, you'll probably want to be growling lyrics instead of random syllables, right? To work on this, pick out some of your favorite metal lyrics and practice phrasing them and forming them in your growled technique.


Don't try to make it sound just like the original singer. Everyone's growl is different. If your's is lower or higher, that's not a bad thing. Embrace your unique voice.
If you don't want to ape someone else's song, pick a passage from a book you're reading, or some old English poetry that rhymes and might sound cool death metal style. It's just practice.

Write your own metal lyrics, if you want to work with something original. Good themes always include death, demons, dragons, snakes, winter, bitterness, and darkness. Go for it.
 Form the voice with your mind, express it with your folds. Don't try to force the vocal folds to do what they shouldn't do. Keep your throat relaxed.


Intense growling shouldn't hurt. If it does, revise your technique and make sure you're breathing from your diaphragm.
When you start out growling, you use muscles that you never used before at such a strong level. If the muscles around your neck or throat are tired, stop growling until its over and start again.
 This is a lot like lifting weights at the gym. You use your muscles much more intensely than normal and then wait for them to restore before using them at a higher level each time. If you stop growling for a long period of time, your growling skills will decrease.


If you pick up on growling after a long break, take it easy, as your stamina will be much worse. Though, you will redevelop much faster than the first time.
 This is a really helpful way to find whether or not you're hitting the right volume, pitch and style. It's recommended to record, listen and listen again only after few hours, so your mind will be able to spot even the smallest mistakes.


It doesn't need to be fancy, or along with a musical track. Just use your phone and see how it sounds, or open up a GarageBand file or an Audacity file and sing along to a song you like to get a better sense.
 Black metal type of vocals may hurt if pushing too hard or after very long and intense sessions. Practice no more than 10-15 minutes a day in the beginning, it will take time for your vocal chords to adjust to the abuse and eventually you will sound better.


If it hurts badly in the beginning though, stop and revise your technique. Maybe you're pushing too much.

