 Do this by clicking on the Steam icon on your PC. If you’ve set it to automatic login, the client should load up without you having to login again. If not, the client will ask for your Steam ID and password.;
, Once in the Steam client, click on the “Store” header at the top. It will open the store window, and the search box at the upper right corner will allow you to search for a game.
 The DLC should appear in the results. Choose the one titled “The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn” among the results.


Enter your birthdate on the menu that appears to confirm that you are old enough to play the game.
 Under “Buy the Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn,” you will see the pricing, and the “Add to Cart” button in green. Click “Add to Cart.” Make sure you have enough funds in your steam wallet to purchase the game. A notification will appear, and it should allow you to choose to proceed to checkout to buy the DLC pack.


You can then press “Confirm” in the invoice box, allowing you to obtain the game in your Steam library. Now

, Click on “Library” from the headers, and you should see the DLC on the list.
 Click on it and press “Play.” The DLC should download, and you will be able to play the DLC once it completes by running the original Skyrim game in your Library.
 On the XBOX 360 dashboard, which appears right after turning the system on, you will be able to scroll through the dashboard headers by pressing up on the D-pad.


Navigate to the games header, and press the “A” button.
Navigate to the “Browse Games” tile, and press “A” to select it. You will then be taken to the XBOX 360 game store, where you can search for the DLC. The game will be sorted according to category, and you will need to select the A-Z arrangement to make it quicker to look for the DLC pack.
Once you have the game highlighted, select it by pressing “A” on your controller. You will see some options, and you will want to highlight “Purchase with credit card” to buy the DLC.
Enter your purchasing details, like card number and security digits, and your game will be ready for download.
Head back to the games section of your XBOX 360 dashboard by pressing “Back” on the controller. You will then be able to ply the main Skyrim game with the DLC downloaded and playable.
 On the PS3 home screen, use the controller directional pad buttons to navigate the menu. Head to the PlayStation Network (PSN) icon on the far right of the menu.


Press the down button on the d-pad to select the PlayStation Store, with the shopping bag icon and press “X.” You will be asked to log into your PSN account if you haven’t already, so key in the credentials to enter the store.
You will be taken to the PlayStation Store home screen, where you can keep pressing “UP” to highlight the menu bar at the top. Press “Right” to get to Search, and press “X.”
On the search bar, you can type “Dragonborn” and press “Start” to search for the DLC. When the results come up, you can select the game by highlighting its portrait and pressing “X.”
A floating window will come up, displaying info like Size, Genre, etc., along with the pricing. Highlight the price. Press “X” to purchase the game using your purchasing method that you set up when you made your PSN account.
The DLC will then begin to download, the progress of which you will see in the Game menu on the home screen. Once the download is finished, you can launch the main Skyrim game and begin playing the DLC missions from there.
 To be able to start the DLC, you must have at least completed the main quest line in Windhelm.
 Head to Windhelm and talk to the Greybeards. Take their quests until you complete the “Horn of Jurgen Windcaller” quest.
 There are two ways to start Dragonborn. The first is to have a cultist attack you.


Once you’ve completed the “Horn of Jurgen Windcaller” quest, go to the nearest city or town.
Walk around for about 15 in-game minutes. A cultist should show himself and try to assassinate you. Kill him.
Search the body. You will find a note that is evidence of the cultist having been ordered to kill you. The note will instigate the quest, which will leave a quest marker for you to follow.
 This is the second way to begin Dragonborn. First, head to Windhelm. This city is northeast of Skyrim.


Speak with Gjalun Salt-Sage. He can be found at the docks on the outskirts of the town, working on one of the ships.
Ask him for a ride to Solstheim, and the Dragonborn quest should then begin.

