 A Roth IRA is a great choice for consolidating retirement accounts. Consider the following factors when deciding whether a Roth IRA is right for you:If you want to dip into your account, you can withdraw Roth IRA contributions without paying income taxes or a penalty for early withdrawal. However, withdrawing any earnings will incur taxes and a possibly a penalty.
If you think your income will be higher in retirement than it is presently, contributing to a Roth IRA is preferable to contributing to a traditional IRA.
 Many companies provide Roth IRAs. You can research them online or talk to an investment professional. When looking at Roth IRAs, consider the following:


How easy it is to transfer money into the account. Some companies will require that you get a check from your old account and then transfer it. Others will make the transfer without much work on your end.
Whether there is an account minimum. Some providers will require a minimum amount before they’ll open an account. Check to see if you have enough to contribute in order to open the account.
If there are fund minimums. You invest money in individual funds. For example, you might choose a real estate fund or a large cap equities fund. Some funds might have minimum investment amounts., You can typically open a Roth IRA on the provider’s website. You will need to provide the following personal information:name
Social Security number
date of birth
contact information
employment information

, Contact the plan administrator for any account you want to roll over into your new Roth IRA.Find the phone number on the paperwork you gathered before starting the process. You will probably have to complete paperwork to authorize the transfer.


Remember to hold onto copies of all forms before you submit them.
 You might get a check directly from your traditional IRA or employer-sponsored plan. You will need to deposit the check into your Roth IRA account. Don’t delay. You must roll over the money within 60 days or else pay taxes and a potential 10% early withdrawal penalty.One way to avoid these time limits is to ask for a trustee-to-trustee transfer. You will instruct the administrator to transfer the money you selected into the Roth IRA. This is the easiest method, and the one you should choose if possible.
If you created a Roth IRA with the trustee who holds your traditional IRA, then you can request a same-trustee transfer. Your trustee will move money between the accounts.
 You’ll probably have to pay some taxes on the money you transferred. For example, if you had money in a tax-deferred account, such as a 401(k) or traditional IRA, then you contributed money to those accounts on a pre-tax basis. Now you will need to report the amounts and pay taxes.


You’ll receive Form 1099-R, which will show how much you need to report to the IRS.Use a worksheet to determine how much tax you must pay.

