 Send your message to the teacher's professional, school-issued email account, unless he/she has provided you with a personal address. Your teacher may have given you an email address in the course syllabus. If not, you'll need to track it down yourself. If your school has a website, check the "Faculty" page or the contact page for the teacher's particular department. Consider simply asking your teacher for his/her email!


If you can't ask in person, and you can't find the email on the school website: try asking around. One of your friends or classmates might know. Ask the school secretary, or other teachers, or even parents.
Deduce the email address. School-issued email addresses often follow a pattern: for instance, @yourschool.edu, or just @yourschool.org. If you know that Mr. Blumpton's email address is mblumpton@yourschool.org, then it might be safe to assume that Mrs. Audrey Pratt's email address is apratt@yourschool.org.
 Make sure that the address is entered correctly. Check that you've said everything that you need to say. Consider running a spell-check before you click "Send." Once you have sent the email, check the "Sent" box to be sure that the message went through., Teachers are often busy people, and you should not expect an immediate response. If your concern is very complicated, or not very urgent, then you might be waiting for a few days. It might take your teacher longer to respond if you send your email over the weekend or during a holiday.


Try to figure it out on your own. If you're emailing your teacher with a question about the course material, look for another source. Refer to the Internet, a textbook, a library, or a classmate.
Send a follow-up email if you have an urgent question that you can't otherwise resolve. Be brief and polite. Acknowledge the first email, explain why you need to know the answer as soon as possible, and say, "I just wanted to check back with you in case you didn't get my first email!" Do not send more than one follow-up email.

