 This helps to ensure that your data does not get lost in the update. It is recommended to back up your device to iCloud or iTunes.To back up your device to iCloud, connect to a Wi-Fi network. Then, tap Settings, and after that, tap iCloud. Finally, tap Storage and Backup. Turn on iCloud Backup, if it is not already turned on. Then, tap Back Up Now. Keep your device connected to the Wi-Fi network the entire time. Check to ensure the backup completed by returning to Storage and tapping Manage Storage. Your latest backup will appear there.To back up your device to iTunes, open iTunes and connect your device to your computer using its USB cable. Next, save any content you have downloaded by clicking File and then Devices. From there, click Transfer Purchases and wait for iTunes to complete the process. After that, go back to File and then Devices. This time, click Back Up. Wait for iTunes to complete the backup process. You can check that it stored, after it is done, by clicking iTunes Preferences and then Devices. Your back up will appear on the list., Doing so ensures that you are up-to-date with both iTunes and the iOS update that will go onto your device.


Open iTunes and click Account. Then, click Check for Available Downloads.If a new version of iTunes appears on the list, follow the instructions for installing the update.
 When your computer has read your device, click on the device icon on the left side of iTunes, toward the top left corner.
 iTunes will show you a page for your device detailing storage space, updates, back up information, and more. At the top, you will see a button to update below your device's name., When you click the Update button, a pop-up window will appear, giving you the option to click Download Only or Download and Update.If you do not need your device for a period of time, then it is safe to click Download and Update, as the installation of iOS 7 will make it unusable for a short period of time.
If you do need your device, then it is best to click Download Only. You can install the update later, when it is a more convenient time to do so.
 Disconnecting your device will cause the update to crash, and it will not fully install.


If your device disconnects, try the update again by repeating the steps above, starting with Step 3. You should be able to start your update again. If you run into error messages, then check your connection with your USB cable, make sure you are updated to the latest version of iTunes, and check your Internet connection. Other steps you can take include restarting your device and/or your computer., When the device restarts, that indicates that the device no longer needs to be connected to your computer and to iTunes.Be sure to properly eject your device from iTunes by clicking the eject symbol, which is a horizontal dash with an upward-pointing arrow above it.
 You will now be able to configure settings for iOS 7 on your device.Passcode
Location Services
iCloud
iMessage
FaceTime

