 Skating does tend to be unsteady, and you will fall often when first learning to skate, and also when learning new elements (moves), especially jumps.;
, Watch videos of Olympic skaters -- plenty of them fall during their programs, and they're usually well enough to get up immediately and continue.
 The reason most falls don't result in injury is that skaters are used to falling.


Most learn to skate programs cover this in the first lesson. You simply do a "dip" (squat) and then drop onto your backside.
 Falling means you're learning. Let go. If you really let go of all feelings, you will be a swan on ice.


In any fall, try to avoid hitting your head.
 This will also reduce the risk of injury, and also increase your confidence.


Check your skates' (whether rented or your own) fit. Get a skate fitter to do this -- if you're buying skates, the skate shop owner can guide you, and for rentals the skate hire desk may be able to help.
If the blades on the rental skates are very blunt, they will be difficult to skate in. If possible, get your own skates (new or used) so that you can use sharp blades.
Avoid skating in loose-fitting pants. Leggings or stockings are better, as you can catch your blades in loose jeans or trousers, resulting in a potentially dangerous, tangled fall.
Consider wearing body protection such as a helmet and/or knee pads. Although figure skaters don't wear helmets in competition, if you're not competing this is not a worry. Even if you do eventually want to compete, consider wearing a helmet while beginning (although practice skating without the helmet before the competition).
Other body protection available includes hip, wrist and tailbone protection, which you can buy online or in skate shops.
 If it's your first time, don't worry if you hold onto the barrier for some, most or even all of the session.
 The barrier can be useful for practising some moves (such as turns, glides, crossovers and waltz jumps), however, it can also become a crutch to learning to do them independently.


Set limits on barrier use. For example, "I'm going to practise my three turn five times at the barrier, then go and do it without support."
Be careful using the barrier. It can be dangerous. If you're not actively holding the barrier, it is probably safer to skate further away from it -- you have almost no chance of grabbing it during a fall, and you're likely to hit it and get injured worse than if you'd fallen unobstructed in the middle of the ice.
Basically, don't skate near the barrier as a support unless you are actually holding onto it.
 Can't do crossovers because you're too nervous? Practise your outside edge glides, crossovers standing still, and crossovers holding the barrier (see notes on barrier use above).


Don't worry if you can do something one day, but can't do it the next time you skate. Try practising the preliminary steps to build your confidence.
 This helps you get the "feel" of the ice, especially if you haven't skated for a while.
 This is depending on where you want to go with skating. If you just want to be able to let go of the barrier and keep up with your friends during public skate, you don't need to skate every day or even every week to achieve that. However, if you're aiming to do eventually jumps and compete, you may need to skate a few times a week.


If you've just learnt a new element and you're worried about "losing" it due to lack of confidence, try to skate as soon as possible after it. For example, if you learn your three turn on Monday, and you usually wouldn't skate again until Friday, you could try to skate on Tuesday or Wednesday (if possible).
 If you're over 18, your rink might offer lessons especially for adult beginners. There won't be kids skating around you fast, and the lesson may be more empty. The coach will probably be understanding that starting skating can be more scary for adults and older teens, as they are more aware of risks.
 It's not necessary if you're only skating recreationally, but one-on-one lessons can help with confidence.


If you can't do private lessons, investigate the different group classes available. Many rinks offer beginner skating on multiple days, and you might find, for example, that weekday afternoon lessons are often emptier than the weekend classes. If you can get to the less crowded class, you'll get less crowded ice and more attention.

