 Partners to play canasta can be chosen and the dealer determined by drawing cards from a spread deck as in contract bridge, with the 2 highest draws and 2 lowest draws partnering, and the highest draw choosing the dealer.
 You will be working with 2 decks (both with jokers). The remaining 64 cards become the draw pile, or stock.
 This card forms the discard pile, or pack. Players may, in turn, draw the top card from either the stock or the pack. If a player takes the top card from the discard pile, he also takes the cards underneath it.


Throughout the game, you see cards come and go that you want. You'll have to determine whether taking the whole pile is worth the few cards you want.
If the card turned over is a red 3 (3 of hearts, 3 of diamonds) or a wild card (joker or deuce), the discard pile cannot be taken (it's "frozen").
 A turn consists of drawing a card from the draw pile or taking the discard pile, attempting to create or add to an existing meld and discarding a card –(unless the player has no cards left after melding).


As discussed previously, a meld consists of 3 or more cards of the same rank (e.g., all kings, all jacks, all 10s). No more than 3 of the cards in a meld can be wild cards (jokers or deuces), and wild cards cannot be melded by themselves. A meld of 7 or more cards is a canasta; each team must complete at least 1 canasta before its players have gotten rid of all the cards in their hands (gone out).
Red 3s (3 of hearts, 3 of diamonds) cannot be included in a meld, and black 3s (3 of spades, 3 of clubs) can only be melded by themselves – but only if this permits the player to go out.
Players can add only to their own or their partner's melds, not to an opponent's meld.
A player can take the discard pile instead of drawing a card from the discard pile only if he or she can use the pile's top card in a new or existing meld in that turn.
A player can prevent the next player from taking the discard pile by discarding a black 3 or wild card to end his or her turn.
 Each card has a point value, as described below. The first meld must be 50 points. As the scores progress, the first meld's value increases.


If a team's total score is from 0 to 1,495 points, their initial meld must be worth at least 50 points. If their total is from 1,500 to 2,995, it must be worth at least 90. If their total is over 3,000, it must be worth at least 120. (However, if the team has a negative score, the minimum is reduced to 15.) Only the top card from the discard pile, if it is taken to make the initial meld, may be counted toward making the minimum. Until a team can make an initial meld that meets the minimum value, including or excluding the pack's top card, neither player can take the discard pile.
If a player plays an initial meld that fails to meet the minimum, the cards must be taken back and the team's minimum is raised by 10 points.
 If no one has gone out by the time all the cards in the stock have been drawn, play continues as long as someone can take the top card of the discard pile and put it with a new or existing meld. However, no player down to a single card can take a discard pile of a single card.
 Each team scores points for the cards in all the melds it has made. Points are also awarded for having red 3s, making canastas and going out. Scores are added to scores accumulated in previous rounds.


Each canasta made without wild cards (natural canasta) earns 500 points, while each canasta made with wild cards (mixed canasta) earns 300.
A player who goes out by melding all his or her cards in 1 turn (concealed) earns 200 points, while a player going out after melding on several successive turns (unconcealed) earns 100 points.
Red 3s score 100 points each; if a team has all 4 red 3s, they earn 800 points. However, if a team has red 3s but no melds, they are penalized 100 points for each red 3.

Subtract the total value of any cards remaining in a team's hands from their total score.
 The first team to do so wins. If neither team has done so, the cards are shuffled and the previous 6 steps are repeated.

