 Give your greyhound a few days at home with you and your family before you have company. Greyhounds need time to adjust to a new home and living with new people. Your greyhound will be both fearful and excited.If you have children, supervise their interaction with your greyhound for the first few days. Greyhounds may not be used to playing and interacting with children.
Your greyhound may also follow you around for the first few weeks. This helps your greyhound know that you will be a permanent presence in his life.
 Most greyhounds have never been left alone and are used to being housed in a kennel with other greyhounds. Your greyhound will prefer to sleep in a room with you or another family member. Do not have your greyhound sleep in a room all alone.Greyhounds are social animals that love being around people.
Sleeping alone can cause your greyhound to be scared or try to run away.
Sleeping in the same room helps your greyhound learn to trust you and become comfortable around you.
 Most likely, your greyhound is used to relieving himself on a set schedule and will bring that schedule to your home. Take your greyhound outside as soon as he wakes up. If your greyhound has an accident in your house, use a verbal reprimand. When your greyhound uses the bathroom outside, give praise and encouragement for doing the right thing.Do not hit your greyhound or put his nose in the accident. Greyhounds are too sensitive for this type of punishment.
Follow your greyhound's schedule for the first few weeks. You can begin to adjust the schedule to yours.
If your greyhound paces, walks in circle, walks to the door and looks back at you, stands by the door, or barks, you need to take your greyhound outside.
 Have your greyhound wear a plastic muzzle when introduced to other animals (i.e. cats, other dogs) inside or outside of the home. Use a muzzle that is made for greyhounds that will allow your dog to do everything but bite or eat.You cannot predict how your greyhound will interact with other animals. Also keep your greyhound on a leash when introducing him to new animals for the first time.


Teeth clicking and snapping and alert ears are signs that your greyhound is curious.
If your greyhound trembles, drools, or stares intently, your greyhound may not be able to live with other small animals.
 Take your greyhound by the collar and place his paw against the glass and/or mirror. This will teach your greyhound that there is an object there even though he cannot see it. You must also teach your greyhound how to walk on stairs. Grab your greyhounds paws and show the motion required to walk up and down the stairs.Be patient when you teach your greyhound these concepts. It will take time to learn.
Do not force your greyhound to walk up or down the stairs. Your greyhound may become injured.
Give your greyhound a lot of praise when you are walking the stairs.
Keep your greyhound on a leash when learning to walk down the stairs.