 The best way to start detoxing your colon is to eliminate the foods that are causing problems. Start to eliminate all the foods that are a burden to your liver and your colon. This includes coffee, white sugar, white flour, dairy, and alcohol.


Stop eating processed sweets, which are full of white sugar and flour. Also avoid excess amounts of cheese or ice cream.;
, There are certain foods that will help you detox your body. These include vegetables in the Brassica family, such as broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, and cabbage. These vegetables contain many nutrients and specific complexes called sulforaphanes that are very important in helping your body detox. Also make sure to eat plenty of fiber, because fiber-rich foods scrub the walls of the colon and push food through the intestines quickly. Some great high-fiber foods are green vegetables, apples, berries, and brown rice.High fiber consumption can improve colon health by helping remnants inside the colon pass through.
 If you have never been tested for food intolerances, you may want to visit a doctor or natural doctor to have this done. Eating foods that your body has an intolerance to slows down colon functioning and increases the likelihood of bowel toxicity.
 There are certain foods that will help reduce the toxins in your blood. Studies have shown that chlorophyll reduces the absorption of toxins and helps with toxin excretion. Dark, leafy greens are very high in chlorophyll. Increase your intake of spinach, kale, collard greens, parsley, wheatgrass and seaweed.Try incorporating these into every meal. Add your eggs to a bed of steamed kale or throw some spinach and wheatgrass in a smoothie. You can also buy dried seaweed chips as a snack.
 Probiotics are good for overall colon health and also specifically help with detoxification. Probiotics decrease an enzyme in your body that causes your colon to hold onto toxins instead of excreting them. While it is a good idea to take a probiotic capsule every day for general health, you may want to take one to two extra probiotic capsules per day during a colon cleanse.You can also get probiotics through yogurt and other foods as well.
 Most people should drink half their body weight in ounces per day for optimal bowel health. This means that, for example, you weigh 140 pounds, you need to drink 70 ounces of water per day, especially if you want to increase your colon health.This may seem like a lot of water, but if you incorporate a glass or two every few hours, it won't seem like so much. Don't try to drink it all at once. This can make you very sick.
It is especially important to increase water intake when increasing fiber intake or taking a fiber supplement. The added fiber in the diet needs added water consumption in order to digest properly.

