 All genuine Ray-Ban products are crafted from high-quality materials using the finest manufacturing processes. Notably, the plastic body of Ray-Ban sunglasses are cut from a single piece of acetate and are hand-polished. Because of this, you shouldn't be able to detect any nicks, rough spots, or especially seams on your glasses. These are after-products from cheap manufacturing processes and are dead giveaways that a pair of "Ray-Bans" aren't what they are being billed as.Seams can be anywhere on a fake pair of Ray-Bans, but they're especially likely to be on the places where the mold used to create the plastic closed — namely, the upper edges of the glasses above the lenses and the tops of the "arms" that rest on your ears.;
, Take your Ray-Bans in your hands. Turn them over a few times. Gently toss them an inch or two up and catch them.They should have some weight to them and feel solid and substantial. They shouldn't feel unusually light, thin, or fragile. If your glasses seem like they may not be heavy enough to keep a few pieces of loose paper from blowing away, there's a good chance they're not real.


Real Ray-Bans have metal support struts inside the “arms” that sit on your ears that are responsible for much of their weight. If you have a model with transparent arms (like, for instance, the Clubmaster Squares), you should be able to see this metal. If you can’t, you’ll know you’ve been wearing fakes.
 Take your glasses off and look at them from the front. give the lenses a few gentle flicks with your fingernail. If they have the look, feel, and "clinking" sound of genuine glass, this is a good sign — many Ray-Bans use real glass for their lenses. Non-glass lenses don't necessarily mean that your glasses are fake, however, unless they're obviously cheap-looking, cloudy, or poor-quality.


If your lenses don’t feel like glass, don’t panic — some models of Ray-Bans have non-glass lenses but are still made from the highest quality materials.To be clear, perfectly clear, glass lenses are a sign that your glasses are probably real, but non-glass lenses don’t necessarily mean they aren’t.
 Open the glasses and look at them from the back. The hinges in the corners of the glasses should be of good-quality metal construction. They should be cleanly bolted to the glasses, not glued on or held in place with cheap plastic — as noted above, these are signs of cheap, rushed manufacturing processes.


Many — but not all — Ray-Bans have a distinctive metal hinge that contains seven interlocking metal "teeth".Seeing this is a good sign, but its absence shouldn't be cause for concern, as other types of high-quality metal hinges are sometimes used (for instance, for Ray-Ban's Aviators and Clubmasters).
 Look at your glasses from the front. If you're wearing most models of Wayfarers of Clubmasters, you should see small, silver, horizontal diamond or oval-shaped marks in the corners of the eyes. These should be sharp, shiny, and well-made. You shouldn't be able to scratch any of the shiny material off and they shouldn't seem like they can be easily removed. If the engravings don't look very well-made, there's a good chance that the glasses aren't, either.
 Most models of Ray-Ban glasses will have a small, almost-imperceptible "RB" etched in the trademark Ray-Ban font on one of the lenses. This will be small and near the edge of the lens, but it may be easier to see if you shine a light at the glasses from an angle. If your glasses are fakes, you may not be able to see this at all or it may appear smudged or sloppily-etched.


Note, however, that some pre-2000 models may have a “BL” etching. This stands for “Bausch & Lomb,” the company that originally owned Ray-Ban. In 1999, Bausch & Lomb sold Ray-Ban to the Italian company Luxottica.This new ownership is reflected on the labelling and packaging of modern Ray-Bans (see below).
 Every part of a genuine pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses if made from high-quality materials — even the little pads that sit on your nose when you wear the glasses. These should be made of a firm, comfortable rubbery material. They shouldn't feel fragile, slick, slimy, or easy-to-remove.


You may also want to look for small "RB" logos embossed on the metal centers of the nose pads. These are included on many (but not all) Ray-Bans as a sign of quality., Take off your glasses and look at them from the side. There should be a cursive "Ray-Ban" logo on the temple portion of the glasses. Look at this closely — it should be cleanly, professionally attached, sitting more or less flush against the "arm" of the glasses. If the logo itself seems poorly-made or stuck onto the side of the glasses with glue or pins, your glasses are probably not genuine.


Obviously, for Ray-Ban models with very thin temple "arms", like Aviators, no logo is present.
 Look at the inside of the "arms" of the glasses that rest on your ears. If you have Wayfarers or Clubmasters, you should see white text inside the arms. On the left arm, you'll see your glasses' serial and manufacturing numbers. On the right arm, you should see the Ray-Ban logo, "Made in Italy", and a stylized "CE" (which signifies that the glasses are certified to be sold in Europe). If this text is missing, smudged, or poorly-printed, your glasses are almost certainly fakes.


If you still have your Ray-Bans' original packaging, check to make sure the serial numbers on the glasses match the ones on the box's label. If they don't, this is a sure sign of foul play.
Again, because the "arms" of Aviators are so thin, no text is present inside the arms of these models.

