 The boot is the connector that connects the spark plug wire to the engine. Grasp it and carefully pull it out to detach the spark plug.









Do not pull out more than one spark plug at once. Each spark plug must be connected in a specific place. If you pull them all out at once, you might have trouble figuring out where to reattach them, and that could lead to big trouble for your car. If you want to pull out more than one at once, write down or label each spark plug wire before you take it off. This is important, as on an 8 cylinder engine, you can easily forget which wire goes where.
Do not pull the spark plug out by the wire. Make sure you grasp and the boot. If you pull on the wire you could damage it, and new wires cost a few hundred bucks to replace.Twist the boot to aid in removing the spark plug boot from the plug.
If the boot is hard to pull out, you may need to use a pair of boot pliers to nudge it out.
 Spark plugs that are installed in center of the head, often through a well in the valve cover, need an extra step for inspection. When removing the plug boot, inspect the end to see if it is covered in oil. If not, look down the well with a flashlight and check for oil as well. If oil is found on the spark plug or valve cover, a valve cover reseal might be in order. You don't want oil to get in the cylinder, for damage may occur.
 Fit the socket wrench with the spark plug socket, and place the socket around the old spark plug. Turn it counterclockwise to unscrew the socket. It should come off easily. If you feel resistance, stop, move the wrench backward, and start over; forcing the plug to unscrew could cause damage to the setting.









When initially trying to loosen a plug, it could take some force to break it loose. If the vehicle is equipped with iron heads, and the plugs have been installed for a while, there could be some resistance along with some noise while removing the plug.
If the engine is equipped with aluminum heads, the plug should break lose and then come out easily. If the engine has aluminum heads and you are using a lot of force to remove the plug, stop and screw it back in, as it means the threads are damaged already. There is a good chance that the head might have to be removed to be repaired.
 The area where the spark plug screws into the wires should be free of dirt and debris before you install the new plug. Use rubbing alcohol and a rag to wipe away any grime before you continue.









Take a look at the electrode end of the old plug. Check to see if there is a carbon buildup on the electrode, or if the gap is filled with dirt. If it is oily, you may have worn rings, and you probably need to take your car to a mechanic to get them replaced. If the plug is tan, the engine is working properly.
Take a look at the porcelain in the center of the plug and look at the color. On most modern cars the color should be tan or an off white.

