 Whenever and wherever you're out walking, jogging, taking the dog for a walk, etc. and you're by yourself, keep your wits about you the whole time and stay observant. Your first defense against anyone who might try to attack you is to be aware of their presence.


Take the time to glance around you and behind you now and then. Try to do it every 30-60 seconds. Is anything out of place or is there anything of possible concern? In much the same way you intuit that someone is "checking you out", it's also very usual to be able to pick up on someone--or something--not being right, including being "checked out" for all the wrong reasons.;
, If your intuition/instinct/reason informs you that you are likely being followed, then it makes sense to test your guess. A few ways to do this include:


Cross the street, pretending that you actually need to cross the street, and see if the person does the same.
Speed up slowly and see if the person does the same.
Don't assume that just because the person hasn't quickly copied you that they're not speeding up to keep up––bring your instinct into play as well. If you consider that this person has been following you for several minutes or you feel rather unsafe, then it's time to act. Never ignore your feelings.
 This is not the time to panic––you need to think clearly so that you can put yourself out of harm's way. Tell yourself: "Okay, calm down and don't panic. I can deal with this right now." If someone continues to follow you, do not panic. If you panic, you could miss details that may save you. Have a look around you to check your surroundings and keep looking where you're going.
 If there is a group of people you can slip into and stay very publicly observed, this is a good first option. Look for people at a cafe, in a gallery, waiting in a queue, shoppers in a store, etc.––anywhere that a group of people is situated and where a potential attacker wouldn't be able to make a move without being seen. Also, don't try to be too obvious that you want to get away from the stalker. Just start speeding up a little bit from time to time, like it says before. Then, start jogging. At least you are somewhat getting further away from the stalker. If you run, you could get yourself in a big trap with the stalker. If there is a police or fire station, ambulance building or similar place with authority figures at work, run in there for safety.


If it's nighttime, and you really feel scared, stop at a well-lit public place, such as a restaurant or hotel. Call the police or family and friends and ask them to escort you to your home, or stay with them (either police or family and friends) for a while.
Never head for a dark alley, through fields or woods, or anywhere that could be a dead end. Always head for open public spaces, well-lit if night, and wherever there are the most people around.
 Never be embarrassed about turning around and looking to see if the person is getting closer. By confronting the situation head on, you immediately alert the potential attacker that you're fully aware that he or she is on your tail––for many a follower, this can be enough to cause the person to stop. However, don't hang around too long doing this––you can't stare down an attacker in most cases.
 Consider stopping dead in your tracks and throwing your hands in the air. Avoid dropping any possessions that you might be tempted to retrieve, as this could place you in a vulnerable position. It could also lose you potentially good defensive weapons, such as your keys. Then, scream loudly! For example, yell something like: "Stop following me! I don't want anything to do with you! Go away!" If you can't think of anything else, yell "Fire!" really loudly. The odds are that the the person following you, whether or not they mean to do harm, will leave you alone, also if you yell "fire!" really loud someone could think there is a real fire and go see what going on, so yelling fire is a good choice.


If you have a personal alarm or a whistle, use it to make as much noise as possible.
 Draw as much attention to yourself as possible when around any other person than the follower. Make people look at you to see what is going on. Your attacker does not want to be seen, let alone get caught.
 If you're fit, start running. Putting distance between yourself and the potential attacker is the best thing you can do. As stated above, run to where you know there will be people.
 Announce that you're calling the police. While you're calling, remember to watch where you're going and continue to draw attention to yourself. Follow the directions of the operator.
 Hold on to them tightly if you don't have a cell phone, and the person is still following you. Keys can make an excellent weapon if you're forced into having to defend yourself. Also, any registered weapons should be taken out if you have them. Then drop your purse and keep walking––it may be all the person following is after, some money and valuables. If this feels like a terrible thing to do, consider whether hanging onto it is worth your life?

, But chances are if you do all of this, a person won't still be following you. Most followers run away after someone screams and draws attention to themselves, afraid of being caught and recognized. If you are actually attacked, use your keys, fists, fingers, or anything else you have as a weapon and yell loudly as much as you can. Poke the attacker's eyes, kick their genital region, scratch and bite. Do anything to get away from their grasp, all the while screaming if you can.


If you know self-defense, use it. However, don't try to do martial arts poses when you haven't a clue about them. You're much better off attacking with your wits and drive to survive than your imagination.
 This will show the person where you live and is especially dangerous if you live alone. Try to go to a neighbor's house, a friend's house or another family member's house, where you know there will be other people to answer the door and take care of you.

