 A carpet cleaner is a special machine that looks like a vacuum, but it uses steam and special cleaning solution to deep clean your carpets. If you have many rugs and carpets in your home or if you deep clean your carpets more than once or twice a year, you may want to invest in a carpet cleaner. If you’re not ready to commit, you can rent these machines for a day from grocery stores, hardware stores, or even pet stores.


Make sure you get a cleaner that you can easily lift or move. Remember that once you fill it with water, the machine will weigh even more.No matter if you buy or rent a steam cleaner, you will have to purchase the cleaning solution yourself. The cleaning solution is often sold next to the machine itself. You may also be able to find it in the cleaning aisle of the store.
 You will need to put both water and cleaning solution in the tank. Each brand of carpet cleaner has slightly instructions for this, so be sure to read the manual before you begin. Generally, however, you will add a certain amount of formula to a small tank before adding water to the tank. Some carpet cleaners may also have a separate tank for just water.


Once you have filled the tank, you can plug the machine in. Do not plug in the machine before adding the water and cleaning solution.
If someone in your home has respiratory issues or if you are uncomfortable with the use of chemicals in your home, you can use a cup of white vinegar instead of cleaning solution in the tank.Be aware that this may void the warranty on the machine, and you may need to do a second cleaning for the best results.
 You should make sure that the cleaning solution will not change the color of your carpet or leave stains behind. Find a patch of carpet that is usually covered by furniture. Try using the carpet cleaner on that small part. If you notice any discoloration, you may not want to use it on your entire carpet., When you start cleaning, position yourself as far away from the door as possible. As you move the cleaner over the carpet, slowly go across the room. You want to end at the door, so that you can leave when you are finished without stepping on the clean and wet carpet.If the carpet is still visibly dirty, let it dry for a few hours, and go over it a second time.
If you start by the door, you may find yourself trapped in a corner. You will have to walk over your clean carpet in order to leave.
 The carpet will take several hours or even overnight to dry. During this time, make sure that there is as much air circulating as possible. Open all of the windows in the room, and keep the doors open as well. This will prevent mold and mildew from developing in the damp carpet while it dries.If you have pets or children, use baby gates to keep them out of the room while the carpet dries.
Use fans and dehumidifiers in the room to help the drying process. These can also help reduce mildew., The water you used is full of chemicals, and you should not pour it down the drain unless told to do so by the manufacturer or store.


If you rented your carpet cleaner, the store may ask you to return the cleaner full of the water you used to clean. This is so that they can dispose of the water responsibly.
If you own your steam cleaner or if the store does not want you to return the machine full, call your local water treatment facility to ask how you should dispose of the water.