 You may feel upset if you and your partner are carriers of a disease. Before making any major decisions about parenting, talk to a genetic counselor. They can help you understand the disease and your options for childbearing.For help choosing a genetic counselor in the United States, visit the website nsgc.org.They also offer an international contact list., Medical geneticists are doctors who are specially trained in genetics. They can be a valuable tool when considering your family planning, or coping with a potentially difficult pregnancy. Ask your OB/GYN or genetic counselor for a referral.You can find a medical geneticist in the U.S. through an online tool offered by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics. Other search engines may exist in your country, so try an online search.
 If you learn you’re a carrier before you get pregnant, you may want to consider getting pregnant by non-traditional means. Talk to your doctor about artificial insemination or in vitro fertilization. Sperm from a non-carrier donor will be used, eliminating the risk of passing on the disease you and your partner carry.If you choose IVF, be sure to have pre-implantation genetic diagnosis., Some couples decide not to have children if they carry the gene for a serious disease. Instead, consider adopting a child. Many children in this world need loving homes, and adoptive parents have more options than ever before., If you are pregnant and find out you’re a carrier, consider getting diagnostic testing done like amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling (CVS). Tell the doctor what disease gene you’re looking for, and they can determine whether your child has those genes.Knowing early that your child has the disease can help you get them treatment as soon as possible.

Amniocentesis tests the amniotic fluid in your uterus, and is usually done between 16 and 20 weeks of your pregnancy.CVS tests cells from your placenta. It can be done earlier than amniocentesis, at around 10 to 13 weeks of your pregnancy.