 Watercress is packed with nutrients, from Vitamin A to Vitamin K, which makes it an amazing summer superfood.However, these nutrients quickly begin to break down once the watercress has been picked. Source your watercress from a farmer’s market or well-stocked supermarket to get all the health benefits and flavor this green has to offer.Fresh watercress is important, but don’t be tempted to pick wild cress. It may carry bacteria, or even liver flukes.If you can’t eat your watercress right after you get it, you can keep it fresh for a few days. Wrap it gently in a damp paper towel, seal the roll in a plastic bag, and refrigerate.;
, When you’re ready to eat your watercress, only the best leaves will do. Examine the stalks, and use kitchen shears to snip off dead or damaged leaves and stems. These will be yellow, brown, or shriveled-looking.Snap or snip off the tough lower parts of the stalks, as well., Hold the fresh leaves and stems under cold running water for a few seconds. This step is to rinse off dirt and potential contamination.Keeping the water cold is important, in order to avoid wilting the watercress before its time.

There’s no need to use soap to wash the greens--in fact, it might leave unpleasant residue on them., This step is optional, but if you’ve had your watercress for a couple of days and it seems a little floppy, you can perk it up. Fill a bowl with cold water and a couple of ice cubes, and place the leaves in it for 10-15 minutes. Remove the leaves, and dry them., Gently dry the cress leaves by patting them with paper towels or clean tea towels. Make sure not to apply too much pressure. It’s better to have slightly dewy cress than sad, crushed cress., The easiest way to celebrate the summery qualities of watercress is to base a salad around it. Use light dressings and toppings to avoid overwhelming its delicate texture and peppery taste.


Celebrate spring flavors with a watercress and shaved fennel salad.Use a large quantity of chopped watercress to perk up a potato salad. Make sure to fully cool the potatoes before you add the watercress, to keep the leaves from wilting., Watercress sandwiches are a famous dainty food, but you can think outside the box here--after all, you can put anything you can imagine on a sandwich. Stick to the classics, or experiment by using watercress in place of more traditional greens like lettuce or spinach.

Let cress steal the show in a classic tea sandwich. Spread two pieces of white bread thickly with your favorite butter, then pile on the watercress.Try cress in a a ham and cheddar sandwich, too! It may add an interesting dimension to an old favorite., If you’re making a summery pizza, watercress can make even more fresh-tasting. It pairs well with creamy cheeses like goat cheese or mozzarella. Toss the leaves on on in the last couple minutes of baking, or even after baking, to avoid overcooking them., If you’re eager for a cooked vegetable, you can very quickly wilt watercress. Saute it in a bit of good oil for just a minute or two. Don’t saute for any longer than that, or you’ll cook out the vitamins.Add salt, garlic, or pepper for flavor., If you’re making a broth-based soup, you can add a few handfuls of watercress at the end of the cooking time. Don’t let the soup sit too long on the heat after this, or it’ll go bitter. If you want something more creamy and blended that puts the cress flavor front and center, try a classic French veloute soup..