 Remember that reflection period after your break up? Well, it should come in handy now. When you're with your boyfriend again, remind yourself of what went wrong and try to prevent it from happening. If the problem was that you fought too much, then remind yourself to calm down when you have the urge to pick a fight. If your problem was that you were mean to his friends, try to be nicer, this time -- your man should be worth it.


If your ex is the one making the mistakes, gently remind him that whatever he's doing caused the same problem last time.
 Though you should avoid making the same mistakes, if you're constantly obsessing over not making them, you won't be able to enjoy the relationship. Just have fun and try not to think about it too much unless you're having a conflict. If you're so worried that you'll lose him again every step you take, you won't be able to live in the moment.


If you're insecure about the relationship ending again, your ex will be able to tell, and that will make him feel more uncertain, too.
 Don't think of this as Part Two of your relationship saga -- think of it as two people starting completely over while being better equipped to deal with any challenges that come their way. Though you can't completely forget the past, there's no need to dwell on it or rehash it. Of course, if any fond memory of the past comes up, you should talk about it, but think of everything as starting anew.


You're starting over, and this time, you're just going about it with more foresight.
 It's important to work on yourself to improve your relationship as long as both people are doing the work. But you shouldn't change yourself completely just to fit some image of what your ex wanted from you. You should only change if you want to change, not just for him. Remember that he liked you for a reason originally, so if you change too much, he may not be able to recognize the girl he fell for.


There's a difference between addressing your flaws and being a new person entirely. It's okay to address your flaws, but not to completely transform for the sake of a relationship.
 If you'd been back with your ex for a while and something just isn't right, then it may be true that you did break up for a good reason, after all. Some couples thrive on the drama of breaking up and getting back together, but there's usually a reason why two people can't stay together, and it's that they just aren't right for each other. If the same problems are creeping up again, or you or your ex just aren't happy, then it may be time to take the relationship off life support.


Be honest with yourself. If you've tried everything and it just isn't working, then it may be time to let go for good.
Be proud of yourself for working hard to get your ex back. At least now you know that it wasn't worth it after all -- it's better to know the truth than to wonder what could have happened if you fought for his heart again.

