 Signs that your cat isn’t grooming itself properly include an unkempt or messy appearance, matting, and lots of loose, dead hair in the coat.In addition, instead of looking smooth and shiny, the coat might appear harsh and greasy. Its feet might be stained from the litter box, and it might consistently have food in its muzzle., Scheduling a vet visit should be one of the first steps you take when determining why your cat has stopped grooming. Pain and illness are the most common reasons a cat stops grooming itself.Common pain-related conditions associated with reduced grooming include dental disease and bone or joint disorders.
 A range of symptoms or behavioral changes might accompany reduced grooming. Report any related symptoms you observe to your cat’s vet. Examples include:Increased sleeping or sleeping in just one position
Decreased appetite
Increased aggression, especially when touched or moved
Change in litter box habits
Abnormal body positions that seem to favor a painful area
Tooth decay or foul breath

, An overweight cat can have trouble reaching all of its body parts. Weight could be the issue if your cat grooms some places normally but ignores hard to reach spots. If you’re not sure if your cat is overweight, ask its vet if its weight might be restricting its mobility.If your cat is thin but ignores hard to reach spots, it might have another mobility issue, like a bone or joint disorder.
 Sudden unwillingness or inability to groom is especially concerning in younger adult cats, as it’s more often associated with a serious health problem. Reduced grooming is more common in senior cats. They often develop arthritis or other degenerative joint issues that make self-grooming difficult.Kittens can also have grooming issues if they were separated from their mother before learning to self-groom. You’ll have to groom it yourself, but in time it will likely begin cleaning itself. Start grooming it as soon as possible to teach it to enjoy the grooming process., Stress in cats is more often associated with over-grooming. However, chronic stress, or stress that develops over a long period of time, can lead to reduced grooming in some cats.Look for other signs of chronic stress, including:Hiding, withdrawal, or lack of interest in play
Defensive aggression
Heightened startle response
Urinating or defecating outside of the litter box

