


Know the varieties of valuable coins.
Know the number of coins minted in a series.
Be aware of mint-made errors that can make coins more valuable.
Know the socio-political context of coin minting.;
,


Recognize mint state coins (MS). These are uncirculated coins of very high quality.
Look for almost uncirculated coins (AU). Many times, if a coin is in great condition but the light of the coin reflects differently from the high points of the coin as opposed to the lower points of the coin, then the coin is usually AU.
Identify Extremely Fine (XF or EF) coins. These coins have wear that is easy to see, but they still have their mint luster.
Recognize Very Fine (VF) coins. All of the major features of these coins will be intact, but the minor features such as hair detail and feathers will be worn.
Look for Fine coins (F). Fine coins have few details, but the original design is largely intact.
Identify Very Good (VG) coins. VG coins have a raised rim, but the details of the design may be lacking in detail.
Recognize Good (G) coins. These coins have a legible date and mint mark but do not have to have full rims.
Look for Almost Good (AG) coins. These coins will have a date that may be tough to identify. You will be able to see the outlines of the design.
Identify Fair (Fair) coins. These coins are identifiable as being a certain denomination but not much more. They may be bent or have holes.
Recognize Basal State (Basal) coins. The lump of metal is identifiable as a coin.
 This will help you develop your skills and to network with other dealers.
 Good choices include Coin World and Numismatic News.
 Remember that coin sales are the market value plus the premium that you charge, so you will always need to be cognizant of current market values.
 Membership in groups like the American Numismatic Association or the Professional Numismatists Guild will help you to network, improve your skills and place you in the organization’s authorized directory.
 This will help you to gain experience in the industry. You may be able to buy out the dealer after a while or you may go on to have your own business.

