 How much do you really like this person? Is he or she really worth it?;
, If you do not hang out together, how will they know if you are really worthy of their time? How will you know if this person is compatible with you? If you do not like how they act, then you will know that you are not ready or not willing to ask them out.
 If you are thinking about another person at the same time, then maybe you are not ready to ask that person out. On the other hand, if all you can do is think about this particular person and feel butterflies in your stomach every time you get near him or her, then it's a sure bet you're wanting to spend more time together, and asking him or her out is a logical next step.
 Are you willing to wait if this person says no? Are you willing to accept that he or she may never be romantically interested in you and that it's best to move on? It is never appropriate to react negatively to a person who rejects a request to date them. It isn't a reflection on you as a person; it's an indication that this person doesn't feel the same compatibility that you feel, and that they're behaving wisely about either taking the time to think it over, or simply realizing that it won't end up working out between you two. Aim to be friends instead, should this happen.
 Although this is clearly what you expect, it can be as overwhelming as being rejected! You suddenly have what you want, and it's easy to feel giddy. It's not a good idea to force a kiss on the other person or yell "whoopee"! Instead, consider telling others how happy you are, and to have ready some suggestions for your first date together.



The best way to ask someone out is face-to-face and alone from their friends. If they reject you, be glad that not a lot of people heard about it.






A really bad way to ask someone out is by the phone. It is only bad because you are not showing that person that you are confident enough to ask them out face to face.






An unacceptable way to confess is by email. It shows the person you're asking out that you are not ready for a relationship, and that you will be scared of their reaction. It is also an unacceptable method because the person might send it to their friends, and that will turn into an irreversible mess of embarrassment and humiliation.






Yet another way not to ask someone out: Through your friends. Even if you are shy, gather up the courage! Don't tell your best friend to ask someone out for you, because it shows that you are either lazy, shy, or not confident at all. Don't break up with anyone this way, either.
