 The last thing you want to add to your new reputation is being known as ‘that’ person who wastes everyone’s time. The priorities you have at work will not likely match those of your coworkers. Because of this, you must respect your coworkers' time and not waste it by making your priorities more important than theirs.Try not to show up at a coworker’s desk unannounced, especially if you need to talk about something detailed and complicated. Instead, email or call ahead and arrange a specific time to stop by and talk.
Learn to read the body language of your coworkers. If they start to show signs that they’re becoming impatient or worried, wrap up the conversation and let your coworker get back to work.
If you work in an open, but quiet, office environment, keep your voice at a level that doesn’t project too far beyond your own desk. Respect the fact that some of your coworker’s may need quiet in order to do their work.
 The business world is about making deals. Some of those deals are done by doing favours for other people so that one day they’ll do you a favour in return. The sort of deals and favours being referenced here aren't the underhanded or ruthless kind, but rather the kind where you take the opportunity to support a coworker when they need it. In return you’ll have earned that coworker’s respect and trust, and hopefully one day you’ll be able to call upon them for some support of your own. The following are a number of ways you can show your coworker’s support:Offering to help with a task or assignment when you notice your coworker is overwhelmed or falling behind.
Showing visible support for a coworker’s idea or project in a public setting like a meeting.
Offering to fill in for a coworker who may need to go home early because they have an appointment or aren’t feeling well.
 In general you should always treat everyone with respect. But at work you should try to go a little further by making your coworkers feel important and relaxed. If you’re making small talk around the water cooler, talk about things your coworker would be interested in. If you don’t know what your coworker’s interests are, ask them.When listening to a coworker tell you a story, follow-up with questions during or after their story. The questions show you were paying attention and thought what it was important.
When talking and interacting with your coworkers, be sincere.
Remember to do small, friendly gestures for your coworkers when you can. For example, if you’re going to get coffee, offer to pick one up for them.
 It is often assumed, especially by managers, that if they haven’t told you you’ve done a bad job, you’re doing a good job. In other words, no news is good news. But this assumption isn’t good enough. Human beings need to hear praise, it makes them feel good and boosts their confidence. The next time a coworker does something great, compliment them.While complimenting is great, be careful about the types of compliments you give out. Because it’s a work environment, you should probably avoid compliments about physical appearance so as not to make your coworker uncomfortable.
Good compliments to use in an office setting would be: praising a coworker about a great presentation or speech they gave; telling a coworker you really liked a report they wrote; commenting to a coworker about the excellent way they handled a specific situation; etc.
 Chances are you don’t like it when your coworkers talk about you behind your back, so why would you do that to them? Office gossips develop the wrong kind of reputation, and it’s one you should work to avoid., Emails, just like anything on the internet, can never truly be deleted forever, and can probably be seen by more people than you realize. When writing emails on a work email account, pretend the whole company can read them. Not from a business content perspective, but from the perspective of your tone, how you talk about and to other people, and how you word requests.Avoid using work email to talk about specific people, especially to someone outside of your organization. If you need to vent about someone who has upset you, do so in person or with personal email.
 Conflicts are inevitable at work, but it’s how you handle them once they’ve occurred that will play a part in your reputation. If you have a conflict with a coworker, whether it be personal or work-related, speak directly to that person about it. Be open and honest and work to resolve the issue together.Of course, there may come a time when you are unable to resolve the conflict on your own and it affects your ability to do your job. In a case like this, talk to your own manager about the situation and ask for advice. In some situations your manager may need to handle the issue directly.

