


For what purpose do you want to learn martial arts? Is it to learn the sports side of martial arts, to become healthier, to defend yourself, learn how to street fight, learn the more artistic side such as forms/sets... By knowing this before hand it will help you determine if their focus is the same as yours when you are observing or trying out a class for the first time.
What style are you interested in trying out? There are hundreds of different styles out there which is why it is important to know your strengths. If you are more sports or artistic oriented you will need to figure out if you are a kicker, puncher or wrestler? If you are interested in self-defense or street fighting then you need to figure out which system you think is more realistic to use in a street situation.;
,


The Internet is always the best way to figure out where the closest facilities are positioned, but don't decide upon a facility just from the look of its website. Go visit and observe a class or two! Even ask around to hear other peoples opinion about the places you have found. Make sure you don't just chose a facility just because it is closer, sometimes you need to travel a bit in order to receive proper training.



Make sure that the classes are not too big or too small. If classes are too big it will be difficult for the instructor to personally engage each individual student which means that you won't receive as much instructing as you should. If classes are too small you should find out if it is because of the reputation of the instructor.



It is very important to observe the instructor to figure out if he has the right amount of experience and skills to be teaching. Does he look as if he is in control? How focused is his students on him when he is giving instructions? The way the students behave will often make you able to tell if the students respect the instructor or not regarding his teaching abilities.
 Just because an instructor is very skillful doesn't mean he is a good teacher!


Make sure to not only look at the fighting abilities of the instructor, also look to see if he has the abilities to teach. Is he engaging every student while he is teaching or is he just drilling them like they are "numbers"? Also make sure to check if he is actually focused on teaching and improving his students instead of focusing on his own training and just using the students as test subjects for trying out his techniques. Yes! There are actually instructors who has that kind of narcissistic behavior while teaching.



It is not uncommon for martial artists to want to teach their own class. The problem is that many of them start their teaching prematurely. People should not start teaching if they still do not have the required fighting experience which is needed in order to effectively use their techniques in real sparring or combat.



When the above steps have been followed you will know which school and instructor to choose. Good luck with your training!

