 Measure the old seat or the toilet bowl and seat fastening bolt mounting centers to be sure the replacement will be a good fit.

The size and spacing of mounting holes for most modern toilets are standard, as is the width of the seat (with small variations). The most important thing to know is if your seat is "round" or "oblong". Round seats are about 16 inches (40.6 cm) from front-to-back, and oblong are about 18 inches (45.7 cm) from front-to-back.;
, Once you know the right size toilet seat to choose, you will need to pick out the seat itself. The number of options you have can be surprising, and since toilet seat sizes are fairly standard, all of these various options should be available to you as long as you have a standard toilet.Toilet seats come in a variety of materials. The most common materials include cushioned vinyl, plastic, polypropylene, real wood, and molded wood.
Consider the lifespan of the seat when you pick it out in the store. Most manufacturers will mark an estimated lifespan on the package, but even if you cannot find an exact lifespan, there are a few points worth remembering. Plastic and polypropylene are the most durable and tend to last longest, while cushioned vinyl is the least durable and prone to rips.
Pick out a color that coordinates with your décor. White and ivory seats are the easiest to find since those colors are the most common, but you can order a seat in a variety of colors, ranging from black to green. You can even get toilet seats that have patterns on them, like seashells.
Consider getting a slow-close toilet seat. These toilet seats are specially designed to prevent the lid from slamming down hard on top of the seat. As such, they are safer and quieter options.
Nowadays, you can even get "luxury" toilet seats. Luxury seats offer features like warm water streams, heated surfaces, warm air drying, and deodorizers. Note, however, that you will need to hook up these luxury seats to an electric supply in order to use them.
 Pry off the plastic cover pieces covering the mounting holes; then unscrew the bolts holding the seat in place. Once free, simply lift the seat up and off.

Use a flat head screwdriver to pry open the plastic cover pieces.






Unscrew the plastic or metal bolts currently securing the seat to the rest of the toilet. There might be plastic or metal nuts on the other side of the bolts. If this is the case, you will need to hold onto these nuts with your hand or a pair of pliers as you remove the bolts.






At that point, you can lift away the old seat and discard it.
 Since the bolt area rarely gets cleaned, you will need to take this opportunity to wash it.

You can usually use a standard toilet bowl or bathroom cleaner on the area. If you notice rust or mold, use a cleanser that is specially formulated to deal with these issues.






Dry the area thoroughly after washing it. If you fail to dry this area before you install the new seat, moisture could build up underneath the bolts and cause mold or mildew.
 Place the new toilet seat on top of the bowl and secure it in place with bolts. Replace the plastic covers once the seat is in place to finish the task.

If there are adhesive pads on the seat, remove the cover sheets from those pads before putting the seat in position. Those pads can further secure the seat on top of the bowl.






Wind new bolts through the mounting holes in the seat and into the mounting holes on the toilet.






Attach new nuts to the opposite end of each bolt, as well.






The protective plastic covers should simply snap back in place over the bolt heads.







