 You can influence others to your benefit through total confidence. Confident people tend to be leaders more so than those who lack a sense of confidence and are insecure. A bold posture, tone and positive mind will indicate poise and power. Those are two things people look for and will want to follow to gain that themselves.


A way to sound more confident is to avoid words relating to "might" or "try": Instead of saying "We will try to overcome this issue by so and so plan" say "We will overcome this issue and here is how". By removing the questionable words people will believe that you truly have the answer and will be more willing to follow.
Franklin D. Roosevelt had great influence on the American people during WWII by confidently stating "we will win through absolute victory" in his 1941 speech after the attack on Pearl Harbor: "No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people, in their righteous might, will win through to absolute victory.";
, Find out what is it that you really want to achieve and study everything about the topic of your goal. You must know everything behind what it is you want to influence others on and be prepared to answer any question on the topic. By having knowledge you gain authority. Research will help you to have total understanding of your case and you will impress others with your complete expertise. By having knowledge, others will want to learn what you already know.


It is in our nature to listen to those who know more than we do. We want their advice, philosophy and wisdom., As Dale Carnegie once stated in How to Win Friends and Influence People: “Talk to someone about themselves and they'll listen for hours.”People will immediately start liking you if you show interest in them first. Learn what their hobbies are, what they like, what they dislike, their favorite sport teams, etc. Get to know them; Make yourself likable and use that on your behalf by gaining their trust.
 Telling white lies can get you in trouble if you are caught. Altering the truth might cause people to distrust you and speak against you which can hurt your chances to influence others.

