 Depression can cause uncharacteristic behaviors that sufferers try to cover up with excuses. If your friend or family member is always explaining something away, such as the scratches on their arms or the reason they didn’t show up to a meeting, they may be hiding depression.The person may become defensive when you challenge their excuses.
 If your friend or family member has been lashing out in annoyance more than usual lately, or if they start crying without much provocation, pay attention. Depression can cause someone to lose control over their negative emotions.However, depression can also cause a person to feel numb. If the person's emotions seem dulled and they do not react with emotion when the should — such as joy at a friend's success or their favorite football team qualifying for the playoffs — this could be a sign of depression as well.


Often, suppressed feelings re-surface in surprising or inappropriate ways.
For instance, if your normally mild-mannered sibling starts cursing at a driver who took their parking spot, something may be wrong.
Or if your normally animated friend seems subdued and doesn't get excited about the things they once loved, then they may be battling depression.
 Your friend or family member may say things that are a subtle cry for help, even if they’re too proud or ashamed to ask for support directly. They may also confess their feelings but try to take it back later, insisting they’re actually fine.For instance, if your friend breaks down one night and says she can’t handle her life anymore, but the next day tells you she was just overreacting, don’t be so quick to believe her.
Depression can come and go in waves. Someone may reach out for help at a low point but no longer take their condition seriously when they feel a little better.
 Depression may make your friend or family member act needier than usual. They might get very upset if someone cancels plans with them, or they might start texting you every day for reassurance that you still care about them.Depression is isolating, and it lowers a person’s self-esteem. The combination of these factors can leave a depressed person feeling desperate for company or convinced that everyone secretly dislikes them.
The insecurity and self-doubt can lead to anxiety about the person's abilities at work, as a friend and/or partner, or simply about their worth as a human being. They may attach to you as a way to try to feel whole or complete., If your friend or family member constantly finds the negative in a situation, it might be depression talking. Pay attention to whether they make more cynical jokes than usual, are unusually critical, or anticipate things going wrong. They may not laugh much or even smile.