 Dress shoes made of leather are the ideal choice. Leather will be smooth but not too smooth, and may be shiny but not enough to see your reflection. Watch out for shoes that seem too shiny and have a plastic feel to them. These are not likely to be genuine leather, so avoid them.You don’t have to choose leather shoes, but leather lasts longer and works better with with dress clothes.;
, Dress shoes range from squared toes to narrowly pointed toes, but neither is your best option. Look for a toe that strikes the balance between squared and pointed. This shape of toe will fit more outfits and look better overall.There is no exact shape that is always right. It’s more about looking for something that seems balanced between the two extremes.
 Dress shoes have varying heel heights, and there is a fine line between too high and just right. The one inch mark, or a bit lower, is what you should shoot for. Otherwise, you’ll appear to be wearing shoes with a lifted heel and it will take away from your overall look.Most dress shoes have a heel, but some may not. Flat shoes are okay in casual settings, but formal or professional wear should have a heel.
 When choosing dress shoes for work or a formal occasion, laces are a must. Typical lace up shoes include most Oxfords and Derbies. Slip on shoes may be easier, but laced shoes look much more professional.If you are wearing a suit, lace up shoes are a must. If you are wearing dress pants and a button up shirt but no suit jacket, you may not need lace up shoes.
If you are attending a black-tie affair and are wearing a tuxedo, you’ll want to wear laced shoes.
 Slip-on shoes are ideal for more relaxed settings. Wear a pair of loafers or boat shoes when you need something dressier than running shoes but a little less dressy than lace-up Oxfords.These are good for summer. Slip-ons will complete a khaki shorts and polo shirt outfit.
If you wear slacks and a buttoned shirt for work, you’ll be fine wearing loafers. Slip-on shoes are good for a casual dinner party or similar setting, as well.
Slip-ons may have tassels or a buckle. They may be smooth or have a bumpy surface like suede.
 Black tends to go with almost every color, except brown. If your wardrobe consists of suits that are mostly black, gray, or blue, black shoes will match those best. Black shoes can also work with khaki pants or even jeans.If you can only buy one pair of shoes, go with black unless your suits are only brown or tan.
For the pair of shoes you’ll wear most often, look for a smooth, somewhat shiny finish. It’s good to have a pair of suede shoes in your collection, but not as your primary pair.
 Brown shoes are still dress shoes, but they must be matched more carefully. Brown and tan suits look best with brown shoes, although there is great variety of shades. Pay attention to whether or not the brown shoes you select match the brown clothes you’ll wear them with.


Look for shoes that are a single shade of brown to make matching your clothes easier.

