 Think about what caused you to believe that if you are happy, something bad will inevitably happen. By examining why you have this fear, you may be able to understand that just because you suffered after being happy once, it doesn’t mean it will happen every time you allow yourself to feel joy.Did you lose someone close to you after you won an award? Did you hurt yourself after you received a big promotion?

, Are you looking at the situation objectively, or do you believe the negative action took place because you were happy? Most likely, the unfortunate event had nothing to do with you; it just happened.


One way of being able to identify negative attribution bias is to consider how you tend to view most things. Let's say you had plans to have a picnic outside with friends, and it rains. Do you start complaining about how nothing ever seems to go your way, or do you immediately make alternative plans for someplace dry? A negative attribution bias is when you only focus on what's going wrong.
Low self-esteem is often the cause of negative attribution biases. Once you take a look at the big picture, you’ll likely realize that the events that occurred would have happened anyways, whether you were happy or not.
 Understand that an underlying mental issue, such as anxiety, may be the cause of your fear of happiness. Speaking with a therapist about the cause of your anxiety towards contentment may be the solution you need to finally achieve happiness.The therapist can give you exercises to help you combat your anxiety, and possibly prescribe medication, if needed. Depression may also cause you to be afraid of happiness as well, and a therapist can also help you combat this problem.
 It may be hard sharing your feelings with another person, but it may be helpful to discuss it with a close friend or family member. This person may be able to help you look at your circumstances from another point-of-view. If not, at least you won't be suppressing all these negative emotions. Getting them off your chest and out of your head may help you see how irrational they are.

