 Not all needles will work with all types of fabric. Before you choose a needle, think about the fabrics that you will be working with and consider whether the fabric is delicate, stretchy, or heavy duty. These types of fabrics usually require a special type of needle.For example, denim and leather are considered heavy duty fabrics, silk is a delicate fabric, and jersey is a stretchy fabric.;
, Smaller needle sizes work best for working with delicate fabrics, while larger needle sizes work better for heavy duty fabrics, such as denim and leather. This is because needle come in different sizes ranging from small to large. The size is indicated by numbers on the needle’s packaging.There is an American and a European scale for needle sizes, and both numbers should be listed on the needle’s packaging.American sizes go from 8 to 19 and European sizes go from 60 to 120.
A larger number indicates a larger or heavy duty needle while a smaller number indicates a smaller or delicate needle.
 Your thread should not take up more than 40% of the diameter of your needle’s eye, so it is important to think about the type of thread you want to use for your project before choosing a needle.Make sure the needle you choose is suitable for the type of thread you will be using.


For example, if you are using a heavy duty needle, then you can use a heavyweight thread. However, if you are using a small size needle, then a heavyweight thread would not be optimal.
 Sewing machines usually come with universal needles because these are best for everyday sewing. Choose a universal needle for working with knit or woven fabrics, or if you are just doing a simple sewing project that does not use a stretchy, delicate, or heavyweight fabric.The most popular universal needle sizes are 14 American (90 European) and 11 American (75 European), so you can go with one of these if you are not sure what type of needle to get.
 If you are going to be working with a woven fabric like cotton or linen, then a sharp pointed needle is best. This type of needle will help to create even stitches with minimal puckering.You can also use a sharp pointed needle when doing delicate stitching or when working with faux suede.
These needles come in sizes 9 through 18 American, or 65 through 110 European.
 Ball point needles do not pierce the fabric. Instead, their rounded tips push the fibers apart and go in between them. Go with a ball point needle if you are working with an interlocking knit or a coarse knit fabric that might snag easily and create runs in the fabric.You can get ball point needles in sizes 9 through 16 American, or 65 through 100 European.
 Wedge point needles work best with leather, suede, and vinyl fabrics because they create a hole that is self-closing. The shape if this needle is also ideal for heavy duty fabrics because it pierces it more easily than other types of needles.


These come in sizes 11 through 18 American, or 75 through 110 European. Use a smaller size for a lighter, more pliable fabric, and use a larger size for thicker, stiffer fabrics.
 Quilting projects call for their own special type of needle. Look for a quilting needle to make it easier to sew through multiple fabric layers at once. The tips of these needles are tapered for ease of sewing and to reduce the chances of damaging delicate and heirloom fabrics.Quilting needles come in sizes 9 through 12 American, or 65 through 80 European.
 If you want to add a topstitch to a project or if you just need to create a heavier stitch, then a topstitching needle is best. The eye is large enough on these needles that you can even use two strands of thread at once for an extra heavy stitch., There are also special needles meant just for embroidery. If you are planning to embroider something, then you should go with an embroidery needle.