 Do not go to your roommate when you are super annoyed and irritated. You may say something that you regret. Also, if your roommate is studying or getting ready to leave the room, wait to have the conversation.The conversation will not go well if your roommate feels like they are being ambushed.
If you are not sure of a good time to speak with your roommate, you may ask or send a text that says, “Hey, when are you going to be around? I wanted to have a chat about something.”

, An in-person conversation is much better than texting or venting on social media. It is easy to misinterpret what someone has said when you are only reading their words. You do not see any of their body language or facial expressions. People also will say things over text that they would not say to your face.Posting how you feel on social media often makes things worse. Imagine how you would feel if your roommate tweeted about how messy you were or that you snore all night long.
Not posting on social media also keeps other people from interfering in your roommate problems as well.
 This could be studying or talking on the phone with all the lights on while you're trying to sleep, using all the hot water in the shower, or not cleaning up. Try to talk to your roommate about this one big issue, and offer a suggestion for how to make it better. Allow your roommate to disagree/agree with your suggestion until you work out a solution.


If you try to discuss too many issues at once, your roommate may feel like you are attacking them.
Talk about the behavior not the person.You may say, “It’s hard for me to sleep when you talk on the phone late at night,” instead of “You’re rude and disrespectful when you talk on the phone at night.”
Focus on the behavior and how it makes you feel. Your roommate may not even realize how their behavior affects you., Once you have told your roommate the problem and how you feel, allow them to speak. Your roommate has a different perspective than you and may say something that you have not even considered. When you listen, ask yourself what you would do if the situation was reversed.After you have spoken, you may say, “What do you think?” or “How do you feel about the situation?”
When your roommate speaks, do not interrupt.
 Spend time getting to know your roommate. Talk to your roommate about their likes and dislikes,what they did in high school, and what they are looking forward to in college.You are going to be living in tight quarters with this person for the whole year. It is worth the effort to get to know them.

#*Are you a morning person or a night person?

How will you handle boyfriends/girlfriends? How long can they stay?
Do you want to share food, clothes, and/or school supplies?
Do you sleep with the TV on or with music?
Do you sleep with the lights on?
Are you super neat or are you messy?

, Once you and your roommate have had a chance to speak, it is time to come up with a solution to the problem. If it something that has already been covered in the roommate agreement, the solution is simple. If it is a different situation, you will have to negotiate something that works for both of you.For example, maybe your roommate has a new partner that spends a lot of time in your room, but you need quiet time to study. The solution may be to have designated days the partner can come over, and you agree to study at the library 2 nights a week so they can have privacy.
Both of you make a compromise to get something that you want. Your roommate gets private time and you have designated days that you can study in your room.
Ask your roommate, “What do you think we should do?” or “How can we fix this together?”

