 A stock certificate is a physical piece of paper that represents ownership in a company. When someone buys shares of stock in a company, they can receive a stock certificate that states how many shares they own, the date the stock was sold, identification numbers, a corporate seal and relevant signatures. A stock certificate is usually printed on a large piece of paper and features elaborate graphic designs that are intended to prevent fraudulent replication. In the past, stock certificates were issued any time someone purchased stock in a company. Today, however, the records of stock ownership are generally kept in electronic form. You can request a paper stock certificate. Companies will usually charge a fee for printing it for you.A physical stock certificate is also referred to as “bearer form,” meaning the bearer of the certificate owns the securities., It is common for people to find stock certificates among the possessions of a person who has died. Sometimes the name of the company is familiar. But other times you may not have ever heard of the company. If you find old stock certificates, identify the company name, the Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures (CUSIP) number and the name of the person with whom the stock is registered. This information will allow you to research whether or not the certificates have any value., Every stock is given a CUSIP identification number. Use this number to research changes and splits in the stock and name changes.CUSIP numbers are created by the American Banker’s Association, who also owns the numbers. The numbers are operated by Standard and Poor’s.
To gain access to the database of CUSIP numbers, you have to pay a fee to Standard and Poor’s. Sometimes individual companies will display their CUSIP numbers on their website., If the company name has changed or it has merged with another company, you may have to do some additional research to figure out the current name of the company. Most brokerage firms can track down information on companies.But, if you don’t want to work with a brokerage firm, visit Capital Changes, the Directory of Obsolete Securities, which is published annually by Financial Information Incorporated or Mergent Archives to research company histories.


If the company has merged with or been acquired by a company that already exists, contact that company’s investor relations page to identify the transfer agent and cash in the stock.If these sources don’t yield any information, consult state records of the state in which the company was incorporated. Many states have online databases that keep track of registered company names.
 Yahoo Finance has a symbol lookup tool that lets you enter the name of the company to find its stock symbol, or ticker.The stock symbol is a unique series of characters used the by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), American Stock Exchange (AMEX) and National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (Nasdaq)., Use the stock symbol to get a stock quote. Consult a stock market quote service. You can find these services for free on the internet. Simple stock market quote tools can be found on Big Charts and Nasdaq.


Enter the stock symbol of the company. You can look up one company at a time. Or you can enter the symbols for multiple companies, separated by commas, to get multiple stock quotes.
On the Big Charts site, a chart listing all of your stock symbols will be created. It will give you information on the latest stock price and whether it's up or down.On the Nasdaq site, you can choose to simply get a stock quote by clicking on the stock quote option. But you can also get tools for analyzing the performance of the stock and deciding whether or not to sell. These include interactive charts, stock analysis reports, company news, financial information and information about holdings and ownership.Use this information to decide when to sell the stock. Some people identify a target price or range in which to sell their stock. Other factors that influence the decision to sell include the company's financial performance or changes in ownership of the company, If the company no longer exists or has gone bankrupt, then the stock is worthless. But, if the stock certificate is worthless as a security, it may have some value as a collectible item. The hobby of collecting old stock certificates is called scripophily. To find collectors and dealers, consult Goldsheet’s Obsolete Securities Page, the Scripohily Society, price and hobby guides at your local library and eBay.