 For these antlers, you’ll want to use a cheap plastic or metal headband. You can find these at most large departments stores or the dollar store.


The thinner your headband is, the easier it will be to attach your wire antlers, and you’ll use less wire. Choose a headband around one-half of an inch wide.
 You can find wire in craft stores in the jewelry making section and in hardware stores. For this project, you’ll want a fine gauge wire.


The larger the number of a wire’s gauge, the smaller the wire is.For this project, you can use 18-24 gauge wire.
If you want to utilize what you have on hand, you can use wire coat hangers. These are harder to bend than thinner wire, but with pliers, you can shape them.
 If you want a thicker base, use more wires when you begin to form your antler shape. If you want a thinner antler, only use two to four wires wrapped around each other.


A good number is about 6 wires per antler. If you’re using coat hangers, consider only using around 3, as they are more work to bend.
 Once you decide how many wires you want to include in each antler, enough pieces from your wire for both of your antlers.


Each piece should be about 1.5 feet in length. This will help you end up with a proportionate set of antlers.
 Before you begin to work with your wire, it can help to freehand sketch the shape and number of branches you want in your antlers. You can also find a premade template online or use a picture as your guide.
 Remember to consult your guide. Depending on the gauge of your wire, you may be able to use a combination of pliers and your hands to bend and shape.


Wrap the wires around each other, twisting upward. Periodically, pull one or two of the wires off to the side to form a branch.
Play around with them until you get shapes that you like.



Position the antlers so that they look natural and even. Hold the headband up to your head in a mirror so you can see if you like the placement.
Wrap all the wires completely around the headband at least twice, and then make sure that the antlers are sitting firmly in place.
 This will make your antlers look more realistic. You can use hot glue or a paper mâché technique.


If you want to use yarn, do a small section at a time so the hot glue doesn’t dry before you get to it. Put a small amount of hot glue onto the wire, and begin to wrap the yarn around the glue and press down. Be careful not to burn your hands. You can also use super glue.
If you want to use paper mâché, first make a glue solution. Use white craft glue, and add just enough water to make it slightly runny. Rip up strips of thin brown paper. Dip them in your glue solution and then shape them around your antlers. Layer them until you achieve desired thickness. Let your antlers dry.
As a simpler alternative, you can use brown washi tape or duct tape, and simply wrap it around your antler shapes until you make it as thick as you want. You can even use plain masking tape and paint it afterwards.

