 It is good practice to be take care when using email information and links. Don't just follow any link sent to you by email, think first:


Don't go to a site through your email–ever. Not even if it was solicited first. Just type the name of the site into your browser and open it that way.
Avoid answering emails even in jest. While you may feel the temptation to respond with a funny reply, this can actually be harmful if it confirms your existence. At best, it will lead to more spam, at worst, it can lead to the cyber criminal learning more about you than they would had you not replied.;
, The basic rule should be that you only open them if you have received them from people you really trust. Given the ease with which a cyber criminal can work out identities, it could be someone posing as a friend sending you information that contains malware:


Consider the usual behavior of the sender. Do you know this person? Do you trust their own ability to judge whether or not information is trustworthy? Is it within character for this person to send you such a link, or is this out of the norm? Maybe they have gotten a virus through their messaging software and it's their computer sending it, not an actual person.
Look for things that don't appear right. If you receive an invitation to visit a site, or to give information out from someone you know, consider whether or not this is an interest they'd really have. For example, if they ask you to visit a music site, ask yourself first if the sender is an actual fan of the musician whose site you've just been sent? If it rings false, proceed with great caution, and preferably contact the sender first.
 If you're using free email programs, check their privacy policy, their provision of SSL security (find out whether this is available by looking for a "secure mode" or by replacing the "http:" in the URL with "https:"), and be satisfied that it is a reliable service with very little, or no, downtime. If none of these indicators are there, avoid using the service.

