 Times are tight, and your employer may be feeling that, too, but you have little to lose if you approach your boss and respectfully ask for a pay raise. If you are a star employee who consistently and effectively goes above and beyond your job description, bring this up. Make a list of your accomplishments, discuss your long-term goals that may benefit the company in the future, and understand that you may still get a "no," especially during a recession.


If you don't get a raise, don't allow yourself to become bitter or start doing less work — this will only make your boss think that they made the right decision. Be gracious, ask if there's anything you can do differently, and keep working hard.
 If you have a skill that lends itself to freelance work, try to pick up a few projects.If you know how to play an instrument, consider offering lessons to local kids. Start an online store and sell your art or knitting or embroidery projects, or tutor middle and high school students for extra income. Develop a video game and sell it on Steam.


You can also sell used things online, such as books, clothes, or electronics. The online marketplace is an excellent space to make a little extra money if you are feeling the pinch of a recession.
 Another way to make a little extra money is to find independent employment in the gig economy. For example, you can contract to be a driver for Uber or Lyft. You can also join Airbnb and rent out space in your home or apartment. Working in the gig economy can provide an excellent second source of income and it is another job that you can work outside of your main one.A gig economy job can also provide you with much needed income in case you lose your main job during the recession.
Make sure having a second or side job isn't in conflict with your current employer's policy.
 Although you might resist the urge to look for a new job during a recession, there may still be opportunities that come along. Do not let the economic downturn prevent you from finding a better position. That does not mean that you should throw caution to the wind and quit your current job, it just means that if an opportunity comes along you should take it.Keep an eye on local and national job postings in the field you are interested in.
Create a LinkedIn account and keep it updated.

