 Be gentle when removing your hermit crab from its tank to avoid stressing the crab out too much. Use slow movements when approaching the crab and don’t make sudden movements while you are holding it.Taking your crab out of its tank too often can stress the crab out and cause it to retreat to inside its shell for extended periods of time.
Try to make the process a pleasant one for the crab by being gentle and slow moving.
 Once you place the crab down into the salt water solution, it may be too afraid of the process to recognize that it is now in a salt water bath it will really enjoy.Swish the crab around a bit so the water in the container comes into contact with the crab’s legs and splashes into the shell to make sure it understands that it is in the water.
Leave the hermit crab alone for a minute after to allow it to come out of its shell.
 After a minute or two the crab will begin to emerge from its shell and crawl around in the container. Allow it to move around freely as it bathes itself and replenishes the water in its shell it uses to stay moist.Let the crab explore the container and move about freely as it cleans itself.
Don’t leave the crab in the water for too long. Allow it to crawl around for a few minutes, then remove it when it either seems like it is trying to find a way out or recedes back into its shell.
 If you do not leave a bathing bowl in your hermit crab’s tank, you will need to return it to its home now that it’s nice and clean. Be careful not to frighten or stress out your crab in the process.


You may want to allow your crab to crawl around on a paper towel first to dry off a bit.
Be gentle as you remove the crab from its bath and return it to its tank.
Do not bath your crab more frequently than once per day, as otherwise it may become stressed out and refuse to leave its shell.
 Hermit crabs require frequent baths in salt water in order to maintain their health, but there are some variables that may affect how often your hermit crab needs a bath.Hermit crabs require bathing daily if the humidity levels in the habitat of the crab are less than 70%.
If the crab lives in a habitat that maintains higher than 70% humidity, bathing may be infrequent and sporadic, as the moisture levels in the air will enable to crab to maintain proper moisture levels in its skin.
Regardless of humidity level, bathe your hermit crab if you notice mites or small insects crawling around on your crab.

