 To a certain degree, fever is our friend. It is our body's natural response to a wide range of causes, including the following:Bacterial infections, such as streptococcal bacteria that cause strep throat or ear infection, can cause fever and are often treated with antibiotic therapy.
Viral infections such as cold, flu, and other typical childhood illnesses (chickenpox and measles). Viral infections cannot be treated with antibiotics and often the only means of treatment are waiting it out and treating the symptoms. Viral infections are the most common cause of a fever in a toddler, and fevers can often last 3-4 days.
Teething often produces low-grade fever.
Immunizations are developed to generate a mild immune response and thus can often result in low-grade fever.
A fever can occur if your child is overheated due to being in a hot environment and has heat exhaustion or heat stroke. This is a medical emergency.
Rarely, fever can be caused by an inflammatory condition such as arthritis or by other serious medical conditions, including some cancers.
 Monitoring your toddler’s fever is a bit of a balancing act—you don't want to overreact but you don't want to underestimate the situation either. Generally the younger the child is the more serious the matter is. There are some general guidelines based on your child’s age:0-3 months: fever of 100.4 F (38 C) is the point at which you should call the doctor right away, even if no other symptoms are present.Any baby under 2 months will need to be seen right away.
3 months to 2 years: fever below 102 F (38.9 C) can normally be dealt at home (see previous section).
3 months to 2 years: fever above 102 F (38.9 C) may need medical treatment. Call your child’s pediatrician for further directions. This is especially important if there are other symptoms, if the fever does not responded to medication, or if it continues for more than a day or two.
 Parents often have some intuition about the seriousness of a child's medical situation. Also children develop patterns in their responses to illnesses, and parents are often quick to notice anomalies.Fever accompanied by lethargy and/or listlessness may be signs of something more serious.
If your toddler has serious symptoms such as disorientation, bluish color around the mouth or fingertips, seizure, severe headache, stiff neck, difficulty walking, or difficulty breathing, call 911 immediately!