 In order to pass an AKC inspection, you will need to make sure that all of your dogs can be identified either through a microchip, tattoo, or collar tag. Proper identification is a requirement of the American Kennel Club and it is up to each breeder, which method they choose. Microchips: Are tiny electronic chips that are injected into the dog’s upper back. These chips can be scanned in order to identify the dog.Tattoos: Are an identification marker that are tattooed onto the dog’s skin usually under the ear flap or on the inner thigh. The problem with tattoos is that they can fade over time and become difficult to read.Collar tags. Are a visible form of identification that is worn around the dog’s neck. The major drawback is that in order for them to be effective the dog always needs to be wearing a collar.;
, The AKC inspectors will also check the overall health of the dogs to make sure there are no visible illnesses. In order to pass this part of the inspection, your dogs should be in good health and receive appropriate routine and preventative health care.For instance, all of your dogs should be up-to-date on their shots including rabies, parvovirus, hepatitis, and canine distemper.
There should be no visible external parasites on the dogs, such as ticks or fleas.
 Inspectors will also check to make sure that all dogs have access to drinking water and proper food. Food does not need to be left down at all times, but should be provided at appropriate intervals throughout the day. If a dog has a protruding rib cage and looks skinny or weak, then the inspector may determine the dog is malnourished., If your dogs are not regularly groomed, this may be considered a sign of neglect to the inspector. For example, dogs that have a lot of matts in their coats or are visible dirty, are likely uncomfortable and not properly cared for. Make sure that all of your dogs receive regular brushing and grooming., It is also important that all of the dogs receive exercise and play time daily. One way to make this apparent to an inspector is to demonstrate that there is a space provided for play. For example, you could have a fenced in portion of the yard that is used by the dogs to play and run around. You should also have toys available for the dogs to play with.