 To help a school counselor advise you on a problem, first you need to make sure you are clear about what is the cause of the problem you're facing. Although a counselor's job comprises a broad range of aspects in a student's life, their main areas of advise are academic, career-related and social/personal problems. You should first determine which category your own issue belongs to.


Keep in mind that sometimes problems can affect more than one area of your life. For example, you might have trouble getting your homework done in time. Ask yourself whether this is due to poor organization skills, difficulty in understanding what is being asked of you, or some personal reasons that get in the way of your study, like family-related issues or lack of confidence.;
, Having a few questions prepared will make it much easier for a counselor to address your problem more accurately and help you develop strategies to cope with it.You can make a list of the problems and turn them into questions that you can ask your counselor. For instance, if you listed "teachers don't get me" as one of your problems, rephrase it into a question like "How can I improve my communication with teachers?", or "How can I better explain teachers my problems with schoolwork?"

, School counseling is often offered as either one-to-one sessions or group sessions. Think of which one would work best for your problem and book an appointment as soon as possible, or check whether your school allows you to just stop by the counselor's office without an appointment. It's always better to start with a one-to-one meeting to get acquainted with your counselor and help him/her get to know you better. The counselor will determine whether what you need is individual or group counseling after meeting you in person.If you don't know who your counselor is or how to contact them, ask your teacher or an adult you trust at school. They will direct you to the right person. You don't have to get into the details of your problem, if you don't feel like it, but if you do, make sure they'll keep it confidential., If you go to the meeting without being prepared, it might give the impression that you're uninterested or make it much more difficult for a counselor to target your problem and find a solution for it.If you're seeing the counselor to discuss college admissions, it could be helpful for them to see your prospective college's application guidelines or highlight specific steps in the application process you haven't understood.
 Don't hold out on information that could help your counselor. The counselor will listen and offer either individual counseling or group counseling, or a combination of the two. If you don't know what the source of your problem is (school-related, family-related, personal), give your counselor a bigger picture of your life and they will help you figure out what it might be linked to.If you're unsure whether a piece of information could be useful or related to your problem, it's always best to say it. The more your counselor is told, the easier it will be for him/her to help you find a solution.
Don't feel guilty if you don't open up on everything on the first appointment. However, remember that the objective is to establish a relationship with your counselor based on mutual trust. A counselor will speak to you frankly and expect you to be just as upfront in expressing all of your concerns.
 Depending on what your questions are about, it may be helpful for you to carry something to take notes on. For example, college application can be a very elaborate process and you want to make sure you don't miss or forget any point and step you need to take.If you disagree with your counselor over something, don't hold it back. Tell your counselor you don't think their suggestion could work and explain why. Feel free to suggest other courses of action and discuss them. Saying yes to your counselor just to please him/her and then disregarding their advice won't be of any help!

, Counselors are not magicians who can solve any problem with the touch of a wand. Their job is to listen to you carefully, help you cope with a problem and find a solution, not give you ready-made solutions. This won't always be easy and will first of all demand your cooperation and active involvement.


For example, if someone bullies you, your counselor won't make this person magically disappear from your life. They will discuss the problem with you and suggest some strategies on how to deal with this person. Or, they might approach the bully themselves, a teacher or even your parents if you think that would help., Although helping you is the counselor's job, it's polite to show appreciation for their time and advice. Expressing your gratitude will build a stronger bond between you and your counselor.Being nice to your counselor can also help you in your long-term goals. For example, a counselor will play a large role in your college application process: having a relationship of trust and respect with him/her will make it much smoother., Counselors are trained to help you cope with any problem related to your school performance and provide guidance on study methods. Academic problems include:


improving your study skills
having troubles with some subjects
not knowing how to deal with a demanding teacher
being unable to keep up with your homework
having difficulties in reconciling schoolwork and leisure

, Counselors' original job was to advise students on how to best deal with admission procedures and increase their chances of success. Although their area of expertise is now much broader, this is still one of their main roles. Prepare clear questions like:


What classes do I have to take to enter college?
Do I have to take admission tests, and how can I prepare for them?
Are there any college handbooks that I can browse to help me make a decision?
Can I get in touch with former students who are now attending my prospective college?
What else can I do to prepare for college? , Remember that school-related or career-related problems, like not succeeding or having no idea what to do at college, could also be linked to personal problems and can better be solved if you address them at the source. Social or personal problems that your counselor can advise you on include:


being bullied by a schoolmate
having trouble making friends in a new school
lack of confidence
family issues affecting your school life (for example your parents' divorce)

, School counselors will do their best to help you on a wide range of issues. However, sometimes it's best to consult someone outside school, like a therapist, doctor or social worker, if your problem is not related to school or could be better solved by someone else. You can still make an appointment with your counselor and ask them whether he/she thinks you should seek external help. They will advise you on what is best to do.
Sometimes professional help can be combined: if you're going through a difficult time because of your parents' divorce and have trouble concentrating at school because of this, you can regularly see your counselor and a therapist at the same time. The counselor will help you not let this affect your academic performance, while the other will focus on your well-being and advise you on coping with your feelings about the situation.

