 Anytime you connect to the Internet, your computer is assigned a long number called an IP (Internet Protocol) address. This IP address is transmitted to any servers that you visit and is logged on those servers, leaving a trail of your Internet activity.
 A proxy is a server that you connect to that allows you to get “outside” of your network. You connect to a proxy and route your traffic through it, so that your IP is masked and traffic appears to be coming from the proxy server., There are several types of proxies that you will run into as you research proxies. Each offers a certain degree of anonymity, and some are more secure than others. There are four main types of proxies:

Web-based proxies: The most common and easiest to use proxy. These are servers that you connect to through a browser to visit a website anonymously.
Open proxies: These are proxy servers that are either accidentally left open or are hacked. They are often not secure and can contain malicious software. It is recommended that you avoid open proxies.
Anonymity networks: These are private networks that are run by users donating bandwidth. They are often incredibly slow and due to the fact that anyone can host bandwidth, they are fairly insecure.
Paid proxy software programs, such as IP Hider Ever, is often used to hide your IP address so that you can hide your internet traffic and the real location while surfing the web. Software programs like IP Hider Ever makes nobody know what you do on the internet. So you can surf wherever you want on the web without worrying about any of the information leaked. But the question is still that whether you trust the software company.
VPN (Virtual Private Network): These are private networks where you directly connect to a proxy server maintained by a proxy company or organization.
Proxy Chain. Currently, the most untraceable VPNs use TOR, where all the network traffic is redirected to use TOR. This redirection can be done simply with the built-in system package iptables of Linux. If you do not want to setup the proxy chain yourself or using windows as your OS, softwares like iProxyEver can do all the job for you.

