 If you wear shoes that show lots of skin on the tops of your feet and around your ankles, then this may make you seem taller.Instead, choose shoes that cover more skin or that partially cover the central part of your foot.


For example, you could wear a pair of mules, oxfords, boots, open toed heels, or slide on sandals.
 Flat shoes, even sneakers with a low amount of padding, don’t add height to what you already have. You can do a lot with flats, pairing them with skinny jeans for example. Most men’s casual shoes are already flat, so just make sure you pick up a pair with a thinner sole.


Most women’s flats lack sole support, so if you are going to wear flats, either use a padded insole or make sure you aren’t going to be walking or standing for long periods of time.
Wearing flats without support in the long term can lead to injuries that limit how much you can work and enjoy life., If you want to wear heels in spite of the fact that they add to your height, choose heels with straps around the ankles. Your goal is to break up the appearance of length in your feet, ankles, and legs. You also want heels with rounded toes to make your feet look smaller.Even with thicker heels, men's shoes are not usually designed with ankle straps. Men who want to be a little taller can simply wear dress shoes with thicker heels.
 For women, pairing skirts that hit above the knee with boots that go over the knee creates even more distinction between the top and bottom of your legs. Not only does this look make you look shorter, it is fashionable and can make you feel confident.A woman could wear shorts instead of a skirt in this situation. Just make sure that some skin is visible between the boots and clothes.
 When not in a business setting, patterned shoes for men are a good idea. They shorten the appearance of the feet, and since most tall men have big feet, this will add to a shorter appearance. Patterned shoes also draw attention to the feet, preventing people from looking straight up the body.Look for textured, patterned, and colored shoes. Leather will often offer such features.

