 Usually, before any event, it is always good to be calm, fresh and positive. If you feel angry, confused, frustrated or irritated before the event, then surely you will look tired or worn down because your face expresses everything you feel. Moreover, these negative emotions are not ideal ones to bring to a veneration.;
, Try dairy cream, buttercream or cream of tartar. To look and feel fresh and bright, use any natural remedies. Here are some suggestions:


Using lemon juice on your face as a face pack for five minutes helps. However, for the best results, you must be patient, which means that you'll need to use lemon juice as a face pack for at least a week or so before the veneration.
Use besan powder mixed with yoghurt and turmeric powder. Apply this facial pack on your face. Leave to harden, then wash it off after. You might feel cool and fresh without even having to take a shower using this method.
 If you don't want to use your own natural solutions, try going to the spa or using any suitable facial cream or mask.
 Before the veneration, take a long, warm bath. This will help you to remove any odor from your body or tiredness from your face if you have been working the whole day.
 As an Indian, or if you are of another nationality, you have different choices or options to choose on what you are going to wear, since you are attending a Diwali veneration. The following dresses are mostly preferred for wearing during any Indian veneration:


Salwar kameez
Saree
Ghagra.
 Your choice on what you are going to wear must follow some rules:


The dress must suit your skin color. If you are light in complexion, then try using light colors such as a pink, sky blue, light green, yellow, thistle, turquoise, tomato, salmon, saffron, etc. If you are a bit dark, then you can use any color. If you are dark, then some people believe only dark colors will suit you, such as red, brown, olive green, deep red, firebrick, pine green, Prussian, and so forth.
The outfit shouldn't cause you to feel outside of your comfort zone. Wear clothes that you feel comfortable in. Some people prefer cotton to silk, while others prefer silk to cotton. Wear what you feel that you look good and comfortable in; even if you are attending a luxurious veneration, you do not want to feel uncomfortable wearing designer clothes made up of net or silk.
 This goes the same way as with the clothes. If you are wearing designer clothes made of silk, or any modern material, diamonds are mostly used. If not, gold also goes well with designer outfits but they must look fashionable and expensive.


If you are wearing a cotton or a 'not very fashionable' material, gold is the best accessory that goes well with it. The jewellery shouldn't look too expensive or too cheap, just matching the way that the clothes are.
 Usually, Indians don't use too much make-up. Since you are attending to an Indian veneration, wear just a little make up.
, Widely looking eyes is crucial in the opinion of some for an appropriate appearance at a Diwali Veneration.


Black for the mascara, kajal or eyeliner suits any complexion.
 Use a little lightly colored lipstick if you are fair and a little darkly colored lipstick if you are dark in complexion. Apply a little lip gloss to make your lips look more fresh and not dry.
 Don't overdo it or else it won't look too good.
 Use an Indian style, such as a braid or plait (single), french braid, or bun. Or, you can use a clutch to clip your hair together up high. You can also leave it open if you like. Open hair can look very lovely.
 A typical Indian always use a bindi to adorn their forehead and flowers to adorn their hair. Since you are attending an Indian ceremony, try adding the bindi and flowers. The flowers should look fresh and be pleasant smelling.

