 If you want to buy a VHS tape, there are some stores like movie rental shops that sell VHS tapes along with DVD's. If you want to borrow (rent) one, then you might go to Blockbuster, Hollywood Video, or Video Joe, or some kind of video store near you. Check for stores who have the feature of renting a VHS tape.;
, Just put the VHS tape in the player and it will play automatically, unless you stop it by using the buttons on the VHS player.
 The commands are executed by pressing buttons that are on the front of the player. There is Play, which plays the movie; Rewind, for going backwards in the movie; Fast Forward, to go further into the movie; Stop, to make the movie stop; and Eject, to take the VHS tape out of the player.
 That way, you won't miss a show or an episode of your favorite shows.
 That way you won't get charged a late fee because it is overdue. This will become very expensive, so return it on the due date. If you have your own VHS tape, it's not rented, it's paid for already.
 It will say "approx." (Which is short for, approximately.) For an example: Approx. 50 minutes, so that way you will know the length of the VHS movie from beginning to end.
 If you are a kid, some VHS movies are scary or violent depending on the movie. Don't watch "Hostel", "The Exorcism of Emily Rose", or anything of that nature. Don't watch movies that are rated R or NC-17, or PG-13 unless your parent's give you permission to watch PG-13 movies, or more violent. If it says "Not Rated", then it is a kid's television series or movie video tape.
 All video tapes feature this FBI warning. It is always the same reason in an FBI warning, so be careful. Don't copy a video tape without the permission of the copyright owner or the authorized personnel.
 VHS tapes don't always have previews but instead they show logos, and sometimes there are commercials. Previews are for people who want to watch a new movie that they like or get impressed with.
 Some day people will love VHS tapes rather than DVD's because DVD's will get scratched or damaged, or dirty or something. VHS tapes are much better.

