 If you've been keeping the dough in the fridge, make sure to let it warm back up., The whole bowl of dough is far, far too big to roll out at once, so you'll need to take it in individual pieces., The flour prevents the dough from sticking. If it sticks to your hands or the rolling pin, sprinkle some flour on both of them to keep them dry and stick-free., You won't get the necessary paper-thin dough just with the rolling pin, but you can get close. Work to form a long rectangle, as thin as you can get it, before moving on to your dowel.

Remember to sprinkle more flour if the dough is sticking.
 Leaving the dough on the countertop, place the dowel on top of one of the short edges of dough. Curl the dough around the dowel, as if you were about to wind the dough around the dowel.


If you don't have a dowel: Alternatively, you can thin the dough out using the back of your hands, like it was a pizza crust. Drape the dough over the back of both of your hands and slowly work them further and further apart, until the dough is almost see-through. Note, however, this commonly causes rips., This is the hardest part, and will take some practice. You want to roll the dowel forward to curl the dough around it. Think about making a Play-Doh snake on the table, using both hands to roll it forward. As you do, try to also push your hands outwards, spreading the dough along the side of the dowel as you work. Again, imagine you have a limited piece of Play-Doh and wanted to make a long, thin snake.

The exact amount of pressure to exert is a matter of trial and error, but will come with some practice., When done, you should have a nice, round, and thin sheet of filo dough waiting for you. It's okay if there are a few rips -- it is to be expected in the early runs., With a dough this thin, the occasional rip is to be expected. The good news is that these rips won't affect the final flavor, or even the texture, of the finished pastry. Simply fold together to dough to cover up wrinkles, or use a little excess dough to iron over the holes.

Large, nasty rips that can't be easily patched aren't ruined completely. Simply roll the dough back up, knead it for 1-2 minutes, then try to re-roll it out., This prevents the dough from drying out, cracking, or sticking to other layers. Layer the finished, paper thin dough on top of each other, brushing each one with olive oil.