 Most moose hunts are in remote northern regions of North America and take place in the fall, so you will need cold weather clothing, a stainless steel rifle is highly recommended, a good backpack, an all-weather tent with a rain fly and camping gear.;
, Google maps is a handy tool for seeing what the topography looks like where you will be hunting. Also, many states and provinces should have detailed orienteering maps for more detailed remote travel. A GPS is almost a no-brainer for detailed orienteering for the modern hunter.
 Due to the remote locations of most moose hunts, hunting by yourself in bush Alaska or Canada is not a smart move. You probably won't have cell phone coverage, so if something happens and you need a quick exit out having a buddy along is much safer. And much less boring!

, Location, Location, Location again is everything with moose hunting. Where are you going to hunt? Can you get there by boat, on foot, or with a canoe (yes, it is possible to hunt moose out of a canoe, but REALLY hard and not for the physically unfit.)? Hunting with a 4x4 is another well-used hunting method in Alaska and Canada. If you have money, hunting with planes is the easiest and offers the ability to get to the most remote locations.
 Alaska, Maine, and Canada all have extensive hunting regulations to manage their wildlife in a sustainable manner. If you break the law you will get caught and if you don't now hopefully you will in the future. Wasting meat and unsafe hunting practices have no place in the sport and give honest hunters a bad name and ruin future hunting chances in North America for everyone. Get a regulations book and read it!

, This goes without saying, but every year dozens of hunters get stuck in remote North American locations hunting moose and need a helicopter ride out of the bush. Some don't get out and are never found due to sloppy preparation, alcohol abuse, and lousy outdoor gear. Quality clothing is key. Gor-tex boots, rain gear, thermal underwear, and wool socks could save your life if you get stuck away from camp overnight. Avoid cotton clothing. It doesn't wick and won't dry out. Try to stay as dry as possible. Chances are it will rain a lot. It's late fall in Alaska what did you expect, Cancun?

, It varies by states to which sex you can shoot. You can't shoot cows in Alaska hardly ever (they do have some special lottery hunts) and never a calf. Bulls are also highly regulated. In Alaska, for example, many units will only allow you to shoot bulls over 50 inches (127.0 cm) or with 3-4 brow tines. The Alaska Regulations book will show you detailed pictures of what you are allowed to shoot and they don't allow excuses from errant hunters. In Ontario you will be issued a tag for just one sex, cow or bull, and that's all you can shoot.
 1,000 of lbs of meat is wasted every year by sloppy field butchering methods. Bring game bags in your pack and get the quarters into the bag asap. Keep flies away as much as possible. Don't put the meat in water. It will rot faster. Keep your meat dry by hanging it high (One word: Bears) on a line. There are meat treatment sprays you can buy at your local outdoor store to treat the meat. If you don't know how to gut a moose then buy a book or watch a video on You Tube. Have the moose packaged by a reputable butcher, if you can afford it. If not buy tons of freezer bags, butcher paper, good knives, and a meat grinder and do it yourself.
