 While you may plan to live in a public park or state forest, understand that it may be illegal to live in these areas. Make sure that there are no rules about sleeping in public or forbidding "vagrancy."In state and national parks, check to see if you need a camping license.


You can research laws on a city or state website or by visiting a county law library. State and national park guidelines are usually listed on their website.
Never trespass on somebody else's land. You could be fined or arrested.;
, Location is everything. You should find a safe area where you can set up your shelter without being disturbed. If you are in a city or urban area, you might be limited in where you can set up, but in the wilderness, you just have to find a secure location.


If you are living in the wilderness, you should find a place that is far away from any potential hazards (such as cliffs, rockfalls, avalanches, or flooding). Find a location that is close to fresh water and to places where you can forage for materials.In a town, you may be able to set up a shelter under a bridge, at the beach or park, or just outside city limits., While you can always sleep under the stars, you should have some sort of shelter to protect yourself from wild animals, bad weather, or wind. You can easily make your own shelter out of local materials or from a tarp.A tent is the easiest and most convenient form of shelter. If you don’t have a tent, you can hang a tarp between two trees for a similar effect.
If you are living in a hot, dry climate, you might build a ramada. This is a roof suspended on poles without walls.
If you are living in snowy conditions, try a snow cave or an igloo. A quinzhee is also an option. This is a dome made out of snow with a hollow inside.
Use whatever materials you have on hand for the shelter. If you don't have a tarp, for example, you can use garbage bags or an old raincoat.
 A good sleeping bag will insulate you during cold or nasty weather, and it provides a certain degree of comfort as well. Try to invest in a good sleeping bag that you can carry with you wherever you go.


If you need to make your own bed, insulate the ground with a tarp, leaves, ferns, blankets, or other materials to help keep heat in your shelter and your bed.Cover yourself with a tarp or blanket if possible.

