 Agar is tasteless and will take on the taste of whatever it is mixed with, giving you endless flavor possibilities. These candies will stay firm at room temperature, so you can leave them out in a little dish or bowl without worrying about them melting and making a mess. Try mixing agar with teas, juices, broth, coffee--anything that sounds tasty to you!Try boiling chocolate milk with agar powder, then adding a pinch of cinnamon. Pour it into little glasses to cool for a rich treat.
Remember certain acidic fruits may require extra steps, as their acidity or enzymes interfere with Agar's ability to gel.Pour the mixture in silicone molds in cute shapes. Then your jelly candies can look like stars, kittens, hearts, shells, or any other shapes you can find.
 You can prepare little gelatinous shots for parties by boiling your mixers with Agar. After allowing the mixture to simmer and the Agar to dissolve and disperse, add the alcohol and stir. Pour the mixture into shot glasses or ice cube molds and allow them to set.Try mixing agar with the ingredients for a hot toddy and serve the cubes warm at holiday parties.
 If you have a recipe that calls for egg whites but you are vegan, allergic to eggs, or simply don't like them, Agar is a suitable replacement. To replace one egg, mix 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) Agar powder in 1 tablespoon of water. Use an immersion blender or whisk to vigorously whip the mixture, then put it in the refrigerator to chill. Once the mixture is cool, take it out and whip it a second time. This mixture should perform the same function as egg whites in your baking and won't even alter the taste or color., Gelatinous desserts usually call for a lot of eggs for thickening and texture. Instead of eggs, try making a basic gelled mixture of Agar and water, following the steps in method 1. Use a blender or an immersion blender to puree the gel until smooth.Mix this in with your other ingredients and you'll find you have a delicious, eggless dessert.


If you want to thicken the pudding or custard, add a little xanthan gum.If you want to thin out the dessert, stir in a little water or another liquid.