 We tend to represent ourselves most authentically around people we know well. Pay attention to how you interact with your family, close friends, and acquaintances. Ask yourself, “What are the differences between how I act around people close to me and those I barely know?”Everyone wants to put their best foot forward around new people, but do your best to be the same person regardless of the situation. You don’t want to talk to your boss or teacher the same way you’d talk to your little sibling, but you can still be yourself. Being a little more polite doesn’t mean you have to be fake or make things up about yourself.  
Writing in your journal will help you keep track of how you interact with various people.
 No one wants to walk on eggshells around their friends or romantic partner. Choose to hang out with people who put you at ease instead of those who pressure you to be someone you’re not.As you grow more comfortable being your authentic self around others, it might be a good idea to challenge yourself by spending time with people who have a different viewpoint from you or with whom you might not normally spend your time. Push yourself to remain authentic around these people
Suppose you’re forming a relationship with someone who criticizes the words you use or music you like. They want you to change how you talk and to listen to different music just to be their friend. Don't give in. Honor and be proud of how you talk or the music you like. You might say something like, "This is how I talk. There's nothing wrong with it — it's just different. You can accept that or not accept that. It's up to you." You never know, you may inspire this person to begin their own journey of authenticity.
 Pursue relationships with people who appreciate individuality and appreciate your uniqueness. Being authentic involves being comfortable with the qualities that make you a unique individual. Inauthentic people only want to please others and change themselves to conform to a norm, which destroys everything unique about them.Form relationships with people who encourage you to do what makes you happy instead of those who pressure you to do things that make you uncomfortable. For example, if your friend pressures you to dress in ways you don't like or makes fun of activities that you love, they're not an authentic friend.
 Build authentic friendships with a smaller number of people instead of trying to be friends with everyone. People in our lives play a major role in shaping who we become, so it’s good to be selective. Choosing a limited number of people who accept you for who you are will allow you to let your authentic self shine.There’s nothing wrong with being friendly or social, but remember that there’s a difference between a minor acquaintance and your best friend. You should be yourself around both, but put your effort, trust, and commitment into your relationship with your best friend.

