 Windows is the most virus-prone operating system (OS) out of the three major OSes. It has the most users and the weakest built-in security. Antivirus programs will defend your computer from malware that comes through email, flash drives, downloads, websites and more.;
, There are several popular free options available that do a good job of protecting the average user. These programs are updated frequently with new virus definitions that recognize the latest threats.


If you frequently deal with files or websites that are virus-infected, you may want to opt for more powerful paid protection. Paid antivirus programs are typically available for a yearly subscription fee.
When downloading free or paid antivirus programs, ensure that you are downloading from a trusted source. There are many programs out there that claim to be antivirus/antimalware but instead install malware themselves. Read reviews and download products from companies that have been around for a long time.
 Make sure that no other programs are running while you install the antivirus. You will most likely need to be connected to the internet to download additional files and updates.


Some free antivirus programs come packaged with toolbars for your web browser. These can add protection but also change your search options and bog down older computers. You have the opportunity to opt out of these changes during the installation process.
 After the installation is complete, reboot your computer and update the program. The file that you downloaded is likely not the most up to date version, so you will need to connect to your antivirus program’s servers and download the latest updates. Most antivirus programs allow you to right-click on the icon in the System Tray while it is running and click Update.


Update your definitions on a weekly basis. Most antivirus programs are set to automatically update. Double check the settings for your program to ensure that you are receiving the necessary updates.
 Once you have the program installed and updated, it’s time to scan your computer. This could take several hours, depending on the number of files being scanned and your computer’s speed.
 Antivirus programs are most effective when they are automated. Open your antivirus program’s settings and look for the Schedule option. Try to schedule a time when your computer will be on but you won’t be using it. Ideally you should be scanning once a week; scan more frequently if you deal with potentially infected files on a regular basis.
 The best way to keep your computer protected is to always make sure that your copy of Windows is up to date. Microsoft releases security updates for Windows on a regular basis, fixing exploitable areas of Windows.

