 Depending on your specific situation, the two of you might not feel at peace with your past for five years or more. On the other hand, you might feel comfortable dating again after just one year. Be honest with yourself and expect your partner to do the same when you renew your romantic relationship with them after a divorce.
 Asking your ex for a date is little different than asking any other woman for a date, with the useful exception that you already know her. However, before asking her out, be sure that she is open to the idea. Inquire through mutual friends or intermediaries what her feelings are about you. If you’re still in regular contact with her, broach the subject gingerly. Inquire, for instance, “Do you think there’s any chance we could rebuild our relationship?” If she replies in the affirmative, move forward with the dating process.


One of the good things about dating your ex-wife is that you already know just what to say to make her interested in going out with you. Think about her favorite restaurants, bands, and activities, and inform her that you have tickets or reservations at the venue in question.
Use your knowledge of her sense of humor when asking her out. For instance, if her favorite band is Great Band, you might jokingly say, “I’m pretty busy this weekend. I have two tickets to the Great Band concert on Saturday. Couldn’t find anyone to go with me. Oh, well! I’m going to make a ton of money scalping this extra ticket!”
At that point, she will probably be very excited to go out with you again. If she is not, however, don’t feel too badly. She is probably just not at the stage where she feels comfortable dating you again. Be patient when attempting to date your ex.
 Similarly, do not date your ex simply because he or she is very familiar to you. Date your ex only because you believe that you two are compatible together and are capable of a new relationship of mutual love and respect. Search your feelings and be honest with both yourself when determining why you want to date your ex.
 While you cannot change your partner, you can change yourself.


Avoid extreme positions like “I will never ___” or exaggerated accusations like “You never/always ____.”
For instance, if your ex spends a lot at the grocery store, don’t say “You always spend too much on groceries we don’t need.” Instead, explain in a clear, calm tone “I don’t think we should be spending so much on groceries, they always go bad before we can eat them all.”
While all relationships have both good and bad times, re-engineering your relationship with your ex requires that on balance, you have more good times than bad.
 When you’re dating your ex, to make the relationship work you will need to adjust the way you communicate, starting with your listening skills.


Couples often fall into certain communication styles or habits and have a hard time breaking them. Date your ex-spouse with an open mind and try to hear their point of view anew, as if for the first time. Since you and your ex have spend a significant amount of time apart, chances are you both have changed. Hear them out.
Do not interrupt your spouse when they are critiquing you or offering advice. Listen to everything they have to say and speak only after they are done speaking.

