 Writing down the reasons why you do not think your friend should have plastic surgery can help you to clarify and organize them. Write down what you hope to express to your friend before you sit down to talk with her.Try asking yourself:


What are my feelings about plastic surgery?
Why am I against my friend having plastic surgery?
What is the best way to explain my feelings to my friend?
What am I worried might happen if my friend get plastic surgery?

, You might have strong feelings about plastic surgery that make it hard for you to see your friend’s side. However, taking time to put yourself into your friend’s shoes may make it easier to understand where she is coming from.For example, if your friend wants a breast augmentation, consider why she might want one. Has she been teased in the past for having small breasts? Does her breast size limit her clothing choices? Does she feel self-conscious around guys because of her small breasts?
Try to imagine how your friend might feel and how you would feel in her situation. This might help you to understand her reasons for wanting plastic surgery.
 If you don’t know much about the procedure that your friend wants to have, then take some time to find out more about it. It is possible that the procedure is not as risky as it might seem. Or, you might find out that the procedure has a lot of problems associated with it and you can share your findings with your friend.


Try running some internet searches to find information about your friend's procedure. Look for information about what the procedure involves, the potential risks, complications, and patient satisfaction.
 After you have thought carefully about the reasons why you are against your friend’s decision and also thought about her side, you may want to put all of this into a letter to your friend. A letter can serve as a good way to organize your thoughts and get your emotions out on paper.Write the letter as if you are talking to your friend and say everything that you want to say.
Don’t send the letter to your friend. However, you might refer to your letter as you share your concerns with your friend.

