 This is always a good precaution, regardless of what clothes you're washing. You want to make sure your clothing is machine washable. Not all clothing is.Expensive clothing may be dry clean only. This means you'll have to take it to the dry cleaners. A dark business suit, for example, may be dry clean only.
Other clothing, like wool clothing, may be hand wash only. You will have to gently wash these items in a sink or tub with a small amount of detergent, rinse them, and then hang them or lay them flat to dry.;
, You do not want to throw in dark clothing with light clothing. Dark clothes, black clothes especially, can bleed onto lighter shades in the wash.Go through your dirty laundry piece by piece. Have one pile for dark clothes, and one pile for light clothes.
Take into consideration how dirty each piece of laundry is. You should not wash very dirty clothes with clothes that only need a light wash.
 Just because all your items are dark does not mean they can all be thrown in together. Fabric type affects the kind of wash a piece of clothing needs.Heavier fabrics, like jeans and towels, should be washed separately from light to medium-weight fabrics, like t-shirts.
Put delicates, like lacy underwear and bras, in their own pile. They should be washed separately.
 The wash cycle can agitate dark fabrics. This can result in a faded appearance. While all dark clothing fades over time, you can extend the shelf life of your dark outfits by turning them inside out prior to the wash., Dark clothing is particularly susceptible to losing color during a wash cycle. Cold water helps the fibers in dark fabrics stay intact.Set the machine for the coldest setting possible. If your clothing is very dirty, use the soil setting, but set it at the lightest possible level.
Always use the shortest cycle possible. The less time dark clothes are in the washer, the better. This will help them maintain their color.
 You want to stick to a basic detergent without additives like bleach. Look for a detergent that does not have any additives advertised on the package. This should be safe for your darker clothes.Some items may be labeled as "color safe" or "color safe bleach," but do not use these on darker clothes. Such detergents are better used on light colored clothing.
 Read the package to see how much detergent to add. Every detergent is slightly different, so there is no set amount to use.However, if your clothing is very soiled, you can add a little extra detergent to the wash. This can help you get the job done the first time. Remember, washing dark clothing always causes some fading, so an efficient wash is best.
 Delicate fabrics, like those found in lacy underwear, require a gentle wash. Use a delicate cycle when washing these clothes. Be extra vigilant about reading labels when it comes to delicates. Many kinds of lingerie and expensive bras are hand wash only.However, if you don't have time to do an extra load, you can place these items in a mesh bag and wash them with your other clothing.
 Tumbling around in the dryer is not good for dark clothes. It can cause them to look faded. After removing your dark clothes from the wash, hang them out to dry in your laundry room.Do not hang sweaters, however. Sweaters should be laid on a flat surface to dry.
You should also avoid drying dark clothing in the sun. This can cause it to fade.
 Every time you wash dark clothes, they lose some color. With denim especially, black dye will wash away during the wash cycle. Only wash clothing that is very dirty or starting to smell.Small stains can usually be treated without a washing machine. You can blot out stains with a white cloth and a mixture of water and dish washer detergent. You should use half a cup of water, and a teaspoon of detergent.
After blotting out the stain, rinse the area by blotting the area with plain water.
 In some occasions, you may need bleach for stubborn stains that do not respond to other treatments. Only use bleach when absolutely necessary, and make sure to choose a quality bleach.Choose a bleach labeled "all fabric bleach." This should be safer on your dark clothes than "color safe bleach."
Your washing machine may have a bleach dispenser. Follow the instructions for use. If you do not have a bleach dispenser, you will need to dilute the bleach on your own. Refer to the package label for instructions.
Only use bleach after running out of other options. Dark clothing should be bleached infrequently, if at all.
 Many detergents come with fabric softener, so you may assume yours does. However, some do not, so always check first. If your detergent does not come with added fabric softener, it's a good idea to throw some in. This is especially important if you're washing something like a towel, which you will want soft.You can buy a fabric softener at the grocery store or a supermarket. Follow the instructions for how much to add to your wash.
Some laundry machines may have a separate dispenser where you add fabric softener.

