 When someone wants to challenge an estate plan, they file a petition or complaint in court. This person is typically called the “contestant.” You should be served with a copy. Read the document to understand the substance of the undue influence allegation.


The contestant might also file an “affidavit of objections” which could contain more detail. In this document, the person alleging undue influence should state the facts giving rise to that belief.;
, There is no simple illustration or definition of undue influence. Instead, the court will look at a variety of circumstances which raise the inference that the person who created the estate plan (the “testator”) was unduly influenced by someone else. Common factors include:


The testator was elderly. Anyone can be unduly influenced by another, but the elderly are often the most vulnerable.
The estate plan made an unusual gift or bequest.For example, a charity or non-family member might have received a large portion of the estate. Also, children might have been excluded entirely from the estate plan.
A person who received a large gift helped obtain or draft the estate plan.This is the person alleged to have exercised undue influence over the testator, either for their own benefit or for the benefit of a close relative.
The testator was dependent on the beneficiary. For example, the testator is physically or mentally infirm and relies on someone for care.
 The lawyer who drafted the estate plan could be a helpful witness for you. The attorney can testify as to his or her impressions of the deceased.The lawyer can also testify to the following:


Whether the deceased took the initiative in obtaining an estate plan. If so, then this factor helps show that there was no undue influence. However, if a beneficiary took the initiative, then there is some evidence of undue influence.
If beneficiaries were at the execution or were involved in creating the estate plan. If not, then you have helpful evidence that the testator acted independently.
Whether the deceased gave reasons why he or she designed the plan the way they did. For example, the deceased might have explained why he or she was cutting children out of the will. If the reasons are plausible, then there is some proof that there was no undue influence.
The deceased did not seem dependent on anyone. This factor would help prove that there was no undue influence.
 When a will or trust is executed, generally two witnesses must watch the person sign and then add their own signatures. These witnesses can testify as to what they saw at the execution.For example, they can testify that the person was competent and appeared independent. This would help your case.
 You will want these witnesses to testify as to the deceased’s mental and physical state when they created their estate plan. Reach out to the deceased’s close friends and family and ask them to describe the deceased at the time the estate plan was created.Family or friends who say the deceased was happy and not isolated are beneficial to your case.
 If you are the estate’s personal representative, then you should be able to get all of the deceased’s medical records. These records are important because evidence that the deceased was physically fit can rebut any suggestion that they were sufficiently vulnerable to fall prey to undue influence.


The physician might also qualify as an expert witness.He or she could offer expert testimony as to the deceased’s state of mind when the estate plan was created.
 The contestant probably identified one person as exerting undue influence over the deceased. This person could be you. However, if you are the estate’s personal representative or a trust’s trustee, then you would want to reach out and contact that person to get their side of the story.


This person may have been a caretaker, such as a nurse, or it may be one of the deceased’s children who was given more in the estate plan than the other children.
This person undoubtedly will have to testify, so you should meet with them and take detailed notes. You want to know ahead of time what they will say about their relationship with the deceased and whether they ever threatened or intimidated the deceased.
 As the trustee or the executor, you should have a lawyer already on the payroll unless the estate or trust is very small. If you are a beneficiary who is defending against a claim of undue influence, then you will probably need to find your own lawyer.


You can get a referral to a qualified lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.Once you have a referral, you should call and schedule a meeting with the lawyer. Ask ahead of time how much they charge.
You can meet for a consultation with the attorney and then never meet again. However, you are advised to hire the lawyer to represent you. Undue influence claims are complicated and you would benefit from an experienced attorney’s help.
 You need to respond to the complaint or petition in a formal way. Depending on the lawsuit, you will file an answer, response, or objection.Generally, you will deny the allegations made in the complaint or petition. However, depending on the circumstances, you could file to have the case dismissed.


You could ask the judge to dismiss the case if the person challenging the estate plan doesn’t have legal standing. For example, in most states, you can’t contest a will unless you are an heir, a beneficiary under the current will, or a beneficiary under a prior will.
You could also ask the judge to dismiss the case if the contestant took too long to file the lawsuit. For example, in Florida, you have only three months to file a lawsuit after being served with a petition for administration of the will.In Illinois, you have six months from the date the will is admitted into probate to file suit., After drafting your response, you need to make several copies and file the original with the court. There shouldn’t be a filing fee. However, you should call ahead of time to check.
 You have to serve a copy of your response on the person bringing the contest and probably also other interested parties.Other “interested parties” would generally include anyone notified when the will was submitted into probate.


Read your probate court rules to find out acceptable methods of service. Generally, you can have someone hand deliver copies of your response. If the other side has an attorney, then serve your response on the attorney.
 This is called “discovery.” You can use discovery to uncover helpful information for your defense.


For example, you can depose witnesses. In a deposition, you ask the witness questions which they answer under oath. A court reporter typically records the questions and answers.Depositions are helpful for understanding what a witness knows. If the witness has information that hurts your case, you can prepare for it well in advance of trial.
You can also ask the contestant for the names of any witnesses with information about the undue influence. After getting this information, you could then contact each of the contestant’s witnesses to probe how credible they are.
 At the close of discovery, you can file a motion for summary judgment. In this motion, you argue that there are no meaningful factual disputes for trial and that you deserve to win.If you win the motion for summary judgment, then you defeat the undue influence claim.


Summary judgment motions require careful planning. You need to go through all of the discovery and check to see if any material factual disputes exist.
You also need to review the case law in your state. If you have a lawyer, then he or she will perform the research and draft this motion for you. However, if you are representing yourself, then you need to perform this work.
See File a Motion for Summary Judgment for more information.
 It can cost a lot of money to defend a lawsuit. After a while, the amount of money spent defending yourself could exceed the amount of money that you might get under the estate plan. For this reason, you should always think about settling.


In particular, you should consider mediation.In mediation, a third party mediator will meet with you and other interested parties. The mediator’s job is to listen to all sides and help them come to an agreement everyone can live with. You can split the cost of mediation between the participants.
You can find mediators by contacting your local courthouse or your local bar association. Both may offer referrals.
You want to make sure that all interested parties are involved in the settlement discussions, otherwise one could challenge the will or trust at a later date., You can prepare for trial by going over all of the information you have about the dispute. Take out documents, deposition transcripts, and other evidence. Look to see what the other side will introduce to prove undue influence. Also look to see what evidence you have to counter it.


Serve your witnesses with subpoenas. A subpoena is a legal request to show up at court on a certain date and provide testimony.You should serve all of your witnesses with a subpoena. You can get a blank subpoena form from the court clerk.
Make copies of all exhibits. The judge will probably set a deadline for handing over a copy of all exhibits to the other side. You can turn a document into an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to the original of the document.
 As the person bringing the lawsuit alleging undue influence, the contestant will probably present witnesses first. Your lawyer will have a chance to cross-examine each witness.


Cross-examination has several different purposes. For example, you might want to prove that the witness is biased.The witness might stand to inherit money if the will or trust is declared invalid. This fact tends to show the witness has a motive to bend the truth.
You can also use cross-examination to uncover holes or gaps in the witness’s testimony. For example, someone might claim that they saw you badgering the deceased and controlling his or her behavior. However, this witness might have only seen you one time with the deceased.
If you are representing yourself at trial, then see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 You also get to present witnesses. Your lawyer should ask them questions to elicit helpful information showing the deceased was independent when the estate plan was made. If you have to ask the witnesses questions, then make sure that you don’t ask leading questions. A leading question contains its own answer and can typically be answered with a “yes” or “no.”“You thought the deceased was in excellent mental health when you saw her in April, right?” is a leading question. Instead, ask a series of questions:


“What is your profession?” “What kind of patients do you typically treat?” “Was Mrs. Esther Johnson a patient?” “How often did you see her?” “When was the last time you saw her?” “How did she seem on that date?” , Your case will be heard by either a judge or a jury. In some larger states, juries are prohibited for will contests, so the case will likely be heard by the judge alone.After hearing all of the evidence, the judge will either uphold the will or trust or invalidate some or all of it because of undue influence.


If you lose, you have the option to bring an appeal. You should talk this over with your attorney.

