 If your teen is upset, then mirroring his or her distress is likely to make things worse. Instead of acting as upset as your teen, try to help your teen stay calm by being a calming presence. Try to put some distance between yourself and your teen’s problems. Avoid internalizing your teen’s problems to the point that you are reacting the same way that your teen is reacting.If you are upset with your teen or if you are distressed about something they are going through, then take some time to calm yourself before you sit down and talk. Otherwise, you may find yourself overreacting to the things that your teen shares and this could make matters worse.
Try going for a quick walk, doing some deep breathing, or meditating for five minutes before you talk with your teen.
 Criticizing your teen can result in a breakdown in communication, so make sure that you make more positive than negative statements when you have to correct your teen on something. For example, if your teen is getting a bad grade, then you might point to all of her good grades first or mention her accomplishments in extracurricular activities before bringing up the bad grade.For example, you might frame the discussion by saying something like, “Your report card is pretty impressive! You got an “A” in English and History, a “B+” in Math, and a “B+ in Biology. It seems like the only class that you are not excelling in right now is Physical Education, so we should probably try to work out a plan to get that grade up. What do you think?”

, Jumping to conclusions before your teen has a chance to share his or her side may also lead to a breakdown in communication. Before you respond to a situation, make sure that you ask your teen if there is any other information you should know about.For example, if your teen has gotten into trouble at school, you might start by saying something like, “You math teacher called me this morning and said that you were disrespectful to her in class today. I don’t think she was trying to get you into trouble. I think that she is just concerned about you. I am concerned as well. Before we talk about this, is there anything else that I should know about the situation?”

, Some questions can lead to a hostile environment between you and your teen, so it is best to avoid these types of questions. Asking “trap” questions can cause your teen to be deceptive in response. A trap question is one that you already know the answer to, but you might still ask just to see if your teen will lie or tell the truth.


For example, if you know that your teen lied to you about where she stayed the night because you called and she was not there, a trap question would be asking her something like, “Did you have a fun time staying over at Julie’s house last night?”You know that she didn't stay there and she knows that she did not stay there, so the question is testing her honesty. However, she knows that she will probably be in trouble either way.
Instead of asking trap questions, be direct with your teen. For example, if you know that your teen lied about where she was, address her in a calm, even tone with something like, “I talked to Julie’s mom last night and I know that you did not sleep over. I am not sure why you lied, but I think we should discuss this. However, we don’t have to talk about it right away if you are not feeling up to it. Do you want to talk now or discuss it after dinner tonight?” Responding in this way shows your teen that you know she lied about something and that you are disappointed, but that you want to discuss it in a reasonable way when you are both feeling calm.
 Since good problem solving skills will help your teen as an adult, you may want to use difficult conversations to teach your teen how to solve problems. To teach problem solving skills to your teen, you will need to talk them through their options when they have a difficult problem or decision to make.Allow your teen to talk through all of the options.
Make a pros and cons list together.
Ask questions to help your teen look at all sides of the problem.
Let your teen make the final decision.
Use the outcome as a learning opportunity.
 If you have not been able to have conversation with your teen despite efforts to improve communication between the two of you, then seeking counseling might be the next step. By going through counseling with your teen, you can both learn strategies to improve your communication and work towards a better relationship.You may also consider individual counseling for yourself and your teen. Individual counseling may be necessary to help you and your teen deal with issues that are outside of your relationship.

