 Some schools require children with allergies to eat by themselves to possibly prevent them from eating any of their classmate’s food and having a reaction. Doing so often causes isolation and sometimes ostracism. You may be able to stop that from happening by requesting the school designate allergy-free tables for children with allergies.


Talk to the principal about this request. Let them know that setting aside a few tables for kids with allergies to eat at is far easier than issuing a school-wide ban on peanuts and other common allergy foods, which is something you have the right to do.;
, If your child is the only child sitting at the allergy table, of course they’re going to feel alone. You may be able to prevent this by suggesting the school allow a friend or two to accompany your child. This can only be done, however, if their lunches don’t include anything your child is allergic to.


The school may not want to assume the responsibility of inspecting each child’s lunch. If possible, offer to come in each day to look at the food and decide if it is safe or not in order to prevent your child from feeling isolated during lunch., If your child is isolated because of the school’s policies regarding food allergies, there may be something you can do. Section 504 of the American Disabilities Act allows children with food allergies to have a safe and inclusive education, which means that although they will be protected, they will also be included in events.


It also gives parents the opportunity to create plans with the school as to how the staff should include children with food allergies.
You may suggest that the school have food-free parties and events so that your child can participate. Additionally, you can request that these celebrations are held in the cafeteria, rather than the classroom, as these tables are likely wiped down with proper sanitation equipment, unlike desks., Whenever there is a special celebration at school, offer to make some of the food, if not all of it. Doing so allows you to control the ingredients, so you know your child is safe.


Additionally, it allows your child to be part of the celebration, and not have to eat food that is different from anyone else, which can prevent that feeling of isolation.