 Yahoo! Answers isn't a place to vent personal frustrations or rant about issues. It is a community of people with diverse beliefs, opinions, and backgrounds, so please be respectful and keep hateful and incendiary comments off Yahoo! Answers.

Chatting or otherwise violating the question-and-answer format. If you prefer to have discussions or chat with others, please use one of Yahoo!'s other community services, such as Yahoo! Groups or Yahoo! Messenger.

Being mean or obscene. Because patrons as young as 13 may participate in Yahoo! Answers, sexually explicit and vulgar language and images are not welcome on the site. Also not welcome are belligerence, insults, slurs and generally objectionable speech.

Exploiting the community. Yahoo! Answers is a place to gain knowledge, not customers, page views, or dates. If you have years of experience in something, have a special hobby, own your own business, or if you are a knowledge partner, it's OK to accompany a good, on-topic answer with a link to your website, blog, or email to offer more information. However, it is not OK to post links that are unrelated to the topic or are clearly meant only to solicit others for personal and financial gain. Also prohibited are solicitations like "Will you add me as a contact?" or propositioning people.

Cheating. The points system is meant to reward the community members for sharing questions and answers, so creating multiple accounts or posting content for the sole purpose of gaining points or soliciting others for points is not permitted. Posting filler answers to a question in an effort to be first to answer, or copying and pasting other members' answers, are also forms of cheating.

Violating the law. Members of Yahoo! Answers are not above the law, so don't post anything that violates the laws of your country, state, province, or city. Don't try to trick people into sharing their personal information, steal anything (like copyright or trademark material), or break into places you shouldn't be. Don't threaten, harass, impersonate, or hurt others, and don't invade other people's privacy.

Maliciously misbehaving. Don't post links to sites that contain viruses or malicious programs or that interfere with the operation of Yahoo! Answers.

Misusing Answers. Don't create multiple accounts to troll or otherwise violate these guidelines or the Yahoo! Terms of Service. Don't post things that are incomprehensible or in the wrong language, and don't post the same question over and over again. The community depends on you to report abuse and rate questions and answers, so using product features such as report abuse and ratings to target others is not allowed.

Doing harm. Be responsible and don’t misrepresent yourself, claim false credentials or expertise or give advice in a way that might cause someone harm. Don’t incite or advocate violence or harmful practices.

