 If you are like many people, you may be guilty of too many details. Take an honest look at your kitchen. Is it too cluttered? You can easily sidestep this problem by taking a few things away or simply rearranging your storage system to keep the extras from view. A new kitchen may emerge just from this one step.


If you have no choice but to display all of your appliances and dishware for a lack of storage, you're going to have to get some! Buy a cart, bring an extra piece in, or invest in some attractive bins and containers.;
, If you stick to whites like a piece of rice, you risk ending with a kitchen that seems hospital-like and cold. Add a few accent colors that are bright and cheery to make it seem warm, lived in, and loved.


Choose certain spots for your color. The seating? The lighting? An area of the countertop? In addition, do not feel pressure to stick to just one -- different hues of the same color work well together -- and remove the pressure to find the exact right tone.
 Plants and flowers add lively decoration to any room and are good for the environment. Add a functional decoration to your kitchen by creating a window box with fresh herbs, or replace fresh-cut flowers in a kitchen table vase every few days to keep it looking new.


Make sure they match your theme! A simplistic, neutral kitchen would benefit nicely from a simple Easter Lily or two while a kitchen with more pizzazz might look better with a bunch of carnations or daisies. What flower fits your kitchen's personality?
Herbs are not grown in factories, you know. To kill two birds with one stone, grow them yourself in your kitchen window! What a cute little way to spruce up your kitchen and jazz up your meals.
 For those of us that don't have a massive budget to install gold-flecked countertops lined with rubies, a fun way to spruce up your kitchen's ambiance is to spice up your fridge! There are loads of fun choices available that you can cater specifically to your personality.


Sometimes it's the little things in life. Buy a whole bunch of magnetic letters and leave your roommate a nice message about how you drank the last diet Coke, or even put magnets on the back of photos from favorite vacations. If it sticks, it's a possibility.
 When you have one look going on in your kitchen (probably smooth and flat), it can look one-dimensional and blah. To add an extra zing to your cooking space, work in texture, too.Go for textured containers, textured linens, and textured wall hangings or curtains. A little bit here and there will go a long away against the smoothness of the countertops, the table, and the cabinets.
 Long gone are the days when the kitchen was just the kitchen. Now, the living room is the dining room, the kitchen is the common area, and the dining room could even be for show. While you don't have to embrace the lifestyle, consider jazzing up your kitchen with no-exactly-meant-for-the-kitchen pieces.


A china cabinet, armoire, or credenza is a good way to start expanding the look of your kitchen.If you have a great piece, make it the focal point. Voila, instant theme! Add bookshelves, a bench, or other multi-purpose pieces to seal the deal. After all, this is your kitchen.
 One way to give the whole room a cohesive theme is to choose one pattern for your curtains, tablecloth, and hand towels and create a matching set of linens. The only hard part of this is committing to just one!

, Give your kitchen a celebratory feel by changing out linens, curtains, or dishes for special holidays. Rotate these items, which all complement the personality of your kitchen, with the changing seasons to add seasonal colors and elements.


This has one extra (albeit teeny) benefit: with the seasons, you can give it a good cleaning. Kitchens are the rooms that get dirtiest, and if you schedule four annual overhauls, your appliances, dishware, and linens will stay good as new.

