 If you have a dog and are bringing home a new baby, you need to follow certain protocol to make sure the introduction goes smoothly. Dogs usually adjust well to babies, but you should still guide introductions with careful planning.


Before your baby arrives, teach your dog general obedience skills. Sit, lie down, stay, and leave it are commands your dog should know. This way, if he's getting overly excited around the baby you could easily intervene and get him to calm down and take a break.If possible, allow your dog to interact with friend's babies in the months leading up to delivery. Introduce him to new signs and sounds so the strange noises the baby makes do not frighten him.Make sure your dog's first encounter with the baby is pleasant. Allow everyone else present to enter the house before the baby comes so your dog can greet them as usual. When you show your dog the baby, stay calm as this will help your dog stay calm. Praise your dog for being calm around the baby and speak to him in a pleasant voice as he interacts with the new family member.Give your dog attention when the baby is present. People are often tempted to do the opposite, giving the dog extra attention to make up for any he lacks when the baby is around. However, this can lead your dog to believe good things only happen when the baby is gone. If he gets treats, praise, and attention in the presence of the baby he'll learn to like the new family member.Always reward your dog for calm, polite behavior around the baby. If he gets too excited or playful, have a cue word that will make him give the infant space. Something like "Go lie down" or "Shoo" should signal to your dog he needs to take a few minutes to calm himself., If your child is experiencing a dog phobia, strive to understand where that fear is coming from. This can help you better explain why the fear is, in most cases, unnecessary.


Children, especially young children, are naturally fearful of unfamiliar things. If your child did not grow up around dogs, they're likely startled in the presence of a new animal. Fear is not rational and cannot always be dealt with by trying to explain, rationally, why a dog won't hurt a child.Show don't tell is a good adage when dealing with childhood fears. Instead of explaining again and again a dog won't hurt them, interact with the dog yourself. Calmly pet and talk to an unfamiliar dog and show your child the dog is friendly.
Of course, take the usual precautions. Do not pet a strange dog or one that appears aggressive. You do not want to inadvertently reinforce your child's fear.
 Oftentimes, when trying to explain proper behavior, parents end up fueling a fear of dogs. Be careful how you speak to your child when she interacts with a new dog.


People often say things like, "Pet the dog gently, or else he might bite" or "Do not pet a strange dog, as he might be aggressive." Such phrasing is well-intentioned, but what you're really telling your child is that dogs are something to be feared.Instead of those kinds of phrases, try to reword warnings in a positive light. Instead of saying, "Don't pet a dog like that," try something like, "Dogs really prefer to be petted on their backs gently. It makes them happy." Instead of warning children that strange dogs might bite, instead say, "Dogs like to get to know people before being petted.", Children, much like adults who fear dogs, often have phobias based in misinformation. Make sure children know how dogs communicate so they recognize a friendly, happy dog.


Let your child know a dog with an open mouth and relaxed ears is friendly. That dog is ready to be petted. Teach them that a wagging tail is a sign of happiness in dogs.If you see a dog acting fearful or aggressive, explain this to your child in terms that are not frightening. Instead of saying, "That dog might bite" say something like, "That dog looks scared. He probably needs some space.", Children might love puppies as they're cute and cuddly, but introducing your child to an untrained puppy might not be a great idea.


Puppies and children are both easily excitable and might not understand boundaries. If a child, especially one unfamiliar with dogs, interacts with a puppy he could accidentally end up bitten or scratched. If your child is already afraid of dogs, this could reinforce that fear.Find an older, trained, and calm adult dog for your child's first interactions. If you're considering adopting a dog, finding an older dog at a shelter is not only a great option to reduce fear in your child. It's good for the dog as well. Older animals are often not adopted and end up in shelters for months and even years, and might be euthanized if they're not housed at a no-kill shelter.