 Your weekly errands list probably includes a trip to the grocery store, filling up your tank, or stopping by the pharmacy. Although these tasks may seem mundane, they are great places to chat up new and interesting people. Next time you’re standing in line or browsing in the same aisle as another person, go out of your way to talk with them.


Make it a goal to talk to a certain number of new people every time you go out. For example, try to say at least “hi” to three new people each time you run your errands.
Don’t feel like you have to carry on a big conversation; simply greeting a new person and asking basic questions is enough to start. If the person is intrigued by you and you get along well, then the conversation will carry itself out naturally.;
, Heading to work or school is something you have to do anyway, so using public transportation kills two birds with one stone. Sitting or standing next to a new person on the bus, train, or metro is a great excuse to begin chatting. Plus, if you find someone you really enjoy, chances are they take the same public transportation on a regular basis. Meaning that you have the opportunity to see them often.
 If you have studying or work to do, or simply want to read a book, try doing it in a public setting instead of in your home. Head to a local park, set up camp, and hang out with others who do the same. If you share a common activity with a nearby stranger, start up a conversation about it!, Do you constantly see the same person in class or at work, but you’ve just never talked to them before? Then a great opportunity to meet someone new has presented itself to you. Approach that person you frequently see, start talking, and move past the ‘stranger’ zone you’ve currently been in.
 If you are already planning on going to a get-together or party put on by a friend or family member, take initiative to avoid being a wallflower. Although you may know many or most of the people present, step out of your shell and talk to those at the party that you don’t.
 If you go for walks, runs, or bike rides, consider moving your workout to a new location. Simply taking your dog for a walk at a local park is a simple means of finding people. Exercise in a more public location to get to know others who are doing the same.

