 Medium-sized apples are usually best, since you don't want a tiny treat, but too large an apple will take a long time to cook. Use a melon baller to core the apple. Leave the flower end on as a bottom. Score the skin, making the skin easier to eat.






;
, The core hole is the hollowed out space where the core sat. Cut the skin about an inch / 2.5 centimeter (1.0 in) around the core hole. Place each apple in a suitably sized baking dish (microwave or oven-proof depending on method you will choose).
 This is traditionally cinnamon and raisins, although you can make variations - see "Tips" for suggestions. The amount of raisins you use depends on the size of the core. If you're using other fruit, you will obviously wish to reduce the amount of raisins used. Add a pinch of cinnamon to taste, and a pinch of fresh nutmeg.
 Don't use a lot, just enough to cover the hole - a quarter to a half a tablespoon is sufficient.
 If you do not want to add any sweetener, skip this step. Ensure that you have chosen a sweeter variety of apple if you do not wish to use a sweetener.
 This will add the moisture needed to keep the apple moist as it bakes, so that it doesn't come out dry. This will also provide a little apple juice at the bottom of the bowl, which adds a lot of flavor.











Oven - Set oven to moderate: 350ºF / 180ºC / gas mark 4. Bake apples for 1 hour, or until they feel tender when pierced with a fork. It is important to check regularly and add more water to prevent the apples from drying out as they bake. Alternatively, if you haven't time or patience to keep checking, place aluminum foil over a pan for 30 minutes and then remove for the last 30 minutes. Some people claim that the aluminum spoils the taste of the apples though, so you may wish to consider this. Keep the foil shiny side down if you use this method.

Microwave - Although some people frown upon the use of a microwave, it's not just for frozen dinners, nor is it a sign of laziness. You really cannot predict how long it'll take in the microwave, it depends on how hard the apple is. The apple decides for itself! Most apples take at least 10 minutes. After it cooks for five minutes, microwave it at intervals of 30 seconds, checking each time the microwave stops. When the apple is soft and the skin is softer, it's done!

, Don't try to eat it right away, because it will be extremely hot. Some people like cream or whipped cream (or even ice cream) on top. Be sure to cut up the apple, or you'll wind up with the whole apple in your mouth after taking one bite!








,