 The type of apple you choose dictates whether it is best to pre-cook the apples or add uncooked apples and bake them once with the pie.


Use Golden, Spartan, McIntosh and Rome apples if you would prefer not to pre-bake them. These types of apples tend to break down quickly in an oven.
Use Granny Smiths, Honeycrisp or Gala apples if you would prefer to pre-bake apples. They are denser and may be too crisp if they are not pre-baked before adding them to the pastry.;
,


Core the apples using an apple corer with serrated edges. Insert the corer into the center of the apple. Turn it 360 degrees, and then pull out the core.
Use a vegetable peeler or an apple-peeling machine to thoroughly peel approximately 7 very large apples or 12 small apples.
If you have apples in many different sizes, aim for approximately 4 cups (684g) of sliced apples.



Use a mandolin to thinly slice the apples, if you are not planning on pre-cooking your apples. Thinner slices will bake down more quickly.
Cut slices with a knife, if you plan to pre-bake them. Pre-baked apples can be up to 1/2 inch (1.3cm) thick.
 Pre-cooked apples are slightly sweeter, but the method you use to precook them will determine their crisp texture after baking.


Choose to blanch your apples. You can either drop them into boiling water for 1 minute, or the Food Lab suggests pouring boiling water into a bowl full of sliced apples and letting them sit for 10 minutes before draining. In this method, the pectin in the apples will become a heat-stable form, allowing them to retain some structure and crispiness.
Choose to cook them on the stove, if you prefer apple pie filling that is less crispy. Place your apples in a Dutch oven heated to medium heat. #*Stir them occasionally while they heat for 10 minutes.
If you choose not to pre-cook your apples, mix them with the juice and zest of 1 lemon immediately after slicing them.
 Add 3/4 cup (141g) of light brown sugar, 1/4 cup (31g) of all-purpose flour, 3/4 tsp. (2g) ground cinnamon and 1/4 tsp. (.6g) ground nutmeg in a bowl.
, If you want to make filling that can be refrigerated, frozen or canned, you should use the next method.


Beat an egg to make an egg wash. Brush it over the top pie crust. Sprinkle the top with cinnamon and granulated sugar.
Pre-heat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius). Cook the pie for 5 minutes. Watch the oven carefully and tent the crust, if it is starting to burn.

