 Many restaurants and businesses offer discounts for people over 65. Some even offer this benefit for people as young as 55. Don't be afraid to ask about discounts because not every place advertises it.Also, consider joining AARP, which provides even more discounts for seniors at various businesses., After you retire, you may realize you don't have enough income to meet the demands of what you want to do. If so, you might consider downsizing to a smaller house. Even if your house is already paid off, you can use the profit to invest, allowing you to have more income in your later years.You may also consider moving to an apartment. That way, you can invest all the profits from your house, and you have a place to live where you don't have to provide upkeep., While it may seem odd to move to a new state at this point in your life, you'll find that certain states do not tax pensions and social security. For instance, Florida, Pennsylvania, and Nevada are just a few states with this benefit., Maybe you just want a little extra cash for the occasional dinner out. If that's true, think about taking small side jobs. For instance, you could offer tutoring services to local high school students. You could also put your expertise to work by still consulting in your professional field. Another option is pet sitting or house sitting. All of these side jobs will give you the extra cash you need to help you enjoy retirement., While it's a nice gesture to donate items to local charities, you can also sell items you don't want in your local classifieds or online. You can make some extra cash and de-clutter your home at the same time., That is, many grocery stores have reward programs, such as offering a discount on gas or personalized coupons if you join their reward programs. Your credit card may have a reward program, as well. Make sure you take advantage of all the rewards you come across because they do add up to extra cash., Medicare will cover many of your medical expenses in retirement, though not all. To cover more, you may need to get a supplemental plan, which can be cheaper overall.Most people get at least Medicare Part A and B. These two plans cover hospital visits and doctors' visits with a copay. Some people also get Part C, which is a supplemental plan that covers parts of what A and B don't. A Part D plan, also supplemental, can help cover your medication expenses.Part A is free in most cases (if you paid into to Medicare for at least 40 years), while the premium for Part B is based on your income. Parts C and D usually cost money as supplemental plans., Take a hard look at your monthly bills, and cut anything that you do not use often or that is not essential. For instance, you may decide that getting a newspaper everyday isn't important because you can get most of your news online. Alternatively, maybe you'll decide you can do without cable and get your entertainment cheaper through online streaming services.