 Remember when you were a kid in elementary school? You may have given out Valentine's Day cards to other classmates at school. You were taught to be kind and show love to everyone. Take action and give back to those around you.Give Valentine's Day cards to show support for your friends, family, and co-workers. Valentine's Day cards don't have to be only romantic in nature. They can be fun, playful, and happy.
Bring some treats to work or school to share with others. Make sure that others feel appreciated on this day. Other people just like you may feel left out. Remind them that today is about being supportive and kind.
 Plan an activity like lunch, dinner, or hanging out after school or work. If you're wanting to party, you can design your own or attend one that's already planned.


A lunch may work well for people who are busy in the evenings. Plan this lunch in advance so that it's not last-minute and they'll more likely be able to attend.
Consider having a dinner at home with your other single friends. Make it a fun experience with creative food and activities.
Schedule a party with other singles. If you're wanting to mingle with other singles on this day, consider creating a singles' party or attending a singles' event with friends., If your furry friend is the love of your life, keep an eye out for Valentine's events that involve your pet. There may be pet parties, parades, or meetups at public parks or dog parks where you can bring pets and celebrate with other animal lovers., There may be Valentine's events in your community that need your help — a children's play at a community center, for instance, or a party hosted by your church. You can also offer your time and service to a soup kitchen, domestic violence shelter, animal shelter, nursing home, or hospital to support others on this day. Volunteerism has been shown to improve the psychological wellbeing of the volunteer and may also help you feel less alone., Take this time to remind yourself that being single and lonely is something that everyone feels from one time or another. Use this holiday as a way to connect with your loved ones and friends who may also be going through a difficult time.


Call relatives who have helped you — parents, grandparents, aunts, or uncles. Wish them a Happy Valentine's Day. They deserve your love as much as anyone else.
Call, write, or text your friends that you haven't talked with in a while. Show that you're still thinking of them and they matter to you.
Be kind to supportive friends and gracious strangers on Valentine's Day. You never know what someone may be going through. Consider saying, "I hope you have a fantastic day. You're awesome." They may also reciprocate those words to you and others.

