 To use fundamental analysis, you need to determine what you think the stock is really worth, or its estimated value. This won't necessarily be what the stock is currently being traded at. If you decide the value is higher than the current stock price, buy. If you think the value is less than the stock price, sell.Don't expect clear results. The value is subjective and other investors often come to different conclusions.
 To determine the current and future value of a company, here are a few variables to look into:P/E (price to earnings ratio) - a negative ratio may suggest that the company isn't profitable
EBIDTA (Earnings before interest depreciation, tax and amortization) - this is a form of net income with much of the accounting already taken into consideration
free cash flow - this represents money that the company has to pursue opportunities that may increase their stock's value
debt ratio - this is a percentage of the company's total debts to assets

, You can find the information in the company's SEC filings or earnings reports. Order a company report by contacting the Investor Relations area of the company. Their contact information will be available on their website, which may even offer a link to download the reports.


You can also use the EDGAR (Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieving) system of the SEC to view or download this information.
 Full-service brokers, research firms, and the internet are full of free and for-purchase reports.


Note that many online brokers limit public information available.
 Once you have all the information you need, make a decision about the value of the company you're considering. Use the data to determine the value of the company. Then, buy stocks based on future projections of earnings or good news about the company.


You can try using relative value to compare similar assets of different companies. When doing so, try to stay within the same sector when choosing companies to compare. For example, you may want to compare Apple, IBM, Lenovo and Hewlett Packard - Compaq.

