 The simplest way to do this is by typing the name of the business into Google, Yahoo!, or Bing, and finding their company website. However, there are more specialized websites such as https://gethuman.com/ or http://www.whitepages.com/business which help to narrow down your search results. For the latter, simply type in the name of the business, and/or the address it is located at.


Lists of businesses will appear. Search through at least the first couple of search results and narrow them down even further.
If you see the place of business right away, go ahead and give their number a try. If not, use the two or three businesses you think are correct and give each of them a try. Simply ask the receptionist, "Is this the phone number of ?" Or, "Is this the place where they sell ?"
Once you find out the correct number, make sure to put it in your contact list for future use.
 There are numerous review sites online which give reviews from actual customers describing particular businesses. Two of the most popular review sites are http://www.yelp.com/ and http://www.angieslist.com/. On these sites, they will usually list the name of the business, the address, and their phone number.If, for some reason, the phone number is not listed in their description of the business, search through the customer reviews. Usually, particularly raving or negative reviews will include the phone numbers.
 In the modern age, most companies are going digital as this is the best way to reach to the public. Therefore, they are creating business pages on Facebook and/or Twitter to advertise themselves and draw in more customers. Both Facebook and Twitter have search tabs at the top which allow you to type in a person's name or the company's name.If you are having trouble navigating these social networking sites, type into Google "Facebook " or "Twitter ."

, While LinkedIn is designed for persons to advertise themselves, people link to companies they have worked for on their accounts. This way, you can search by name of business in the LinkedIn search bar. This will pull up the business as listed on LinkedIn, the business' address, their phone number, and employees whom have worked there in the past.If the phone number is not listed on the actual LinkedIn page for the business, search through people's profiles. They are likely to include a phone number of businesses they have worked at.
 Every day, businesses send out flyers or advertisements through the mail. Look through those, as the businesses' phone numbers are usually at the top of the mailed items. You may have gotten a bill from a telephone company, a cable company, or the local bank. Bills usually include the business' phone number on them at the top.


Look through your receipts. Check on the back and front of the receipt to see whether they list a phone number.
You can also check the product packaging. If you have had something delivered to you, the company will usually place their phone number on the front of the package or mailing envelope.
 While some businesses, like Amazon, are internationally based with no real storefront, many local businesses welcome in customers. If you have time, visit the store. See if they have a phone number on their sign or hanging in their front window.


If you go inside, check the front desk to see if they have a business card (with their phone number on it) you can pick up and put in your wallet/purse for future use.
If the phone number is nowhere to be found, ask the clerk at the front desk what the store's phone number is.

