 If you limit the amount of fluids you drink in the few hours preceding bedtime, then your body will produce less urine overnight, making you less likely to wet the bed.This does not mean cut back on your overall fluid intake. You should still aim to drink around eight glasses of water each day. Simply try to consume them in the morning and afternoon hours. Staying hydrated is equally important since dehydration can also lead to adult bedwetting., Both caffeine and alcohol are diuretics, which mean they cause the body to produce more urine. Alcohol also dulls your body’s ability to wake you in the night to urinate when you have to go, leading to instances of bedwetting.Avoid caffeinated beverages and excessive intake of alcohol at night.
 Constipation can place pressure on your bladder lowers your control during the night.If your instances of bedwetting happen in conjunction with instances of constipation, then you should try adding more fiber to your diet, which you can get from leafy greens, legumes, and other plant-based sources.


You can find more information about treating your constipation by reading How to Regulate Bowel Movements.
 Bedwetting alarms can also help teens and adults who need to train their bodies to react to the need to urinate. A bedwetting alarm attaches to the underwear or pad on the mattress and beeps or buzzes the second it senses moisture, allowing you to get up and void your bladder before a full bedwetting incident occurs., Several medications have shown an increase in bedwetting as a possible side effect. Check to see if your medication regimen may be responsible, but always consult your doctor before you alter your schedule of prescription medications. Some drugs that may cause bedwetting include:Clozapine
Risperidone
Olanzapine
Quetiapine

, If you also snore loudly and wake in the morning with chest pain, headaches, and sore throat symptoms, then you may suffer from sleep apnea.Bedwetting is another symptom associated with the condition for adults who have otherwise had no prior problems with controlling their bladders.


If you believe you have sleep apnea, then you should see your physician for diagnosis and treatment options.
 If your instances of bedwetting don’t happen in coordination with excessive drinking or constipation, then you should see your doctor. Secondary enuresis (bedwetting in those who’ve otherwise shown long-term bladder control) is usually a symptom of another issue. Your doctor will want to run tests to rule out several other conditions, including:Diabetes
Neurological disorder
Urinary tract infection
Urinary tract stones
Prostate enlargement/cancer
Bladder cancer
Anxiety or emotional disorders

, You can look into several medication options to help control adult bedwetting. Ask your doctor which option might be best for your specific case during your consultation. Options include:Desmopressin, which causes your kidneys to produce less urine.
Imipramine, which has proven effective in up to 40 percent of cases.
Anticholinergic medications, which treat over activity of the detrusor muscle and include darifenacin, oxybutynin, and trospium chloride.
 These options are limited to cases of severe overactivity of your detrusor muscle, and they likely only apply if you have problems with daytime incontinence as well as bedwetting. Surgical options are a last resort. Your doctor might discuss:Clam cystoplasty — This surgery increases bladder capacity by placing a patch of intestine into an expanding incision in the bladder.
Detrusor myectomy — This procedure removes a portion of the detrusor muscle and helps strengthen and reduce the number of bladder contractions
Sacral nerve stimulation — The surgery decreases the activity of the detrusor muscle by altering the nerve activity that controls it.

