 In the bowl of your stand mixer, combine 1 1/3 cups warm water, 4 tablespoons softened butter, ½ cup honey, 2 ¾ cups bread flour, 1 ¾ cups whole wheat flour, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon powdered caramel color, and 2 ½ teaspoons instant yeast.You can use an electric hand mixer if you do not own a stand mixer.
 Place the paddle attachment on your stand mixer. Mix the dough on low until combined. This should take about 1-2 minutes. Scrape the dough from the sides of the mixer bowl, and replace the paddle attachment with the dough hook attachment. Continue mixing until you have formed dough that is smooth, yet slightly sticky., Remove the bowl of dough from your stand mixer and cover the bowl. Place the bowl of dough in a warm, but not hot, place. Allow the dough to rise for 1 hour. The dough will not double in size. It should, however, be slightly puffy after 1 hour.
 After allowing the dough to rise for an hour, divide it into rolls. You should separate the dough into 10 separate rolls. Then shape each individual roll into an oval that is 6 inches by 2 inches, or 15 ¼ centimeters by 5 centimeters.
 Take 1 cup of cornmeal and place it in a medium sized bowl. Then take each individual roll and place it in the bowl of cornmeal. Use your hands to lightly coat each roll. Place each coated roll on a lightly greased baking sheet.
 Cover the rolls with plastic wrap. Move the baking sheet of rolls to a warm place. Allow the rolls to rise for 90-120 minutes. The rolls will become puffy. You will know they are ready to bake when you gently press your finger into a roll and the indentation rebounds very slowly., Near the end of the rolls’ rising time, you will preheat your oven. Turn your oven on to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, or 176 degrees Celsius. This is the temperature at which you will bake your rolls.
 Remove the plastic wrap from the baking sheet of rolls. Place the baking sheet in your preheated oven. Bake the rolls for 24 minutes. The bottoms of the rolls will be slightly browned when they are done. Remove the rolls, cool the rolls on a cooling rack, and enjoy!