 Certain people should not drink under any circumstances, even in moderation.If you are pregnant or younger than 21 years old, you should not drink. You should also never drink if you’re driving, planning on driving, or using heavy machinery of any kind (including a go-cart, golf cart, chainsaw, or other device that requires coordination and fine motor skills).


In addition, individuals with certain medical conditions should not drive. Think about your medical history and any medications you might be taking before drinking alcohol.
Anyone who should not be drinking but does anyway is in need of help from a substance abuse counselor.
 The Center for Disease Control (CDC) defines heavy drinking as more than one drink per day for women and more than two drinks per day for men over the course of a week. Binge drinking is even more serious. For women, binge drinking is defined as drinking four or more drinks during a single occasion. For men, the number is five drinks or more in a single occasion. Both binge drinking and heavy drinking are excessive, and indicate that you need help managing your alcohol consumption.Excessive drinking may or may not interfere with your ability to function on a day-to-day basis. It is obvious that people who regularly cannot get to work or school due to excess alcohol consumption need help, but if you meet the qualifications for excessive drinking and still manage to have a successful career and social life, you also need to reduce your alcohol intake.
 There are many resources available for individuals who drink excessively.The most well-known group that helps people deal with their excessive alcohol intake is Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). There are AA chapters in almost every country in the world.


AA uses a 12-step program to help you live a life free of alcohol abuse, and introduces you to others who share the same struggle in order to help you learn from their experiences. Look for local chapters in your area.
Additionally, you should consult a substance abuse counselor to deal with your problem one-on-one. Substance abuse counselors are specially trained to help you understand and overcome your reliance on alcohol. You can locate one by contacting your local health department or addiction treatment centers.

