 Probation is a form of supervised release. As part of that release, you will need to satisfy certain conditions, such as staying drug- or crime-free, performing community service, or taking classes. A prominent condition of probation is to regularly check in with your probation officer.Before reaching out to your probation officer, you should have a firm grasp of the conditions of your probation so that you can discuss how you intend to satisfy them.;
, Your conditions of probation should be spelled out in the probation order.If you did not retain a copy, then contact your lawyer who should have a copy.
 You should contact your probation officer before the date your probation is set to start. Make note of the date and commit to calling the officer.
 Each large city has its own probation department. Smaller cities and rural areas often share a probation department per county.You should look for the phone number to your local office.


You can look in the phone book, under “probation” or “corrections.” The probation office might be called the Department of Corrections or a similar title. It may also be part of the Sheriff’s Office. If you can’t find a number for a probation office, then call the sheriff’s office.
Also, you can search the web. Type your city and “probation office” into your web browser. You might also visit www.countyoffice.org. Once there, you can click on “Probation Departments,” which will then bring up a list of states.Click on your state and then the applicable city or county.
You can also search Facebook. Some probation offices have created pages which include their address and phone number., Once you have the main number, you can call the office and ask who your probation officer is. The person who answers the phone will need personal information in order to look up the probation officer. Be prepared to provide:


name
date of birth
the offense for which you were convicted

, Be sure to keep the information safe and in a place where you will be sure to look. You will be in regular contact with your probation officer during the term of your probation. Although some probationers check in by phone with their officer once a month, others might meet more regularly.
 You should call the probation officer and set up an initial meeting. There is no reason to wait to be tracked down by the officer. Instead, call on your own initiative. This will show that you are anxious to satisfy the conditions of your probation and to rehabilitate yourself.


For tips on how to communicate with your probation officer, see Talk to a Probation Officer.

