 If a girl compliments you, she could very well like you. This may be her way of making you feel desired.


She might say things like “you have amazing eyes” or “you’re so athletic - do you play any sports?”

, If you see most of her friends glancing back at you and smiling or giggling, this probably means that she has told her friends about you and they're "in the know." In some cases, a friend may actually be bold enough to come and tell you that her friend likes you.


When she is having a conversation with her friends and you come over, they might stop talking all of a sudden. This likely means that you were the subject of the recently ended conversation.
 When a girl likes you, she will often try to impress you with her style. She may choose to wear slightly revealing clothes or put on lipstick to catch your eye.Every girl has a different sense of style, and not all girls will try to dress as aforementioned when they like somebody. However, if you notice that the girl you’re wondering about dresses a little more nicely around you, it could be a sign that she wants to impress you.
 When a girl likes you, she may tease you lightly about certain things you do or say. Ways of teasing include calling you out on a joke that actually wasn’t that funny, poking fun at something you’re wearing, or lightly telling you that you’re trying too hard.
 She may “friend” you on social media, talk to you in person every day after class, or text you randomly. These could be signs that this girl is intrigued and wants to get to know you more.


This alone is not a definitive sign that a girl likes you. A girl who just wants to be friends may also try to engage in conversation with you. But if a girl tries to talk to you often, exhibits a number of flirty body language cues, and compliments you often, she may be trying to tell you that she likes you.
 When a girl likes you, she will want to know whether you are single or not so that she can decide if she should flirt with you. She may directly ask you if you have a girlfriend or she may use a subtler approach.


She might tease you by saying things like “I bet you went to see that movie with your girlfriend.” If you like her, use this as an opportunity to flirt back. You could say “I don’t have a girlfriend, but I have been meaning to see that movie...want to go with me Friday night?”

, When a girl likes you, she may pretend to be in a mildly vulnerable situation to test your response. For example, if you're outside and the girl you like starts saying "I'm cold!" that's a subtle hint that she wants you to give her your sweater. Doing so is a very sweet gesture, especially if you want to show the girl that you like her.


Sometimes a girl will pretend to be really bad at doing something, like saying she doesn’t understand the homework. That is your chance to offer some assistance; be aware that she will most likely be doing this on purpose just to test your reaction in hopes that you will help out.
When offering assistance, if she doesn't fancy you but there is somebody she likes in the room, she may pout or show other signs of disappointment if you offer to help first. In this case, at least you'll know how she feels and will be able to move on.
 If she's always there for you when you need her, she might like you. But don't assume that she's into you only from one experience. Ask her occasionally for small things, like chewing gum or a pen, and notice how she reacts. If she's eager to help you and shows other signs of liking you, then she very well might.


Don’t use this approach too much or a tasks that seem too difficult, she may think you're lazy, testing her, or are even a bit of a nuisance. So don't overdo it; you don't want to risk her ceasing to like you if she indeed does.
 If a girl flirts with you, it doesn’t necessarily mean that she likes you. She may just get a thrill out of flirting, or she may not even notice that she’s flirting. The best way to see if she is just flirting with you and it’s not just her naturally flirty demeanor coming through is to notice how she acts around other people.


If she treats you differently than she does others, be it by holding eye contact just a bit longer with you than with anybody else or by being gentler in her teasing with you, then she may like you.

