 When people have low-self efficacy, they don't believe that their efforts have any power to change their behavior or a situation. They may feel powerless or hopeless. This can lead to a fatalistic outlook that interprets situations as "just the way things are," rather than as experiences to be examined and learned from.For example, a student with low self-efficacy may feel like he is simply "bad at math." No matter how hard he studies, he never seems to improve. He may stop hoping to do better because he believes his skills are innately limited. This is a fatalistic approach.
On the other hand, a student with high self-efficacy may feel like she is "bad at math," but view the situation as one that she can change with effort. She may set higher goals for herself and seek help in order to accomplish them. This feeling that the student has some power over the outcome helps her perform., To help you build feelings of self-efficacy -- or like you're able to change your behavior to influence an outcome -- it's helpful to experience success at things you try.Try taking up a new hobby, such as cooking, learning a new language, or music. Make it something you connect with. As you succeed in this pursuit, you'll develop feelings of mastery, which will help you realize that you have the power to succeed in things you try.


When you experience challenges or setbacks, which you likely will, think about them in terms of temporary roadblocks that you can overcome, rather than an innate limitation of your knowledge. Few people start off being able to make a perfect souffle, but many people have learned.
Take time to acknowledge your progress and successes along the way. Perhaps you knew exactly two words in Spanish when you started, and now you know 12. That's a success!

, "Modeling" is another helpful way to build feelings of self-empowerment.Watching a friend who is working on the same goal as you may help you feel more confident that your own actions can influence the result.


You may also find it helpful to "role-play" through a particular situation with a friend. For example, perhaps you feel like you're never recognized for your effort at work. A fatalist thought would be "I'll never get any recognition." A thought of self-efficacy could be "I can talk to my boss about my work." Role-play that conversation with a friend and ask how she would approach it. This may help build your confidence. Cooperation with others can often increase people's feelings of self-efficacy, too.Avoid using super achievers or perfectionists as models. These are unrealistic and unhelpful ways of approaching goals.
 When you make generalizations about yourself or others, such as "I'm such a loser" or "Life really sucks," you're encouraging fatalism, or the belief that things just are the way they are and there's nothing you can do about them. You see a single event as representative of the way things will always be.For example, if you failed an exam, your thought might be "I'm such a loser, I'll never pass any of these tests." Challenge this thought by reminding yourself that you can change your behavior to affect future outcomes. Consider what you can do in the future. For example, you might ask to retake the test, see a tutor, or make up your grade with extra credit.Remind yourself that one event or trait does not define you. You are not a "failure" if you fail an exam. You're a person who failed an exam. You are not a "loser" if you lose a sports game. You're a person who lost a sports game. Keeping things in perspective can help you stop thinking fatalistically.
 Support from family and loved ones is crucial to developing feelings of self-empowerment.You can also ask for feedback on your strengths and areas for future development. Your friends and family may see strengths in you that you didn't even know were there. They may also be able to help you make a plan to learn and grow in a particular area for the future.

