 Cystic acne affects tissue that is deeper down than its more superficial counterpart, common acne. Cystic acne is a type of abscess that occurs when oil ducts get infected, usually under the skin.For this reason, cystic pimples usually appear further underneath the surface than common pimples.;
, Scarring is more common in cystic acne, doctors say, because of the collagen-damaging infection of deep tissue.Cystic acne scars come in three basic forms:


Atrophic scars, sunken but mostly shallow, which can be effectively treated.Boxcar-shaped scars, which are harder to treat.
Ice pick-shaped scars, which are narrow and deep.
 Although dermatologists and doctors alike warn against popping common pimples, many whiteheads and blackheads can be effectively popped, even if increases the chance of infection and worsens the inflammation. Cystic acne, on the other hand, cannot be effectively popped because it's further underneath the skin.



Lancing or draining the cyst with a sharp needle is a common medical procedure, but it should never be done at home or without the supervision of a licensed professional. Improper lancing may result in scarring or infection, and should not be attempted at home.
 Cystic acne is not the debilitating and disfiguring condition it was before. More and more cystic acne patients are getting help with treatments and drugs, although the drugs have gotten more powerful and their side effects have increased. If you do have cystic acne, know that it can be effectively treated in the right circumstances.
 Cystic acne is much worse than common acne; common home remedies often prove ineffective and even counterproductive. There are measures that you can take at home to help treat cystic acne, but they should be coupled with medical intervention from your doctor.


Doctors can prescribe very strong drugs that will help you treat your cystic acne. Because they are so powerful, they are not dispensed over the counter and can't be bought in your local drugstore. Setting an appointment with a doctor will allow him or her to look at your acne, devise a treatment tailored to your case, and start guiding you to a pimple-free existence sooner rather than later.

