 Limit dietary fat to about 20–30% of your total caloric intake. This is equal to about 40–70 g of fat daily (based on a 2,000 calorie diet).Higher levels of fat may increase your risk of weight gain or levels of visceral fat.


Eliminate trans-fats completely. Trans-fats are a type of fat that's man made and has been shown to cause hardening of the coronary arteries and increase visceral fat.Reduce saturated fat intake to less than 7% of your total caloric intake. Although saturated fat is not as unhealthy as trans fat, it's important to moderate your intake to an appropriate level. In general, limit your intake to 15–20 g daily (this is based on a 2,000 calorie diet).;
, Although it's important to monitor your overall fat intake, it's also important to make sure you're consuming the types of dietary fat will improve your health and help support your desire to decrease visceral fat. Some dietary fat — monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) — have been shown to help decrease visceral fat levels.MUFAs are found in foods like: olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil and sesame oil. They can also be found in avocados, nuts and seeds. Incorporate one to two servings of these foods daily., A low carbohydrate diet has been shown to be an effective eating pattern to help reduce levels of visceral fat.Reduce the amount of carbohydrate rich foods in your diet to help promote the reduction of visceral fat.


Carbohydrate rich foods include: bread, rice, pasta, crackers, tortillas, bagels, sweets and sugary beverages. Limit these foods to one to two servings maximum each day.Foods like dairy, fruit and starchy vegetables also contain carbs, but have other beneficial nutrients like protein, fiber, vitamins and minerals.
Keep carbohydrates from sweets or sweetened beverages to an absolute minimum if possible.
 Studies have shown that those who consumed adequate fiber daily had lower (and had an easier time lowering) visceral fat levels.Women should consume 25 g of fiber daily and men should consume 38 g of fiber daily.Outside of grains (like bread, rice or quinoa), you can consume a significant amount of fiber from fruits and vegetables.
Fruits that are high in fiber include: apples, blackberries, raspberries and pears.Vegetables that are high in fiber include: beans, artichokes, spinach, broccoli and cabbage., Consuming a moderate- to low-calorie diet has been shown to support the loss of visceral fat.In general, men should consume around 2,000-2,500 calories daily and women should consume 1,600-2,000 calories daily.Your total calorie level can vary greatly based on your metabolism, muscle mass, gender, age and activity level.
Note that a low-calorie diet alone has shown to have little effect on visceral fat levels. However, a low-calorie, moderate-carbohydrate diet along with exercise showed the best reduction in visceral fat levels.