 Use small, foil-wrapped chocolates, such as Dove, that are no bigger than 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). They can be different colors/flavors, but they need to be the same shape and size.You can use Hershey's Kisses for this method. Simply stack two Kisses together with the bottom ends together.
You can use two round chocolates, such as Ferrero Rocher or Lindor, instead.
 Clear cellophane will work the best, but you can use a colored one if your chocolates are wrapped in silver foil. The squares need to be big enough to wrap around your chocolate stack like a lollipop.Something between 3 and 4 inches (7.62 and 10.16 centimeters) should be enough., Place the cellophane on top of the chocolate stack. Wrap the ends around the sides of the chocolate stack, towards the bottom., Slide the blunt end of a skewer between the cellophane and one side of the chocolate stack. Twist the cellophane around the wooden skewer to hold it in place.If you can't find a wooden skewer, you can use a florist stick, a long lollipop stick, or a short, thin dowel.
Don't pierce the chocolates with the skewer.
 Begin wrapping the florist's tape around the base of the chocolate stack. Continue wrapping it around and past the twisted cellophane, onto the wooden skewer itself. Tear off the excess florist's tape.Don't wrap the entire skewer just yet.
 The tissue paper can be the same color as your chocolate, or it can be a different color. It should be solid-colored, however. Cut a square that measures 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) wide and 12 (30.48 centimeters) long.You can also use thin crepe paper instead.
 Fold the square in half first. Next, turn it so that the folded edge is facing away from you. Fold the top corners down to meet the bottom edge., Place the chocolate stack on top of the tissue paper, right next to one of the narrow edges. Make sure that the top of the chocolate stack is just below the top edge of the folded tissue paper. Wrap and roll the chocolate stack towards the other narrow end.You can have the top of the chocolate aligned with the top of the tissue paper instead.
 Once you are done rolling the flower, twist the excess tissue paper along the bottom edge around the stem, just like wrapping a lollipop. Secure the twisted tissue paper with a strip of green florist's tape, just like you did with the cellophane.

Gently pull the top corner away from the bud for a more realistic touch.
 You don't have to do this, but it will give your flowers a nice touch. Cut the leaves out first, then fold them in half lengthwise to make a crease. Unfold the leaves when you are done., Place the leaves against the stem, just below the flower bud. Wrap a piece of green florist's tape around the bottom points of the leaves to secure them to the stem. Do not tear off the tape.

Gently pull down on the leaves to reveal the flower bud.
 Begin wrapping at the top of the stem, just below the bud, and finish wrapping at the bottom. Overlap each row slightly so that no gaps are showing.

If you added the leaves, continue wrapping where you left off.
 Experiment with using different types of chocolates and colors of tissue paper. If you want to, you can even make some skewers with just leaves on them to use as filler.When you are done, you can wrap the bouquet in colorful tissue paper, or place it into a pretty vase.