 Sprinters, I would recommend using running tracks because they are better for your type of running style.;
, Always tie long hair back so you can see where you are running. Get a small, light backpack in which you can carry a small towel and water bottle to prevent dehydration.
, Have a bowl of cereal, a glass of juice or milk, whole grain toasted bread, a banana and apple. Don’t eat too much, but don’t eat too little; balance out meals before doing any serious exercise, and then let your food digest for half an hour to one hour at the maximum.
 When you reach your final destination, do a brisk walk and drink some water; it’s important to do a brisk walk to cool you down and make sure the muscles don’t seize up.
 You should eat things like:


Whole grain pasta
Boiled rice
Potatoes
Starchy vegetables
Fruits
Whole meal bread
Protein- 15-20% of your calorie intake should be of Protein. Runners, especially those doing long distances should consume 0.5g to 75g a day. Try to concentrate on protein that is low in fat and cholesterol such as lean meats, fish, low fat dairy products, poultry, whole grains and beans; if you are vegetarian eating nuts, tofu and greens will increase both protein and iron.
Fat- A high fat diet can quickly pack on the pounds, so try to make sure that no more than 20 - 25% of your total diet comes from fats. Stick to foods low in saturated fats and cholesterol. Foods such as nuts, oils, and cold-water fish provide essential fats called omega-3s, vital for good health and can help prevent certain diseases. Most experts recommend getting about 3,000 mg of omega-3 fat a day.
, Runners don't get energy from vitamins, but they are still an important part of their diet. Exercise may produce compounds called free radicals, which can damage cells. Vitamins C, E, and A are antioxidants and can neutralize free radicals. Getting your vitamins from whole foods is preferable to supplementation; there's no strong evidence that taking supplements improves either health or athletic performance.


Minerals
Calcium: A calcium-rich diet is essential for runners to prevent osteoporosis and stress fractures. Good sources of calcium include low-fat dairy products, calcium-fortified juices, dark leafy vegetables, beans, and eggs. Your goal should be 1,000 to 1,300 mg of calcium per day.
Iron: You need this nutrient to deliver oxygen to your cells. If you have an iron-poor diet, you'll feel weak and fatigued, especially when you run. Men should aim for 8 mg of iron a day, and women need 18 mg. Good natural sources of iron include lean meats, leafy green vegetables, nuts, shrimp, and scallops.
Sodium and other electrolytes: Small amounts of sodium and other electrolytes are lost through sweat during exercise. Usually, electrolytes are replaced if you follow a balanced diet. But if you find yourself craving salty foods, it may be your body's way of telling you to get more sodium. Try drinking a sports drink or eating some pretzels after exercise.

