 Just like eating certain nutrients can help treat bloating, so can taking certain supplements. Make sure to consult your doctor before taking supplements to ensure you’re healthy enough and not taking any medications that can react to these supplements. Consider trying the following supplements to help control bloating:

Calcium
Magnesium
B vitamins, including thiamin and riboflavin
Vitamin E

, If you have severe bloating, you may want to consider taking a prescription diuretic pill. In most cases, women won’t need a diuretic for period-related bloating; however, if your bloating is inferring with your life, speak to your doctor about using a diuretic to relieve your discomfort.Make sure to follow dosing or your doctor’s instructions. Diuretics don’t generally have side effects, but they can cause kidney damage when taken with ibuprofen or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
 Some birth control pills have diuretics in addition to hormones to control your cycle. Talk your doctor about trying birth control pills with an added diuretic to relieve your bloating.Ask your doctor about trying the brands Yaz or Yasmin to help treat bloating.Be aware that these pills may come with risks, so make sure to ask your doctor any questions you may have related to the medication.
 Because your period can come with a host of symptoms like headache, cramps, and bloating, many pharmacies and large retailers sell PMS medications. These usually contain a diuretic to help rid your body of excess fluid in addition to pain relief.Be aware, however, that there is no scientific evidence that these medications actually help with PMS symptoms.


Try a multi-symptom menstrual relief pill containing pamabrom to relieve bloating. Some common brands are Pamprin and Midol.Make sure to read the product label and following dosing instructions to prevent overdosing. Consider asking your doctor or pharmacist if PMS medication will react with other medications you are taking.
 If none of these methods work or you continue to have water retention, schedule an appointment with your doctor. Your doctor can rule out bloating as a result of other conditions such as gastrointestinal problems and irritable bowel syndrome.Keep a diary for a few months to see if you notice any patterns in your bloating. Make sure to include anything that relieves bloating or makes it worse as well as how long it lasts. Share this information with your doctor so that she can more easily pinpoint how best to treat your bloating.

