 If you are stuck giving gifts that you didn't plan for (e.g. to co-workers who surprised you with a gift), or if you're simply overwhelmed by your expenses during the holidays, there are many homemade gifts that you can make for a minimal cost. Try to customize gifts based on the recipient's preferences, which will make the gesture more meaningful and personal. Some good homemade present ideas are:


Folded star holiday ornaments
Scented candles
Holiday cookie bouquets
Scented bath bombs;
, The cost of holiday wrapping paper, accessories (such as bows, ribbon, and scotch tape), and cards can add up if you don’t make a conscious effort to spend wisely. Opt to shop at dollar stores for these items, or buy in bulk and use things for several years. Try shopping after-holiday sales for discounted holiday wrapping paper and gift bags. Save gift bags and bows that are still in good condition to re-use next season., When possible, make the cost-effective choice to buy group gifts rather than individual gifts. Rather than purchasing individual gifts for co-workers, for instance, buy a gift to be shared by everyone at the office (e.g. leave chocolates or cookies in the break room to be shared by the work team.) Buy one gift for a couple that both people can enjoy together (such as a bottle of wine) or one gift for a family to share (a board game to be played together, for example.)A gift certificate for a movie theater or restaurant is another great group gift that can be given to a family or couple to enjoy together.
Items for the home (e.g. a kitchen appliance like a food processor) can be a good gift for a cohabiting couple to share.
 You can save a significant amount of money by shopping for the holidays in advance and taking advantage of big sale events like Black Friday. To save travel time and hassle, do your homework by comparing store ads to determine the best deals before going shopping. Set a budget before shopping to avoid overspending.For example, you can shop for a blue tooth speaker set on Black Friday by comparing the advertised sales for leading electronics stores and department stores.

