 If you can increase the size of your vocabulary, you will find yourself less likely to encounter unknown words. There are several steps you can take to effectively build your vocabulary. For example, you can start by writing notes.Every time you encounter an unfamiliar word, write it down. Then later, when you have access to a dictionary, you can look it up for a precise definition.
Keep a small pack of sticky notes with you while you read. You can write the unfamiliar word on a note and just stick it on the page to return to later.
Start carrying a small notebook. You can use it to keep track of words that you don't know and new words that you have learned.
 There are a lot of tools that you can use to help you build your vocabulary. The most obvious is a dictionary. Purchase a hard copy, or book mark an online dictionary that you find useful.A thesaurus can also be very helpful. It will give you synonyms for all of the new words you are learning.
Try a word of the day calendar. These handle desk tools will give you a new word to learn each day. They are available online and at bookstores.
 Reading is one of the best ways to increase the size of your vocabulary. Make it a point to read each day. Both fiction and non-fiction will be helpful.


Novels can expose you to new words. For example, reading the latest legal thriller will likely expose you to some legal jargon you've never heard before.
Read the newspaper. Some papers even have a daily feature that highlights language and explores the meanings of words.
Make time to read each day. You could make it a point to scroll through the news while you drink your morning coffee, for example.
 Learning can actually be fun! There are many enjoyable activities that can help you to build your vocabulary. Try doing crossword puzzles.


Crossword puzzles are a great way to learn new words. They will also stretch your brain by giving you interesting clues to figure out the right word.
Play Scrabble. You'll quickly learn that unusual words can often score the most points.

