 Wash fresh sprigs of cilantro by rinsing them under cool, running water. Drain the herbs to get rid of any excess water.


Drain the cilantro by letting it sit in a colander or on layers of clean paper towels for several minutes. You only need to drain off the excess water so that the cilantro is not dripping wet.






You can pat the herbs dry with clean paper towels, if desired, but when using this method, you will end up storing the herbs in water. As such, it is not essential that the cilantro is dried beforehand.
 Use a sharp kitchen knife to trim the leaves from the stems and chop the leaves into small pieces.


You could also accomplish this by cutting the leaves with sharp kitchen scissors, but since the leaves need to be removed and chopped, a knife will work best.
The cilantro should be chopped into pieces that are fine enough to use for cooking purposes.
 Continue measuring out the cilantro in even amounts and placing each one in its own slot.


By placing pre-measured amounts of cilantro in each ice cube tray slot, you will be able to thaw and use precisely what you need when the time comes.
 Gradually spoon cool water over the cilantro in each slot just until the cilantro is fully covered.


Do not pour running water over the cilantro since doing so could cause the water to overflow, displacing some of the measured-out cilantro as a result.






Covering the cilantro with water keeps it fresher for a slightly longer period of time.
 Pop the ice cube trays into the freezer for several hours until the water solidifies.


The cilantro can be stored in ice cube trays for several months and will usually last a month or so longer than cilantro frozen out of ice.






When ready to use, thaw the cilantro on the counter until the ice melts. Drain the leaves and pat them dry with clean paper towels. Alternatively, add frozen cubes of cilantro directly to stews or sauces and let the cubes melt directly into the other liquid.
 If you want to free up room in your freezer, you can remove the frozen cilantro cubes from the ice cube tray and transfer them into a freezer-safe plastic bag.


Label the bag with the name of the herb and the date you stored the herb.

