 Many people believe that only born geniuses can be creative and imaginative. However, everybody has the potential to come up with a brand-new idea. The trick is to recognize that you are capable of such imagination so that you do not dismiss your own ideas out of hand. Tell yourself that you have the potential to do something new, creative, and different: this way, you will be on the lookout for your most promising ideas., Recent studies indicate that the ability to imagine is not located in one specific area of the brain. The notion that some people are naturally "left-brained" and some people "right-brained" is a myth: the entire brain works together in order to develop new, creative images.This means that there isn't one simple key to stimulating imagination: any number of activities and creative exercises might help spark your imagination.Be flexible and versatile as you explore your interests and skillsets.
 Even the most famous "eureka" moments in history were not accidental: those who had eureka moments spent years and years studying and training in their respective disciplines. No matter what field you wish to be imaginative in--whether it is math, science, literature, or the visual arts--you will have to take the time to study and practice your craft. Only after a great deal of discipline will your most imaginative ideas arise., By challenging your brain to develop solutions to difficult problems or puzzles, your brain will be forced to compete multiple ideas against one another.This will help your brain practice imagining a variety of approaches to various tasks and will force you to consider the implications of each of these competing ideas. You can practice this by finding puzzles that others have created (such as cryptic crossword puzzles) or developing your own problems (such as considering the rules of a new language you create).
 By jotting down your favorite ideas whenever you come up with them, you not only preserve these thoughts for future use but you are also training your brain to continue developing new, imaginative thoughts.Keep a notebook and pen with you at all times--including those times when you do not necessarily expect to have a good idea. Often these times (such as when we are exercising or showering) are when our best ideas come to us.
 Get out of your comfort zone by pursuing a new set of thoughts and ideas. This will help you get out of an imaginative rut or creative blockage. Many of the world's most imaginative people are polymaths, meaning that they are well-versed in multiple disciplines.Try out a new skill, artist, or topic that you haven't encountered before. You will learn to approach problems differently and will add more arrows to your imaginative quiver.For example you could:


Visit a new exhibit at a museum
Take a seminar in a subject outside your area of expertise
Learn a new craft at an artists' collective
Listen to a musician you've never heard before
Read about a country you haven't visited

, Even the most imaginative people fail all the time: their ideas do not pan out, they are wrong, or they are rejected by others.In order to become (and stay) imaginative, you must be able to persist even through your failures and humiliations. Tell yourself that your imaginative pursuits are worth doing, even when you are unsuccessful.In order to be more resilient, you must:


Tell yourself that failures are part of the learning process.
Resolve to continue creating and imagining, even if you receive negative criticism.
View failures as important lessons on how to improve your craft.Take care of yourself physically and emotionally. See your friends, eat well, exercise, and take breaks. The healthier you are, the more you will be able to continue imagining brilliant things.