 This is probably among the easiest hand softening rubs to make as the ingredients are commonly found in most homes or easily purchased at local stores.Mix 1 teaspoon of sugar with a few drops of olive oil. Use as many drops as it takes to form a mixture you can rub into your palm until the sugar blends with your skin.
 Because there are large varieties of oatmeal, you might have to experiment a bit to find the right combination, but the basic process is the same as with sugar.


Mix a couple teaspoons of oatmeal and few drops of olive oil. Rub the mixture on your palms until it blends in with your hand. Let the rub set on your hands for fifteen minutes before washing it off., These should be two readily accessible ingredients for a hand-softening rub.Combine two teaspoons of butter with one teaspoon of almond oil for the mixture to rub on your hands. Let the rub sit for 20 minutes before washing.
 These also should be relatively easy ingredients to gather at home or from a store to produce a rub to soften your hands within a week.


For this rub you will need to mix one teaspoon of honey, half a teaspoon of almond powder, and a few drops of rose water to form the product. However, it is essential that you make sure this rub is evenly distributed on your palms with several minutes of rubbing and then leave it on your hands for an additional ten minutes before washing it off.
 Glycerin can usually be bought at a pharmacy/drugstore. For this rub, you should make a fresh batch every time you use it and not store it for later use.
Mix equal parts of the glycerin, rose water, and lemon (one teaspoon each) for this rub and leave it on long enough to dry.
 This is one of the simpler solutions you can try at home for softer hands in a week.


Take a half-slice of lemon, pour sugar onto the juicy part, and rub the juicy/sugar part onto your palms until the sugar has dissolved. Repeat for the other hand.
 Among the more accessible solutions is this one, but you will need to keep the rub on for 20 minutes before washing.


To produce this rub, combine a tablespoon of honey with a tablespoon of sugar and then rub the result into your palms until the sugar component dissolves for each hand. Start the twenty minute wait at that point.
 This also has mostly accessible ingredients you can use for a hand-softening rub which can be completed within a week.


Extract the tomato juice, glycerin, and lime juice in equal proportions and combine them into a paste you apply to your hands every evening. You may want your gloves for this.
 These are readily available products and usually inexpensive, plus should contribute to your hands softening within the week time frame.


Dust the baby powder on your palms and then pour over natural bath salts. Add several drops of mild hand soap. Rinse your hands gently with warm water.
 These ingredients are available at supermarkets and help mostly with skin health, so may contribute to your hand's softness within the week time frame.


Grind ten fresh green almonds with several drops of sandalwood oil, and apply the mixture in a rub to your hands. Wash after it's been allowed to soak to a dry.
Usually these rubs should be applied twice a day during regular hand washing times.
 Remember you should be using warm water, not hot.


Wash gently. You don't want to damage the skin you are trying to heal and soften.
Make sure you are washing after the time the remedy's instructions recommended you leave the rub on your hands.
Check your soaps to make sure they fragrant-free and don't contain any other harsh ingredients that may irritate your skin.
 After you've used the home remedy rubs, you should use your chosen moisturizer to lock in the effect the rub has had. Wear your gloves to protect your hands from damage.


If you are doing this during the day, pick gloves more appropriate to your tasks than the nightly cotton-only gloves. But whatever gloves you do pick should still be cotton-lined inside.

