 Wash with lukewarm water twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening. Wipe gently using your bare hands only until your skin is free of excessive oil. Pat dry with a towel instead of rubbing.


Despite popular belief, acne is not caused by dirt. Scrubbing hard, using hot water, or washing more than twice a day can make your acne worse by irritating your skin.Wash again if you gets uncomfortably sweaty. Sweat may make acne worse., Many people touch their face without thinking, which can trigger a breakout. Try to keep your hands at your side.


If you have oily hair, wash and condition frequently, and keep it out of your face.
The physical irritation of your skin causes the breakout, not bacteria from your fingers. Keeping your hands clean won't solve the problem., Some makeup products help prevent acne, and others encourage it. Because skin is particularly susceptible during pregnancy, cosmetic products that did not bother you before can cause acne now. Stick to makeup labeled "non-comedogenic." This is less likely to clog pores.You may want to talk to your doctor about safe cosmetic use during pregnancy. In the United States, the FDA takes pregnancy into consideration when evaluating cosmetics.Not all countries have this level of protection.
 Although people often blame acne on diet, the connection is shaky. A healthy diet for you and your baby is much more important than an "acne diet" that might not even work.


Notably, some anti-acne diets cut fat (with only slight evidence). This is a bad idea while pregnant. Aim to get roughly 25–35 percent of your calories from fat., Oral zinc supplements seem to help acne, even though zinc lotions probably do not.15 mg of zinc per day (including from food) is recommended during pregnancy, and may even slightly reduce the risk of complications.Stop taking zinc supplements once you start breastfeeding.
 These are generally not as effective as medication, but the examples here have no risk of harming the baby. These come in two types:


To exfoliate clogged pores, add honey to superfine sugar or ground oatmeal, scrub gently, and rinse off. Use sparingly to avoid irritation or drying.
To soothe irritated skin, massage gently with a plain carrier oil (such as argan oil or olive oil).
 Some essential oils can be dangerous during pregnancy, including sage, jasmine, and many others. Different types of essential oil, including eucalyptus and citrus oils, are most likely safe but have not been thoroughly tested. If you decide to use them anyway, take these precautions:Never use them in the first trimester.
Confirm that the oil you chose is safe by asking a doctor or other trusted source.
Mix one drop into at least 1 tsp (5mL) of a carrier oil.
Use sparingly. Daily use carries a higher risk.

