 White is a good color to start with because it goes with just about everything. It’s also less flashy, which can be helpful if you’re attempting to ease into the look. From white, you can move onto other unobtrusive shades like light gray, powder blue and khaki before introducing wilder colors and patterns.If you want to add some flair to a plain white pocket square, look for one with colored contrast stitching.
You can model an ordinary handkerchief as a pocket square when you’re first trying out the accessory.;
, Pick out a pocket square in a bold shade that clearly stands out from your shirt, tie or jacket. That way, you’ll be able to make more of a statement, but do it subtly. Colorful squares have an eye-catching yet uniform look that won’t distract from the rest of your attire.Use a bright red or yellow square to offset a navy ensemble, or pair light colored summer suits with a pastel pocket square in robin’s egg, pink or lavender.
A pocket square should complement the color of your shirt and tie, but not match them exactly., On the more extravagant end of the spectrum, you have the option of wearing designs like stripes, polka dots or even vibrant floral prints. Patterns are popular among experienced pocket-square wearers because of their ability to instantly make an outfit look refined yet playful. They’ll need to be matched to both the color and pattern of the suit and other accessories.A paisley pocket square in may be just what you need to spruce up suits in muted hues like grays and browns.
It’s best to keep busier patterns to a minimum, as too much can easily begin to look kitschy.
 Because of their light weight, cottons, silks and linens are perfect for warmer months. In the winter, you might consider trading in your basic square for a heavier one made from wool or cashmere. Switch up your go-to fabric from time to time to lend a little versatility to your formal wardrobe.Silk and satin squares have a luxurious look and feel that makes them suitable for virtually all climates and events.Different materials will have different textures, which is worth keeping in mind when picking out a square to match your clothing.

