 If you have been drinking at all you are at least on the spectrum of drunkenness. You could be showing signs of impairment and slower brain function including lack of motor skills and slower reaction time,leading to the inability to operate a motor vehicle.Some of these signs could be:


Poor balance or stumbling.Difficulty speaking clearly and slurred words.Abnormal behavior leading to you doing things you wouldn’t normally do if you were sober., As soon as you notice that you are showing signs of impairment, give your keys to a friend, the host or the bartender to ensure that you won’t drive until you are sober. Make sure to only give them your car key. Hold onto your house keys.
 If your friend, the host or the bartender are advising you not to drive, you are likely too drunk. Listen to their advice and acknowledge that they are trying to help you.
 Bystander intervention is common when it comes to drinking and driving.Many people will be willing to step in, take your keys and help you get home safely. If no one if offering to help, you may need to ask.


Take a ride from a sober friend. It is best to get in a car with someone you trust when you are in this vulnerable state.
Allow the host or bartender to call a cab or car service to take you home.
 If you are having a difficult time finding a safe way to get home, find a place to stay which does not involve you driving.


Ask the host of the party if there is a place you can sleep. Give them your keys and ask that they keep them in a safe place until the morning.
Stay with a friend if they live nearby and are on their way home.
Find a hotel within walking distance. Call them to book a room, or have a friend help you secure one. Ask the friend if they will walk you to the hotel and make sure you get checked in safely.
 There are people in your life who care about you and want to be sure that you are safe. It may seem scary or embarrassing to call your parents or your siblings if you are too drunk to drive, but they will be glad you did. Your safety is the most important.
 You may need your phone to call someone for a ride or get help from a friend. Be sure to charge your phone before you leave the house.


It is also a good idea to bring a charger with you in case your battery dies before the end of the night or you end up staying where you are and need to get home the next morning.
You may also want to invest in a portable battery charger for your phone should there not be a power outlet available.Make sure it is fully charged before you leave your house. Keep it handy in your pocket or your bag throughout the night.

