 There are many different ways for you to build an animal cell model out of common, inexpensive materials. Take some time to consider what supplies you already have around the house that might work. In general, some supplies you will require include:


Modeling clay or play-doh in many different colors
Styrofoam balls of varying sizes
Several colors of paint
Glue
Toothpicks
Scissors and/or a sharp knife
Pipe cleaners
Construction paper
Small, round objects such as buttons, dry noodles, beads, pieces of cardboard or foamboard, glitter/confetti, or small pieces of plastic

, A large Styrofoam ball is probably the best option for you to use as your cell base. However, any other spherical object that is not hollow and that can be cut with a knife or scissors could work, such as a large ball of soft clay.If the ball is not yet colored, paint the outside of the ball any color you wish. You could also use your favorite color of play-doh or modeling clay to coat the outside of the ball in a solid color., Using a sharp knife, cut away one-quarter of the ball. Do this by marking the top of the ball with a pencil. Then cut through that top point until your knife has reached the very center of the ball. Remove the knife. Then turn the ball exactly 90 degrees and make another cut into the center of the ball. This should allow you to remove a perfect 90-degree chunk from the ball. This will allow you to represent the internal workings of the cell in the form of a cross-section., The internal parts of the ball should be painted a different color. This will represent your cytoplasm. You can paint the cytoplasm any color you wish, though a lighter color will allow your cell parts to show up more clearly.
 Be creative about what common household objects can represent different cell components. If you have trouble finding an object that resembles an organelle, you can create your own using play-doh or modeling clay.Attach these cell components to the cross-section of your cell using glue or toothpicks, depending on the texture of the material. Soft materials such as styrofoam or clay should be attached with toothpicks; hard, slick material such as plastic should be attached with glue. Always refer to your original diagram to make sure you are placing everything correctly. A few suggestions for objects you can use in your model include the following:For your nucleus: a small ball of play-doh or clay, a smaller styrofoam ball (cut in half), a ping-pong ball (cut in half), the plastic top of a large milk jug, or a plastic egg
For your endoplasmic reticulum: string, twine, pipe cleaners, rubber cords, or bungee cord
For your Golgi bodies: a small stack of cardboard circles glued together, a folded piece of ribbon
Ribosomes: confetti, glitter, dry rice
Lysosomes: buttons, small plastic circles, small paper or cardboard circles, small clay balls
Mitochondria: dry macaroni noodles, oval-shaped buttons or toggles, almond-shaped beads, dry beans
Vacuoles: glass marbles, hollow rubber balls cut in half, bottle caps, small cut-up pieces of a plastic bag

, For each cell component (nucleus, lysosome, mitochondria, etc.), create a toothpick flag by gluing a small, triangular piece of construction paper to a toothpick. Label each cell component clearly and correctly. Then insert these toothpick flags into the open cross-section of your cell model. Now your teachers and classmates will be able to distinguish the parts of your cell model!

