 If this is your big meet of the season, your coach will probably taper you. (This is where you go easy the week/couple weeks before in order to rest your muscles. This will help you have a lot of energy when swimming your races. Also before your meet, you want to eat healthy. Try to eliminate most sweets and eat a lot of healthy carbs such as pasta. Another tip would be to visualize your races. As you are laying in bed at night or some other calm time during your day, view yourself at the pool you will swim at. See yourself swimming the race perfectly and see yourself winning or getting your goal time. This can help you plan exactly how you want and it will also boost your confidence.
 Pack all your equipment together the night before you leave. Then in the morning, you can just grab your stuff and go. If you are going to wear a practice suit for warm-ups, make sure you bring your racing suit. Remember to bring extra goggles, an extra cap, an extra suit, a water bottle, entertainment (like iPods, especially for long meets) and food. Food is important!!! Most meets will have concession stands, but most of the time it will be unhealthy foods that will Also bring a sweat jacket and towel/blanket to keep warm when you're not swimming. Don't forget clothes for after the meet too!

, Bring food and drinks. Things like granola bars and small sandwiches will be good for longer breaks at a swim meet, but fruit will be good to eat right before your races. And bring lots of water or other drinks like orange juice or gatorade. DO NOT BRING ENERGY DRINKS OR SODA! These drinks will mess up your cardiac-vascular system and slow you down.
 Even though you may have warmed up at the way beginning of the meet, it helps to warm up before your race by swimming a few laps in the warm up/cool down area. Do a longer swim (200-400) and then do a couple 25s or 50s sprint. After you finish warming up, you might want to talk to your coach about your race strategy. Then you can go over behind the blocks.
 You can get your goal times. All that hard work at practice will pay off. Just remember all the little things that your coach has been telling you to work on and remember how you visualized your races., He/she will tell you your splits/time and tell you how you did. This really helps a lot, so you can tell if you're improving.
 Then you can sit down and read a book or play some video games. Make sure you conserve energy for your next race. If you're done for the day, go take a hot shower and head back to wherever you're staying, whether this is a local or out-of-town meet.
 They'll totally be willing to hear about your success at a swim meet, especially a championship one.
