 A virtual machine is an emulated computer within your computer. In other words, your computer will mimic a Windows XP computer through a software program. This virtual machine is treated as its own separate computer.


If you have Windows 7 Professional, Ultimate, or Enterprise, you can download the Windows XP Mode and the Windows Virtual PC software. If you are not running these editions of Windows 7, you’ll need to download a third-party virtual machine.
Download the Windows XP Mode software from Microsoft’s website. You will need to validate that you own a copy of Windows 7.
Select the edition of Windows XP you’d like to install. Home or Professional will both work for Adobe Photoshop 6. Run the program when it is finished downloading.
Download Windows Virtual PC software from Microsoft’s website. You will need to validate that you own a copy of Windows 7.
You will have to choose to get the x64 or the x86 version of the Virtual PC. Install the x64 version, since you are running a 64-bit installation of Windows.
You will be required to install a Windows Update during the Virtual PC installation process.
If you are using a third-party virtual machine, you will need to install your own copy of Windows XP on the virtual machine. Refer to our guide on Installing XP for detailed instructions on how to perform the install.
 Select the Windows Virtual PC folder in your Start menu, and then select Windows XP Mode from the folder that opens. You will be asked to accept the license agreement, and then Windows XP will begin installing on your Virtual PC. After the installation is complete, a window will open on your desktop showing your Windows XP desktop.


You should install an antivirus program on your virtual Windows XP, even if you already have an antivirus program installed.
 Once virtual Windows XP is installed, you can install your copy of Photoshop. Insert the CD or download the install file using the browser in your virtual Windows XP. Run the installation program just like you would if you were installing regularly. Once the installation is complete, you can close Windows XP Mode.
 To run Photoshop, click your Start button. Select Windows Virtual PC. You will now see a folder labeled Windows XP Mode Applications. Click the folder to expand it, and select Photoshop from the list.

