 Ideally, the container you choose should be made of porcelain or opaque plastic, so that your tortoise will not be tempted to climb out.A clean, shallow kitty litter pan or a large porcelain baking dish may be ideal for this purpose.;
, You will need another container, like a cup or small watering can, for rinsing the tortoise. You should also have a soft-bristle toothbrush or nail brush and a roll of paper towels on hand., Put just enough clean, warm (not hot) water into the bottom of the pan that the water level will reach the bottom of your tortoise’s shell. Do not add any soaps, detergents, or other products to the water., Protect your tortoise by making sure your hands are clean before handling the tortoise and the bathing supplies., Gently lower the tortoise into the water. Allow your tortoise to take a few minutes to get used to being in the water. Do not hold the tortoise down forcefully., Soaking in warm water will not only hydrate your tortoise’s skin, but will also encourage the tortoise to drink and eliminate waste.Do not leave your tortoise unattended in the water. A tortoise can easily become overturned and drown, even in a small amount of water.
 Use a separate container to gently rinse your tortoise’s shell, head, and limbs. This can help rinse away dirt and hydrate the parts of the tortoise that are not submerged in the bathing pan. Allow the water to trickle through your fingers, or use a watering can to create a gentle shower., Once you have softened any stubborn dirt by sprinkling the shell with water, scrub off any remaining dirt with a soft brush. Pour a little more water over the shell to rinse away any dirt you dislodge with the brush.Be sure to give special attention to the spaces between the scutes (plate-like sections of the shell) and the underside of the carapace (upper shell), especially around the limbs, tail, and head. Dirt tends to build up in these areas.
Gently scrub the plastron (lower shell) as well as the upper shell.
 Be extra gentle while scrubbing these parts of the tortoise, especially in areas that are not densely covered in scales., Examine your tortoise for injuries, shell damage, signs of mites, or signs of Stomatitis, a common mouth infection in tortoises. If you discover any signs of disease or injury, take your tortoise to the vet.Look for red spots or cracks around the tortoise’s beak and mouth. These may be signs of stomatitis or mouth rot.
Examine the shell for cracks, discolorations, or lesions.
Check the skin and scales for wounds or blisters.
Check the folds in the tortoise’s skin around the head and limbs for mites, which will look like small red or black dots. These can be gently brushed off with your soft-bristle brush and rinsed away with water., When you are done bathing your tortoise, gently and thoroughly dry the tortoise’s head, limbs and shell with a paper towel before returning it to its habitat.Make sure the tortoise is thoroughly dry, to prevent potential issues with shell rot caused by excessive humidity.
Dispose of any paper towels immediately in a closed garbage container in order to prevent the spread of disease or parasites.
 You may wish to pour the used bath water into your toilet for sanitary reasons. Wash the bath container with mild detergent and hot water, and rinse it thoroughly.
 Tortoises can spread salmonella and other diseases. Always wash your hands thoroughly after bathing or handling your tortoise.