 Often, redness and irritation is the result of over-exfoliating or using abrasive or harsh acne reducing products. Stop using anything new you have put on your skin for at least 4 days, and consider switching to a gentler cleaning product.Acne medicines using retinoids are particularly irritating.
After 4 days, try using the product sparingly to see if irritation still occurs. If so, throw it away.
Do not introduce more than one product at a time to your skin, so you know which one is “too much.”

, A good cleanser should wash off all dirt and makeup, but not your skin’s natural oils. If your skin feels tight or squeaky after washing, the product is too harsh.Cetaphil and Eucerin are good products for sensitive skin.


Hot or cold water can damage capillaries and cause redness. Hot water also dries your skin out quickly, causing redness.Look for a cleanser made for your skin type, whether it tends to be oily or dry. Foaming cleansers are generally bad for dry skin.Avoid cleansers with harsh ingredients like sodium laureth sulfate, menthol or alcohol.Avoid products with fragrances and dyes. Also avoid medicated acne cleansers, since they usually strip away good oils.You may need to use different products for different seasons, depending on how dry the air is and how you skin conditions adjust accordingly.
 Choose a moisturizer with glycerin as the first ingredient since it is very efficient at holding in moisture,or just use plain petroleum jelly.Use it every time you shower, after drying off.


Beware of typical hand sanitizers, which contain alcohol and dry out your skin. Look for one specifically made for hydrating dry skin too., If you are experiencing widespread irritation, it may be how you wash your clothes. Try a different detergent made for sensitive skin or that has mostly natural ingredients., If the air is dry, particularly in winter months, using a humidifier can help prevent your skin from drying out while you sleep.Moisture in the air also helps to reduce inflammation.
 Fill your plate with anti-inflammatory foods, such as leafy greens, salmon, avocado, and walnuts. Take anti-inflammatory supplements, such as probiotics, spirulina, vitamin C, and fish oil. These nutrients will help you reduce inflammation in your skin.

