 In terms of long-term durability, it's hard to beat a textbook cover made entirely from duct tape.

However, since sticking duct tape directly to the textbook can be quite damaging in its own right, before starting, you'll need to make a "sheet" of duct tape material that's non-sticky on both sides. This isn't as hard as it sounds, though it can be somewhat time-consuming. To begin, pull a single long strip of tape and lay it on your work area face-up.Your strip of tape should be about three to six inches longer than your book is in height. In the rest of this section, you will want to use tape strips that are roughly the same length as your first, but keep in mind they don't need to be exactly the same.
 Take a second strip of tape and very carefully lay it sticky side down on top of the first so that it covers about half of the first piece. Press it down so that there are no wrinkles.
 Take your first piece of tape (the one that is sticky side up) and fold it over the top of the second, pressing it down to get a clean and even fold. This now forms one "edge" of your sheet — you will continue to lay down more tape in the opposite direction.
 Lay down a third strip of tape on the tape that's now sticky side up. Be sure not to leave any gaps where sticky adhesive can be be seen — if these get pressed against your book cover, they can cause it to tear.


You may even want to overlap your tape slightly to make sure that no stickiness shows through.
 Keep flipping your tape and laying down new strips. Before long, you should have a "sheet" that's sticky side down on both sides. Once this sheet is big enough to leave a few inches on every side of your book, make your second edge by folding the final piece of tape back over itself to conceal the sticky part.
 Open your book and lay it cover side down on your sheet. Use a ruler to mark straight lines along the edges of your sheet that cut off all the mismatched tape ends. Use a pair of scissors, a razor blade, or an X-ACTO knife to cut along these lines.


When you're done, you should have a sheet that's perfectly rectangular (and still extends beyond the edges of your book by a few inches on each side).
 Compared to making your duct tape sheet, the rest of your work is easy. Start by opening your book and laying it cover side down on your duct tape sheet. Use diagonal cuts to cut out a small wedge-shaped piece above and below the book's spine. When you're done, there should be small gaps at the top and bottom of the sheet that line up with the book's spine.


This is done for the same reason as in the paper method above — without this, opening the book puts stress on the portion of the cover next to the spine, causing it to fold awkwardly and eventually wear.
 Fold the short edges over the book's covers and mark the lines where the sheet folds. Repeat this folding-and-marking process for the long edges.
 Remove the book from the sheet. Refold your sheet along the lines you just drew. Press the folds down to make strong creases. Lay a heavy object (such as your textbook) on top of each crease for a few minutes to flatten the folds.
 Once you have got nice, flat creases, put your book back onto your sheet and fold the cover around it, folding the long edges of the sheet around the cover first and then folding the short edges over with diagonal folds. Use skinny strips of duct tape to secure each fold.
 Congratulations — your cover is done and you can decorate it however you like. While pens and markers won't show up well on dark-colored duct tape, you can still try making designs with different colors of tape, adding adhesive decorations (like rhinestones), and so on.


As advised above, label your textbooks and make it easy for a lost book to find you.

You may also want to try laying strips of white masking tape down on the front cover and spine to use as labels. This is a good idea for keeping track of the subject of each book.

