 Emotional support is very important, but there are also many practical things you can do to help your partner. Take the time to go with him to doctor's appointments. The more you understand his treatment, the better equipped you will be to help him deal with it.Be prepared to ask questions. Do some research ahead of time and write down anything that seems unclear. The doctor will be happy to answer your concerns.
Help your spouse gather information. You can find information and support groups online, and you can ask your doctor for pamphlets, too.
 Be aware that you might need to make some changes to your daily routine. You spouse might have a lot of medical appointments, so be open to adjusting your schedule to accommodate these new priorities. Let him know that you are willing to help him adapt to changes. One side effect of prostate cancer is often incontinence. If this is an issue for your spouse, be supportive and helpful. For example, when you go to the movies, choose seats near the back and towards that aisle so that he can quickly get to the restroom.
 Prostate cancer can cause complications that make sex difficult for men. This can cause problems in relationships. Address the issue openly and honestly with your spouse. Allow him to talk openly about his needs. You should express yours, too.Initiate intimacy. You might need to make changes to your sex life, but that doesn't mean it has to become dormant. If you initiate intimacy, that lets your partner know you still desire him.
Be physical. Make sure that you kiss and hug him as you normally would.
 Cancer treatment can be physically and mentally exhausting. Offer to start taking more responsibility around the house. Try to cook more meals, or run the errands that your spouse would normally do.Explain that you are not trying to take his place, but that you are just trying to help. For example, say, "I know you enjoy taking Emily to dance lessons, but if you're tired, I'm more than happy to drive carpool this week for you."

, Some people find it very difficult to talk about their cancer. Ask your spouse if he would like your help breaking the news to family and friends. The two of you can come up with a plan that will take some of the pressure off of him.Once people know about his cancer, they will want to express their support. If your spouse seems overwhelmed, you can answer the phone or e-mails for him.
Try saying, "Stan will be glad to know that you dropped by, but he's feeling pretty tired today. I'll have him give you a call when he's up to it. Thanks for your support."

