 As you enter the garage or lot, keep your eyes peeled for a vacant spot. Angled parking spots are most commonly used in high-traffic areas, so spots may come and go quickly. Look for telltale spaces between cars or other drivers who are preparing to leave.Make sure you’re paying attention while scanning for an opening to avoid an accident.
Angled parking spots take up less space than perpendicular ones. For this reason, they’re often seen in commercial lots, multilevel garages and busy side streets.;
, Look from left to right to make sure there are no cars coming. Be sure to also watch the drivers in front of you in case they slow down or make a sudden turn. When you’re certain that your path is clear, begin approaching the spot slowly.You should always be in the habit of checking for traffic, pedestrians and other potential obstacles, even when you’re just parking.If the parking spot is on a one-way street, you won’t have to worry about any cars other than the ones behind you.
 Using your turn signal will let oncoming vehicles know that you’re about to park and indicate which direction you’ll be turning. That way, they’ll be able to adjust their speed or come to a stop to give you the room you need to pull into the spot.








It’s important to use your turn signals correctly to let other drivers know your intentions. Activate your right turn signal if the parking spot is on your right; switch on your left turn signal if it’s on your left.
You can also use your signal to show that you’re waiting on a spot to open up in a crowded lot.
 Reduce your speed as you near the parking spot. Press the brake lightly and let your vehicle coast until it’s alongside the spot. When your mirrors are even with the line on the side nearest to you, begin turning the steering wheel to guide the front end of the vehicle into the spot.








The slower you’re traveling, the more room for error you’ll have when making the turn.If you’re going too fast as you get closer to the spot, you may accidentally overshoot it.
 Continue turning until the front end of your vehicle is in line with the edges of the parking spot. Inch forward and come to a stop at the line, curb or wall that marks the end of the spot. Ideally, your vehicle should be pulled up as far as it can go—this will make you less likely to get rear-ended.








Use your windows and mirrors to double check that you’re lined up correctly.
If you happen to pull in crooked, put your vehicle in reverse, back halfway out (checking behind you before you do) and straighten up.
 Once you’ve come to a complete stop, hold down the brake pedal and slide the gear shift to the “P” position. This will place your vehicle in park. Turn off the engine. You can now safely exit the vehicle.









Keep your foot on the brake until the vehicle is securely parked.
It may help to apply the parking brake if you’re parking on an incline. This will prevent the vehicle from rolling out of the spot.