 Unfold your tee and spread it out on a flat work surface—the front of the shirt should face up towards the ceiling. Smooth out any wrinkles with your hands. If your cotton tee is wrinkly, quickly go over it with an iron.Choose a cotton blend that does not fray when cut. This will help your completed halter top to appear less homemade.;
, Prior to cutting the t-shirt, it is recommended that you use a chalk pencil to draw the cut lines. Draw 1 chalk line at approximately a 45° angle from the right side seam, just below the armpit, to the collar. Draw a second diagonal chalk line from the left side seam, just below the armpit, to the collar.


The right and the left lines will not meet at the neck—the lines should be approximately 5 to 6 inches apart., Carefully cut along the right chalk line with a pair of fabric scissors. As you cut from the side seam through the collar, you will cut through both layers of the tee. Repeat this process on the other side. To cut off the remaining portion of the collar, carefully cut along the collar line., Fold the top layer of the shirt down onto itself. With your chalk pencil, draw a straight line on the inside back layer of the shirt. Place the line directly above the fold of the top layer and extend it from side seam to side seam. Cut off the top portion of the back layer along the chalk line., Unfold the front layer of the shirt. Flip over tee so that the front of the shirt is on the table. Unroll your length of rope and place it along the neckline. Place the rope and the neckline of the cotton tee between your thumbs and forefingers. Slowly roll the rope and neckline down so that the material wraps around the rope twice. Secure it in place with pins., To secure the rope in place, you will need to close the loop by hand. Thread your needle and proceed to top-stitch along the base of the loop, located on the inside of the shirt. When you reach the end of the neck, sew in a few knots to prevent the stitches from slipping., Before slipping on the halter top, you must decide how to finish off the ends of the rope. For a polished look, knot the ends of the rope. For a more natural look, fray the ends slightly and then knot the lines. Slip on your new halter and tie the rope to secure it in place.