 Part of making new friends is doing something you may not feel entirely comfortable with. Talking to strangers or joining a conversation takes courage, but it is an effective way to meet new people and make friends. It is also a way to meet people who may share the same perspectives as you.


The next time you are at a party or a group setting, listen to what others around you are speaking about. If you have knowledge on the subject or an opinion, be sure to step in and speak up. For instance, you could say, “I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, but I heard you talking about the new iPhone. I bought it myself. I really like all the new features." Chances are what you have to say will be well received and you may make a new acquaintance or two because of your courage., Sometimes the best friendships are those that develop when you least expect it. If you only associate with visually impaired people, try to make friends with sighted people, and vice versa. It’s a good idea to have a mix of friends. Going outside the box of your typical group of friends may be exactly what you need to find new people with whom to associate.


You may find that sighted people are leery around you because they don’t want to offend you or are unsure of how to interact with you. Assure them that they can still use the same phrases they always do, such as “Do you see what I mean?” without worrying about offending you.
Also, let them know that you are capable of getting around on your own, but you may need a little guidance here and there. Once you get these formalities out of the way, you’re likely to start a great new relationship., Humor helps people to see that you don’t take your disability so seriously and that you have accepted it. It can also help to put other people at ease. When two people first meet they often run into a little awkwardness at some point in time. If this unease is related to your disability, try to make light of the situation. Humor is an excellent way to break up any tension or discomfort and shows the other person that you are funny and good-humored.


For example, if you need help getting around, you could simply ask, “Hey, can I get a ride on your arm?” or something similar to get your point across but in a fun way. If your potential friend isn’t able to see the humor in the situation, they may not be a good fit for friendship anyway., It’s exciting (and frightening) enough to embark on new territory when meeting a friend, but you don’t want to put your safety in jeopardy just to make a new companion. This is especially the case when meeting someone online. Protect yourself by being smart and not allowing anyone to take advantage of you.


For instance, never give out your personal information online. Communication should only occur on the site until you are completely comfortable with giving out information like your phone number.
Bring someone with you, or have someone near you on standby, when meeting someone in public for the first time. That way, if something goes wrong, you have a backup plan.