 Visit local veterinarian offices in your area. Ask the secretary if the office can provide you with a list of Lowchen breeders or referrals. You can also try calling the office first to avoid wasting time. If the office has a list, either visit the office personally, or have them email or fax you a list of reputable Lowchen breeders or referrals.You can say, "Hello, my name is James. I am interested in owning a Lowchen puppy. Does your office have a list of reputable breeders or referrals I can contact for Lowchen puppies?";
, The websites of dog breed clubs often have a list of breeders or a list of referrals for you to contact. Referrals are not breeders themselves, but can refer you to breeders in your area.For example, visit the websites of the AKC and The Lowchen Club of America to search for referrals.
When calling a referral, these individuals are often volunteers that have been appointed by their clubs. Referrals may take a few days to get back to you, so try to be patient., Visit the AKC website or a show’s superintendent website, for example infodog.com, to find out show dates and times. In the website, click the schedule section/judging program section to see what time the breed you are interested in will be showing, and in which ring.You can say, for example, "Hi, my name is John. I am interested in owning a Lowchen. Would you be able to refer me to a responsible breeder?"
When approaching the breeder, do not approach them ringside, or 20 minutes before they enter the ring. Wait until they are finished showing their dog, then approach them a few minutes afterwards.Some dog shows have a designated “Meet the Breed” area, where you can interact with the breed and meet the owner.
 Make a list of at least four breeders you would like to contact. When contacting the breeder, give a brief introduction. Ask the breeder if they have puppies available. If they do not, you can either ask to be put on a list, or tell them that you will call back once you looked into other breeders.You can say, “Hi, I’m Jessica, my partner and I have two kids, and we are looking for the perfect Lowchen for our family. Do you have any puppies available?”

, If the breeder does have puppies available, they will encourage you, or you and your family, to come and visit the puppies. Set up an appointment that is convenient for both you and the breeder.You might have to travel a long distance to visit a breeder. Therefore, try to set up an appointment on the weekend. This way, you will have enough time to drive to the breeder, visit the puppies, and drive back home.
 Like humans, Lowchen’s have different personalities and temperaments. Upon meeting the breeder, let them know about your daily activities and what kind of person you are. This way, they can match you with a Lowchen that has a similar personality.Are you active? A homebody? A social person who has people over a lot? Do you have children? These are important questions to ask yourself in order to help the breeder make the perfect match between you and your Lowchen.
 Upon arriving at the breeder’s home, inspect the areas the puppies spend their time in for cleanliness and spaciousness. Make sure the breeder treats the puppies like a responsible pet owner would. If the puppies seem crowded or confined to one space or cages, this is not a sign of a reputable breeder.Is it clean and odor free? If not, keep your options open.
 Puppies should be clean, well fed, friendly, and lively. Signs of malnutrition are protruding rib cages, illness, runny noses and eyes, coughing, lethargy, and skin sores.The breeder should provide the puppies with toys, socialization, and exercise. You can ask, “How often do you take the puppies outside?” “Do you separate the puppies or keep them together?” and “What kind of enrichment do you provide specifically for the Lowchen breed?”
If the puppies seem scared or aggressive when interacting with you, these are possible signs that a puppy has been mistreated.A reputable breeder will encourage you to meet and spend time with the puppy’s mother.
 Once you have examined the puppies, take one aside to see how it interacts with humans without other puppies around. Examine the puppy for fearful behavior and a general lack of socialization, such as extreme shyness, aggression, and anxiety. If the puppy displays this behavior, then pick another puppy.If all the puppies seem fearful of humans, these are possible signs that the puppies came from a puppy mill.
Healthy puppies are playful, curious, and they will want to interact with you.
 A responsible breeder will encourage you to make multiple visits. They will want you to take your time to make a decision about purchasing and owning a puppy. They will also want you to bring the whole family to meet the puppy.Let other family members interact with the puppies individually. This way, you and your family can come to consensus about which puppy you like the most and want to bring home.
 You should get a sense that the breeder genuinely cares for the puppies. A breeder that genuinely cares about the puppies will make sure they are going to a good home, will be knowledgeable about the breed, and express concern about the puppies.A reputable breeder will offer guidance in the training and caring of your puppy. They will also provide you with their contact information in case you need assistance during any stage of your puppy’s development.
 Breeders should be willing to show proof of health screenings through OFA and CERF certificates. You can also ask for documentation verifying the mother and father’s breed.A reputable breeder will be open about potential genetic and developmental problems inherent to the breed. The breeder should be able to show documents indicating that the puppy’s parents and grandparents have been professionally evaluated to breed these problems out of their puppies.A reputable breeder will be able to provide you with veterinary records indicating that the puppies have had initial deworming and vaccinations.
A reputable breeder will provide references from other families who have purchased puppies from them.
 A reputable breeder will require you to sign a contract. The contract may have various sections verifying that you provided proof that you are allowed to have a dog (if you live in an apartment or condominium), that you will spay or neuter the dog, and that you will return the dog to the breeder if you are unable to care for the dog.A reputable breeder will also want you to explain why you want the dog, who will be responsible for the puppy’s training and care, where the dog will be spending most of its time, and what rules have been decided for the puppy.

