 Calories are the measurement of energy that our body uses. We eat food to get the energy and nutrients for our body to function. But if you eat more calories than you need to function, your body will store those nutrients in fat (making you gain weight). Take in fewer calories than you need to force your body to burn off those extra stores.
 There's a reason for that food pyramid you learned about in school. Eating a balanced diet is important for making sure your body gets all of the nutrients in the right amounts to keep you feeling full and healthy. Try to eat a diet comprised of 30% healthy carbs, 20% each of fruits and vegetables, 10% each of dairy and meat, and as little fat and sugar as possible.Healthy carbs include rye, quinoa, oatmeal, brown rice, and other nutrient-rich grains.
When fitting fruits and vegetables in your diet, make smart choices. Some fruits and vegetables are not as healthy as others. Try to eat citrus fruits, rather than fruits like apples (which have lots of sugar and relatively few nutrients). When choosing greens, the rule of thumb is that the greener it is, the better it is. Avoid the iceberg lettuce in favor of kale, arugula, or spinach.
 Protein will give you energy and nutrients. It's important to eat lean proteins like chicken, beans and lentils, and eggs, however, as many protein sources have a large amount of fat.
 Avoid saturated and trans fats (which are always labeled on the back of food containers). These fats are unhealthy and can cause you to gain weight. Empty calories are ones which include almost no nutrients and they should also be avoided.


Foods high in saturated and trans fats include margarine, chips, crackers, store-bought baked goods, frozen food, coconut, butter, processed meat, as well as a number of other foods.Examples of empty calories include white bread, chips, cookies, jam, fruit juices (even the natural ones!), soda, most breakfast cereals, and a number of other foods as well.
 Eat more foods which are rich in nutrients. These can help you feel more full and give your body what it needs to stay strong and healthy. Healthy foods include broccoli, salmon, quinoa, lentils, olive oil, eggs, kale, and edamame.

