 This simple recipe is for classic buttery, salted popcorn, with one big difference: it's colourful. This buttery popcorn will turn out delicious and vibrantly coloured, but unlike the sweet caramel version, savoury colourful popcorn will dye your fingers and mouth with food colouring. If you don't mind having green, red or blue fingers and lips, try this recipe. If you do, make the sweet caramel or fruity kind. Here's what you'll need for simple buttered popcorn with a pop of colour:


1 tablespoon of butter
1/3 cup of popcorn kernels
Liquid or gel food colouring
Salt

, Place a tablespoon of butter either in a stockpot or a large bowl (the same one you want to use to pop the popcorn). If you're using a pot, melt the butter over a burner on the stove. If you're using a big plastic bowl, you can melt it in the microwave.
 Since this colourful popcorn will stain your fingers and lips, you only want to use a few drops of food colouring. Pour in five to ten drops, enough to give your finished popcorn a burst of colour without making too much of a mess.









If you're using red food colouring, check the label to make sure it says "unflavoured." Red food colouring often has a bitter flavour, but if it's labeled as unflavoured, it won't.
 Pour the 1/3 cup of kernels into the butter mixture, and stir them around so they're completely coated. Cook the popcorn either on the stove or in the microwave; both methods work equally well.









If you're using a pot, cover it with a tight-fitting lid and place it on the stove over medium high heat. Shake the pot every few moments as the popcorn kernels heat up and begin to pop. When the popping slows down, remove the pot from heat.
If you're using a bowl, cover it and place it in the microwave. Microwave the kernels on high for two to three minutes. When the popping slows down, remove the bowl from the microwave.
 Your colourful popcorn will taste just like regular buttery popcorn. Be sure to wash your hands after enjoying your popcorn to remove the food colouring from your fingers.








