 Making a card is a good show of appreciation if you have time and supplies. If you buy a card, make sure that any writing on the front or inside the card is appropriate (don’t buy a birthday card by mistake!). If you cannot find a pre-made thank you card that you like, consider buying a blank card with a nice design on the front.


Supplies for making your own cards are available at craft shops and some department stores, as well as some dollar stores.
Basic supplies for making cards include good card stock (nice thick paper); a paper cutter (if you invest in a cutter, make sure it also has a scoring blade to help create a neat fold in your cards); a glue stick, glue pen, glue dots, or double-sided tape dispenser (or a combination of these); decorative paper; ribbons and/or other embellishments; fancy pens; and envelopes.
Many craft supply shops, department stores, and dollar stores have card-making kits, which may be a better option if you are new to card-making and do not want to spend too much money on supplies.;
, You’ll need to adjust the tone of your card depending on who you are thanking.


If you’re thanking a professional connection such as a potential employer after an interview, your note will likely address the employer using “Mr.”, “Ms.”, or “Mrs.”, and then demonstrate your understanding of the job as well as your ability to do it well.
If you’re thanking a colleague for a gift or favour, you would likely address them by their first name, acknowledge the gift/favour, and then tell them how you enjoyed it/how it helped you.
If you’re thanking a close friend or family member, the card will likely be much less formal, maybe even with some humour in it.

In the example we’ll use throughout this article, you’ll be thanking your friend Pat for helping you move to a new home. As she is a close friend, your options for a card are limitless. Choose a card that is tailored to her tastes — if you’re always laughing together, you might consider buying or making her a humorous card.
 Before writing in the card, write out a draft of what you’d like to say. Make sure you’ve perfected it before writing it in the card. While writing your draft consider who you are thanking, what you are thankful for, and why you are thankful for it.


Continuing from the aforementioned example, you want to thank you friend Pat for helping your move. You are extra grateful to her because it was a stressful day and you didn’t have much help. Her help was invaluable, and you want her to know how much you appreciate it.
 Any details you can give will make the card more meaningful. Acknowledge the specific ways in which that person helped you, and explain why you are so grateful.


In thanking Pat for helping you move, instead of just writing, “Thank you for helping me move!”, specifically outline one or two things that she did that were especially amazing. Let’s say that she was particularly helpful in packing up your kitchen. In fact, you couldn’t believe how skilled she was at ensuring that your dishes were packed safely and with maximum use of space in each box.
How specific you get will depend on how much space you have inside the card. If you don’t have a lot of space to write in, keep your focus narrow.
 Unless you’ve purchased an enormous novelty card, you probably won’t have a tonne of space for your message. Consider the space while writing your draft. You may even want to cut a piece of paper to the size of the card and write your message inside of it to ensure that it fits before finalizing it inside the actual thank you card.


An example of a final message might be, “Dear Pat, Thank you so much for your help on Saturday! My entire kitchen made it to my new place without a single wine glass breaking, and that’s thanks to your insane packing skills. I don’t know what I would have done without you, and I just can’t thank you enough! Big love and hugs, Sally”

If you have enough space, you could also add something about making Pat dinner once you’ve settled into your new home.
 Once you’ve finalized what you want to say, write it neatly inside the card. If you know that you’re a messy writer, slow down and really try to make your writing as legible as possible.


If you really struggle to write legibly, consider typing out your note, printing it, and then pasting it inside the card. A written message feels more sincere, but it’s more important that the recipient can read your message.
Even if the card has a pre-printed message inside of it, your “thank you” will be more sincere if you add your own personal message beneath the pre-printed one.
 Again, this will depend upon to whom your card is directed.


If you are writing to a potential employer or professional colleague, some appropriate closing words include “All the best”, “Regards”, “Warm regards”, “Many thanks”, or “Looking forward”.Some professionals recommend avoiding closing lines like “Yours truly” or “Sincerely”, as they sound dated and cheesy; they also recommend against saying “Thank you for your consideration”, as this suggests that you are already anticipating rejection.If you are writing to a close friend or family member, you can really close it however you like, for example, “Love”, “See you soon”, “Miss you”, “Can’t wait till next time”.

In the example given in this article, the writer (Sally) signs off with “Big hugs and love”, which is appropriate given her close relationship with her friend Pat. That sort of sign-off won’t always be appropriate with a close friend, though. It really depends on your specific relationship.
If you and your friend do not say “love you” and do not hug, signing off with “Big hugs and love” would sound pretty strange! A more appropriate sign-off in that case might be, “Talk soon!” or “Let’s hang soon!”, or something else that better reflects the nature of your relationship.
 Again, legibility is important. Unless your signature is easy to read, you’ll want to print or clearly handwrite your full name.
 Consider your timeline. If you are thanking someone for a job interview, you will likely want to use a fast delivery method to ensure that the card gets there as quickly as possible.


If you choose to post the card, ensure that you verify the address before sending it.
Most businesses have their addresses online, on their websites, but it doesn’t hurt to call and verify their address if you’re unsure — note that many businesses have mailing addresses that differ from their business address.

