 As long as the occasion is a fairly lighthearted one, a joke or a bit of humor can be a great way to start an entertainment or occasion speech. Just make sure that your use of humor does not offend anyone in the audience.At an event held in honor of a particular person, you might tell a humorous story involving you and the person being honored. Just make sure that the story or joke is not embarrassing or potentially offensive.
Try out your joke on a few different people before delivering it in your speech. If the joke falls flat or is offensive, cut it from your speech.;
, A startling statement shocks or startles an audience into paying attention. Since these statements often evoke a strong emotional reaction, making one at the start of your speech can engage the audience quickly.


Try something simple that cuts to the chase, like “Seat belts save lives.”

, A daring declarative statement can shock or stun the audience into paying attention to a seemingly important topic.You might also say, in no uncertain terms, that the audience needs to learn the information you intend to deliver to them.


If your speech is about mood disorders, you might make a statement along the lines of, “Depression, manic depression, and mood disorders of a similar strain can have deadly side effects.”
If you are giving a speech on self-defense, you could say something like, “If you're out alone and suddenly assaulted, your reaction in the first few seconds can be the difference between survival and death.”

, Describe something before revealing what that something is. By describing the characteristics of something, you invite the audience to try to unravel the mystery before you reveal the answer, forcing them to become active listeners.


For a speech about dogs, you could describe the standard characteristics or daily life of a dog using a first person point of view, and end with the statement, “I am a dog.”

, A startling statistic can alert your audience to the importance of your chosen topic. As a result, the audience is more likely to pay attention to what you have to say about the topic.A statistic about declining or increasing birthrates in a specific region or country could alert people to population issues.
 Evidence should be an essential element throughout your entire persuasive speech, but if you want to make a strong case for yourself at the very beginning of your speech, a good way to do so is to provide the audience with a statistic or other similar evidence that demonstrates the importance of your claim. The statistic will be more effective if it will likely surprise your audience.For a speech in which you are trying to persuade the audience to take protective measures against the sun, you can bring up a statistic relating to the number of people who die from skin cancer on an annual year.
 Stories connect to an audience by combining information with entertainment. The story you choose for the start of your speech can be real or fictional, but either way, it should have a clear connection to the topic of your speech.


For a speech about maternity care in the United States, you could tell a story about an experience related to maternity care that you or someone you know went through.
If you were delivering a speech about how to bake a cake to kids or teens, you might describe a situation in which a child made a cake for a parent or loved one for a special occasion. Include details about how the recipient appreciated the gesture.
 A pithy or witty quotation that relates to the topic of your speech can present a strong statement for you to build the rest of your speech's content. For an inspirational or entertaining speech about a particular occasion, use a quotation that applies to the occasion or appeals to the audience's interests.Try to choose a quote from a well-known source, since more people will likely respond to it if they recognize who spoke it.
Inspirational quotes are a popular way to open a graduation speech. Usually, the speaker would choose a quote that talks about dreams, education, looking toward the future, or building character.
Quotations are not often used to start demonstrative speeches.
 If you can find an expert on the topic who agrees with your stance, quote or paraphrase that expert's opinion to provide your speech and position with a strong foundation from the start.


If you are trying to persuade an audience about the importance of forming healthy eating and exercising habits, you might start with a statement made by a well-known expert on the matter to engage the audience.
 When your intention is to deliver a speech that instructs audiences about how to produce some sort of tangible product or result, showing off a “finished work” at the start of your speech can intrigue the audience and make them want to learn how to accomplish the same results.


For a speech about how to lose weight, you could begin by showing before and after pictures of people who used the method you are about to describe.
 If you are trying to sell a product or idea, or if you are trying to explain why a certain course of action is beneficial, a testimonial can engage the audience by introducing a story to them while simultaneously convincing them of the beneficial element of whatever you are trying to pitch.


If you are trying to persuade an audience to buy a specific language learning program, you could give an example of someone who used that program and who now lives in a country that speaks the language learned.

