 Enter your email linked to your Uber account and click “Sign up”. If you are in an area where Scheduled Rides are available, the option will appear in the Uber app interface.


This feature is currently in early access and may not be available in all areas that uber currently services.
You can get more specific detail on how setup and use Uber here.;
, Tap “Sign in” at the splash screen and enter your email and password, then tap “Sign in” again.


If you do not have the Uber app on your phone you can download it from the App Store or Play Store.
 Different Uber services are listed at the bottom of the screen. UberX is located on the left.


Currently, scheduled rides can only be used for UberX. Integration with other Uber services is still to come., This button appears above the Uber services after selecting UberX. You will be taken to the Schedule New Trip page.


If the button does not appear then Scheduled Rides may not be available in this area.
 You can select a date up to 30 days in advance

, The pickup field appears below the Time/Date field.


You can also set the location/destination by dropping the location pin and entering a destination address before tapping “Schedule a Ride”.
 The destination field appears below the pickup location after it is set.
 You will be taken to the Trips page. Your scheduled ride will appear in the “Upcoming” tab.


Uber will send you a reminder the day of the trip as well as notify you when the ride is on its way.
You can schedule multiple trips in advance, but currently there is no way to set up recurring trips.
 Tap the “Upcoming” tab on Trips page, then the “Edit” button (pencil icon) on the right of a scheduled trip to make changes to its date and time. Tap “OK” at the bottom to confirm the new date/time.
 Tap the “Upcoming” tab on Trips page, then the “Edit” button (pencil icon) on the right of a scheduled trip. Tap “Cancel Trip” on the details page.


A can trip can be cancelled at any time before a car is dispatched to pick you up without a cancellation fee..

