 Often, it’s the unexpected noises that trigger flashbacks. Knock on your neighbors’ doors and let them know that you’d like a heads up prior to setting off fireworks. That way, you can anticipate the noise and not be caught off guard.Say to your neighbors, “I struggle with PTSD and fireworks can be difficult for me. I want you to celebrate and have a good holiday, however, it would be helpful if you let me know when you plan to set off fireworks.”;
, Just like certain things can trigger you back to a traumatic situation, your senses can help you to calm and relax yourself.If you are a combat veteran, think about what things brought you comfort at the end of the day. Did you settle down and look at a photo? Did a certain song or artist relax you? Did the smell of laundry or your dog bring you a sense of peace? Have things on hand that you know bring you comfort and relaxation.


If you have pets, keep them close to you and use them for comfort. Petting the soft fur of an animal can be soothing and comforting.
 Consider purchasing some noise-cancelling headphones and/or earplugs. Many veterans keep these on-hand during occasions when they might startle or experience a flashback.Before the holiday season starts, purchase some things to help you cope with the noise.


If the flashes of light bother you, shut the blinds or wear an eye mask to bed.
 If you do have a flashback or you respond to the fireworks, don’t be embarrassed or ashamed. Many combat veterans dread fireworks and react to them in a strong way.If you do have a flashback or startle, remind yourself that you are okay.


It’s okay to have these experiences and your friends and family will understand.
 If you cannot stand the sound of fireworks and need to get away, consider leaving town for a few days around celebrations. You may not always want to avoid celebrations and fireworks, but you also may need some time before dealing with them. Take a trip outside of the city or neighborhoods you know will be setting off fireworks.Plan a camping trip to somewhere remote where you can enjoy yourself without fearing the noise of fireworks.
 If you know that you’ll likely hear fireworks, take steps to make your body feel safe. For example, keep your back against something hard (like a wall or a chair) if you’re starting to feel unsafe.Think about what makes you feel grounded and supported. You may want to wear long sleeves or pants to cover your body as a way to feel safe or always have a view of the sky.
 If you’re feeling tense or triggered, start taking deep breaths. Put your attention solely on your breath and practice taking several breaths in and out.Focusing on your breathing can help you feel calm and bring you back to a neutral state of being.


Instead of putting your attention to your fear, distress, or startling, focus on breathing deeply and counting your inhales and exhales.
 Even if you feel unsafe, look around you and take in your environment. Remind yourself “I am safe here and not in harm.” Remind yourself where you are and that you are safe in your current surroundings.Describe to yourself or out loud what you see: maybe you see a tree, your bedroom window, or the moon. This can help you bring yourself back to your current reality, not a reality of the past.
 Grounding exercises can help you to feel more present and connected with your surroundings, which is important if you begin to feel panicked. Some of the grounding exercises that you can try include:The 5-4-3-2-1 exercise. For this exercise, identify 5 things you can see, 4 things you can hear, 3 things you can feel, 2 things you can smell, and 1 good thing about yourself.
Ask yourself reorienting questions. These can include things like: Where am I? How old am I? What is the day? Date? Month? Year? Season?

Try a grounding guided meditation. In this type of meditation, you imagine that you have roots extending from the inside of your body into the ground and all the way down to the core of the earth.
 Trauma therapy involves gradually exposing yourself to certain triggers (such as places or sounds) and replacing any irrational thoughts with more grounded and balanced ones.If you startle or react strongly to fireworks, it’s likely it’s a trauma response. Work to lower your sensitivity to loud noises like fireworks by working through trauma-focused therapy and find a new tolerance for the holidays.


A trauma therapist will help guide you through these experiences over time. Because it is a controlled environment, you can feel safe knowing that you have the help and guidance of an expert.
 If you experience intense fears related to PTSD, mindfulness can help you with your fear response.Mindfulness involves being present and fully engaged in the moment. Mindfulness is often used in conjunction with exposure or processing to trauma to help you cope with residual symptoms. If you feel stuck in thoughts or memories, mindfulness can help you shift your attention.For example, try eating a piece of fruit and fully engaging each of your senses, one by one. Notice how it looks, take in the aroma, then notice and enjoy the way you respond to the taste and texture.
You can also use mindfulness throughout your day as you walk or sit. Notice how your bones and muscles move in your body, which ones are supporting you, and how your body moves. For more information, check out How to Be Mindful.
 Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is a type of therapy that is used for PTSD patients. In this treatment, you will be asked to watch an object moving back and forth or to listen to a sound that is moving from one side of the room to another while you think about the distressing memory. This is meant to help desensitize you and make the memory less upsetting.Talk to a therapist about using this type of therapy.
 Hyperacusis occurs when your hearing becomes amplified and you don’t tolerate many noises well. Things like a running faucet, police sirens, a phone ringing, or a dog barking may startle you or cause great sensitivity. Fireworks may feel over-the-top. Retraining can help you remove negative associations from sounds and begin to perceive them as neutral. Sound therapy helps to desensitize noises while wearing small white noise generators.Addressing overly-sensitive hearing can help you tolerate noises better and see them as less of a threat.
 Joining a support group can be a great source of comfort, advice, and not feeling alone in your struggles. A support group allows you to openly share about your challenges and receive feedback and support from other people who have ‘been there.’It can be a place to learn how others cope with PTSD symptoms, especially with loud noises like fireworks.

While a support group cannot cure your PTSD, it can be a place to experience trust, friendship, and learning how to ask for help.
To find a support group near you, reach out to your local VA, mental health clinic, or call your insurance provider.

