 It’s not uncommon for children to have a low fever even with a mild illness, and children tend to run higher temperatures than adults. However, a fever of 104°F (40°C) or higher, or any fever (over 100.4 F) in a baby less than 3 months requires a call to the doctor. A fever can cause dehydration, lead to seizures, or indicate that infection is present. If your child has a high fever or one that lasts for over 5 days with home care, they should be seen by their doctor.If your child has a fever (over 100.4F) and a rash, then this is also a reason to seek medical attention for your child.
 Kids get dehydrated much faster than adults, and the consequences can be more severe. If your child exhibits signs of dehydration, take them quickly for medical care. If they cannot be rehydrated with fluids they may require an IV.


Signs of dehydration in toddlers include a dry or sticky mouth, seeming dizzy or especially sleepy, sunken in eyes, lack of tears when crying, and having fewer wet diapers or urinating less frequently., If you already know that your child has asthma, you and your doctor should work up an asthma plan, i.e. what to do in the event they have an asthma flare up. However, you may not know your child has asthma if they are at a young age. If your child is coughing and you hear them wheezing when they breathe out, it can be a sign of asthma and they should be treated by the doctor.You may also notice asthma if your child has a cough and wheezing for many, many nights, but they have no symptoms of a cold like runny nose or fever.Use a cool-mist humidifier in their room for some relief, and make sure they drink lots of fluids.
 If your child’s cough begins to interfere with their ability to breathe in any way, you should take them to the doctor quickly. You may notice that their chest or stomach is heaving because they are working hard to breathe, that they are breathing faster than usual, or that they are making a noisy or musical sound when breathing in (called stridor)., When your child isn’t breathing well and isn’t getting enough oxygen, you may start to see a blue or dusky purple color in their lips, tongue or face. This is a serious indication of breathing problems, and you should seek emergency care., It’s not typical for a child to cough up blood, so if they do you should skip at-home remedies and go to the doctor. You can, however, first check their mouth to make sure the blood isn’t from a bite on the tongue or cheek., You’ve probably heard of whooping cough, the common name for an infection with the pertussis bacteria. Pertussis infections were becoming uncommon but are on the rise due to children going unvaccinated. Pertussis infections require antibiotics to get better, so a doctor’s visit is needed. Listen for the classic presentation: many dry coughs in a row in a long coughing attack, followed by a high-pitched “whooping” sound when your child breathes in.Your child is at risk for whooping cough if they did not receive their DTaP (Diptheria-Tetanus-Pertussis) vaccine.
You can make your child more comfortable for a short time by making sure they drink lots of fluids, and using a cool-mist humidifier in their room. This is not a cure, however, and they do need medicine., Pneumonia is a medical emergency in toddlers. Seek emergency care if your child has a wet-sounding, mucus filled cough and is having a hard time breathing, has a high fever, has general achiness or chest pain, is vomiting, has chills, or shows any blue color in the skin., There may be other reasons to seek medical treatment for your child if they have a cough. Some other situations when you should seek medical attention for your child’s cough include:


Your child has a blood or immune disorder or has not received routine immunizations.
Your child is vomiting repeatedly and / or has severe diarrhea.

