 It is best to use a hot comb on freshly washed and detangled hair for a longer lasting effect.;
, The conditioning is the most important part, as it reapplies moisture that may have been stripped during the shampooing. Wash the conditioner out a few minutes later to ensure that the hair is moisturized, or follow the directions on the bottle. Using heat on dry, brittle hair will cause breakage, which is why it's important to make sure your hair is well conditioned.
 In substitution, you can towel dry your hair. When towel drying, make sure not to rub the hair, which can cause breakage. Instead, wrap the towel around your hair, and remove it when it's no longer soaking wet. As another substitute, you can blow dry your hair while detangling with a nozzle-comb attachment. Be careful of heat, however, since the nozzle, although mostly equally distributing the heat, will require that more is used for the hair to become flat. To combat this, either apply a heat protector, or turn the blow dryer to its cool setting.
 On each segment, you should apply a heat protector. Although hot combs don't damage the hair as much as straighteners, it's best to make sure that the hair is well protected from possibly heat damage that could cause it to be dry and brittle. Tie three of the regions away from the one you're working with, and then split that region in half. For a thorough straightening, the hair should be combed through with a wide-toothed comb. Bring the two halves of the first region together once both have been properly detangled with a wide-toothed comb.
 Make sure to only do half of the region. Go over it until you reach the straightness you desire, though two-three times works best for straight, but not flat, hair.
, For the best, long-lasting results, apply an oil, butter, or leave-in to the newly-combed hair. Olive oil, castor oil, or shea butter is recommended. The hair is likely to be dry due to heat, so remember to moisturize thoroughly about twice a day. At nights, wrap the hair up in a satin or silk scarf or bonnet, and, if you can, put it up in a pineapple at the top of your head to keep the style.

