 If you haven’t yet installed the Bitmoji app, you can get it for free from the App Store. Here’s how:


Open the App Store (the blue icon with a white “A” on your home screen).
Tap the Search icon (a magnifying glass) at the bottom of the screen.
Type “Bitmoji,” then select it from the search results.
Tap Get, then Install.;
, If you already have Bitmoji installed and set up, you can skip this step and start setting up the keyboard. Otherwise:


If you’re still on the Bitmoji page in the App Store, tap Open. Alternatively, open Bitmoji by tapping the green icon with a winking chat bubble on the home screen.
If you already have a Bitmoji account, tap Log In and enter your account information. Otherwise, select either Log in with Snapchat (if you use Snapchat) or Sign up with Email to create your account.
Follow the prompts to design your character. For help setting up your character, see Use Bitmoji.
 It’s the gray gear icon typically located on the home screen.
, It’s about halfway down the list.
 It’s the first option.
 It’s at the bottom of the screen. If you have many keyboards installed, you may have to scroll down to find it.
, The switch will turn green, and a pop-up will appear. The pop-up warns you that third party keyboards (like Bitmoji) may be able to steal your data. Bitmoji is a safe app, so it’s okay to allow it., This grants the Bitmoji keyboard access to your iPhone. It’s now ready to use.
 You can use the Bitmoji keyboard in most social apps, including Apple Messages, Facebook Messenger, Twitter, and WhatsApp.
 This is the place where you’d normally type text.
 It’s next to the “123” icon at the bottom of the keyboard. A list of keyboards will appear.
 Now you’ll see the Bitmoji keyboard, which is essentially several cartoon drawings of your Bitmoji character acting out various scenes and emotions.
 Bitmoji are grouped into categories like emoji. Use the gray icons at the bottom of the keyboard to select a category (or just swipe to the right), then scroll down to view all Bitmoji in that category. When you tap your selection, it will appear in your message or post, ready to send.


You can also search for Bitmoji by tapping the magnifying glass icon and typing a search term (e.g. birthday, hello, laughing, sorry, party).

