 Choose to nurture positive emotions, thoughts and conversations. People are attracted to other people and things that make them feel good. Practice being optimistic and looking on the bright side, so you spread your positivity to those around you.


Focus on the big picture instead of the individual obstacles that stand in the way. Expand your interests beyond your personal issues. Everyone likes the person who can set aside personal concerns, lighten up and be engaged with what others have to say.
Show gratitude for the people, events, successes and experiences in your life. Let this feeling of being grateful spill over into your conversation, and let the person know you are happy to meet him or her.Keeping a journal of everything that you are grateful for on a daily basis can help you to stay positive before and after meeting new people.Catch yourself when you think negative, critical or judgmental thoughts about yourself or other people. Counter these negative thoughts with 2 positive things about the person or yourself.Maintain a positive posture, keeping your back straight, shoulders slightly back, chin held high and your arms wide. Holding this posture during conversations can make you appear confident and positive and can reinforce your positive feelings., Your body language is not the only thing that will benefit from you thinking and behaving more confidently. Your relationships, self-esteem and ability to persuade people will also be enhanced. You should realize that you have value, are talented, skilled and have something to offer that others want or need.


Speak up when you have something to say and speak with confidence. Don't phrase what you say as a question with your tone of voice rising at the end. Make statements and don't use uncertain phrases like "I think".Tell yourself daily what makes you special. Look in the mirror and say, “I like you.” When you can like yourself, others will like you too.
Recognize when you do a job well, and focus on solutions instead of problems., Energy can be passed to others through your enthusiasm and excitement. Being a positive, confident, upbeat person with a can-do attitude will influence others in a good way. They will want to get to know you so they can feed off of your charisma and figure out where all that energy is coming from. Feel free to express your passion for a subject, hobby, project or individual.


Getting a good night's sleep, going to bed at the same time every night, turning off all lights and avoiding alcohol as well as large meals before bed can help you feel more energetic in the morning.Drink water in the morning to replenish your bodyand eat breakfast.
Get 15-30 minutes of exposure to natural outside light or use a light box if it is cloudy.Take a walk. Being outside in nature for at least 20 minutes can make you 20 percent more physically and mentally energetic.Avoid caffeine and energy drinks., Pushy people are stressful. It is difficult to like someone who imposes their ideas, beliefs and choices on you. Be flexible and able to adjust to different situations and personalities. When others realize you are easy-going and open-minded, getting along with you will be easy too., Sharing laughter connects people on a deeper level. People are attracted to those who can make them laugh or who take a carefree approach to life and conversation. If you aren’t the funny type or aren’t comfortable joking around, then try to see the humor in something. It is natural to feel a bond with people who can laugh easily., Everyone wants to be around someone who will listen to them. Always pause after talking, look at the person and wait for a response. When they speak, maintain eye contact, nod your head and make sounds that express that you agree. Listening shows that you are interested in what the other person has to say, while rephrasing what the person said or asking questions afterward proves that you were listening.
 Following up demonstrates your interest and further confirms that you were listening during the conversation. You can use something that came up during the conversation and relate it to another experience that reminds you of the person. For example, you might mention that you passed by a coffee shop with tables outside and recalled that the other person enjoys drinking coffee outside. You could then use the opportunity to request a follow-up meeting at the coffee shop.


You can follow up in-person or via a note, phone call or email.
If you can, remember specific dates that are important to the person, such as a birthday, anniversary or graduation dates. Send out cards or do something special for that person.
 Many people call this, “putting yourself out there.” Whether you are looking for a new job, new boyfriend or new contacts, placing yourself in an environment with new people regularly will make your more at ease in social situations. It will also allow various types of people to connect with you.When you are out and about, don’t stand in a large group. Make sure you are with no more than 2 other people. Large groups of men and women can be protective of each other, and you will give the signal that you are not looking for someone outside of your group.

