 Use the search engine of your choice to find companies that offer unsecured credit cards. If you search for something like "apply for unsecured credit card," you'll find more results that you can possibly need from companies that are offering unsecured credit cards.


Consider the major credit card companies — Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. These cards are useful because they are accepted at most retailers, even abroad, and many incentives like cash back or other rewards.
Be aware that American Express offers credit cards, but they are more closely associated with charge cards that require the balance to be paid in full each month.
Be careful about applying for too many credit cards at once. That could hurt your credit rating.;
, When you're "shopping" for a credit card, it's just like shopping for anything else. You want to get the best deal. Compare the offers from various credit card companies online.


Start by comparing the rate. Some credit card companies offer very low rates, or even 0% rates for an introductory period. Be sure to check the rate that kicks in after the introductory rate expires, though.
Compare other perks. Does one card offer a discount for certain hotels? That might be a benefit if you travel a great deal. Does another card offer cash back bonuses? Determine if that's better for you than perks being offered by other cards.
Check the credit limit. Note that the actual limit on the card will depend upon the applicant's financial situation and credit score, so limit ($10,000, $15,000, etc.) may actually be less than advertised.
 Usually, the online application process is simple. You'll need to provide your basic information (name, address, phone number), plus some additional information.


You might be asked to provide the address where you lived before your current address. That's used for identity verification purposes.
You will certainly be asked to provide your Social Security number. That's how the credit card company will check your credit report and score. Be sure that you're in a secure environment when you provide that to avoid identity theft.
 Fortunately, many online credit card applications give you the opportunity to double-check the information you entered before you submit the application. Take the time to make sure that you didn't enter any typos, otherwise your application could be denied.
 It's often the case that decisions about credit cards from online applications are returned in less than a minute. You should know quickly if you've been approved or not.
 Once you've been approved, there is usually one final step to request that the credit card company to mail the card to you. Often, it's as simple as pressing a button.


Remember, if you don't get approved for whatever reason, you can always look at alternatives to unsecured credit cards, such as a prepaid debit card.