 Roasting is a classic and simple way to cook and prepare beef. However, not all cuts of beef will be ideal for roasting. Speak to your butcher or grocery employee about which cuts they have that would be good for roasting.


Rib roasts, rumps, and large chucks all make for great roasts.
Roast beef also makes great leftovers and can be used in sandwiches, so don’t be afraid of purchasing too much.
 Most roasts will need to cook at a steady temperature for a long period of time. Turn your oven to 350F and let cycle a few times. Cycling your oven, which is when the oven comes to temperature and then cools, will help you maintain a consistent temperature. The longer you let your oven preheat the more consistent the temperature will be.
 Take the beef and rub it with olive oil. Then sprinkle salt and pepper all over the cut of beef. You might even add fresh herbs to your seasoning, like fresh rosemary and thyme.
 Walled roasting pans will be slightly easier to handle and will also distribute the heat conducted in the oven more evenly. Place your roast in the middle of the pan, with the fat side up if applicable.
 Beef, unlike poultry or pork, can be safely eaten in a range of cooking temperatures. Each temperature will depend on weight and whether or not the cut is “bone-on,” or has the bone attached. A general rule for cooking beef to a temperature of medium rare, the most common temperature, is 30 minutes per pound of meat. For example, a 5.5 pound rib roast would take approximately 2 hours and 45 minutes in an oven at 350F to be medium rare.


Cooking temperatures for beef are as follows: Rare (130F), Medium Rare (145F), Medium (160F), and Well Done (170F).There are also many meat timers available online where you can calculate roasting times based on weight and cut of meat, like at BBC Good Food., Meat thermometers are useful tools to have when roasting beef as their probe allows you to take the internal temperature of the beef. Measure the internal temperature of the roast once you are getting closer to its calculated cook time. Simply take the probe of the thermometer and stick it in the center of the roast. Push the thermometer approximately half way into the roast and wait until you get a reading.


Medium rare reads at 145F, medium at 160F, and well done at 170F.If your beef is undercooked, place it back into the oven and check the temperature every 10 to 15 minutes to avoid overcooking it.
 Remove the beef and place it on a cooling rack, cutting board, or serving platter to let rest. Cover the roast in foil and wait 20 minutes before uncovering and serving. Letting the roast rest will allow the roast to finish cooking and reabsorb the juices it lost from the heat of the oven.

