 Use a thick brush to paint a branch on a long piece of paper. Dip the bottom of the bottle into pink paint, and then use it to stamp cherry blossom patterns around the branch. Paint a few black or pink dots in the middle of each blossom.The best bottle to use for this project has 5 to 6 nubs or bumps on the bottom. These will make the petals.
 Cut the bottom half of a 2 liter (0.53 US gal) soda bottle off. Use hot glue to stick on a bottle cap for a large, funny nose, and two googly eyes. Fill the bottle with soil and dampen it with water. Sprinkle the dirt with some fast-growing grass seed., Cut the bottom part off of several 2 liter (0.53 US gal) bottles. Decorate the outside with some paint, colored paper, or stickers. Fill each cup with some nuts, crackers, or candy, and use it for your next party.
 Cut the bottom 1 ½ inch (3.81 centimeters) off of two water bottles using a craft knife. Discard the top part and keep the bottom. Find a zipper that can wrap all the way around the bottle. Put a line of hot glue around the inside rim of one of the bottles. Press the fabric part of the zipper against the glue. The zipper pull should be on the outside of the bottle, and the teeth should be lined up with the rim. Open the zipper, then place a line of hot glue around the inside rim of the other bottle. Press the other side of the zipper against the glue. Wait until the glue hardens, then close the zipper. You have just made a little zipper coin purse.You can make a pencil case by cutting the top part off of one bottle, and the bottom 1 ½ inch (3.81 centimeters) off of another. You will end up with a short bottle bottom, and a long bottle bottom. Use these instead to make a pencil case.
 Fill a small terracotta flowerpot with soil. Dampen the soil and make a small hole in the center. Drop a few seeds into the hole and cover it with more soil. Cut a 2 liter (0.53 US gal) bottle in half, and discard the bottom half. Take the cap off, and place the top domed part over the flower pot. The bottle with either sit right on the rim of the flowerpot, or it will fit over the entire flowerpot.


Consider painting a label on the flowerpot with some chalkboard paint. You can then write on the label with a piece of chalk for a rustic look.
 Cut a plastic 2 liter (0.53 US gal) bottle in half and discard the top half. Cut a large rectangle into the side of the bottle; the rectangle should be no wider than your hand. You will be filling the bottom of the bottle with birdseed, so don't cut all the way down. Punch two holes along the rim of the bottle; make sure that they are right across from each other. Thread a piece of cord through the holes, and tie it in a knot. Fill the bottom of your birdfeeder with some birdseed, and hand it up in a tree.You can paint your birdfeeder with some acrylic paint to make it more colorful. You can also glue squares of tissue paper to it as well. Be sure to seal it afterward with some clear, acrylic spray paint sealer.
 Not every recycling center will accept bottle caps, but this doesn't mean that they have to go to waste. Use hot glue to attach bottle caps to a piece of white cardboard, illustration board, or foam board. Place a big drop of glue to the top of the bottle cap and press it down onto the cardboard.

