 Your teeth bear the brunt of a lot of abuse and gunk over the course of your day. Between food and other factors, it's important to keep your teeth clean and white. Brush your teeth twice a day; once in the morning, and another time before going to sleep. Take at least two minutes to brush your teeth. It may help to divide your teeth into sections and spend 30 seconds brushing each quarter of your mouth.Although whitening strips have nothing to do with actually cleaning your teeth, getting your teeth a few shades whiter can make your mouth look cleaner.
Flossing is recommended as well. Flossing helps clean your teeth in the spaces your toothbrush isn't able to reach. Even if you brush twice a day, you should floss a maximum of once daily.;
, Having a shower and cleaning your hair thoroughly with shampoo is recommended at least three times a week. Apply the shampoo evenly throughout your hair, and massage it to the scalp. Although you should rinse your hair in hot water every morning, you should only shampoo your hair every other day. This will allow for a healthy build of natural oils to make your hair shiny without becoming excessively greasy.


Keep your hair properly maintained. Even if you're trying to grow it out, you should be regularly trimming the ends to prevent split-ends. If your hair is long, you should make a point of brushing it throughout the day, especially if you're spending time outdoors where it's windy or rainy.
Your hair should be thoroughly brushed or combed after washing it. This will keep it from being a mess once it dries.
 Applying a lip balm regularly will keep them from getting chapped or flaky. This is especially important if you have a natural tendency for dry lips. Even if you look clean everywhere else, unkempt lips will attract negative attention.
 However, you should take care to keep your beard neatly trimmed. For a truly clean look, facial hair should be kept less than half an inch long. Use a specialized beard trimmer to keep your beard evenly cut every couple of days. Because every strand of hair grows at a slightly different pace, it's a good idea to make a more common habit of facial hair maintenance, rather than waiting for the point where it gets too long.


Cleanly shaving your neck is a good idea as well. A scruffy neck looks unkempt by most standards.
 Makeup can effectively highlight and emphasize certain facial features, but heavy cosmetics should be left for the fashion runway and horror films. Caking on makeup can look suffocating or even cartoonish, and the build-up of material on your skin will look anything but clean. Even for the most glamorous occasions, it's better to use too little makeup than too much. A natural look is ultimately a clean look, and cleanliness will attract the best sort of people toward you.


Makeup should be promptly removed at the end of each day. If you leave it on it will have a negative effect with the oils in your skin. This can lead to blemishes.
 Although a full body moisturizer can also be recommended, it's most important to moisturize your face, as this is the part of you people look at the most. Take a dab of moisturizer and apply it in a slow, gentle and circular motion evenly across your face, focusing on the cheeks and the area around your eyes.


Moisturizing your skin is especially important if you have a tendency for oily skin and acne. Keeping your skin free of preventable blemishes will keep you looking clean. Don't pick at any acne marks or you'll risk potential scarring.
Consider getting a specific moisturizer for your eyes. Eye moisturizer is composed of a more delicate material than regular moisturizer to compensate for the gentle skin around eyes.In a pinch, washing your face with a damp warm cloth can help scrub away excess dirt and oil.

