 When you are in a difficult situation, try to picture yourself somewhere (anywhere!) else. To take a mental vacation, have a spot ready in your mind. Do you feel happiest on a beach? Or maybe your idea of relaxation is a secluded mountain cabin. Wherever it is that brings a smile to mind, try mentally placing yourself there.For example, maybe you ran into your neighbor on your way out the door. Perhaps your neighbor is nice, but it can be difficult to smile and nod when she goes on and on about the latest antics of her cats. This would be a great time to practice going to your mental vacation spot. Chances are that smile will look a lot more genuine if you are imagining that you are relaxing by the pool somewhere!

, Think back to some of the best times in your life. Maybe it was your first date with your wife. Maybe it was the day you finally landed that dream job. Perhaps you recall a particularly awesome snowball fight as a child. Whatever it is, pull up some of your favorite memories and thumb through them like a photo album. Do this while you're nervously waiting to head in for your big job interview. If you think of happy times, you'll have an easy time smiling when it's time to go in and wow your potential boss with your confident smile., It's going to be difficult to smile in some situations, and there's no getting around that. At times, it might be helpful to just concentrate on smiling with all of your might. Focus your mental energy on the task at hand--keeping that smile on your face, and in your eyes. This is where you can really put those newly strengthened smile muscles to the test.
 There is a clear connection between music and our emotions. Chances are that you have some favorite songs that are guaranteed to put a smile on your face. Is there one that reminds you of dancing enthusiastically with your girlfriends? Is there a track that your favorite band played when you finally got to see them in concert? Maybe the theme song from your favorite movie makes your grin from ear to ear. Whatever song you choose, try "playing" it in your head when you're having a hard time smiling. Music can clear up a bad mood and ease your anxiety., If you can just force yourself to smile, you can probably get that expression to stay in place for a little while, at least. The act of smiling is an instant mood booster, so the more you do it, the more you feel like smiling.Even better, smiling is contagious. If you smile, it is likely that the people around you will start grinning, too. In turn, their smiles will make it easier for you to keep yours in place.