 Be aware of what your target market wants and what they are most interested in. Aim to evoke positive emotions from your advertising messages, to help them remember your brand.;
,, Design it carefully to ensure that you present the company's purpose to the right target market through the right marketing material. Custom floor mats are promotional items that can play a role in encouraging buying behavior of your customers.
 Will you be using advertising mats as entrance mats, interior mats or giveaway mats?

, Custom floor mats are an enhancement to your visual merchandising strategy. For example, if you owned a clothing line dominated by red and black colors, you would choose a floor mat containing the same colors. Or, choose safe colors like black or brown, to create a sense of formality or professionalism.
 Since the purpose is to let your brand get noticed, choose an oversized doormat so that people will notice it.


If you will use the floor mat in front of display, you can print on it "50% discount", "discounted products" or "limited stocks only". Get those bargains walking out the door!
If you intend to use the mat as a promotional giveaway, choose a size that is just enough for a standard sized door entry. People will want it to be useful, not in their way.
Add some contact details, such as the company's website or phone number.
 Ensure that the logo is consistent with your other advertising strategies. Keep it simple and easy to recall.
 Usually you can see rectangular shaped floor mats. But if your target market is kids, then, you can use irregularly shaped ones for the fun factor. For example, mats with curvy edges, animal shapes or favorite item shapes, such as a crayon or car.
 Custom floor mats tend to be placed in high traffic areas. People will step on it hundreds of times. Therefore, use high quality prints to prevent early fading.


Choose high quality materials. Custom floor mats can be made of rubber, nylon, or Palmyra.
Check the edges of the mat because it is where wear-and-tear starts.

