 This trick is great if you're trying to scare your friends or just be a nuisance in general! To make a loud pop, start by blowing a bubble as you normally would. Don't inflate it until it pops — this won't make a very loud noise and can leave you with sticky gum all over your face. Instead, pull the bubble into your mouth, raise your tongue to the roof of your mouth, and use a sharp motion to bring your tongue downward (similar to how you'd use your tongue to make a "tsk, tsk" noise). The bubble should pop with a loud "crack", getting you plenty of attention from the people around you.
 When you master one bubble, try two! Chew two pieces of gum, keeping them separate from each other in your mouth. Use one piece of gum to blow a bubble as you normally would, then use your lips to "close" the end of the bubble. Carefully use your lips to move this bubble to the side of your mouth, then move the other piece of chewed gum to the front of your mouth and blow a bubble with this piece. With luck, when you're done, you should have two separate bubbles next to each other.


For an extra trick, try joining the bottoms of the bubbles together in your mouth and carefully pulling the joined bubbles out. They should look something like a heart — perfect for Valentine's day, as long as your S.O. is open-minded!

, Put a small, light object in your mouth (like a piece of hard candy, for instance) and keep it separate from the gum as you chew it. As you start to blow your bubble, use your tongue to maneuver the object through the hole in your lips and into the bubble. Close the bubble by bringing your lips together and use your hands to remove it from your mouth. Present your gift to a friend or spectator and watch their reaction!

, This is the hardest trick of all, but, when pulled off correctly, it's absolutely amazing. Chew two pieces of gum in your mouth, keeping them separate. Begin to blow a bubble with one of the pieces. Get the bubble fairly big — the more space you have to work with, the better. Next, maneuver the second piece of gum in your mouth in front of the hole in your lips and start to to blow. This is very tricky, but if you pull it off correctly, you should see a second bubble growing inside the first one!


If, after plenty of practice, you become an expert bubble-blower, try challenging yourself by blowing a third bubble inside the second one. It's very tricky, but possible!

