 (Height of iPhone 6 is about 5.5 inches, and most Androids are 4.5 inches tall).
 The best clay for this project is air-dry clay, as it dries quickly and without having to fuss with heating. The remaining requirements for building this stand are listed under Things You'll Need below., Mold it into a spherical shape. It does not have to be perfect.,, Do this by cutting off the edges with the ruler.

The size of the square is dependent on the size of your phone. Use the measurements made earlier to assist with this.
 Check that it is as long (horizontal) as your phone. Fold up one long side and the two short sides, leaving one long side unfolded (this side will be where the cradle is attached)., Once again mold it into a sphere. Make sure that this sphere is larger than the one made before., This time, mold it into a rectangular shape, again using a ruler. Make sure it is the same length as the base.

The size of the rectangle is dependent on the size of your phone. Use the measurements made earlier to assist with this.
 Use your finger to smooth one side of the rectangle into this side of the base.

As you attach the cradle, ensure that it tilted at a slight angle, for holding the phone.
 This will prevent the phone from sliding off and keeps it in place., Check for the need to make further adjustments, such as any widening, changes of angles or improving the edges, etc. When all adjustments have been made, you're ready to complete the project., It should appear even and neat all over the project., Using leftover clay, make fun things such as animals, objects like candy or shapes. Add anything you fancy to make your phone stand really pretty.,,

To test for dryness, you can stick your fingernail in the clay. If a nail print shows, the clay is not yet dry.
 You can try using one color for a simple look, it's up to you. If using more than one color, consider how to arrange or merge the colors so that they complement each other., Use clean, neat strokes, being careful not to paint over any decorations.,, Be careful to avoid painting over any decorations.,, You can glue gems, add stickers, ribbons, etc., to personalize the phone stand., Test before putting your phone into the cradle and base of the stand., Put the stand where it is most convenient and admire your handiwork.