 Finding an ethical, reputable breeder is very important to ensure the health of your new pup. If you contact the breeder, but they are coy about letting you see where the puppies were born and the conditions they are currently living in, this is a possible sign they are running a dirty breeding business or a puppy mill.Create a list of questions to ask during your visit to the breeder, including:How long have you been a dog breeder?
How many types of dogs do you breed at one time?
How often do you clean, feed, and play with the dogs?
Are you a registered dog breeder?
Can you show me proof of the dogs' physical health from a licensed veterinarian?
Can I meet the pup's mother or parents?
Can you provide references from other individuals or families who have purchased dogs from you before?
Can you tell me about any potential genetic issues or problems with the types of dogs you breed?
Can I return for multiple visits with my family before making a purchase?

, The breeder should be willing to show you the areas where the pups and the parents of the pups live.The living areas for the dogs should be clean, spacious and well maintained.
The dogs should be kept in roomy spaces that meet the needs of their particular breed. For example, most small breeds will be housed inside in the home, while sporting breeds will have plenty of outdoor space for exercise.
 The dogs should be lively, clean, healthy, and not shy in front of visitors. But they should also not be aggressive towards you.Note if the breeder is meeting the psychological and physical needs of their dogs by providing toys, exercise, and social interaction. If the breeder is stand offish or cold towards the dogs, this is likely a bad sign.
The puppies should also be raised in the breeder’s home, and the breeder should demonstrate care and attention to the puppies.
A reputable breeder will likely not have a constant supply of puppies, as this would indicate a puppy mill and possibly bad treatment of the animals. They may keep a list of interested buyers for the next available litter and they should be willing to refer you to other responsible breeders or breed clubs if they do not have puppies available., A good breeder should know their breed’s history and health inside and out. It’s difficult for one person to develop strong expertise about many breeds, so a good breeder will usually specialize in a single breed or maybe two.If the breeder advertises ten varieties of dog and all their mixes, they likely are not very reputable., A good breeder will offer to introduce you to the pup’s parents during your visit and be comfortable with letting you interact with the parents and the puppy.The breeder should also encourage several visits so you can take your time deciding on if the puppy is right for you, and should not mind if you ask to bring your family with you to meet the puppy.
 Pregnancy, whelping and nursing puppies can be taxing on the mother dog’s body, so a good breeder will limit the number of times they breed a bitch. Many breeders will only breed a female two or three times in the course of her life.