 One of the most damaging things you can do to your sense of self-esteem is to compare yourself to others. This is true of physical comparisons, like looking at your body in comparison to actors/actresses/models in the media.But it's also true of intellectual comparisons, creative comparisons, and career comparisons.


Find your own style, and recognize your own beauty. You're a unique and wonderful individual, and comparing your life/body/career to others does a great disservice to yourself.
Remember that you are ultimately responsible for your own happiness, in that personal satisfaction and self-love have to come from within. Be kind to yourself, and try to respect yourself for who you are right now, not who you aspire to be in the future.
 Everyone has a set of core beliefs that define our sense of self within the larger context of the world. Many of these core beliefs develop early in life, but some develop (or can be adjusted) later in life. Your negative core beliefs are built from your negative life experiences, biased/unreasonable expectations, and negative self-evaluations.Ask yourself whether your life experiences have led you to believe there is something "wrong" with you, then question what you are basing your sense of "normal" on.
Can you link a specific person, place, or event with any negative beliefs you hold about yourself? If so, why do you think that belief is an absolute truth based on the opinion of one person or the occasion of one negative event?
Ask yourself honestly, "Would I ever say the things I think about myself to someone else about their body, career, or lifestyle choices?" If you wouldn't say something hurtful to others, why say it to yourself?
Examine the evidence of your negative self-beliefs. What are those beliefs actually based on, and has anything remotely positive ever come out of holding on to those beliefs?
Create new opportunities for safe, healthy, and positive experiences that you have not previously had. Approach situations that you've previously avoided (so long as they are safe) and see challenges through to the end instead of abandoning your aspirations.
Do nice things for yourself that are safe, fun, and make you feel good about yourself.
Try being more assertive with the people in your life. Don't be bossy, but let your voice and your thoughts/opinions be heard.
 In the chaos of day-to-day life, it can be very easy to forget how talented, strong, and interesting you are as an individual. If you suffer from a low self-esteem, it is probably even more difficult to remember your strengths. Take a few minutes each day to practice self-awareness of your personal strengths, and try journaling to see how your self-esteem changes as you take more time to celebrate yourself.Make a list of your strengths. Then make another list of your achievements. Make a third list of qualities/characteristics you admire in others that are also present (to any degree) in yourself. Read through these lists on a regular basis, and try writing a new set of lists every few weeks. Keep your old lists and compare them after a few months to see if anything has changed.
Ask a close friend, family member, or romantic partner to make a written list of your best attributes. Ask them to write about why they care about you, what makes you the unique person that you are, and what you do better than anyone else. Keep this list with you at all times (in your wallet or purse, perhaps) and read through it whenever you feel bad about yourself.
 If you're feeling insecure about yourself, perhaps you haven't taken much time lately to care for your needs. Everyone has emotional and physical needs, and if those needs aren't met, we tend to feel pretty bad. Take good care of yourself on a day-to-day basis, and odds are you'll feel significantly better in your skin.Spend some time each day on your personal hygiene. Make sure you brush and floss your teeth each day, shower or bathe, style your hair, shave, and trim your nails.
Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet. Make sure you are getting enough vitamins and nutrients, and avoid junk food.
Get more exercise. Find ways to get a little bit of exercise every day, like walking or riding your bike on your errands instead of driving. In addition to your day-to-day walking or bicycle riding, aim for a more vigorous cardio workout three times each week.
Dress in clothing that makes you feel good about your body. Whether you feel more comfortable in slim, form-fitting clothes or baggier, looser clothes, figure out what you're most comfortable and confident in and try to wear those confidence clothes as often as possible.
Make sure you get enough sleep. Depending on your age, most adults need between seven and nine hours of sleep each night., A good way to feel more secure and confident with yourself is by accomplishing your goals. Many people feel troubled when they cannot achieve their goals, but instead of beating yourself up, consider whether your goals are achievable or even measurable. Experts tend to agree that developing S.M.A.R.T. goals (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Results-focused, and Time-bound) can help you make meaningful goals that will give you a sense of purpose and accomplishment.Specific - be clear and simple in defining what, precisely, it is that you want to do.
Measurable - create goals that have some metric of measurement. The only way you'll ever know that you're making real progress towards your goal is if you have a way of measuring that progress.
Achievable - your goals should challenge you a little bit, but should ultimately be something you can realistically accomplish.
Results-focused - the way you measure your progress should be by your outcomes, not just your activities. Don't measure progress by simply working at your goal. Measure progress by how much you've accomplished on the way to meeting your ultimate goal. Take stock in the "little" victories along the way.
Time-bound - give yourself a realistic timeframe. Don't expect results overnight, but don't give yourself a year to get around to putting in some effort. Decide what a reasonable, realistic date of completion should be and hold yourself to that deadline.
 Odds are if you've lived any time in this world, you've hurt someone, and someone else has hurt you. These offenses may be intentional or accidental, but many people have a hard time letting these incidents go from their memory. However, playing a scenario you regret over and over in your mind will never undo what's been done. It will only torture you and make you feel worse about yourself and others.Remember that mistakes offer you an occasion to grow. You may have hurt others or been hurt, but the important thing is that you learned from your mistakes, and others who hurt you have also learned from their own errors.
Instead of dwelling on things you wish you'd done differently, acknowledge what you would like to do differently now. The present moment is the only time you can change, because the past cannot be altered and the future does not yet exist.
Focus in this moment on how you can be the best version of yourself, and find ways to make that version of yourself a reality.
 Take some time each day to reflect on the people and circumstances that have made your life what it is today. Obviously not everyone/everything has been good all the time, but chances are you've had some pretty amazing events in your life, and you've probably met a lot of inspiring, loving people. Try to remember that you would not be who you are today if others had not shown you love, and if you hadn't been born into the circumstances you were given.No one's life is perfect all the time. In fact, many people struggle their whole lives. No matter how difficult your life might be, try to remember that there are others who have it worse, and those people probably admire your life.
Be grateful for the people who have shown you love and taught you how to love. Think about how sad and lonely life could be if not for the love others have shown you, at least at some point in your life.
Try to appreciate the little things in life. Watch the sun rise or set each day, and take stock of the fact that you've lived to see another day - there are a lot of people who cannot say the same thing about this present day.

