 Instead of tossing your cat litter or your dog's poop into the trash, put it into the gopher tunnels instead. You won't need a lot; one or two droppings will be enough. Cats and dogs are gopher predators. When gophers smell the poop, they'll think that a predator is nearby., Gophers have very sensitive noses. If they smell something they don't like, they may leave. Here are some scents that are bound to set gophers scurrying:Fish. The next time you go fishing, save some of the scraps (such as fins) and place them in or next to the tunnels.
Castor oil. Dilute castor oil with some water and spray it into the tunnels, You can also try dropping some castor oil capsules into the tunnels instead.
Coffee grounds. After you have finished brewing a cup of coffee, sprinkle the grounds into the tunnels and cover them with soil. You can also mix the coffee grounds into your soil. It will help repel the gophers while fertilizing your plants.
Dryer sheets. Take a few dryer sheets and tuck them into the holes. The strong smell will send the gophers away.
Mothballs. Drop a couple of mothballs into the tunnel, and cover the opening with plastic. Gophers don't like the smell of naphthalene, which is in mothballs.
Tabasco sauce. Mix together a few drops of peppermint essential oil, 1 teaspoon of Tabasco sauce, ½ cup (120 milliliters) of castor oil, and 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water. Soak some cotton balls in the mixture, then drop them into the tunnels.
 This plant, also known as "Euphorbia Lathyris," is a common gopher repellent. Buy a few from your local nursery and plant them in your yard. Focus on the gopher infested areas.


Other plants that gophers seem to dislike include: castor beans, daffodils, and marigolds.Some people find that the oleander plant is also an effective gopher repellent. Consider planting oleander around the perimeter of your garden., Like many animals, gophers dislike a lot of noise. If you find gophers in your yard, try using something that makes noise, such as:Portable radio. Find a cheap, battery-operated radio. Turn it on and stick it into a plastic, resealable bag. Tuck the bag into the gopher tunnel. The plastic bag will protect the radio from getting wet.
Wind chimes. They are pretty and create a soft, chiming noise that gophers seem to dislike.
 Most vibrating stakes are set deep into the ground, and are completely invisible above ground. They are usually battery-operated. You can buy some that are wind operated. These ones stick above ground and are ornamented with a windmill. You can buy them online, and in certain nurseries or home improvement stores. To insert the vibrating stake:Dig a hole into the ground. Make sure that it is deep enough to fit the stake.
Slip the stake into the hole.
Fill the hole with more dirt.
Avoid hammering or pushing the stake directly into the soil, as this can damage it.
 Cover all holes with soil, except for one or two. These should be the entrance and exit to the main tunnel. Wash the trap using unscented soap and warm water. Put on a pair of latex gloves, and insert the traps into the tunnel, with the open end facing inside the tunnel.Once you have placed the trap, cover the area with a sheet of black plastic or burlap so that no light shines into the hole.


The main tunnel is usually 6 to 12 inches (15.24 to 30.48 centimeters) underground. You can find it by poking the ground around a mound, on the same side as you see freshly-dug-up earth.Use a weeder or wooden spoon handle. Keep poking until you feel the soil "give."
Some people find that rubbing the trap with fresh rosemary helps further disguise the smell of humans.
Once you have trapped the gopher, either call up animal control or release it into the wilderness.
 Whenever the soil gets wet, the chemicals in the fertilizer will leach into the soil, and repel the gophers. Avoid using this if you have pets, children, or plan on protecting fruits, vegetables, or herbs. Put on a pair of latex gloves, then follow the steps below:


Dig a trench about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) wide and 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) deep around the area you want to protect.
Consider digging a few extra trenches and have them meet in the center of the area you are protecting.
Fill the trench(s) with the fertilizer.
Cover the trench with 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of soil.

