 The moment you realize that your bags are not on the baggage carousel, locate the airline's baggage claim office immediately. Tell the agent that your bags did not come out with the other bags on your flight.There's no legal requirement that you report your missing luggage immediately, but it does increase the chances you'll receive compensation. Some airline policies may require it.
Keep in mind that you probably aren't the only passenger with missing bags. You may have to wait awhile before you can talk to an agent. If you have somewhere you need to be, take this into account before you get in line at the baggage claim office.
Be prepared to show the agent your boarding pass and photo identification. If you have a claim ticket for your checked bags with the barcode, it can help the agent locate your bag.
When you just finished a trip with several connecting flights that involved multiple airlines, any one of those airlines may be responsible for the delay. Report your missing bags to the last airline you boarded and let them sort it out.;
, Often a baggage agent will tell you that bags are put on the next immediate flight, and all you have to do is wait an hour or so. However, this assumes that your bags were identified before that flight left.Typically the baggage agent will give you a form to fill out. Make sure you get a copy of your form before you leave.
On your report, include all details of your flight, including where you started, any connections you made, and any other airlines that were involved in your travel. Be sure to list the flight numbers, which can be found on your boarding passes or flight itinerary.
If you don't have time to fill out forms at the airport – for example, you may be on a tour and had to get on the bus departing the airport – you usually can file a claim later by visiting the airline's website or calling the airline's toll-free customer service number.
 After you've completed a written report and the baggage agent has checked the airline's system, they should be able to tell you where your bags are and when they will get to the airport.An estimate of when your baggage can be retrieved may determine whether it is classified as lost, or simply delayed. This classification can affect the compensation to which you're entitled.
While U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations don't address this, on international flights your bags must be classified as lost if they are delayed more than 21 days.
Provided the agent is able to locate your bag, they typically will classify it as delayed at that point. If they are unable to locate it, they may initially classify it as missing – but this doesn't mean it won't later be found.
Even if your bag is categorized as completely lost, it typically will be recovered within the next week. Most lost baggage is found within 48 hours.
 Before you request compensation for delayed airline luggage, you need to understand your rights as an air traveler and the airline's responsibility with regard to your checked bags.Domestic U.S. flights are governed by DOT regulations, while international flights are governed either by the Warsaw Convention or the Montreal Convention.
The Montreal Convention is more traveler-friendly than the Warsaw Convention, and entitles you to greater compensation and more protection for delayed airline luggage.
The more than 100 countries who have signed on to the Montreal Convention include all of Europe, Canada, and Australia. If the Montreal Convention does not apply to your situation, the Warsaw Convention most likely does.
Knowing the law that applies can help you assert your rights to the airline. You may be more likely to get the compensation to which you're entitled if, for example, you say "I'm claiming compensation under the Montreal Convention."

