 Plasma TVs have a very shiny screen and reflect light creating a glare that is akin to trying to read a glossy magazine with a shiny light. If you have a Tube television and you have glare now, you are used to it.;
, 720 units have fewer pixels on the same size screen and are generally only available in 50" or smaller screens. Although 1080 is the current broadcast HD and "Blu-ray" standard, many people find it hard to tell the difference between the cheaper 720 plasma TVs and the higher resolution 1080 displays. If you are sitting 8 feet (2.4 m) from the TV or farther, you will most likely not be able to tell the difference between 720 and 1080 on a 46" set or smaller. The best way for you to decide is to go look at the same program on the two TVs side by side at a local retailer.
 The higher the ratio the more "real" the picture appears. 800:1 is the lowest. New models offer 30000:1 ratio (or better). Higher contrast ratios generally mean better "true blacks" in the picture. Blacks which are too gray reduce or wash out subtle dark details and muddle shadows and other "gray" color information.
 If you can, decide how much you are willing to pay for that difference.
 LCD televisions are rated at 60HZ or 120HZ (240HZ coming soon), all plasma TVs are 480HZ. This refers to refresh rates that minimize blur when watching scenes with rolling fog, ocean waves or smoke.
, Consumer sets have more features, flashier styling, and (sometimes) better warranties, as well as having to meet somewhat more stringent government standards. Commercial sets offer great value. They provide very good picture quality for the money, but tend to be minimalist in styling and features, and things like table stands, HDMI/DVI inputs, tuners and speakers are extra cost options that can drive the cost up beyond the consumer version if you add them.
 The former is usually less expensive, but if something goes wrong, returning the big, expensive machine could be a hassle. Also take into account that you can avoid paying sales tax when buying from many online retailers, which can save you hundreds on an expensive TV. Commercial sets are scarce in local stores while many internet vendors do not offer the consumer versions.
, Read user comments on various sites all over the net. Reviews are invaluable, because choosing a TV set on a sales floor does not always reveal facts about a particular TV's reliability over time.
 Too much depends on the picture settings, ambient lighting, and even the quality of the video feeds.
 There will always be something new arriving soon. Prices will always drop over time. The fact is, most current plasmas are very good and their prices are reasonable for the pleasure they provide.
