 Before looking at potential ghostwriters, consider your needs and expectations for them. This can ensure you get a viable pool of potential ghostwriters who can fulfill your requirements. Ask yourself the following questions:Do I want to hire the ghostwriter for one project or multiple texts?
What type of text do I want— a book, article, blog, anthology, or e-book?
How many pages or words do I want my text to be?
What is my deadline?
What style of writing do I want—formal, casual, academic?
What is my budget?
How much experience should the ghostwriter have?;
, If you know others who have used ghostwriters, ask them to suggest potential ghostwriters for your project. Let them know your needs and expectations, which can direct them to an optimal candidate for you. This can save you time, energy, and even money. It can also reduce the risk of hiring an unknown ghostwriter., Compare individuals who offer ghostwriting services at sites such as Elance, Odesk, vWorker, and Problogger Job Board. Consider creating a job posting for one of these sites. Include information such as your needs and requirements and your budget. Keep the tone friendly to attract possible candidates. Searching different sites for ghostwriters can ensure that you get a quality ghostwriter who best fits your specific project., If you feel overwhelmed or are having a hard time locating specific ghostwriter candidates, use an agency such as Arbor Books or Legacy One. Let the agencies know your needs, expectations, and budget so they can put you in contact with several potential candidates.Include any fees for agencies in your budget. Some may require payment for their services.
 List possible ghostwriters you find from referrals, online freelance sites, job ad responses, and agency suggestions. Note things you like about them, which can help you identify the best candidates for your needs. Some things to note on your list include:Where you found the candidate
Ghostwriter’s location
Areas of expertise
Feedback and ratings
Number of hours worked for specific projects
Years of experience
Availability
Hourly or project rate

, Once you’ve found 3 or 4 ghostwriter candidates, meet with those individuals. Have a conversation about your expectations, needs, and how the person envisions the collaboration. Ask any questions you have and answer any questions the candidate may have for you. An interview or initial meeting can help you figure out if you and the potential ghostwriter have right chemistry to work together. It can also give you a sense of the person’s communication skills.Take notes while you interview the candidates. This can remind you of things you liked or didn’t like when deciding on your ghostwriter.
 Request that your candidates provide several writing samples of works they’ve ghostwritten. Ask for different types of writing they’ve done. Read through each sample and take notes on it. Reviewing your candidate’s work can minimize the risk of hiring a ghostwriter with little experience or who doesn’t have a style you like.Avoid candidates who cannot or refuse to supply writing samples. This may indicate a lack of experience or other problems.
 Get a list of references from previous employers for your candidates. Contact each reference so you know about their relationship to the writer. References can help you reach the best decision for your writing project. Some questions to ask references include:Does the ghostwriter meet deadlines?
Do they honor commitments?
Can they write with readers and search engines in mind?
How well did they express intended message?
Do they respect non-disclosure agreements?
Do they follow instructions?
Would you hire the ghostwriter for another project?

, After you’ve discussed your project wishes, ask candidates to provide a one page proposal within a specific timeframe. Review each text to see if it’s customized to your project and meets your expectations. This can ensure you hire the best ghostwriter for your specific project.Be wary of candidates that provide “plug and play” templates or miss the deadline. This may indicate inability to follow your instructions and increase your risk of not getting the product you want.
 Once you’ve decided on one ghostwriter, meet with the individual in person. Talk about how you envision the project developing, your timetable, and payment. Discuss rights to the text and non-disclosure expectations. This can ensure your ghostwriter is in agreement with your expectations and won’t be surprised when they receive the final contract., Talk to your ghostwriter about their expectations, too. Consider and honor, when appropriate, their requests and needs. For example, the ghostwriter may want an advance to get the project started so they can work for you and still support themselves. This can ensure that you’re both on the same page and minimize the risk of misunderstandings during the ghostwriting process.Answer any questions the ghostwriter may have for you.
 Once you and the ghostwriter have agreed on project details, draft a contract. Include items such as payment, expectations of the ghostwriter and for you. Address issues such as deadlines, disclosure, plagiarism, and privacy. Show your ghostwriter the draft contract and negotiate any points upon which you can’t agree. This can ensure that the contract is fair to you and your ghostwriter.Keep the contract as detailed as possible so you can deal with potential problems, grey areas, or misunderstandings quickly.
 After you’ve worked out individual details of the contract with your ghostwriter, have each party sign it. Do this with a witness or notary present. This can ensure that the contract is legally binding should issues with your project arise.