 Power metal comes in many varieties, so when you're first getting started it's a good idea to listen to a lot of power metal and find out what you like best and what you hope to make yourself. Different styles of power metal use different types of instruments and different arrangements to give their songs unique qualities. Some varieties of power metal music include:


Traditional power metal, which features a basic line up of guitars, drums, bass, and vocals
Folk power metal, which flavors the traditional mix with acoustic instruments
Thrash power metal, which features hard-chugging thrash rhythms
Viking power metal, which features legitimate beards and Norse mythology in the lyrical content;
, Above all, power metal should inspire grand, sweeping visions of fantastical realms, huge, dramatic surges of emotion, and jumbo-sized imagery. In a word, it should be epic. This is one of the characteristics that sets it from many of the other metal genres. When making power metal songs, go big or go home. Your song might find inspiration in any of the following:


Lord of the Rings-style fantasy landscapes and characters
Wizards and warlocks
Ragnarok and other Norse mythology
Sci-fi, H.R. Giger, and H.P. Lovecraft
Biblical mythology

, Power metal songs--like most other kinds of music--probably start from a relatively simple guitar part, chord sequence, or chorus line. It's not often that you'll build a song around a tapping solo. That comes later.


Write a chorus on the piano or acoustic guitar, perhaps in a minor key. Gradually start adding melodic complexity, but don't start adding instruments until you've got the basic melody down, at least for the chorus. You can add more complex parts later.
Unlike black metal or grindcore, power metal is typically pretty catchy. Make sure you've got a good fist-pumper for a chorus. Imagine all the metal heads with their fists held high.






Once you've got the chorus, start writing verses, at least trying to get a basic structure for the lyrics. Sing mumbled nonsense before trying to get the perfect lines together. You're just starting.
 Power metal can get quite progressive and complex. Each song should feature multiple movements, bridges, and components, switching key signatures and time signatures. Make each song a mini-epic. Some power metal songs can get quite long--7 or 10 minutes.


When you've got the basic structure of the song, start jamming on it with the rest of the band to bounce ideas around and start building things and adding more complexity. It's hard to tell how it'll sound until you start working it out in the room.
 Many power metal bands down-tune their guitars to Eb, D, or even C for a darker, sludgier sound, though some bands do use standard tuning. Consider an alternate tuning if it will help you achieve the sound you want.
 The singer should be a trained vocalist, as power metal music can be extremely vocally demanding. Many Power Metal vocalists choose to sing in a high vocal register, but this is not a necessity. Lyrics are generally high fantasy themed, featuring references to Elves, Dragons, Lord of the Rings, and other fantastical elements, though your songs should be about whatever you want them to be about. Many bands choose to tell fantastical, epic stories through their music. Mastodon even recorded a concept album about Moby Dick.
 A common element of most power metal songs is the fast, intense instrumentation. This makes power metal parts particularly difficult to play, so start by writing them and practicing at a comfortable speed and gradually speeding up as you learn the parts. You will probably find yourself writing songs between 150 and 200 bpm, so you will need a drummer who can keep up.


In particular, power metal drumming is important in dictating the rhythmic drive of the music. You will want a drummer who can keep good time, hopefully with two bass drums and double kick pedals, and to use these quite frequently.
 The rhythm guitar is the backbone of power metal music, playing the chord progressions that compose the "meat" of the song. Playing a power chord, then picking the root note palm muted is a very common rhythm guitar technique in power metal. However, power chords don't necessarily have to be built off of the root note of a chord. For example, in pre-choruses, going up or down a third can sound very epic, and builds up nicely to the chorus being on the root note. Key changes can sometimes be found in the final choruses of some songs, where the main progression is moved up a tone.
 Minor and harmonic minor scales are great to use, while some modes, such as phrygian and dorian can also be useful. Guitar harmonies are very common as well, with third and octave harmonies being the most common. Quartal (fourth) harmonies are not as common.


Sweep picking, tapping and fast alternate picking are commonly used for solos, but don't think you can just play fast and people will enjoy it! In good solos, bends add an extra degree of emotion when used properly.
 Power metal guitar solos often contain a bar or two that complements or even vaguely resembles the main riff of the song. The challenge is in invoking the memory of the main riff in the listener's mind without aping it too closely and boring the listener. Of course, this is optional - your solo doesn't have to to sound anything like the main riff at all.


If you want to write solo bars that play off of the main riff, practice your solo over a recording of the main riff (or have another member of the band play the main riff while you practice your solo). Look for opportunities for counter-melody and rhythmic complexity - try to hit off-beats that the riff doesn't hit and to create interesting harmonies with the main riff.
 Power metal is know for extremely fast guitar playing, but what's more important than playing at top-speed is playing with control and restraint. A clean, polished solo that's slightly slower than a sloppy, rushed one will always sound better. Gradually increase your speed with time and never bite off more than you can chew when you solo on stage.
 The ideal power metal guitar solo is a wild, furious, virtuosic all-out musical attack. Harmonics and tapping are two techniques you can use to make your guitar "scream" and to play incredibly fast, respectively. Work on your pinch harmonic and two-handed tapping technique to give your solos extra power.
 Solos are a great opportunity to take musical chances and wow your audience. Solos that don't just stick to the chord tones of the song's progression are bolder and more interesting, but it takes an experienced guitar player to be able to play outside of the basic chord scales without making a solo that's ugly or discordant. Again, practice makes perfect here - run through your songs' solo sections again and again until you're able to pull off good solos in your sleep.
 Good power metal guitarists are incredibly talented, polished musicians, but they weren't born that way. Being able to bust out killer solos takes years of practice. Devote yourself to your craft and eventually you'll be able to shred with the best of them.

