 Your doctor may suggest these options when large numbers of warts are present or a large area is affected. Your doctor may also recommend one of these options if you’ve had several recurrences of HPV warts.
 An application of liquid nitrogen solution freezes the water found inside the warts, causing destruction of the cells that make up the warts.The provider will clean the area of the warts with an alcohol swab. An applicator tip containing liquid nitrogen will be applied to each wart until up to a 5mm margin of surrounding skin is frozen. An additional thirty seconds of freezing will be done until the skin turns white followed by a thawing period where the white area disappears. If the pain is bearable another period of freezing will be done.


Within 24 hours, a small fluid filled sac (bulla) forms over the treated area. An additional course of treatment can be applied in one to two weeks as necessary.After two to four treatments within six to 12 weeks, 75-80% of patients experience a complete clearing of warts.Store kits are available for this procedure, but healthcare professionals recommend having a doctor administer it.
 This uses a high-frequency electrical current needle to cut the warts. Your doctor will apply a local anesthetic to the area first.Following the procedure your doctor may prescribe pain medication if needed.


Electrosurgery has been found effective for a small number of lesions on the shaft of the penis., For this option, your doctor will cut the wart out with a scalpel. For a minimal number of small warts, your doctor will inject 1% lidocaine anesthesia to numb the area. However, general anesthesia may be used for more extensive cases. Your doctor may suture the two sides of healthy skin back together depending on the size of the excised wart., This method uses a carbon dioxide laser to evaporate the wart and is especially helpful in recurrent cases. This is an outpatient procedure done at your doctor's office (usually a dermatologist). Your doctor will administer a general or regional anesthetic to prevent any pain or discomfort from the laser.Your doctor will likely prescribe pain medication for after the procedure since most patients report significant discomfort after the surgery.It is extremely important not to move while the laser is targeted on your skin as this may lead to damage to normal tissue.

