 It is important to warm up your muscles before you begin your workout. This can help to reduce the chances of injury and promote blood flow to your legs. You can warm up by going for a run or by simply walking or jogging in place for about five to 10 minutes.;
, Squats are one of the best exercises you can do if you are a runner. Squats work your thighs, glutes, and other muscles in your legs. Try doing 30 seconds of squats to kick off your strength training routine.To do a squat, stand with your feet about shoulder width apart and then bend at your knees and hips as if you are going to sit down. Then, stand back up and repeat the move.
When you do squats, make sure that your knees are aligned with your ankles. Do not allow your knees to go over your toes. You should be able to see your toes. Also, keep your back straight, abs contracted, and head up.
 Lunges will also help to build your running muscles, so make sure to incorporate some lunges into your strength training routine. You can lunge across the room or lunge in place. Just make sure that you practice good form and work both legs evenly.


To do a lunge, stand with your feet about shoulder width apart and then take one big step forward with one leg. As you plant the foot, allow the knee of your back leg to drop until your front leg is bent at a 90 degree angle. Then, return your back leg to the start position so that your feet are side by side again before doing the next lunge.
Try lunging for one minute at a time or do 20 lunges on each side. Repeat this three times for maximum benefit.
As you do lunges, make sure that your knees are aligned over your ankles. Do not allow your knees to go past your toes.
 It also helps to have strong calf muscles when you are a runner. To ensure that your calves get some good attention, try adding some calf raises to the routine. You can do calf raises on a flat surface or with your heels hanging off of a small ledge, such as a step.


To do a calf raise, stand with your feet about shoulder width apart and then rise up onto your tiptoes. Then, slowly lower your heels back to the ground.
Repeat this exercise for 30 seconds and do three sets.
 Leg raises can target muscles in the sides and backs of your legs, which can help to improve your running. Make sure that you add some leg raises to your body weight routine to ensure that these muscles get a good workout.


To do a side leg raise, lay on one side and then slowly lift the opposite leg up as far as it will comfortably go. Then bring it back down to the other leg.Repeat this exercise for 30 seconds on one leg and then switch sides. Do three sets on each side for best results.
To do a rear leg raise, get on all fours and then slowly press one foot out behind you. Press the foot up into the air as if you are kicking something in slow motion. Then, bring the leg back down and repeat. Do this for 30 seconds on each side. Repeat the exercise three times on each side.
 Wall sits work your thighs and they are easy to do. All you need is a sturdy wall and some traction against the floor to stabilize yourself. Stand with your back against the wall and then slowly slide down as if you are sliding down onto a chair. As you do so, walk your feet out until your knees are bent at a 90 degree angle.Hold this position for 60 seconds and then slide back up the wall to come out of it. Repeat the exercise two more times.
As you do the wall sit, check to see if you can see your toes. Your knees should be aligned right over your ankles so that your toes are still visible.
Wear sneakers if the floor is slippery.

