 Attaining happiness does not happen the same way for everyone. Some people require money and power to be happy, while others focus on personal betterment and inner peace in order to find happiness. You need to figure out what will motivate you in life.Look closely at your skills, your life situation, and the world around you. With these in mind, it will help you know what you can do that will be fulfilling and motivating.
For many people, a mixture of financial security and following your dreams is at the core of their motivations. Working in a job that focuses on making a difference in the world can build financial security, personal fulfillment, and a better world.;
, A key element of finding peace, as well as being able to focus on love and happiness, is embracing forgiveness. Forgiving others, for what they have done to you, to people you love, or to themselves, can release a huge amount of stress and disappointment from your life. This is not to say that forgiveness is easy. It can take time to work through the pain, hurt, and disappointment others can cause. However, working on mending relationships and moving on from pain can lead you to find much greater levels of love, peace, and happiness than would occur if you hold onto it.


First, you need to be willing to reach out to the person or people who have hurt you. Then you need to communicate why you are upset or hurt, be able to discuss the issue calmly, apologize for your part, and accept an apology, if it is forthcoming.Sometimes forgiveness simply means letting go of pain and disappointment. If you cannot speak to the person who caused you pain, you can still work on forgiveness. Identify what issues or incidents are causing you pain and work on changing your thoughts and emotions around that experience. Put negative feelings aside and shift your thoughts from resentfulness by identifying the benefits of letting those bad feelings go.
 Part of developing your inner love, peace, and happiness is valuing all the parts of yourself. This may mean accepting a physical characteristic that you have always disliked, or embracing a personality trait that you have always seen as a flaw.One way to accept yourself is to identify what your best attributes and strengths are. Maybe you are a loving person or you are a skilled painter. Maybe you are both. Try writing these down positive attributes so that you can be reminded of them every morning or when you are having a particularly rough day.
Accepting yourself also means coming to terms with your failures and places where you need improvement. Accepting these things is the first step towards changing things for the better. Make a list of things you would like to change, but they must be possible to change, and begin steps to make these positive changes.
 What can you do every day to improve your mood and your outlook? Finding contentment in yourself can be a great step toward finding overall love, peace, and happiness. This contentment is more likely if you find something to be happy about every day. A regular happiness practice will guarantee that you find that thing every day.Some people find happiness in daily spiritual practice. Some people find happiness through daily exercise or time in nature. Whatever you think will clear your mind and enliven your energy, try it for awhile to see if it will improve your life.
One way to care for yourself is to take at least a few minutes every day to meditate and relax. Simply stop all your thoughts, relax your body, and come to rest for one minute. If you like, visualize the cosmos around you or a universe full of stars. Put your hands in your lap, with your back straight and your stomach relaxed. Then bring your mind completely to rest.
 Love is created and spread through your relationships with other people. In order to find love, you need to establish and develop relationships with other people. These could be romantic relationships, but they could also be friendships or new relationships with family members.


Building meaningful relationships requires that you focus on being kind and respectful to the people in your life.
Establish trust by being someone that is engaged and honest when friends need help or advice.
Love begins with friendship and respect and love is reciprocal. If you show others that you love them love is more likely to come back your way. This can be daunting, as it exposes your inner feelings, but the risk is worth it because of the potential reward.

