 Perhaps you said something inappropriate or offensive. Maybe there was a miscommunication. If you can find out what went wrong, you may be able to identify a solution.


For example, if you are arguing with a stranger over a fender bender, ask them calmly what their version of events was. Explain afterwards what you thought happened.
If you are having an argument at work, see if there was a miscommunication that caused the tension. For example, make sure that a vital email was actually sent and received. Ask your boss or another coworker to mediate the situation.
With family members, ask them what you can do to make them feel better. For example, if you are arguing over a broken sink, ask, "Well, what can we do now to fix the problem? Do you want me to call someone or fix it myself?"

, Hold your arms open. Relax your shoulders so that they drop. Instead of leaning forward towards the other party, step back and straighten your posture. These changes in body language will help you appear less threatening to the other party.For example, if you think that you might get into a fight with a stranger in a bar, step back. Put some space between you and the other person. By relaxing your body, you are signalling that you are not threatening them.
Crossing your arms across your body, clenching your fists, or puffing your chest out can make you seem more aggressive., If the other person is becoming upset or defensive, it might be that they are feeling as though you are attacking them. Even if you disagree with their point or their actions, you can say something sympathetic to soothe them.You can say, “I understand how you feel right now. I would be frustrated too if I thought someone had taken my seat. But I think that both of us need to consider the facts of the situation.”
You can also use sympathy to change the subject. You can say, "I know you're stressed out right about work right now. Why don't we watch something on TV for a little while until you feel better."

, The best way to resolve conflict is to find a mutually agreeable solution.Even if you cannot find a solution, just by suggesting to work together, the other person may calm down. They might realize that you are not trying to attack them; rather, you are open to compromise.


You can say to the other party, “So what we can do to fix this problem?”
You can also say, “Is there any way we can move past this disagreement?”
If you have offended someone or hurt them in some way, you can say, "How can I make this up to you?"

, There are times when you cannot convince the other person to settle the matter peacefully. In this case, you may just have to walk away. Let them know that you are not going to fight about the issue, and calmly turn away. You can return when they are feeling calmer to resolve the issue.


You can say, “I do not think that talking is getting us anywhere. I do not want to argue about this, so I am going to leave.”
If you think the other person is potentially violent, you may not want to turn your back on them. Instead, try taking a few steps backwards first. Say something such as, “I don’t want to fight or cause a scene. I’m sorry this happened, but I feel as though I should leave.” If they back off, you may leave. If they try to start a fight or threaten you, call the police.

