 Whether you are trimming bangs, or creating bangs for the first time, the front section of hair should be dry and combed out before cutting. Use a comb to section off only the area you wish to cut, and put the rest in a ponytail or clipped out of the way.A common problem when cutting bangs is cutting them too short. This is why bangs are best cut when hair is dry.Cut the bangs longer than you ultimately want them. This way, you can figure out the shape you want, and go back to make adjustments.
 Bangs are not cut straight across. Instead, they curve down towards the temples to help create a frame for the face. However, it depends on the look your are going for., If you are simply trimming bangs, you will bring the comb through underneath the bangs where you want them to end. If you are making new bangs, use the comb to section off the hair you want to cut. Depending on how thick the hair is, bangs usually start right in front of the middle of the crown and angle downward on both sides towards the temples. You can play around with the look you prefer., Hold the scissors vertically at a 45 degree angle, and make a small cut directly below the comb in the center. Work your way toward one side. By starting in the middle, you will have more control over how short the bangs end up. Angle the scissors down when working your way to the edge to create a gradual curve. Once you have one side finished, bring the scissors back to the middle, and cut the other side., Use your finger tips to pull down on the hair between your forefinger and middle finger. See if the bangs are the same length on each side. If they are not even, carefully trim the side that is longer. Cut tiny amounts at a time so you do not accidentally cut the longer side shorter, which may result in bangs that are shorter than you want., Use a makeup brush or blow dryer to get rid of those tiny trims. If the bangs do end up shorter than you were going for, do not worry. Hair grows at a rate of 1/2" per month on average, and that makes a big difference when it comes to bangs.