 Perhaps the easiest way of tie dyeing is to soak your fabric in a single colored solution called a dye bath. If you want multi-colored designs to create a rainbow, swirl effect, or some other kind of colorful pattern, squirt bottles are the way to go!, You should always follow the directions that come with your dye or dye bottle kit for best results.However, generally you can expect that for every packet of powdered dye or ½ cup liquid dye you'll need to add two cups of warm to hot tap water to your squirt bottle.


You can improve the dyeing process by adding salt to your dye solution. You should use the amount of salt recommended on the packaging of your dye, but typically you can expect to need one tablespoon of salt per squirt bottle. Stir or shake the solution until it is consistent throughout., If your dye soaks through the fabric, it could cause a stain to form on the surface on which you're dyeing. There are many ways you can protect your work area. You might use overlapping pieces plastic wrap, a tarp, thick cardboard, or many other kinds of material. After protecting the area you'll be dyeing, lay your fabric on top of the protected surface., Take your squirt bottles and, in whatever pattern you desire, apply the dye to the fabric. You might want to put primary colors, like red, yellow, and blue, next to each other to create sharper contrast.









It's a good idea to keep some paper towel on hand during this process. If you apply too much dye, it could puddle on the fabric and run, creating a runny design! You can prevent this by blotting excess dye with paper towel., Some dyes may require you to seal your fabric in a plastic baggie and then heat it in your microwave. When doing this, you should put down a layer of paper towel on the bottom of your microwave in case your plastic baggie leaks.


When removing your fabric from the microwave, be careful you don't burn yourself. A pair of gloves or tongs can protect you from burns.
Watch your fabric carefully when it is in the microwave. If you notice the plastic baggie inflate, this is completely normal. However, microwaving your bagged fabric for too long could melt the plastic and ruin your fabric.