 Different organizations and institutions, such as state or local health departments, operate dental public health clinics.Ask friends and family members to recommend a clinic. Check the websites of local health centers for public dental health clinics.Look for dental and dental hygiene schools, which also have online portals to find local clinics., See if the dental public health clinic is accepting new patients or has appointments available soon. Provide your basic information, including if you have insurance. If the clinic can’t accommodate you, ask for a referral to another provider., Dental public health clinics are a good place to get quality, reduced-cost dental treatments. Licensed dentists, dental students, dental hygienists or dental hygiene students may treat you at a public clinic. Asking the clinic the following questions may help you find the right facility and provider for you:Who provides the dental care?
Do licensed dentists supervise students and hygienists?
Am I able to choose who treats me or will you assign me to an available caregiver?
Does your clinic offer advanced care such as endodontics?Can my children come to the treatment area with me?, Dental public health clinics generally offer regular dental services at a discounted price. Depending on need, some may not charge for care.Asking the following questions can help you determine what the cost and payment for care at local clinics:What is the cost of your services?
Do you offer discounted rates based on income?
Do you take insurance, including state-sponsored plans?
What is my co-pay?
When is payment due?
Can I set up a payment plan for extensive treatments or if I need time to pay?
What types of payment do you accept?

, Ask the clinic scheduler what times are available for your initial screening appointment. Tell the scheduler why you are coming and let them know about previous dental care. Mention how you would like to pay.Ask if there are any forms you need to submit before your appointment.
 Confirm your appointment with the clinic a day or two in advance.Try to arrive 30 minutes before your scheduled appointment.This gives you time to fill out paperwork and provide other things such as your insurance card.Let the clinic know if you are running late. The earlier you contact the office, the more likely the staff can accommodate you.
Gather any information or paperwork you may need such as a list of medications you take., Your clinician will assess your dental care needs and examine you during your first visit. Answer any questions they have truthfully. This allows the clinician to develop the right treatment plan for you. Ask any questions you have about treatments or procedures.The initial exam also helps you to figure out if this clinic is the right fit.

Let the dentist know if have any anxiety about the appointment. This can guide the way they examine and treat you. Ask the dentist to keep you informed during your appointment.
 Fear of dentists is incredibly common. Using coping techniques such as listening to music or breathing deeply can get you through your appointment with less fear or anxiety.Try different psychological techniques such as breathing exercises and positive reframing.Listen to music or audio books.Ask if the clinic offers nitrous oxide, sedation, or anti-anxiety medications to relax you.Tell the dentist if you took any anti-anxiety medications before your appointment. This can minimize of having a potentially dangerous interaction between your medication and those the dentist may give you.
 Depending on your visit, the dentist may suggest follow up appointments or even medications. Ask about additional procedures, cleaning instructions, or your next checkup. Follow any instructions for taking antibiotics and caring for your teeth at home., Stop by the reception desk to check out. The attendant can collect any payment and schedule future visits for you. Thank the receptionist for their help.

Ask if insurance or reduced fees apply to additional treatments you may require.

