 It is possible to understand the general concepts behind calculus without knowing much other math, but a strong foundation will help. If you are setting out to understand and enjoy calculus, it will help if you have a strong understanding of algebra, geometry and trigonometry. The more you understand these concepts, the more you will be able to do with your work in calculus. If you study the building block subjects thoroughly, you will find calculus a much easier subject.If you are still in high school, you should work with your math teachers to make sure you understand the basics as much as possible.
Meet with your guidance counselor to plan your math classes. Map out a schedule over your high school years so that you will get to include calculus in your schedule by the time you graduate.;
, A strong teacher makes a big difference in how much you enjoy any subject and how much you retain of it later.If you are a high school student signing up for a calculus course, you may not have much direction or control over the teacher that you get. But to the extent possible, if you are looking to study the subject privately or selecting a tutor, find someone who has a true love for the subject and has strong communication skills. If you want to enjoy the topic, you need a teacher who truly enjoys teaching it and sharing it with you. If you are interviewing teachers or tutors, for example, ask the following questions:


How long have you been teaching calculus?
Tell me why you love this subject.
How do you see that calculus applies to the real world?
Why do you think I should want to learn more about calculus?

, Many books have been written about calculus (or mathematics in general) as a general field of study. These are not just textbooks. Many authors have written about the human applications of calculus, about the history of it, and about the general enjoyment that can come from understanding it. You should seek out such literature and read it. The more you learn about the topic -- beyond just learning how to do it -- the more you will appreciate and enjoy it. For example, some books on the subject of calculus include:



Zombies & Calculus, by Colin Adams. This is written by a humor columnist, as a piece of “zombie fiction.” The heroes of the novel use tangent vectors, logistic growth, gravitational acceleration and other calculus-related topics to escape and defeat a pack of zombies.The Magic of Math, by Arthur Benjamin. Using simple explanations and real life examples, the author explains a variety of math concepts, including calculus, from the basis of being a magician.Beyond Numeracy, by John Allen Paulos. This book consists of brief essays on a range of topics, including calculus. Calculus is explained from the perspective of driving along the New Jersey Turnpike with a broken speedometer.