 Word processing software like Microsoft Word is usually the best place to create a syllabus. This is because word processing software will give you the appropriate tools you need to create and format your syllabus.


If you have specific requirements for layouts, margins, and font types for your students’ papers and assignments, you should use the same for your syllabus.
Make sure your word processing software has the ability to save as a .pdf. This way, you’ll be able to share a non-editable version of your syllabus with your students.;
, The first step in creating your syllabus is to put your identification information at the top of the document. Identification information will tell students (and parents) everything they need to know about you, your office and room, and the title of the course.


Type the title of your course at the top of the document. You can follow this by (next to or underneath) the semester, year, and section number of the course.
Underneath the title, add your name (with title). It will appear like: Dr. James F. Clarke.
Put your class location and meeting times.
Insert your contact information like your office number and office hours, email address, and office phone number (if you have one).
Place your room number and/or office number under your contact information.
Depending on style, institutional, and regional customs, you can move information around.
You can choose whether to center, align right, or align left your identification information., Your course description will describe your course in a way that gives students (and parents) an idea about the general content of your course. The point of a description is that someone will be able to read it and form a basic understanding of what your course covers.


Your course description should be a paragraph -- about 4 to 6 sentences in length.
It should introduce students to the course, its purpose, and scope, and describe who should take the class.
Briefly describe the type of content your students will learn. For instance, if your class is an American history survey course, explain how they'll be learning about the period from the Civil War to the present. Consider naming some major events or themes that you'll focus on in the course.
Consult your department or institution to see if they have a template course description for a given course. They'll likely have one if you're teaching a survey course that is offered frequently., Course objectives will give students a sense of what they will accomplish while in the class. Objectives might be specific in that they’ll learn a certain amount of content, or they might be general in that they’ll develop skills while in the class. In order to create a course objective, ask yourself some questions about the class including:


What will students learn taking this course? If students will gain specific content needed as a prerequisite for another course or program, state it here.
What skills will they develop? If they'll be learning how to analyze and synthesize information, say so.
What questions will they be able to answer? If your course focuses on major problems or questions in a certain field or subfield, mention those here., Prerequisites are courses, content, or other qualifications a student must have to take the course for credit. If the course has any prerequisites, list them near the top of the syllabus.


Include the formal name of courses that are prerequisites.
Make sure to include course numbers and course IDs.
If your class is a graduate level course, make sure to note whether undergraduates can take the course for some sort of credit. Consult your department for more information., You also need to include a list of all of the materials needed for your course. While this list might include books, it could also include hardware, software, art supplies, and more. All materials that are required to take the course should be on this list.


Provide students with the name, author, year, and International Standard Book Number (“ISBN”) of the textbook or other assigned texts. the book.
Don’t list materials required by every class, such as notebooks, paper, or pens.
A good rule of thumb is to include any materials not common to other classes, such as a scientific calculator, software, or drafting tools.
If materials are expensive or hard to come by, provide a recommended source for them.
 You also need to provide a statement about the format and organization of the course very close to the start of the syllabus. This statement will tell students how course content will be delivered, how and/or where the class will meet, and what is expected of students in terms of attendance.


Mention how the course is taught (through lectures, labs, or online video lectures).
Note what type of assignments will be given (quizzes, discussion boards, or lab assignments).
Depending on your style and/or the customs of your institution, you may want to include this in your course description., You also need to include a section on your evaluation and grading policy. This section of a syllabus tells students how the major components of the class contribute to their final grade.


Many institutions have specific rules about what should be included in this section, so check with the administrator or department for guidelines on what must be included.
Include your grading scale. For instance, an A equates to a 90% to 100%, a B equates to an 80% to 89%, and so on and so forth.
Explain how assignments will be weighted in order to determine final grades. For instance, exams make up 40% of the total grade, the term paper makes up 30% of the grade, and projects and/or homework make up the remaining 30%.
Provide a statement about any other grade policies, such as if you drop the lowest test or quiz grade.
You may want to also include a definitive statement on your extra credit policy. If you don’t provide extra credit, state it explicitly., Immediately after the evaluation policy section, you should include a section that details your assignment policy. This will give students an idea of how late, missed, or incomplete assignments will affect them and impact their grade.


Include an explicit statement about makeup exams.
Make sure to address your policy about late papers. For example, some teachers or professors like to take a letter grade off per day for papers that are late.
If missing a test or not completing an assignment will substantially impact a student’s grade and make it impossible for them to pass, you should mention this here., A course calendar is possibly the most important part of a good syllabus. Your calendar or schedule will outline how where the class will be, content and assignment wise, throughout the semester (or year).


The calendar may provide a daily breakdown of all lecture topics.
List written assignments on the day they will be assigned and on the day they are due.
List the assignment dates of all readings (from the textbook, other texts, and electronic materials)., Course policies may include rules, and behavioral and academic expectations. This section will give your students a good idea of how they need to conduct themselves while in your classroom or while engaging in coursework.


Many colleges and universities have specific policies and statements that must be included in this section of the syllabus, so check with the appropriate educational institution for guidelines.
Attendance Policy. Most educational institutions have a school wide attendance policy which you may want to include in your syllabus. If the course attendance policy differs from that of the university, you should also include this information.
Class Participation Policy. Describe exactly how students should participate and what their participation will mean to their grade.
Classroom Etiquette. Be sure to spell out the policy on eating and drinking in class, using a cell phone or laptop during class, talking to other students while the instructor is speaking, using an electronic device to record lectures, and proper procedure for arriving late or leaving early., Your institution (secondary or post-secondary) may offer learning support services to students. These support services are often intended to promote student success and may be available to students with or without disabilities.


Let your students know that they do not have to have a disability to take advantage of some learning support services.
If your institution has a learning resource center, mention it in your syllabus.
Your institution might require you to include language about learning support services – check with your administrators., One important section to include is a syllabus change policy. A syllabus change policy will let students know that you have the right to change the syllabus throughout the term of the course with advance notice given to students.


Your syllabus change policy covers schedule of topics, lectures, assignments, and readings.
Most institutions will require you to note that you may not make changes that substantially affect how a student will be evaluated during the course., Post-secondary institutions may require you to add language about their withdrawal or add/drop policy. The add/drop policy will let students know when they can drop the class without academic penalty.


Include the last day they can drop your course without penalty.
Include any other relevant information about your institution’s add/drop or withdrawal policy.
Consider including language about your institution’s first day attendance policy. If you’re at a college or university, they may require students to attend class on the first day or otherwise be dropped from the course., Most educational institutions will require that you include a cheating or plagiarism statement that addresses their honor code policy. In this event, your institution will provide you with a copy of their honor code.


They may even provide you with a boiler plate section to add to your syllabus.
You may need to include the honor code in full in your syllabus.
You may need to summarize the honor code in your syllabus., You be required to provide students with instructions for campus wide emergencies as well as building specific emergencies. These procedures might include:


What to do in the event of a lockdown.
Procedures in case there is a bomb threat.
Instructions on what to do if there is a fire., Federal law prohibits discrimination based on religion. As a result, many secondary and post-secondary institutions have adopted a religious observance policy that protects the ability of students to miss school for religious holidays.


You may want to add language letting your students know that their right to observe religious holidays is protected.
Let your students know that they should contact you in advance if they’re going to miss class or an assignment due to religious observance.
Include language so that your students know they can make up work missed due to religious observance., Federal law requires that public institutions provide accommodations to people with disabilities. Because of this, you need to include a section in your syllabus that addresses the ADA, and explains how your institution offers accommodations.


Very often, students need to register with counseling or a disability resource center.
The administration or the student may present documentation from the institution to the instructor.
Students should provide documentation of a recognized disability to the institution during the enrollment process or shortly thereafter., College and university instructors may want to include language explaining the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). FERPA governs the privacy of students and/or their parents, depending on age and the type of educational institution.


FERPA states that instructors and others at a postsecondary institution cannot discuss a student’s grades, status, or attendance with anyone without their expressed written permission.
FERPA applies to any student 18 or older, or any student attending a postsecondary institution.
Consider letting your students know that they have the right to waive their privacy rights if they sign a waiver.
For students under the age of 18 at secondary institutions, FERPA rights lie with their parents or legal guardians.