 As with most Android applications (apps), you will first need to download the Google Authenticator app through the Google Play Store. Tap your app drawer and scroll through to find the Google Play Store icon. The icon should look like a white shopping bag with a play symbol inside it; tap to open.


At the very top, tap the search box and type in “Google authenticator,” and then tap the return key in the lower right-hand side of your on-screen keyboard. The app should be the top result on the list. The icon should be a big metal looking capital G.
Tap the 3 dots in the upper right hand corner of the white box that the G icon is in, and then tap “Install.”;
, Once the app is finished installing, go ahead and pull down your notification menu at the top of your screen. Tap the “Google Authenticator” icon to open the app. As soon as it loads, it will explain what is about to happen. Basically, it will explain what it does and then wait for you to tap the “Begin setup” button at the bottom of the page. Tap the button to continue.
 The first page of the setup will ask you to choose a Gmail account to link to the device you are using. All the accounts currently available on the device will be listed under the subheading “Available Google Accounts.” The accounts listed will be the accounts you will want to link to the device. Tap on a listed account to continue.


A small box should appear on the screen and say “Beginning setup.” Depending on the speed of your device, it may take a moment to finish. Once it has finished, there will be another small box that appears. This box will tell you to enable 2-step verification for the selected Google account from a PC. In order to do this, you will need to be on a PC and go to Google Account Security.
Make sure to use a private PC that you own, or a PC of a friend that you trust, as this will come up again later.
 Once the web page loads, scroll down until you see the subheading “Password and sign-in method.” The second option under this should be what you are looking for. It should say “2-step verification” and to the right of this, it should say “Off”. Click this to continue.


A new page should load and there should be a blue button on the right-hand side of the screen that says “Start setup >>.” Click to continue.
The next page will ask you for the password for your Google account. Enter it to continue.
The next page will ask you to chose a phone number to use for sending an authentication code to. It may automatically pick your current phone number, but make sure to double-check this. There will be a little input field under the “Phone number” heading. This is where you will edit your phone number information. On this page is also the option to receive a voice call with a verification code or a text message. This area is located right below the phone number input field. Make sure that you have your phone on you. Because you are looking to simply set up Google Authenticator, select the text message option, then click the blue “Send code” button to continue. Make sure to leave this page open when you do. Do not close the page you are on, as you will have to input the code here.
 You should receive a six-digit verification code within 15 minutes or so. Most likely it will be less. The text message should read something like “Your Google verification code is 569321.” Back on your PC, hopefully you left the web page open, you will want to enter this code in the input field on the page under the “Enter verification code” heading. Then click the blue “Verify” button to continue.
 Hopefully you are on a PC that you trust or that you own, as you will be asked if you would like to trust the current PC or not. If you are not on a trusted PC, make sure to uncheck the box to the left of “Trust this computer.” If it is trusted, go ahead and leave it checked and hit the blue “Next >>” button to continue.
 Basically, if you actually want to enable the 2-step verification feature, hit the blue “Confirm” button to continue.
 Return to Google Account Security, and click the 2-Step Verification option again. Under the section where you will see your current phone listed, click the gray “Switch to app” button. Select “Android” from the box that appears and click the blue “Continue” button. A small box should pop up with a QR code on it. Leave this page open and go grab your Android device before continuing.
 Back on your Android device, open the Google Authenticator app once more. Tap the “Begin setup” button again, then tap the “Scan a barcode” button at the top of the next page. It should pop up another little box that will tell you that you need to download another app called “ZXing.” Tap the install button. It should automatically open a Google Play Store app with only one option on it. It should say “Barcode Scanner” with “ZXing Team” under it. Tap the 3 dots and hit “Install,” then tap “Accept” to continue.


Once this finishes, return to the Google Authenticator app. Tap the “Begin setup” button again, followed by the “Scan a barcode button.” The barcode scanner should then open. Continue to next step.
 Open up the barcode page on your PC browser again. With the page open, aim your device at the screen. Center the barcode on your screen and wait a moment. The app should change, saying “Secret saved” on the button of the page for a moment, and then you should see a 6-digit code on the bottom of your screen. Enter the verification code on the Android device in the box on the PC, then click the blue “Verify and Save” button at the bottom of the screen.


After a certain amount of time, the verification code on the Android device will change. Make sure to enter the proper code on the PC.
 Now, when you return to the Android Google Authenticator app, you should be greeted by a 6-digit verification code every time you open it. From now on, when you sign in on new devices, you should be prompted to enter a verification code. When you need one, just open the Google Authenticator on your Android device and enter the 6-digit code displayed there. You're all set!

