 The State Department has different forms for different types of passports, from getting a new passport to replacing a lost or stolen passport. You cannot get a new passport or replace a lost or stolen passport by expedited mail service until an authorized passport acceptance facility, such as the United States Postal Service has verified your application.First time passport applicants or persons whose most recent passport was issued more than 15 years ago require Form DS-11.You must file applications for a new passport in person and cannot use the expedited mail service until you have taken your application to an authorized passport acceptance facility, such as the United States Postal Service.Fill out Forms DS-11 and DS-64 if your passport is lost, stolen, or damaged.You must apply for a replacement passport in person and cannot use the expedited mail service until you have taken your application to an authorized passport agency, such as the United States Postal Service., All passport applications require additional documentation to the application forms.


You’ll need proof of US citizenship, such as an expired passport or a driver’s license or military identification and Social Security card, or birth certificate; and passport sized photographs. You will also need a separate copy of your photo identification.Parents applying for a child’s passport must prove their relationship to the child. For example, you can provide a document such as the child's birth certificate., All passport applications require at least one passport photo.


You can have official passport sized photos made at places such as the United States Postal Service offices, stores like CVS, or even professional photography stores.
 You must submit payment for passport and application fees with your application. Make sure to calculate the right amount to avoid any delay in getting your passport.


Additional services, including getting an expedited passport, cost more than the standard passport issuing fees.
For mail service, you may pay by personal check or money order made out to “US Department of State.”A standard passport booklet and passport card costs $140.Expedited service costs an additional $60 and the overnight delivery fee with package tracking costs $14.85., Once you’ve gathered all of your required documentation for a new or replacement passport, you must take it to an authorized passport acceptance facility. A representative will initiate the application for you and then you can submit it for expedited service by mail.Any United States Postal Service office can initiate your new or replacement pass.
The authorized representative will verify your proof of citizenship and that the application is correct. Once your citizenship and application are verified, you can send in your application for an expedited passport by mail.
 You may send in your application once you have collected the required documents.


Send your documents in a high quality envelope. For example, a Tyvek envelope will protect your personal documents and passport application.Clearly write “EXPEDITE” on the outside of the envelope so the State Department knows it contains an expedited request.Mail with a trackable delivery service, such as FedEx, UPS, or USPS to ensure the security of your documents and their arrival at the State Department., The State Department offers a status check your passport's processing time.You can also check current processing times to get an idea of when your expedited passport will arrive.You can check the status of your passport at http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/passports/information/application-status.html.
Your new passport will arrive with USPS Priority Mail.Your new passport may arrive separately from the personal documents you submitted with your application.