 They can be ones you already have handy, or you might need to purchase them from a craft store. Ideally, they need to be:


The right size for your scrapping project
A suitable color for your scrapping theme
A quality flower (silk or paper—not plastic)

, You can keep the stems to use in other projects if wished. Flatten the flowers a little if needed.
 You can use the flowers as they are, or you can jazz them up a little (as seen in the video). Examples for improving the flowers include:


Painting with metallic marker in color of choice (could be the same color or a contrasting color)
Rolling on sticking glitter
Painting small patterns (e.g. polka dots, love hearts, etc.)
Adding other elements such as lace or ribbon, etc.
, Make the cardstock into card size for the background piece, and ensure that it opens up neatly as a card should.


Cut a half piece of differently colored cardstock to stick onto the lower half of the card.
Measure this piece to fit across the larger card.;
, Match the circle size to make it slightly larger than the flower size but not by much.


Take the two circles that have been punched out and set aside a flower for each circle.
 These will sit behind the smaller circle.
 In this example, the other dimensional is a circle with "Happy Birthday" written inside it.
 Use tweezer tips, a needle, or a similar sharp ended point to create the hole.
 This fastener will hold the three pieces in place and its circular part creates the raised heart of the flower.
 On the outer larger circle, add a circle of dots with a marker.


This creates an additional finishing touch to help the flower stand out.
 Arrange the flowers on the card (or scrapping project) as wished. In this example, a birthday card is used. Two flower circles are added to each end, with a Happy Birthday circle placed in the center. Adhere using either small scrapping stickies, tape, or craft glue.
 The example shows a dotted edging being made using a marker.


The project shown here includes the addition of ribbon to finish off the card.
The ribbon is tied into a neat bow.
 They make good gifts for scrapping friends and are also ideal to sell in small packets online or on craft stalls.

