 These are simple exercises to stretch your shins while resting your back against a wall. As long as you have a solid background for support, you can do them just about anywhere.Stand with your shoulders, back, and butt up against a wall. Place your feet away from the wall, with your heels about one foot-length in front of you.Keeping your heels on the ground, raise your toes upward. Stretch as far as possible. This is called dorsiflexion.
Slowly lower your toes back toward the ground, but don’t let them touch the floor.
Repeat the exercise with 10–15 reps. Once you have finished the reps, let your feet back on the floor for a quick rest, then do one or two more sets.;
, This exercise is very similar to the wall shin raise, but using only one foot at a time. It is a big more difficult because you will only be supporting yourself on one leg. This is a good exercise to build to after regular wall shin raises.Stand with your back against the wall, and rest one foot lightly against the wall.
Dorsiflex with the foot on the ground for 10–15 reps. Once you are finished, switch your feet and repeat on the other leg.
Because you are only using one leg at a time, you don’t need to rest between switching your legs.
 This is a simple exercise that you can do without a wall. You’ll be doing the same kind of dorsiflexion as the wall stand, but this time while simulating a walk.Stand up straight, not leaning against anything, with your feet about shoulder-width apart.
Take a step forward, making sure only your heel plants. The step should be a normal size, so about how long you would take while walking.
Hold your toes in the air, making sure the ball of your foot doesn’t get any closer than an inch to the floor.
Step back to the starting position.
Repeat this step with the same foot for 10–15 reps, then switch to the other leg.
One variation on this exercise is to try walking around the room on your heels. Just make sure you walk very slowly, and maintain your balance. If you start to feel like you are losing your balance, rest your toes on the ground to settle., This is a simple stretching exercise you can do anywhere. You’ll probably want to be on a softer surface since you are on the floor.Get on the floor, resting on your knees. Stretch out your feet so that your toes are pointed behind you with the tops of your feet on the floor.
Gently lean backward, pushing down on your heels to stretch out the front of your leg.
Hold the stretch for 30 seconds, then repeat three times.
If you want to increase the stretch, do one leg at a time to increase the weight. You can also try lifting up your knees to further increase the resistance.
 These are simple exercises that use a ledge, like a step, to provide some resistance to your foot. This is probably best to do on the bottom of a staircase, or on a small platform, rather than using a step on the top of your stairwell.Stand with your toes on the edge of a step. Make sure you have something nearby to balance yourself.
Shift your weight on to one leg (say the right), then lift the other foot (the left) off of the step.
Lower your right heel downward, making sure your toes point upward.
Return to your starting position, then switch legs and repeat with the other foot.

