 Because of a popular children’s song about baseball that refers to Cracker Jack, this sweet, crunchy snack is a mainstay at baseball stadiums, and will be a hit at your baseball-themed party. If you can’t locate Cracker Jack, just pick up a tub of some other caramel corn.You could buy a big box and dump the Cracker Jack in a central bowl for everyone to share, or you could provide smaller, individual bags for your guests.;
, Popcorn is a salty, buttery treat available at most baseball games. You could make popcorn from microwaveable bags or from loose kernels dropped in an air popper or on the stovetop using hot oil. To beautify your popcorn presentation, obtain a few sturdy plastic popcorn containers – the sort with four tall sides and ridges along the top edge.For a healthier alternative, lightly salt and butter your popcorn, or don’t add any at all.
 Babe Ruth was a famous baseball player in the early 20th century. A popular candy bar was named after him. Your baseball-themed party will truly be complete when you “invite” Babe to join you and your friends., Unshelled peanuts are a common snack at the ballpark. Provide a bowl of peanuts for you and your friends to munch on and an extra bowl to dispose of the shells., Bake a regular vanilla or chocolate cupcake of any size. Top them with a thin veneer of icing of your choice, then gently roll the iced top around in white nonpareils. Finally, use a fine-tipped tube of red frosting to add some baseball “stitching” in the form of two inward-bending semi-arcs., Instead of serving beverages in cups, set the table with squirt bottles of the variety used by professional baseball players. If you or your guests are partial to a particular team, you might choose to obtain squirt bottles emblazoned with the logo of that team., Obtain some mini baseball helmets (available at your local novelty store) and turn them upside down. Using the helmet as a small bowl, place a scoop of ice cream in it. Provide several bowls of toppings like nuts, cherries, sprinkles, chocolate nibs, and so on. Encourage partygoers to decorate their sundae as they see fit.