 You need to know what's happening, so that you understand why your character is saying what you are saying. Do you have trouble with your character? Can you not read the lines clearly? Ask a friend for help.


Get into character. If you don't know what that means, it means to be the person/creature you're playing, walk, talk, look, like the part you're playing; then, you will make it more realistic.;
, You should practice doing it as it would be done in real life, on stage or in a studio. In the performance it won't be done in your head.


Ask a family member or a friend to help you learn them, reading along with what you are saying and to catch skipped or wrong emphasis on words.
 If you know your lines -- but you don't know when to say them -- you're going to struggle. Know the last bit of the previous person's lines or the events leading to yours; so that you know when to say your lines.
 It will make it more realistic, and it will also help you with your performance skills.
 Take a few lines at a time. One time you can look at one scene, and then split the scene up into groups of lines. Learn a few lines at a time and keep going over them -- even if you know them. Going over them again will make you feel confident.
 If you see a big speech, split that into smaller parts and you will be able to learn it. It might be really cool if you have a lot of lines, just make sure you learn them all, to do them with real feeling.
 Acting is work, but it can also be a lot of fun. If you enjoy doing it, you will be able to excel in it a lot easier. You will be able to learn the lines easier if you are enjoying it, otherwise, you will be bored and not able to concentrate on it for long.
 It is very important that you take a breaks, preferably after a set amount of time. The amount of time you can work before having a break will vary with the individual, but it doesn't matter whether other people can work longer than you. Everyone is different!

, Always have a drink of water with you. It will really help you concentrate if you have a drink of water. Also, it may help if you have sweets or candy with you. If you get stressed, then stop for a minute, have some sweets and continue.
 When you are walking or driving somewhere you have to go to anyway, practice some lines. Incorporate the practice in your daily routine. Practice in front of the mirror. Look at yourself. Find out which expression works best with your character. Have your lines close to be able to quickly glance over them for help.
 This step should be practiced at least five weeks before the performance. Have your friend or friends read certain parts as you try to remember you lines to respond. Don't use your playbook for this step.
 Use wardrobe and put makeup on for this step.

