 You can purchase a decorative comb or attractive barrette at a jewelry store. Before your big day, have the ornament embedded into your hair in place of a veil.Barrettes and combs can work great because they do the work of the veil in terms of keeping your hair out of your face. However, they do not conceal as much of your face and hair as a real veil would.
Combs can be embedded into your hair. You can wear a comb at the top of your head or ton one side, depending on your hairstyle.
 If you want something more fun and bohemian than a traditional veil, opt for hair beads. You can weave beads right into your hair, allowing it to hang loose on your big day. Beads come in a variety of shapes and colors, allowing you to have a more fun, down-to-earth look for your big day.You can also use a headpiece or crown embellished with beads. This can work great if you like the beaded look but don't want anything too bohemian for your wedding day.
In addition to beads, you can also weave feathers or chains into your hair.
 Headpieces are often as ornate and memorable as veils, but show off more of your face. If you like the tradition and style of a wedding veil, but want to leave your face uncovered, consider a headpiece. Like veils, they range from subtle to elaborate.If you want something big and showy, opt for an over-the-top headpiece. These usually cover more of your head and the designs are more complex. Something like a very large flower or bow can work well.
If you want something played down, go for a minimal headpiece. These are usually things like small headbands or barrettes.
For a style in-between minimal and elaborate, go for a statement headpiece. These cover more of your head than a minimal headpiece, but the decorations are slightly more played down than an over-the-top piece.
 If you want the princess look for your big day, a tiara is a great option. A tiara can be worn on the tip of your head, holding your hair back. Tiaras work great if you want something very traditionally feminine for your wedding.You can wear a tiara on the top of your head and let your hair hang down or pull part of it back.
You can also pin your hair back using a tiara.
 Decorative hairpins can keep your hair out of your face, much like a veil, but are fairly subtle. You can get hairpins in a variety of attractive shapes, such as butterflies and flowers. They are fairly simplistic, so they can be great if you're looking for something very minimal.You can place a few hair clips in your strategically, using them to clip some of your hair back.
You can also let your hair flow and have clips embedded throughout your hair.

