 The kitchen is usually where a child first learn about chemistry and physical changes in materials. Encourage your child to make cookies, creating their own recipe and writing it down like in a cookbook. Let them decide what ingredients should be included and in what quantities. After all, science is about experimentation! Once you have tasted the cookies, you can talk together about how to make changes on the recipe next time - and then, in the true spirit of science, try again!;
, A hand trowel, rigid plastic shovel, or even a metal spoon – all these can be used to dig. Aside from being fun and dirty, digging can tell your child about the types of soil and rocks in a certain area. Digging can also help your child to find things that live underneath. This digging exploration let goes of the detective inside your kid.
 A few sheets of paper plus a small amount of space in a room or outside can be enough for some experimentation into how things travel through air. You may try out different airplane designs found on the web. Do they all work equally well?, Observing and asking questions about the human body give young children the opportunities to explore such science concepts as diversity, variation and how certain parts have certain functions. Have your child look directly into your eyes under different light conditions to see the changing sizes. He should be able to distinguish that pupil gets smaller with more light, and with less light it gets larger. Encourage your child to wonder about the functions of other parts of the body too.
 A local play area can turn into a science playground through this simple yet fun-filled activity. Different places on the playground feel warmer or cooler depending on the weather. Children seem to know which surfaces to avoid on a very hot day, such as the metal slides. Together with your child, you can check the surfaces in a more systematic way and learn about which materials conduct heat better than others. You can use your hands or an outdoor thermometer to make your findings more precise. Then on a cold but sunny day, you can return to the playground to push for more complete findings. Are there differences?

, Long drives in the countryside provide some of the best opportunities to talk about weather patterns. As you gaze into various kinds of cloud formations, make note of them and wonder aloud if some may display a weather change. For instance, the sun might be shining in a clear blue sky but from afar are puffy grayish clouds. Point this out to your child and ask him what he thinks the weather will be like later.
 Looking carefully can unearth a variety of insects, birds and plants in almost every yard or garden. With the use of a hula hoop placed on the ground to create a circle, challenge your child to look carefully at the ground to see what living things he can find. Encourage him to look carefully at the plants and imagine what the world looks like if he were an ant. This activity can help your child appreciate the diversity of living things in even a small space.

