 Rub all sides of the pork belly with the salt, pepper, and chili powder. Wrap the meat in plastic wrap, then let it sit in your refrigerator overnight.Mix the spices together in a small dish before rubbing them over the surface of the pork belly. Doing so will ensure an even distribution of each spice.
If you're short on time, you don't have to let the pork sit overnight. Doing so can help tenderize the meat and improve the flavor, but it will still cook just fine if you season the meat and immediately proceed to the next step.
 Using a sharp knife, cut parallel diagonal lines across the skin-side of the pork belly. Cut a series of perpendicular diagonal lines over the first set, creating a cross-hatch pattern.


Scoring the skin will help the fat render as the meat cooks. Try to cut through both the skin and top layer of fat, but don't cut too deeply into the meat beneath these top two layers.
 Pour the olive oil into a large skillet and set the pan over medium-high heat.


Wait roughly 60 seconds for the oil the become adequately hot. Carefully turn the pan so that the hot oil coats the entire bottom.
 Place the pork belly in the hot oil. Sear each side for 60 seconds, or until it looks light brown and crispy.


You need to sear the thin sides of the pork belly, too. This may require you to hold the pork belly in place with tongs.
The pork belly won't crisp up much in the slow cooker, which is why you should brown the skin on the stove before cooking the rest of the meat.
 Spread the carrots and sweet potatoes over the bottom of the slow cooker. Place the pork belly on top, then pour the apple cider vinegar over everything else.


If desired, you can use other root vegetables instead of sweet potatoes and carrots. Brussels sprouts, potatoes, and turnips are other popular options.
 Cover the slow cooker and switch it onto its high heat setting. Allow the pork belly to cook until done—roughly 4 to 5 hours.When ready, the pork belly should reach a minimum internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit (70 degrees Celsius).
 Switch off the heat and allow the pork belly to rest for 10 minutes before carving it. The meat should be very tender and moist when you do cut into it.


Store leftovers in an airtight container kept in the refrigerator. You can reheat the leftover slices in a skillet so that the skin stays crispy.

