 Often times, a woman’s interest level is very obvious if you pay attention to her body language. Many women will touch you slightly or lean into you as you speak if they are interested. You might also catch her glancing at you from across the room and making eye contact with you at times when you are not even speaking. These signs could mean that she likes you.If you know her to be a shy person, however, or see that she is reserved around others, then perhaps gauging her body language is not the best indicator of interest.;
, Your mutual friends, if you have them, will also be able to give you great insights on how to ask her out and especially in gauging her interest in you. If they ever have the chance to be around the both of you simultaneously, ask them to see if they can pick up on any vibes from her that would indicate interest.


You might ask them for advice as well on how to talk to her and ask her out.
 She might not be showing interest in you because you have not shown any in her. As you are gauging her interest in you, you should be progressively and subtly showing interest in her. Pay attention to her when she’s talking and always say ‘hello’ when you see her and greet her with a smile., Before you consider pursuing any woman, you should determine her relationship status. Perhaps the woman you are interested in is a friend or someone you know. If she is in a relationship, it is probably not best to ask her out, as this could be seen as being disrespectful. If you don’t know the girl well, however, see if you can ask around about her to determine if she’s dating someone.


Social media can be helpful in this area, as well. Facebook has a relationship option so that you can indicate whether or not you are dating someone. She might also post about her significant other, if she has one, on other social media sites.
 Ask her what she thinks about gay rights, homophobia, etc. If she acts disgusted or uncomfortable by the idea or experience, try to listen to her reasons and consider sharing your opinions about the matter. At this point, if her responses are negative, you should strongly consider not asking her out as she will likely not be open to the idea.


Though not all women are gay or bi, there are many women out there for you. Don’t get caught up on one who is disinterested.
Take care of yourself, as well. If she is making very harsh or insensitive comments about the gay community, know that it is okay to remove yourself from the conversation.
 Just because she doesn't have anything against LGBT people doesn't always mean that she's LGBT herself. See if you can find out from mutual friends if she is interested in women. You might also be able to tell from her social media posts if you have access to her page.


You could also approach her and ask something like “are you here with your boyfriend?” If she is not in a relationship or is not heterosexual, she might disclose both to you.
 Direct eye contact indicates interest in what the other person is saying and showcases that you care and are listening. Eye contact can also indicate desire for or interest in another person, particularly if you smile while looking at them. Always maintain eye contact with your love interest.Don’t stare for too long, however. This might be offputting to her.
 When the two of you are speaking, find ways to reach out and touch her slightly. Don’t do anything overt or intense, but instead place you hand on her shoulder for a few seconds. Also, if she has something on her face like an eyelash, you can offer to get it off, but always ask first., Women, and people in general, respond positively to those who are confident. Don’t approach her stammering over your words or twiddling your fingers. Instead, stroll up cooly and calmly and then proceed to talk to her.Take a few deep breaths to calm down before you approach her if you are nervous.
Practice your approach in the mirror.
 One of the easiest ways to talk to any woman is by making her laugh. Most people enjoy a good joke or a humorous person, so try a few funny stories on her or come up with something funny in the moment to get her attention. You might make fun of something like the cafeteria lunch or make a joke about something funny a coworker did to make her laugh.
 Women also tend to respond positively to being complimented. Find something about her that you like in particular and compliment her on it. While it is nice to receive compliments on your physical appearance, it can also be nice to be complimented on aspects of your character or your work.


You might say something like “I noticed some of your artwork the other day and it’s phenomenal!”

, As you begin the process of flirting with her, make sure you are also working to actively get to know her, as well. Ask her questions about herself and her life to begin developing a bigger picture of who she is as a person.Make sure you don’t ask questions that are too personal if you don’t know her well, however.
Maybe ask things like what she does for fun or her favorite book or movie.
This will also help you determine whether or not you officially want to ask her out.
 Before you ask her out, you will want to have a way to contact her first. If you don’t already have her number, ask her if you could have it so you can call or text her sometime. If you don’t see her often in person, you could reach out to her via social media to ask.You might say something like “I wanted to know if maybe we could talk or text sometime? If so, I’d like to have your number.”

, If possible, make sure you ask her on a date in person. This will typically be received better, will be taken more seriously, and is more romantic than asking via phone or text. Try to identify a time when the two of you can be alone and ask her at that time.You could even text her something like “hey, are you gonna be around at around 1PM today? I have something to ask you.”

, Her response to you may be positive or it may be negative. Either way, you should work to accept the outcome. If she accepts your offer to take her out, then great! Work on planning a nice date for her. However, if she states that she is not interested, that is okay, too. Move forward and consider other options.Respect her privacy. She may be LGBT but not want others to know. If she communicates this to you, do not out her. Allow her to do that on her own terms.
 Avoid statements like “wanna hangout?” This could be construed by her as a completely friendly invitation to hangout in a non-romantic way. If you have intentions to date her, then you will need to be much more clear with her.Say something like “I was wondering if I could take you on a date this weekend to a new restaurant downtown.”

, If she does accept your offer to take her on a date, you should now begin planning or finalizing your plans on where you will take her. It is nice when you do all of the primary planning for the date but find a way to include her interests and likes, as well.Ask her if she has any dietary restrictions so that you know what kind of restaurants to take her to or to stay away from.
If you pick dinner, allow her to pick the movies.

