 You don't have to actually widen your hips to get the look of a fuller, more feminine hips.


Purchase hip-enhancing briefs. You can buy an undergarment that comes with removable, foam pads that add inches to your hips.
Use silicone hip pads to create fuller hips. Plan to hold the pads in place with adhesive or tuck them into an undergarment made from a tightly woven microfiber or a pair of pantyhose or tights.

Keep in mind that your new, fuller figure may make it difficult to fit into your favorite jeans, so a shopping trip might be necessary.
 You can use dress in ways that emphasize your hips and give the illusion of greater fullness.


Make your waist the focal point when dressing. Use belts or sashes to cinch in your waist. This will give you the look of an hourglass figure.
Pay attention to cut and color. Faded denim and pants in lighter colors accentuate the hips. Choose jeans that have defined waistlines to accentuate your waist or go with a straight cut. Look for styles that feature front pockets and smaller pockets in the back.
Buy skirts with ruffles or multiple layers of fabric to add width to your hips.
 Stand with your back straight, shoulders dropped and back and your weight on one leg, hips thrust out. This creates an S-shaped curve in the body. Place your hands on your hips with thumbs facing forward and fingers pointed back behind you.


To create this S-curve when you're sitting, simply cross your legs or put your weight onto one hip.
 Swinging your hips when you walk draws attention to this area and gives out a feminine vibe that can't help but draw a little male attention. Keep your back straight and pull your shoulders down and back. Relax your body. Put one foot in front of the other as you walk and let your arms swing naturally. You can emphasize the swing in your hips a bit as you walk, but don't overdo it. If it's too highly exaggerated, it could come off looking comical.


To enhance the effect, put on a pair of heels. Heels cause your hips to sway without you having to force the movement.

