 Before you talk to the merchant, get all the details and documentation you have for the transaction together, so you can explain exactly how and when the problem occurred and how you'd like it resolved.Along with any email receipts or other information you received from the merchant, get copies of your bank or credit card statements that show the transaction. This evidence is particularly important if your dispute relates to the amount you were charged.
If your problem with the transaction relates to the product you were sold being defective or not living up to its description, see if you can find the product's listing on the merchant's website and take a screen-cap.
You also may want to take pictures of the item you actually received – particularly if the damage or defect is obvious.;
, Typically you can find a phone number to call with complaints or problems on the merchant's website, or in any email confirmations of your order that you received.


Be courteous and respectful to the person who answers the phone. Getting irate or insulting him or her typically won't get the situation resolved any faster.
Explain the problem you have with the transaction, providing any details the representative wants that you have available.
Depending on the issue you're having, the problem may be a result of a simple clerical error that the merchant is happy to resolve and keep you as a customer.
Merchants also don't like to be blind-sided. Even if you aren't able to resolve the problem over the phone, at least the merchant is on notice that you have an issue with the transaction. If you send a letter or take other action, it won't come as a surprise.
If you're able to resolve the dispute over the phone, be sure to ask the representative to send you written confirmation of the actions the merchant will take to eliminate the problem.
 If you are unable to resolve the problem over the phone, write and mail a letter to the merchant detailing the issue you have with the transaction and providing evidence to back up your claim.You may be able to find a sample letter you can use on the website of a government or consumer protection agency such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). These sample letters provide the basic format and information that should be included in your letter, although you should adapt it to fit your situation.
Include as much information as possible so the merchant can quickly find the transaction or account you're disputing. For example, if you received an email confirmation with a transaction number, include that number in your letter.
If you registered for an online account with the merchant, you should include your account information as well.
Provide factual details about the transaction and your dispute, and tell the merchant how you would like the issue resolved. Include copies of any documents or other information that back up your points.
Give the merchant a deadline to respond, and make sure you've included contact information so the merchant can get back to you. Set your deadline out far enough that the merchant has time to investigate the issue – a couple of weeks should be sufficient.
Make a copy of your letter for your records before you send it, then mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you'll know when the merchant receives your letter.
 How the merchant responds to your letter will determine your next steps to resolve the dispute. If the merchant is unwilling to work with you, consider taking up the matter with your bank or credit card company.Make note of the date the merchant received your letter, and mark your deadline for a response.
You may receive a phone call from the merchant, but typically a merchant will respond to a written letter in writing. If the merchant decides to reject your argument, it typically will send you a letter explaining the reasons.
 If the merchant agrees to work with you and refund any unauthorized or duplicate charges, make sure you receive written confirmation so you can show it to your bank or credit card company if the charge remains on your account.After you hear from the merchant, you'll need to follow up with your bank or credit card company to ensure that the charges are refunded or otherwise removed from your account.
In some cases, state or federal law may require the merchant to send confirmation of the dispute resolution in writing.
Even if written confirmation isn't legally required, maintaining a written record of any agreement or resolution of the dispute will be essential if there are further problems and you have to prove the terms to which the merchant previously agreed.
 Consumer protection agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) exist to assist you if you are unable to resolve transaction disputes or suspect you may be the victim of fraud.The CFPB was created to assist consumers and ensure fairness in financial transactions. The agency has an online complaint center on its website where you can easily file a complaint and get government intervention on your behalf.
You also may want to file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau or a local chamber of commerce, particularly if the business is a smaller business physically located near you.

