 Knowing more about what you’re afraid of could very well help you overcome your fear by making needles and injections seem more ordinary.Do some research about injections: their history, their purpose, even their dangers.


Look up pictures of needles and injections online to desensitize yourself. To take this to the next level you might consider handling real (clean, unused) syringes for a few minutes everyday.This might be difficult to start with, but it could help you overcome your fear. The more exposure you have to needles the more ordinary they will seem.;
, Some people develop a fear of injections because they associate them with another traumatizing event. Often those who suffer from needle phobia are those who had a lot of blood tests or procedures involving needles when they were a child.Think back over your childhood and talk to your parents about this. Understanding the roots of your fear can help you to confront it.
 Rather than dwelling on your fear of injections, focus instead on how the injection is going to help you.Continually remind yourself that you're protecting yourself from something much worse than a simple injection.Or, if you’re donating blood, think about all of the people you’re helping by overcoming your fear.List your fears and concerns (“Injections are painful!”), and then counter those fears with positive, rational ideas (“Injections keep me healthy!”).If you have a child who’s scared of needles, be honest with him or her about the importance of the injection. And don’t tiptoe around the pain. Be honest about that too., One of the most effective ways to combat fear, and the drop in blood pressure that can lead to fainting, is to practice applied tension. If you begin to feel faint or have in the past fainted at the sight of needles, applied tension, which helps regulate your blood pressure, can help keep you from fainting again. You will need to learn how to do this before you go for the injection.If you start to feel scared, applied tension can help you calm down before the injection. To practice applied tension, follow these steps:


Sit comfortably.
Tense the muscles in your arms, legs, and upper body and maintain that tension for about 10 to 15 seconds, or until your face begins to feel flush.
Relax your muscles.
After 30 seconds, tense your muscles again.
Repeat until you’ve done this five times.

