 Remove the chicken from the fridge, rinse it off and pat it dry, then get your sharpest knife out. You can buy chicken quarters pre-cut at many stores, but it is cheaper and fresher to quarter the chicken yourself. To do so, start with the chicken breast-side up, then:


Pull the thighs away from the breasts and cut them off at the joint.
Flip the chicken over and, using a pair of kitchen sheers, cut the backbone out of the chicken.
Flip the chicken back over and cut the breast in half lengthwise, slicing through the ribcage., This recipe is rather simple, but the difference between freshly ground allspice and a jar of it from the store is remarkable. If you can't get your hands on whole allspice, substitute a full tablespoon of the spice.
 You can substitute in jalapenos if you need. Don't worry about getting them too fine, as everything will get blended up finely in a food processor later. You're just cutting it up now to make sure everything fits.
 If you'd like to take this rub a little further, you can also toss in the following spices, choosing your favorites:


2-3 cloves chopped garlic
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
2 teaspoons dark brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and nutmeg, You want a spreadable, but still not entirely wet, marinade -- a bit like wet, chunky sand. Use the "pulse" setting to chop it up to your desired consistency. This is your jerk marinade!

, If you don't have a food processor, you should do things the old fashioned way -- crushing by hand. You'll want to chop the peppers and green onions as finely as possible first, then start crushing it bit by bit, adding more once you have the first handful or so crushed into a nice, chunky paste.
 Lift the skin up slightly and slide your marinade underneath, spreading it across the whole chicken. Make sure you don't pull the skin off of the chicken -- you just want to lift the skin enough to get the marinade underneath.
 If you're running out of marinade, you can just use some salt and pepper, saving the rest for basting or a dipping sauce. Make sure you keep a few tablespoons of marinade to drop on the chicken as it cooks.
 At the very bare minimum, you want to let the chicken marinade for 4 hours, but overnight is the best way to spice the chicken by far. Cover it with plastic wrap and let it sit to absorb the flavors.
 Start the chicken meat sides up, basting the quarters with the leftover jerk marinade and flipping after 30 minutes. You want the internal temperature of the chicken to reach 160F. If you stick a thick through with a skewer, the juice that runs out should be clear.


If you want extra crispy skin, finish the chicken breast-side up on broil for 5-7 minutes.
You can cook this chicken on the grill ass well

, If you have any leftover jerk marinade you can pour it over the cooked chicken or set it aside as a dipping sauce. Once the chicken is done, let it sit for 5 minutes before cutting into it, then serve hot.

