;
, It's better if they're not colored; you can get more if you choose the kind that come in a plastic container rather than in their own slim jewel cases. Memorex and Sony are good brands. Burn the tracks to the CD.
 Also, obtain a set of regular glass stains (or glitter, it doesn't much matter), preferably with some of the same colors as the poster paints. Both of these can be found in the craft section of your local store.
 A box of 300 or so works.
 A little travel fan works best. Takes up very little room on the desk, has 2 speeds and is adjustable. Runs on just two D batteries, difficult to knock over, and has thick, soft foam blades that displace a lot of air.
 Clear off your desk, set up a work table, whatever - as long as the environment is clean, sturdy and comfortable it doesn't matter.
 When you're ready to start personalizing the CD, lay two paper towels (folded over to create a double layer the size of a single towel) or one towel square down flat on your work table and place the burned CD on it, with the side that goes up in the player face-up. Can't paint the bottom. Here is where anyone who knows anything about paint might get confused. The surface of a CD is almost perfectly smooth, and paint won't stick to a smooth surface. You could sand the CD, and ruin it, or you could keep reading.
 Keep the design simple, like a name or star. Work with one color at a time and dry between coats, using the fan. If you want to get creative and mix colors or paint and stain, then keep the fan off until you want to dry your work. If you want a solid color, work with the fan going. It dries the paint as you work, so you can start on a second coat directly after finishing the first.
 Patience is a virtue and your CDs look better if you take the time to make them that way. Use a reference picture if you want, but originality is always smiled upon.
 (Beware: Ballpoint pens are murder on CDs/DVDs. Use only as a last resort, with as little pressure as humanly possible and even then, if possible, limit ballpoint writing to the un-coated ring of clear plastic in the very center around the spindle hole). Seal it with a discreet coat of glass stain the same color as your background.
 It can usually be cleaned off with water.
 Or, if it's for someone else, find a suitable case for it. Paint the case if you want.
