 Tie the end of the balloon into a tight knot.
 Take five large sheets of newspaper and tear them into 2 to 3 inch (5 to 7.6 cm) wide strips., If you have not done so already, prepare the paper mâché paste.


Combine 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of corn flour with 1 qt (1 L) of boiling water, and stir until a paste forms.
 Before you begin placing the newspaper in the paste, and onto the balloon, you should create a space where you can work. Paper mâché can get messy, so simply lay down a plastic table cloth or some old newspaper on the floor or on the table, so that any excess will drip onto the plastic or paper instead of on the table or carpet., Repeat with your other strips, laying them onto the balloon both vertically and horizontally until it is completely covered in newspaper.


When done, the balloon should be covered by roughly five coats of newspaper.






Cover the entire balloon except for a small patch near the knotted end. You will need this space to remain open so that you can get the balloon out of the structure later.
 Allow it to dry undisturbed for about 24 hours, or until the surface is still and completely dry to the touch.


The paste needs to be completely dry before you continue past this step.
Your climate will change the rate at which the paste dries. If you live in dry conditions, the paste will dry quicker. If you live in notably humid conditions, the paste might need more than 24 hours to dry.
 Use a pin to pop the balloon through the gap you left at the base of the paper mâché. After popping the balloon, carefully pull it out through the hole., Use scissors to cut off the bottom of the structure, then cut away a circular section for your face to show through.


Work from the bottom or open end of the structure. Cut off enough of the bottom for your neck and head to fit through.






Still working from the bottom end, cut a rectangle in the front of the structure. This rectangle should be as wide as the distance between the outer corners of your eyes. It should be about as long as the distance between the bottom of your forehead and your chin.
 Use paint and a paintbrush to decorate the helmet however you desire. You could also decorate the helmet with foil shapes or space-themed stickers.Note that you can also attach antennae. Poke two small holes in the top of your helmet—one near the left side and the other near the right side. Slide a pipe cleaner into each hole, and tape the end of the pipe cleaner into the inside of the helmet to secure it. You can twist a bead to the top of each pipe cleaner to complete the antenna look.
 Once the helmet has been decorated to your liking, it should be ready to wear.