 This can sometimes include photos of yourself, especially at impressive locations, doing interesting things, or when you have a pre-established understanding regarding photo exchanges. Or take photos of the random things or moments that remind you of your crush. Send these along, with a quick note to provide some context. Again, don’t overthink it, just let your crush know you’re thinking about them.


For example, if you go on a hike and catch the sunset, send your favorite photo along with something like, “Hey! Check it out: another epic battle between the mighty sun and the steadfast horizon. Who’s your money on?”

, Sending photos via text can be an absolute blast, but they should convey something interesting or thoughtful. Don’t pepper all your love interests with unsolicited, non-stop photos of yourself as soon as you get their number. Don’t do it. Just… don’t do it.


If you are the selfie-taking type, that’s great, but make sure the recipient of your selfies actually wants them before you send them. If they don’t, you’re probably just making it seem like you like taking photos of yourself.
One way to tell if someone may be interested in receiving selfies is by examining their social media. If they’re a big fan of selfies themselves, you’ll be able to tell pretty quickly, and you can rest assured they probably feel that selfies are a legitimate way of presenting oneself. They might even be interested in seeing other people’s selfies too. You should still make sure.
 The bravado facilitated by interacting with someone through a screen sometimes gives us the momentary courage to text someone we’ve had a hard time convincing ourselves to talk to. This is great, because it can get the romantic ball rolling. That being said, communicating via text does not give you the liberty to say whatever you want.


If it’s not something you’d say to someone in real life, don’t say it via text.
Maybe it’s easier to ask your crush out on a date via text than in person – there’s nothing wrong with that. If you do go this route, be respectful about it. Understand that they may rather have that type of conversation in person, especially if its someone you see frequently or already know.
 Don’t risk comments that may be misunderstood. You may be intending humor, but texting off-color jokes like, “your bedroom looks good from your backyard” is equally likely to elicit a restraining order as it is a response. Though you may be wondering about your crush’s interest in going straight from texting to the bedroom, there are better ways to gauge someone’s interest in you than making questionable comments.


Hold off on the seduction attempts. If the person you’re texting is at all interested in you, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to tell them how fine they look or how much you’d like to nibble on their ear. Even if you’re just looking for a casual, predominantly physical relationship, you need to determine whether that’s even a possibility before bursting in guns-a-blazing.
It’s poor form – both in terms of mature behavior and in terms of effectiveness in actually seducing someone – to immediately make sexual comments or implications of any type.
Don’t just booty text people. Texting people late at night is fine if you have an established relationship, but if you only tend to text someone later in the evening, they may feel as though you’re only interested in one thing., Sure, it can be fun to stare at your phone imagining what your crush is doing, but knowing that they’re probably just re-reading your texts and that they’ll respond any second now. It’s also supremely exciting when you feel a buzz in your pocket and immediately assume it’s definitely a witty response to your witty text and not just a weather update.


If you become angry because someone has not responded, you need to sit down and do some serious reflection. Do not ever continue sending increasingly angrier text messages. Recognize that no one owes anybody a response to a text message.
Similarly, don’t be discouraged if you don’t get a quick response. Your crush may be busy, or they may simply not feel like dealing with a cell phone for a while. Respect people enough to know that they have life outside of the realm of their pocket computer.

