 Every vehicle comes with a list of service recommendations to ensure it continues to operate properly. You may be able to address a number of these things, but some many be beyond your level of mechanical expertise. Check in your owner’s manual for service recommendations, then choose which ones you feel you can handle on your own.Some vehicles require timing chain or belt replacements every certain number of miles. This may require removing the engine from the vehicle itself and should not be ignored. Failing to properly maintain your timing chain or belt could result in serious damage to the engine.
 Once you have identified a maintenance service you’d like to have done to your vehicle, contact the local dealership for your make of vehicle and ask to speak to the service manager. Ask for a quote on what conducting the necessary service may cost. The service manager should be able to provide you with a fairly reliable quote, as they likely conduct regular maintenance on vehicles like yours often.The dealership that specializes in your brand of vehicle is the most likely to have the tools and expertise required for difficult maintenance tasks.
Some dealerships may provide a loner vehicle to drive while they work on your vehicle.
 You may also want to get service quotes from other dealerships in the area specializing in your make of vehicle, or even from local garages. Some small garages may not have the equipment necessary to do specialized jobs on uncommon cars, but they can often fulfil most service requests.Don’t always opt for the least expensive quote. Try looking up the shops you are considering online to read reviews from previous customers.
 Once you’ve chosen the place you’d like to conduct the maintenance on your vehicle, call them again to schedule an appointment to bring your car in. Remove any personal belongings from your vehicle before leaving it at the dealership for service.Make sure you know whether or not you can wait for your vehicle there or if you should make arrangements for a ride.
Depending on the nature of the job, it may take hours or days to complete the maintenance on your vehicle.
 When you bring your vehicle in, the service manager or techs may point out other issues they have identified over the course of conducting the maintenance, or offer suggestions for other things you may want to address while your car is already there. You do not have to permit them to do any additional work, so consider what they suggest and make a determination based on your own finances and what’s best for the vehicle.Some things recommended by the service manager or techs may be issues that should be addressed immediately, while others may be something you can resolve later on.
Never feel pressured to pay for additional services that you do not want.

