 Open and honest communication is crucial for a good marriage. Listen patiently when your partner comes to you with problems or concerns about your relationship. Being attentive in conversation will help you understand what makes them unhappy and give you a chance to take action. If you have questions about what you can do to make your partner happier and more satisfied, you should feel free to ask them.
Expect your partner to listen to you with an equal amount of respect.
If your partner is verbally abusive, belittling, or refuses to engage in conversation, let them know how their behavior makes you feel – hopeless, alone, and dejected.;
, If you have become exhausted by conflict in the relationship or no longer feel your marriage is salvageable, take a step back. It’s natural to feel down about conflicts in your relationship, but try to focus on the big picture. When you feel depressed about the state of your relationship, think back on all the good times you’ve had with your spouse.


Your happiness should not be dependent on the other person. Focus on being the best you can be, even if your partner is not.
If you expect the worst from your partner, you’re more likely to see and focus on your conflicts and problems.Try to be attentive to subtle, positive changes in how you and your partner interact. Share these positive changes with your partner.
 Don’t demand that everything be done your way. Marriage is a cooperative partnership. Neither of you will get your way all the time. If you and your partner have different goals and ideas -- whether its about where to move or where to dine -- hear each other out.


Have conversations, not monologues. Listen to your partner and expect that he or she will listen to you.Let certain things go. Imagine that you wanted chicken but she made soup, or you wanted to see a play but he insists on going to the ball game. In either case, and with either decision, life goes on. Pick your battles and let the trivial stuff go.
Being flexible doesn’t mean your spouse should walk all over you. There are times when the decision not to make concessions is the right one.
 While physical attraction is only one part of love, in our visual culture, it plays an important role in how we think about and relate to our partner. When you go out with your spouse, dress nicely to show that you consider your time together special. Take care of your health, too. Eat a nutritious, balanced diet with lots of fruit and vegetables. Aim for thirty minutes of exercise each day. Dressing well and taking care of your appearance will keep your partner attracted to you., Only speak to your partner when you are in a mood and state appropriate to do so. Do not yell at your spouse. If you feel anger building on your side or your spouse’s, suggest that you both take some time out to cool off and resume the conversation later.Avoid trigger topics, the issues and problems which lead you and your spouse to bicker.
Communicate only while sober and rested.
 Healthy couples should spend time together as well as apart.Catch a movie, play mini-golf, go bowling – whatever it is you both enjoy doing, do it together. Try new things and have adventures that you can bond over. But when you need some alone time to recharge, let your partner know. You and your partner are not clones, and won’t be interested in all the same activities. Give each other space to pursue the hobbies and interests you each enjoy.Try to set aside specific days or time periods for date nights.
In addition to spending time alone, spend time with your friends.
 It might seem tempting to have a brief fling or an extended affair with someone who gives you the attention and affection that your spouse won’t.But remember, your spouse, not your fling, is your family. Violating the bond of marriage can propel you toward divorce and leave you feeling guilty.


Identify situations or individuals you know may lead you to infidelity and avoid them wherever possible.

