 You might need to get the director’s or costume designer’s permission, but ask if you can add a few extras to your costume to help communicate the character’s frame of mind. For instance:


Give your character red eyes and a red, sore nose to show evidence of crying.
Could you add a dirty sleeve covered in tears and snot?
Unkempt hair and a messy overall appearance show detachment and lack of interest.
Dark circles around your eyes indicate a lack of sleep, which is a common sign of sadness., When someone is sad, they can leave tell-tale signs in the environment. If the director and set designer give you permission, try adding a few elements to the stage that show the audience the effects of your character’s sadness. For example:


Scatter tissues everywhere and include an empty tissue box or two.
Include discarded or half-finished projects.
Show evidence of the anger that often accompanies sadness by featuring destroyed toys, art, furnishings, or clothing.
 Sleep deprivation is strongly linked to sadness and depression.This makes including signs of exhaustion and sleeplessness a useful strategy for portraying a sad character. Bring the following into your performance:


Yawning and a slumped posture.
Slow, slothful movements.
Leaning against furniture or nodding off a little when you aren’t speaking.
 A deep sadness will often cause someone to draw away from social contact and emotional connection with others, and you can bring signs of aversion and distance to your performance without changing the script or stage at all. For example:


Lower your gaze and avoid looking directly at the other characters on stage.
Stare off stage as though unconnected to your surroundings.
Maybe make eye contact with someone in the audience. Your character will appear detached from those on stage, but the connection with another person allows you to use smaller gestures such as facial expressions.
Toy with objects on stage as though you are lost in thought or moving absentmindedly.
Don’t respond to the emotions of the other characters to indicate your detachment.
Don’t react to sudden movements or loud sounds to show your brooding, disinterested state.
 Sometimes subtlety is not the name of the game, and you can use profuse dramatic movements and gestures to get your point across during a play. Take advantage of those moments to clue the audience in to your character’s sadness. For instance:


Fall into heap of tears, covering or shrouding your face as you sob.
Cross your forearm across forehead and look away in the classic theatrical pose of woe and sadness.
Speak through sobs or loud moans.
Hug and clutch at the other actors, pulling and cloying at them to show your character’s tragic abandon.
Maybe you can really shed tears on the stage.
Remember, there are a hundred ways to get yourself to fake cry, but in the end it only matters if the audience cries.Keep the melodrama within the bounds of the performance. In other words, don’t go overboard.

