 If you want to build abdominal strength and flatten your abs with yoga, you must make friends with the plank pose. The plank not only gives your abs a workout – it's a whole-body experience.If you're starting in plank, lay on the floor on your belly with your palms under your shoulders and your legs extended out behind you. Raise up on an inhale so that your arms are perpendicular to the floor. Your wrists should be directly below your shoulders.
Your weight should be evenly supported by your hands and your toes, so that you are one long line of energy from the crown of your head to your heels.
Lengthen your tailbone towards your heels and press the front of your thighs toward the ceiling. Make sure your neck is not crunched and your shoulder blades are down against your back.
Hold this pose for several breaths, then release to the floor. If you find it too difficult to do a full plank, you can drop to your knees for a half plank. Make sure your back is completely flat and not arched.;
, The side plank pose strengthens your entire body, as well as stretching and strengthening your wrists and improving your balance. This balancing pose should not be attempted if you are recovering from a serious wrist, elbow, or shoulder injury.From plank, move to the outside edge of your left foot. Swing your right hip up so that your right leg rolls on top of your left leg, with your right foot on top of your left foot.
Turn your torso to your right, lifting your right hand and placing it on your right hip. Balance your body weight so it is evenly distributed between the outside edge of your left foot and your left hand.
Your left hand shouldn't be directly below your shoulder, but angled a bit. Use your triceps muscle to straighten that arm, pressing into the knuckles of your hand. Your body should be a straight, diagonal line from the crown of your head to your feet.
Hold the pose for a breath or two, then release and do the other side. If you have difficulty maintaining stability in this pose, you might try doing it with your feet against a wall for more support.
 Upward facing dog builds strength in your entire upper body, increasing strength and flexibility in your spine as well as working your chest and abdominal muscles.From plank or side plank, lower to the floor so that you are lying on your stomach with your legs extended behind you. Your toes and the tops of your feet should be on the floor. Place your palms under your shoulders, your arms bent flush along your sides. Lengthen your neck, touching your chin to the floor.
On an inhale, raise your chest up and back, bending your spine. Keep your chest open, shoulders rolling down your back. Make sure your neck is straight and not crunched.
Hold the pose for several breaths, then slowly lower on an exhale. You can create a vinyasa, or flow, with this pose by repeating it five or more times, with a breath for each movement.
 Downward facing dog is typically one of the first yoga poses you learn, and is central to almost any yoga practice. This pose provides stretching and strengthening for your whole body, as well as helping relieve stress.From upward facing dog, come up onto your hands and knees, with your hands just in front of your shoulders. Spread your palms and splay your fingers out wide, pressing into all knuckles. Your knees should be directly under your hips, toes turned under. Spread your feet further apart if you want.
As you exhale, lift your hips upward, pointing your sitting bones to the ceiling. As you inhale, straighten out your legs (or you can leave them bent if it's more comfortable to do so), keeping your heels off the floor.
Stay in a downward facing dog for several breaths. With every inhale, push down through your heels. With every exhale, think of pulling away from the floor towards the ceiling. Make sure your shoulder blades are flat down your back so your shoulders are neutral and your neck isn't crunched.
If you want, you can create a vinyasa flow between upward and downward facing dog, a breath for each movement.
 The chair pose demands tremendous core strength and also helps you gain balance and stability. As you progress with this pose, you'll build the entire core to help flatten your abs.From wherever you are, come to a standing position and bring your legs together so that the inner sides of your feet are touching.
On an exhale, slowly lower your hips as though you are sitting in a chair, keeping your knees over your ankles. Your shins should be perpendicular to the floor.
Hold the pose for 45 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. If you want a challenge, shift your weight to your heels to further engage your core and bend more deeply. If you can't hold the pose and maintain your breath, don't bend your knees as much.

