 Open windows and screen doors to allow fresh air to circulate. This reduces humidity and can help move dust and other allergens out. Do this often to reduce dust mite populations.
 Sunlight kills dust mites, but keep in mind that it does not remove dust mite residue.Hang bedding, clothing and other furnishings outside or in direct sunlight. Air blankets, rugs and other heavy bedding items outside as often as possible. Open curtains and blinds to let the sun shine in.
 Excess items in the bedroom such as books, magazines, clothing baskets, knickknacks, ornaments, toys and piles of clothing that make it hard to clean or dust create an excellent home for dust mites. A good rule of thumb to follow is that if it can collect dust, it can be a haven for dust mites. Try making a mimimalist bedroom.
 Dust mites thrive in humid environments because they absorb water from the atmosphere. Avoid humidifying, and use a dehumidifier or air conditioner to keep relative humidity below 50%. A hygrometer, available at hardware stores, measures humidity levels in the home so you can have more control.
 Dust mites do very well in temperatures between 65°F and 84°F and a relative humidity of more than 50%. To cut down on dust mite populations, make your home less comfortable for them. Along with a reduction in humidity, consider lowering your in-home temperatures to below 70°F or more. , A high-efficiency media filter in your furnace and air conditioning unit can help remove allergens and reduce dust mite populations. Look for a filter with a Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value (MERV) of 11 or 12 and change the filer every three months at least. Leave the fan on for a whole house air filter. , There are many types of air purifiers that can be attached to the central air return. These purifiers decrease irritants and food sources for dust mites with most filters removing 50 to 70% of material. HEPA filters, however, will remove up to 99% of dust mite feces, dust, animal dander, pollen, cockroach feces, and other materials. , Non-washable bedding, toys, furnishings and other items can be frozen to kill dust mites. Freeze these items for 24 to 48 hours. Though this method will destroy mites, it does not remove allergens.