 To do a basic cleaning of any concrete floor and to remove stains, you will need some basic cleaning supplies, including:


A broom and duster (or a vacuum)
A nylon-bristled brush for scrubbing stains
Dish soap and water to remove stains
Trisodium phosphate, laundry bleach, and detergent to remove mildew
Kitty litter or cornstarch to remove grease stains
Degreaser to remove tire marks
Bleach, ammonia, or hydrogen peroxide for stubborn stains;
, Remove any furniture, decorations, rugs or mats, shoes, and anything else that’s on the floor. Move everything out of the room so you’re not cleaning around furniture or constantly having to move furniture around to clean.
 Get up all large dirt and debris with the broom, and then go over the surface again with a duster to remove fine particles and dust. Dusting should be done daily, and sweeping or vacuuming on a weekly basis.


Use a vacuum if you have a good one available, as this will be faster and more efficient, and prevent dust and dirt particles from being spread around.
 For regular food and beverage stains, scrub the area with hot, soapy water.Use one to two tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) of a mild dish soap or Castile soap, diluted into a half-gallon (1.9 liters) of water. For oil or oil-based stains, wet the area with water and cover the stain with dish soap. Dip a brush in warm water and scrub the area to work up a lather. Blot the suds with a rag or towel and rinse it down with clean water.To remove mildew, mix one ounce (28.3 grams) each of laundry detergent and trisodium phosphate with one quart (946.4 ml) laundry bleach and three quarts (2.8 liters) of water. Scrub the area with a soft brush and rinse with clean water.To remove tire marks (in a garage), spray the area with water and apply a degreaser. Let sit for three to four hours, scrub with a brush, and rinse.To remove grease, spread kitty litter or cornstarch over the area and let it sit for about three days. After you’ve let it sit, vacuum or sweep up the kitty litter and dispose of it in accordance with the type of grease it was (such as in the garbage or through a proper recycling facility)., If your concrete floor is plain and you don’t have to worry about damaging a finish, you can use harsher cleaners like bleach, ammonia, and hydrogen peroxide to clean stubborn stains.Dilute one part cleaner in three parts water and spray on the affected area. Let it sit for about 20 minutes, and then scrub with a brush. Rinse the area with clean water.


Always wear gloves and proper protective gear when using harsh cleaners, and make sure the room is well-ventilated.
 You will need a mop and large bucket, warm water, and a mild, pH neutral cleaner.Do not use ammonia, bleach, or any other highly acidic or alkaline cleaner, as it may damage the concrete finish.Good neutral cleaners to use include:


Mild dish soaps
Castile soap
Neutral stone cleaner
pH neutral floor cleaners or detergents

, Use about one gallon (3.8 liters) of warm water. Stir in one-eighth to one-quarter cup (30 to 60 ml) of mild soap or pH neutral cleaner (or the amount recommended by the manufacturer).
 Once it’s saturated, wring it out thoroughly. The mop should be only slightly damp for cleaning the floor: you want the water to dry quickly, and don’t want excess water sitting on the concrete.
 Start in a corner farthest from the door and make your way toward the door, cleaning small areas at a time. As you mop, frequently re-dip the mop in the water and wring it out thoroughly. Consider having an oscillating fan blow air into the room to help the floor dry quicker.
 When you have cleaned the entire floor, dump out your cleaning water, rinse the mop and bucket, and refill the bucket with clean, warm water. Mop the floor again in the same way with the clean water, dunking and thoroughly wringing out the mop often.Start at the farthest corner and work toward the door again, working in small sections.
 You will need a power washer, a push broom with stiff, nylon bristles, and a cleaning product, such as trisodium phosphate or other concrete cleaner. You can use a regular garden hose if you don’t have a pressure washer. Use the hose on full power with a high-powered nozzle.


A pressure washer is recommended for this kind of concrete cleaning as it will do a better job. Pressure washers can be rented from home and garden or building stores.
Use a regular scrubbing brush with nylon bristles if you don’t have a push broom.
 Pull them up with your hands and then sweep, hose down, or pressure wash the surface to remove dirt and debris., Open your garage door if applicable. Start at the end closest to the house and work your way toward the garage door or lawn. Use the pressure washer or hose and spray the floor in broad, sweeping strokes to remove dirt and debris. Be sure to spray corners, cracks, and crevices as well.
 Place your broom at one end of the garage or patio, and begin sprinkling cleaner on the floor starting at the other end, working your way toward the broom. Make sure the floor is still wet when you do this., Use your broom or brush to work the cleaner into the entire floor surface and lift out any dirt, grime, and debris., Starting at the inside and working your way toward the open door or lawn, power wash away any excess cleaner and debris. Leave the door open and allow the floor to dry.
 This will stop people from slipping on the floor and prevent staining.Wipe up spills with a clean rag or towel as soon as they occur.
 A high-quality sealant will last a few years, so you should re-seal your floor every three to four years.Sealing your concrete floor will protect it from scuffs and stains.


Choose a sealant that’s right for your concrete surface.
Use water-based sealants for indoor flooring.
 Not only will a wax finish protect the floor from dirt build-up, stains, and abrasion, but it will also protect the sealant underneath so it lasts longer.Apply floor wax in a thin layer and spread it out with a rayon or microfiber mop. Re-apply every year or so.