 This paper lantern is simple and fun to make. It's made entirely out of paper, which makes it an easy and inexpensive craft. Here's what you'll need:


2 sheets of paper (1 red and 1 yellow, same size)
Scissors
Ruler
Pencil
String
Glue, tape, or stapler
Hole puncher
Gold glitter, sequins, gold paint, etc (optional)
Red/yellow paper streamers (optional);
, Use your ruler and pencil to draw two strips along the long edge of the paper. Cut those strips out with a pair of scissors. Set the two strips aside.
 Take the two short sides of the yellow paper, and bring them together to form a tube. Overlap them by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and secure them. You can use glue, tape, or a stapler. Set the yellow tube aside.
 Place the red paper down on the table in front of you and bring the two long edges together. Flatten the paper so that you end up with a long, skinny rectangle. The folded part of the rectangle should be facing you.
 Make sure that the folded edge of the rectangle is facing you. Then, use your ruler and pencil to draw a straight line across the rectangle. This will be your cutting guide. You will be cutting towards this line in a latter step.
 They need to be 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) apart, and going from the folded edge up to the horizontal guide line you just drew.
 Stop when you get to the horizontal guide line. Do not cut past this line, or your lantern will fall apart. You will end up with something that looks like a fringe.
 Bring the two short edges together to form a tube. Overlap the edges by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and secure them. You can use glue, tape, or a stapler.
 The yellow tube will be a little bit shorter than the red tube. This is good. Squash the red tube until the top and bottom edges of both tubes line up. Secure them together. You can use glue, tape, or a stapler.
 Overlap the edges by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Try to align the seam with the seam on the red tube. This will give you a nice trim. Secure the yellow strips with glue, tape, or a stapler.
 Use a hole puncher to poke two holes into the top of the lantern. Make sure that they are straight across from each other. Thread a long piece of string through both of the holes, and tie the ends together in a tight knot.
 You can hang your lantern up now, or you can decorate it further. Try not to add too many decorations, however, or your lantern will become too heavy. Here are some ideas to get you started:Cut strips of crepe paper or party streamers. Glue them to the inside of the bottom edge of the lantern. Try alternating red and yellow colors.
Draw some designs along the top and bottom edge of the lantern using glue, and then sprinkle gold glitter over the designs. You can also use a gold marker.
Glue some sequins or rhinestones along the top and bottom edge of the lantern.

