 It is very important to research on names before continuing on any of the other steps. It is one way to actually get an idea of what to name it, how, why etc. and to create a great name.;
, It is significant to know whether the drug you are naming is suitable for anyone's use or purpose and if it is available to go on a market. Remember that drugs don't necessarily have to be 'new' to make a new name, it can be a duplicate of another medicine with a different name.


You need to know what function it does and how it does it etc. before finishing the steps below.
 Inspiration is a big factor of our lives so why can't it be for medicine? Don't copy names from other brands but use them for the same concept. It is important to know how you are using this as an inspiration or not.


Know your limits, if you completely make the medicine's name a duplicate of another's except with different spellings, people might think your brand is fake etc.
 You can do this to the drug but it might be a little too weird to do so but you can if you want.


Remember not to only name the medicine with your name, you have to expand it further to make it sound fresh. So, for example is your name was: Halcyon, you might make it 'Halcyonya' or something.
 Identify them by the surface, reaction time etc. It doesn't generally have to be in the name of the drug but can be included in the sub-title. For example: 'Halcyonya Fast' - it can be two versions of the medicine so you can earn more profit when it does go on the market.
 Your target is to make the name much more noticeable so make sure it's easy to pronounce and not very scientific.
 If you really have no ideas, just name your drug what ever you want it to be. Make it sound really surreal or unique names that are really creative in such a way. It's actually a good idea to ask some people for help instead of coming up with ideas with your self.
 If you say that the drug reacts fast etc. but it actually doesn't, people will not trust your brand and therefore making your brand-name sound very bad.


Make sure the new name you choose is not copyrighted or too similar to an existing name.
 Be wary if you change the name of the pill because people might not now that it was originally this brand. Only change it if people already know if it is bad quality etc.

