 The only proviso is to purchase or make larger ones if the toys you'll be giving away are larger than the candies you'd normally be adding.;
, There are lots of possible toy ideas but they should be small, cheap and available in large quantities. Your best place of purchase is the dollar store but also check out party stores, toy stores and bulk sale places. Things that you might like to add include:


Plastic animals, dolls or toy soldiers (and the ones with parachute attached)
Bubble blowing liquid and blower
Toys that enlarge when water is added or the sticky toys that walk down walls
Costume jewelry
Halloween toys made specially for the season such as spooky spiders, skeletons, skulls, etc.
Stuffed toys
Small bouncy balls
Wind-up novelty toys
Small games or puzzles.
 A lot of Halloween stationery is made for the Halloween season, shipped direct from China to your local dollar store. Fill the bag up with pencils, erasers, markers, sharpeners, rulers, etc.


Stamp kits are a nice addition and while there are Halloween options, they don't have to be Halloween focused.
Stickers are a good option at Halloween. Entire sheets of Halloween or other designs can be purchased and cut around to make lots of additions for trick and treat bags.
 Small musical items can be a fun addition that allows children to make lots of noise when their parents would like some peace. For example, whistles, triangles, tambourines, maracas, shakers, etc. Look in the dollar store and toy stores. Also check out stores that support trade aid projects for much better quality whistles and small instruments.
 Small items like plastic fangs, an eye patch, a skull ring or a glowing Halloween brooch might make interesting additions to a trick and treat bag. Be sure to keep these goodies small and decorative, as the kids will already have their own fun costumes.


A reflective necklace or a flashlight might be a helpful item to give out. You could even keep such items aside in a bowl and hand them to kids you think don't look obvious enough in the darkness of night.
 Add things like glow-sticks, paper whistles, balloons and other fun items.
 If you're not standing on principle about the evils of sugar, then you can still add a few candies to complete the bag.
