 When you have the luxury of choosing between two or more potential recording studios, assess each space for the following qualities and choose the room that meets the most standards:


Size. Larger rooms are always preferable to smaller spaces because it allows you to record more musicians and store more equipment.
Noise. Microphones magnify all of the noises around you. Choose a space that set off from streets and neighbors. Avoid rooms with heating vents, plumbing pipes, and windows that may let in the sounds of birds, insects, and the elements. You must also take into consideration that you will produce a significant amount of noise, so be courteous to your neighbors and select a room that is at least semi-removed from common spaces.
Flooring. Carpeting compromises the acoustical integrity of your studio. It absorbs high frequencies, but not low frequencies. Rooms with hard flooring are ideal.
Acoustics. The ideal studio is a large room, with high ceilings and several irregular surfaces for sounds to bounce off.;
, In order to generate a great recording, your studio must be acoustically sound. Consider installing the following acoustic treatments in your studio space:


Bass traps. Bass traps absorb low-end frequencies. Begin by installing one bass trap in each of the corners of your studio.Acoustic Panels. Acoustic panels are placed on studio walls to absorb sound.Between 20% to 80% of the surface area of your studio walls may need to be covered.Reflection Filters. Instead of acoustically treating your entire room, purchase a reflection filer, or a mini vocal booth., To adequately equip your recording studio, you don’t need to purchase every instrument or gadget on the market. Instead, invest in the following essential:


Computer
DAW/Audio Interface Combo. This contains the software you will need to record, edit, and mix your musical creations.
Studio Monitors
Headphones
Microphone
Mic Stand
XLR Cables, Your recording studio should have two spaces: a mixing area with a desk and a recording area. These areas may be separate or joint. Equip your mixing area with a desk that can hold your computer and your mixing equipment. Set up your recording area with the mic stand, a chair, and your instruments.