 While you will simply get away with writing instead of since both work all the same, not closing the tags that need to be sealed will always create headaches in your page. The tag, if left open, a tag will leave the code in the latter useless, because the browser will then assume that the entire application melds together.;
,


This is the furthest you could get from the fact. No webpage progression IDE does anything special to the code that you write apart from most likely Dream Weaver, and as such, code prepared in one of them is fully portable and compatible with any other IDE. As a beginner though, one should simply use a text editor like Notepad++ and then run the result either through a server or a hosting service.
 Text editors are not one of the things you need to get worried about, since any decent one will get the job completed. All you need to do is write your code and save it with the accurate file format. Some text editors like Notepad++ come with syntax showcasing and can facilitate the knowledge of writing a page, but when it comes to the development, any of the solutions will do equally well if you are not addicted to the bells and whistles of a particular one.
 This is a bad idea for an experienced veteran, let alone a newcomer. Inline CSS will likely work in many cases, but once a problem arises, it can become a nightmare to identify the problem and get rid of it. Imported CSS/JavaScript, on the other hand, offers greater mobility and can help in making large scale changes a reasonably easier task. Hence the best practice is to import the files through link tags in the element and external style sheets. This allows for easy adjusting whenever necessary.
 It may seem avoidable and tiresome in the starting point, but eliminating an error can be simplified if the comment points to a particular part that does a particular thing.
 They help in realizing the code much in the same way as responses do. For, example, if your block of code does a multiplication of two numbers and you name it Category, you will never be able to correctly edit and update the code in the wanted way. All of the collaborating programmers will thank you if you use an acceptable name for parts like these.
 This can work the same as tag but it is essential to understand which one is to be used where. Once you know the difference you'll know which one should be used at a particular part of the page.

