 Shipping wraps can help protect your horse’s legs from injury while the horse is traveling.You may prefer to use shipping boots, especially if someone else is shipping your horse. Shipping boots go from the hock down to the hoof and provide extra protection.
 Commercial quilted wraps are available, or you can use regular cotton to wrap a layer at least 1” thick. Thick padding offers your horse protection from bumps and injury.Soft materials are good because the shipping wraps will be on the horse for a while, and you don’t want your horse’s skin to get irritated.
Apply the padding so that it is even and flat. Avoid large wrinkles or uneven layers.
Make sure that the padding extends below the coronary band of the hoof. This is the small “ridge” that goes along the upper border of the hoof., Flannel bandages about 6” wide are excellent for creating a shipping wrap.Fleece polo wraps are also a good choice.Look for bandages that are slightly stretchy.
 This will be roughly just under the horse’s knee. Wrap the bandage in the same direction as the padding. This will help you avoid putting too much pressure on the tendons.Wrap the bandage downward, overlapping by about half the width each time.


Use moderate tension when wrapping. You don’t want the wrap to be too tight, but you also don’t want it to loosen or fall off in transit. Your horse could trip or get tangled in loose bandages.Check for the appropriate tension by slipping your finger beneath the bandage. You should be able to get your finger in between the bandage and your horse’s leg without too much effort.
 A shipping bandage will help protect your horse’s lower leg if it is applied correctly. It should cover the heels, coronary band, and lower leg.Make sure you wrap the bandage over the bulbs of your horse’s heels. This way, the bandage will not “ride up” during the trip., Following the same spiral motion, wrap the bandage back up the leg to just below the knee., Fasten the bandage with crossed bandage pins. For extra protection, wrap masking tape in a downward spiral around the leg.