 Before you go in for the kill, you need to make sure to pick a lady who will be receptive to your player ways. If you choose the wrong girl, you may either end up with someone who is just not interested, or who wants to get wifed up ASAP. Here's how to find the right girl:


Look for a girl who is laughing, obviously having fun, and looking to have a good time. Don't talk to anyone who is obviously bored, checking her phone, or just looking around for something better to do. A girl like that is a soft target for a reason, and you want someone who is worth impressing.
Avoid ladies who are looking for a husband. Many of the ladies you approach will be looking for more than a fling. Any girl who mentions having you meet her parents, wanting to settle down, or talks about how many times she's been a bridesmaid probably doesn't want to be your tenth favorite girl. Let this lady find her soul mate, and don't waste your time--or hers.
Avoid girls who are obviously taken. If you spot a hottie who is barely interested in some guy who is trying to make a move on her, then go for it. But if a lady is batting eyes at her boyfriend or suitor, unless you're really up for the challenge, find someone who is still fun but not so clearly off-limits.
 Approach a group of ladies, and have fun chatting them up and showing you're a great guy to be around. But after a while, home in on the lady of your choosing, and find a way to isolate her and make her feel unique. Here's how:


Have a light opening. Start off by teasing her or just asking what she'd like to drink. Make her laugh and show that you're a person worth talking to.
Tell her that she's special. Say something like, "There's something different about you." Make her feel like she really stands out, and that you understand that there is something extra unique about her.
Compliment her. Don't overdo it, but tell her at least three things you like about her, whether it's her eyes, her dance moves, or her laugh. You don't have to say anything deep--just let her know that you appreciate who she is and want to get to know her.
 People love to feel interesting, so listen closely to her and show genuine interest in what she has to say.
 Treat her, the waiter, her friends, and strangers with complete respect. This signals to her that you're the good kind of mysterious, and that you'll treat her well.


Hold doors for people, help her put on her jacket, and listen closely to what she wants.
 Maybe she isn't comfortable with casual sex, maybe she isn't looking for that type of fun tonight, or maybe she isn't into guys. Stay cool and shrug it off.


If you get turned down right off the bat, give her a polite nod and say "All right. Have a good night." Then look for a more receptive woman.
If she doesn't want to take things up past a certain level, accept her decision and cool things down. Stay casual and don't pressure her.
 The difference between a good player and a jerk is that a jerk is willing to lie to a lady. You don't want to hook up with a woman who thinks this is the beginning of a long-term relationship. Let her know that you aren't looking for commitment, so that there are no awkward misunderstandings later.
 Follow your A-B-Cs and remember to always try to take your conversation to the next level. Your goal is to get your lady into bed, not to have a deep conversation about the meaning of life. When you hit it off with a lady, you should show her that you want to take it to the next level. Here's how:


Be casual. Just say something like, "You wanna get out of here?" Or, "How about we go somewhere where we can really talk?"
Put the moves on. Once you get your lady alone, touch her gently, or ask if you can take off her coat. Seduce her as quickly as you can, as long as she's into it.
 To be a true player, you have to show the ladies that you're not just all talk. Here's are some tips for being great in bed so the ladies put your on their speed dial:


Give your lady a massage. Massage her shoulders, her lower back, or even her feet, to show that you know how to touch her body.
Kiss with passion. Don't shove your tongue in your lady's mouth--start with a gentle kiss and work your way toward an all-out makeout.
Once you're in bed, take your time. Give your girl enough time to be ready for sex. Tease her, bite her gently, or do whatever you need to do to turn her on. Just don't rush into sex because that can just be painful and definitely not hot.
When it's over, be courteous. You don't have to spend hours cuddling in bed once the deed is done, but spending some time with your lady, gently kissing her, or letting her spend the night, will make her feel more special than if you instantly jump in the shower once your passion has run its course.
 Once you've had a good time with your new woman, it's important to have the right attitude so you can see her again if you want, or at least leave on a good note so she doesn't talk trash about you to her girlfriends. Here's how:


Be vague about when you'll see her again. Tell her you'll see her around. Don't try to set up a dinner date for the following week--that's not how players roll.
Be a gentleman. Help her put her coat on and walk her to the door or to her car. Make a good last impression so she doesn't think you're completely sleazy.
Don't overdo it with your flattery. Tell her you had a great time, but don't tell her you had the best night of your life. Be real and don't make her think you're something you're not.
End on a good note. As you say goodbye, make her laugh, give her a gentle kiss, or remind her of something from the night before. Make sure she wants to see you again--it's up to you to decide if you want to see her again or to move on. If you do want to see her again, give it a few days before you check in. Play on, player!

