 Some guys don’t mind not having the nicest things, some don’t care about the necessities, and others may not have the money to buy everything they need. This might be a new pair of shoes because his old ones have holes, or a new cellphone because his screen is cracked.


Getting a gift that he needs might not have the same “wow” factor as buying something he wants, but it’s likely to get a lot of use.
If his apartment needs repairs, some tools or a toolbox is a great gift.
 Even if the guy doesn’t admit that he needs anything, his friends or family might be more realistic. People who are personally close to the guy, especially those living with him, will have a good idea for things that he needs.Asking people the guy lives with will also prevent you from buying something he already has.
 Talking with your guy will give you good insight into what he needs. Try to not be too forward when you ask him what he needs so he won’t be offended. Instead, listen when you talk to him, and ask him questions to discover if he’s missing anything.


Some guys are more open than others. If you really can’t figure it out by talking to him, you may be able to be more direct and just ask him if he needs anything for his apartment or house.
 Many people have a limited budget when it comes to buying gifts for friends. Because of this, it’s always good to compare prices online and in department stores. Try to always go for the highest quality item, for whatever you are trying to get, so the guy will be impressed. If this isn’t in your budget then you should choose another gift.


Sometimes you’ll find the perfect gift in a place you wouldn’t expect like an outdoor market.
Getting the best price for the item will not only save you money, but will ensure you can upgrade to the best quality gift.
 If all else fails and you're not sure what to get, you can always get him a gift card. Think of what he likes to do and where he usually shops, and aim for a gift card from that store. Determine how close you are with him, how much you have to spend, and how useful the money will be towards a purchase. If you are just acquaintances a $20 or $25 gift card is an appropriate amount. If it's a family member, you most likely want to spend more if it's in your budget.


If he likes working with his hands, then getting a gift card from a hardware store would be a great option.
Gamers or computer nerds are easy to shop for. Get them a gift card to a gaming or electronics store.
If you're not sure what he likes, you can always buy him a general gift card that can be used at most locations that accept credit cards.

