 Feline glaucoma cannot be cured, and so treatment is aimed at controlling the buildup of pressure so that it does minimum harm. Unfortunately, by the time the eye is visibly swollen, the harm to the optic nerve is already done and many cats have lost their sight permanently.


If your cat has already lost its sight, it will need additional care to control the pain associated with glaucoma.
The pressure builds up within the eye because the fluid (aqueous humor) that is produced to keep the globe inflated, is produced faster than it is drained away. Treatment, then, is aimed at rebalancing the inflow and outflow of liquid. This is done by either reducing the production of aqueous humor or increasing the rate of drainage.;
, Medical treatments involve drops applied to the eyes that work to limit liquid in the eye. Unfortunately, they are less effective in more pronounced glaucoma, and work best when given as a preventative treatment for a healthy eye that is at high risk of glaucoma, or when a problem is spotted early. Medicines used for treatment include:Dorzolamide 2% drops: This is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that works by reducing the production of aqueous humor. This is the most effective treatment for cats and is generally applied 2 - 3 times a day.
Timolol 2.5%: This contains a beta blocker that encourages the drainage of aqueous humor out of the eye. It is applied 2 - 3 times daily but there is a slight risk, in some cases, of it lowering the heart rate and blood pressure.
Topical steroid drops: These decrease inflammation and so if the glaucoma is due to inflammation in the eye, taking that swelling down can improve drainage. The vet will carefully assess the patient to see if this is an appropriate treatment, since in some cases it can cause an increase in IOP.
Ocu-Glo: This is a complementary therapy, drops containing antioxidants which help nourish the cells responsible for draining fluid from the eye, which helps them to function with maximum efficiency., Surgical options are limited, especially since most cats have lost their sight by the time the glaucoma is diagnosed. This means that the kindest surgical option is usually to alleviate discomfort through enucleation (removing the eye).There is a complex specialist procedure whereby a special laser is inserted into the eye and is used to destroy some of the cells that produce aqueous humor. However, this is complex surgery that requires removal of the lens, and replacement with an artificial one. This procedure is not widely available and undertaken at only a few specialist centers.
 The vet may also prescribe systemic pain relief, such as drugs from the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory group. You will be responsible for giving your cat these drugs on a regular basis and to gauge whether you are giving it enough to alleviate its pain.


However, these can only be prescribed provided the cat is not using steroid drops.Relieving your cat's pain is an important part of caring for glaucoma. In fact, in severe cases it is sometimes the only course of action.
If you don't think your cat's pain is alleviated by the prescribed meds, contact your veterinarian and ask him or her to reevaluate the level of pain management.
 Make sure that your cat gets all the love, attention, and gentleness it needs after treatment, whatever treatment your cat is receiving. This means understanding that it may have limited physical ability for awhile and that you will have to give it special care.


As your cat loses its sight, you may need to make accommodations for it. For example, you may need to give it easier access to its litter box or move objects that could be a hazard to it if it can't see them.Your cat may act strangely while dealing with glaucoma. Understand that it is probably not feeling well and that your job is to make sure it is not uncomfortable or in pain, even if it is not its usual happy and loving self.
 If your cat has had surgery for its glaucoma, you will need to help it recover. Limit its activity and make sure that it not scratching or rubbing at stitches.Make sure that your cat's spaces are clean and comfortable. This will help it to feel better and limit the chances of infection.
 This is a painful condition, so your cat's temperament might change. It might become withdrawn or unexpectedly aggressive. The cat may also seem especially wary or uncomfortable if you move to touch the affected side of its face.In the early stages, the eye is liable to water, and the cat may squint and partially close the eyelids on the affected side.
 Hold your cat still and look at its eyes. One clear sign of glaucoma is that eye appears bigger than the other. This enlargement is caused by the pressure building in the eye.


Also, the cornea may take on a misty or blue appearance as it stretches.
The pupil may also be round and dilated.
 Many cats with glaucoma become blind suddenly. Be suspicious of sudden blindness if your cat starts bumping into objects or seems unsure of its footing.


If you are at all suspicious that your cat has glaucoma, then a vet check is essential.
 The vet will examine the eye, looking for signs of underlying inflammation, as well as changes suggestive of glaucoma. The majority of cats suffer from glaucoma as a result of inflammation in the eye, which blocks the draining of fluid (aqueous humor) causing it to build up.That inflammation can be the result of a variety of causes such as a knock to the eye, or infection with Feline Infectious Peritonitis (FIP), Feline Immunodeficiency virus, or high blood pressure, or cancer of the eye.
 To complete the examination of the eye, the vet uses a device called a tonometer. This instrument measures the pressure within the eye and is essential to a diagnosis of glaucoma.The most accurate devices are very expensive pieces of equipment and your cat may need referral to a specialist to get this test done., The vet may also want to run blood tests or other diagnostic tests. This will help him or her rule out the presence of underlying diseases, such as Feline Infectious Peritonitis.


Additional testing will cost you more money, so understand this before agreeing to the tests.
It's especially important to understand if a test will result in better care for your pet or if it will just result in a specific diagnosis but no change to treatment.Ask your veterinarian if the tests he or she wants to perform will affect treatment or health outcomes.

