 Chipotle sauce can be made with any type of rich, creamy base. Choose the one that has your preferred flavor and consistency. If you have extra ingredients on hand, combining more than one creamy base will result in a sauce with a little more depth. Try one of following combinations:1/2 cup sour cream and 1/2 cup mayonnaise for an extra-decadent sauce
1/2 cup yogurt and 1/2 cup sour cream for a lighter version of chipotle sauce
1/3 cup sour cream, 1/3 cup yogurt and 1/3 cup mayonnaise for the creamiest consistency;
, Chipotle peppers are actually dried jalapeño peppers. The drying process lends them their classic smoky, spicy flavor. When you buy them canned in adobo sauce (look in the section of the grocery store that carries Mexican food products), they've been rehydrated to make them easier to blend. Depending on how how you want your chipotle sauce to be, place one or two peppers in the food processor.


If you know you can take the heat, don't be afraid to add a third pepper.
Spoon in a tablespoon or two of the adobo sauce for extra smoky flavor.
 These two ingredients aren't strictly necessary, but they really enhance the flavor of the sauce. Drop the entire peeled garlic clove into the food processor. Cut a lime into quarters and squeeze the juice into the mix, too.


You can substitute the juice of half a lemon for the lime juice.Try adding 1/2 teaspoon of garlic powder if you don't have fresh garlic.
 Process the sauce until the chunks of pepper and garlic have blended with the creamy base to create a smooth, pourable puree. The red hue of the adobo liquid will give your sauce the classic reddish chipotle hue.
 Dip a spoon into the mixture and taste the sauce. It may already contain just enough salt and spice to suit your needs. If it still needs something extra, add 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Replace the lid on your food processor and blend for another 15 seconds.Sour cream, mayonnaise and chipotle peppers in adobo all contain sodium, so you may not need extra spices.
You can also squeeze in more lemon juice or add more garlic at this time.
 Whether you're serving it as a dip or a condiment, you'll want to transfer it from the food processor to a serving bowl. Use a spoon to scrape down the sides of the food processor container.


If you want to get fancy, you can pour the sauce into a squirt bottle. This will allow you to control how you drizzle the sauce over your food.
If you don't have a squirt bottle, use a clean ketchup or salad dressing bottle.
 Chipotle sauce can be used in a variety of dishes. A little chipotle sauce can make a regular meal taste restaurant-quality. You can use chipotle sauce as a dip for tortilla chips, or try it in the following ways:


Make a chipotle grilled cheese sandwich. Spread the sauce on the bread before grilling.
Use it as a condiment for fish tacos.Make chipotle nachos. Drizzle the sauce over nachos after the cheese has melted.
Serve it with grilled chicken salad. Chipotle sauce makes a delicious salad dressing.
 Since it contains perishable ingredients, the chipotle sauce should be kept in the refrigerator. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap or transfer the sauce to an airtight food storage container. The sauce will keep in the refrigerator for three to four days.

