 Before you proceed with any natural or homemade remedies, check with your child's pediatrician. The doctor will be able to confirm the diagnosis and give you a professional medical opinion about what treatment will be best for your infant. While many home treatments for thrush appear to be safe, keep in mind that your baby’s digestive and immune systems are still fairly immature, and your pediatrician may want to proceed with caution.;
, Acidophilus is a powdered form of the bacteria typically found in a healthy gastrointestinal tract. Yeast and intestinal bacteria balance each other in the human body, and often taking antibiotics or developing thrush allows a spike in yeast growth. Taking acidophilus may help reduce yeast growth and treat the causes of thrush in infants.Make a paste by combining acidophilus powder with clean water or breastmilk.Rub this paste in the baby's mouth once daily until the thrush clears up.You can also add one teaspoon of acidophilus powder to formula or breastmilk if the child is bottle feeding. Administer acidophilus once daily until the thrush clears up., If your child is able to swallow yogurt, your pediatrician may recommend that you add unsweetened lactobacilli yogurt to your child's diet. This works similarly to acidophilus, by balancing out the yeast population in your child's gastrointestinal tract.If your child is not old enough to swallow yogurt, try applying it with a clean cotton swab to the affected area. Only use a small amount of yogurt and supervise your child closely to ensure that he does not choke on the yogurt., Grapefruit seed extract, when mixed with distilled water and administered daily, may help treat the symptoms of thrush in some children.Mix 10 drops of GSE in one ounce of distilled water. Some doctors believe that the antibacterial treatment of tap water may reduce the efficacy of GSE.Use a clean cotton swab to apply the GSE mixture to your child's mouth once every hour during all waking hours.Swab the child's mouth prior to nursing. This may help reduce the bitter taste associated with nursing while the child is afflicted with thrush, and can help him return to a normal feeding schedule.If the thrush does not improve significantly by the second day of treatment, you may try increasing the strength of the GSE mixture by dissolving 15 to 20 drops of GSE into one ounce of distilled water, instead of the original 10 drops., Coconut oil contains caprylic acid, which may help fight the yeast infection that causes thrush.Use a clean cotton swab to apply coconut oil to the affected area.Consult with your pediatrician before trying coconut oil, as some children may be allergic to coconut oil.
 A baking soda paste can help treat thrush at the site of affliction, and can be used both on the mother's nipples (if nursing) and on the child's mouth.Mix one teaspoon of baking soda with eight ounces of water.Apply the paste to the mouth with a clean cotton swab.
 Mix 1/2 teaspoon of salt in one cup of warm water.Then apply the solution affected area using a clean cotton swab.