 Regular exercise can reduce blood pressure and also reduce blood sugar, “bad” fats, and cholesterol, as well as help you reduce excess weight. – All of these are factors that have been indirectly linked to the hardening of arteries. Regular exercise will also help you to strengthen your heart muscle and improve your overall health. You should aim for at least 2 hours and 30 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise each week or 1 hour and 15 minutes of intense exercise. The more active you are, the more you will benefit. Participate in aerobic exercise for at least ten minutes at a time spread throughout the week.Plan to do exercises that will elevate your heart rate and oxygen use but that you can sustain at low or moderate intensity for an extended period. Some exercises that fit this recommendation are walking, running, swimming, cycling, jumping rope, or rowing.Experts also recommend two to three 20-30 minute weight training sessions every week, in addition to cardio. Weight training builds lean muscle mass and is part of a healthy workout regimen., The Mayo Clinic suggests that you go at your own pace. If you are not currently exercising, start gradually by walking and performing other low-impact activities that you feel comfortable doing. Give yourself plenty of time to warm up and then gently increase the intensity. As your stamina increases, gradually lengthen the amount of time that you exercise to 30 to 60 minutes each session. Listen to your body, as well and stop if you feel pain, nausea, dizziness, or shortness of breath., Plan your week in order to fit in exercise. If finding time is hard, try to work exercise into your daily routine. Walk to work or to run errands, for example, take the stairs rather than the elevator, or watch your favorite TV shows while on a treadmill.Exercise partners can hold you accountable and create a more social atmosphere. By joining a group such as aerobics, a sports league, or another structured program you may get more enjoyment out of exercise.

