 Physical abuse, also called direct abuse or prolonged abuse, is the unlawful act or practice of physically using force on an animal; and not for illegitimate reasons. Physical abuse is considered the worst among any other form of abuse, because it can cause prolonged or long-term problems on any animal, including a dog. If you can identify the signs of physical abuse on a dog, you might be able to present this as helpful evidence to the court when suing an owner, making it more likely to be believed.

Signs of physical abuse include, but are not limited to, large bruising anywhere on the dog's body that are clear and visible, scarring, marks that appear and reappear on a regular basis, or bald spots on the dog's fur that do not go away and constantly appear. If you suspect physical abuse, you should contact the Animal Abuse Hotline as soon as possible to get help, especially if you are repeatedly seeing it.
A physically abused dog may also appear to be limping; in some cases, this is considered to be normal. However, if you suspect a dog is constantly limping on a regular basis, this will raise a red flag. Call for help; the longer you wait, the worse it becomes.
Do not assume a dog isn't suffering from abuse just because a certain area looks safe to you. You might be missing the reality of the situation.;
, In the worst case scenario, a dog can be emotionally influenced by the abuse its owner inflicts, and unfortunately this is almost always the case with every abused animal. If a dog is influenced, it becomes more difficult over time to bring the animal back to reality. While not necessarily vital, it may help you to further assess the situation and get the dog out of there and to safety.

Signs of mental/emotional abuse in a dog include: unusual or abnormal changes in a dog's impairment, excessive barking, and abrupt behavioral changes, such as prolonged aggression. Aggression, in this case, is very important, and should not be taken lightly.
Prolonged or repeated aggression strongly signals a problem, even if a dog has not shown any type of aggression in the past. A dog can be emotionally driven from abuse to act differently and may begin defending its territory excessively. You should pay extra close attention to the dog's body language and visual impairment.
An abused dog can also act frightened or scared whenever you or someone else comes near. If you suspect this, it will raise a red flag and indicates a huge problem. If the dog is being repeatedly abused, it will show excessive shyness and by all means should not be ignored.
 Environmental, while not particularly as dangerous as the other forms of abuse, can still have a huge impact on an animal's health. Environmental abuse occurs when an animal is forced to live in unsafe conditions. In some cases, it may even influence a dog to respond differently.

Environmental abuse typically is identified whenever an animal lives around an environment with poor or unstable conditions. This means that if you suspect this type of abuse on a dog, you should take it seriously; assume the dog is living in a poor environment.
If you see any dog that is constantly being tied or chained up outside on a regular basis, even in inclement weather, that is a sign of environmental abuse and you should be able to report it immediately.
Also note the signs of neglect; while not serious, it does pose a harmful effect. If you suspect the owner is failing to give an adequate supply of food and water to a dog, if the coat of a dog appears matted or tangled, if the dog looks extremely emaciated, etc. you should report it as soon as possible. If you can, take pictures from your phone or a camera to present as evidence.

