 Fold the triangle into two as shown. Make point X touch CD.





Cut on the folded line parallel to CD.





Open the new shape.





Cut the points B - B1 and D - D1.





Join B - B1 and D - D1 with staples.





Here are the current views.




;
,





Cut along the dotted line as shown.





Join the line O-B to O-D and staple them together.





Cut a small hole on the top of pyramid (at point O).





Fix bottle top to the apex as shown.





Join the white netting material (Piece D) to the final product of step 1.







Fold material into two halves.





Mark the mid point at the top X and the mid point at the bottom Y.






From point X measure 1/4m to the left and 1/4m to the right.






Mark the points E and F respectively.






From point Y measure 1/2m to the left and 1/2m to the right.






Mark the point H and G.






Draw a line joining points E-H and F-G.






From point F measure 1m and mark the point I.






From point E measure 1m and mark the point J.






From point J measure 1/2 m downwards and mark this point M.






From point I measure 1/2 m downwards and mark this point N.






From point M measure 1/4 m towards the right and mark it K.






Repeat the same for point N as shown and mark it L.






Draw lines joining points J-K and I-L.







Fit E1 to E, F1 to F, G1 to G, and H1 to H.






Staple along EG and FH.







From point L1 measure 6 inches (15.2 cm) and fold the flap using staples.





Repeat the same at point K1.






Fit J1 to J, I1 to I, K1 to K, L1 to L and staple along J-K and I-L.





Join final product of step two to final product of step five with staples by fitting A C D to J X I.
,, Firmly peg the back poles. Fasten the trap with pieces of wire to the back poles. Peg in the two side poles and fasten the trap so that the entrance faces the proper direction. Prepare the centre pole by fixing three nails of three inches each with a clearance of two inches each at the top and peg it firmly. Fix the netting on bottle top and support it by the nails at the top of the centre pole.
, The attractant container should be covered with a lid that has a small aperture for slowing down the releasing odours as the attractant evaporates.
 The polythene bag is used as a cage for holding and suffocating tsetse flies. The sunlight attracts tsetse flies into the cage, which get killed by the heat from the sun. Dead flies in the cage or regularly disposed. For purposes of keeping records, tsetse fly catches are counted and recorded. The tsetse fly catches can also be sorted by age or sex for recording.

