 It would be good for you to approach them, introduce yourself and ask if you can help them with anything. If they say yes and tell you the problem, try to help as efficiently as possible. If they say no, then just believe it and go on your way.;
, When giving directions, you might need to use a little calculations. For example, say, "You will turn left in about 20 feet (6.1 m), and it is the first doorway on your left." They should be confident enough in finding it with their cane from there.
 This will allow them to find your elbow. They will grip you right above your elbow. Go to the arm which does not have the cane or their guide dog. Before you start walking, ensure that the person is a half-step behind you and slightly to your side. Choose a pace that would be comfortable. Be on the lookout for any obstacles on the path of his feet, as well as to the side or his head height. Let him know in good time to avoid tripping.
 Motion him to walk behind by moving your arm near the middle of your back. Ensure he is still holding on to your arm as he steps behind you. Once done with the passage, bring your arm to its usual place to regain the usual position at your side.
 Pause at the bottom to allow them to find the first step. Pause at the top to let them know that is the last step. If needed, switch sides with them ensure that he is on the side of the handrail.
 This is very important to the blind person, because if you lose contact with him, he might think you are leaving him. The easiest way is for you to stay still, and then have him hold on to your former guiding arm with both hands. One arm should move to your other hand before letting the former hand go, to settle into the new position on your other side.
 Help by opening the door for them, and if necessary, holding it open for them. If they are more experienced, they will put their hand up to hold the door open for themselves. While entering or exiting a room, you want the visually impaired person to be on the side of the door with the hinges. If the person is on the hinged side, once you pass through the doorway, he should be able to ease it closed using his free hand.
 However, it is not very necessary. They can figure it out by sensing your body movements.
 Tell them what kind of seat it is (chair with wheels, has arms, a back).
