 The first thing you should know about a Capricorn guy is that he is bound to be very driven. The best places to meet your perfect Capricorn guy include work functions, charity events, or career-boosting functions. Capricorn guys are dedicated to getting to the top of their industries, so putting on your game face and excelling at a career function is sure to help you capture your Capricorn’s eye., Capricorn men are pretty reserved. Because of this, they tend to be attractive towards partners who dress in a sophisticated but more conservative manner. Breaking out your flashing stilettos and cut-out dress is probably not the best way to attract your man. Go for a classy look with a touch of femininity., Capricorn guys are attracted to intellect above anything else. Regardless of the gorgeous outfit you’re wearing or your ridiculously gorgeous face, if you come across as ditzy or rather air-headed, your Capricorn may lose interest. Instead, show off your beautiful brain by engaging him in some stellar conversation. However, keep your cool and remain composed--don’t guffaw if he makes a joke.


Don’t be afraid to show off that witty humor either--Capricorns can often have a humorous streak that runs on the sarcastic side.
 Capricorns have a hard time opening up to others. Before he lets you in, he will have to know that he can trust you. Be honest and open with him but expect that it will take him a bit longer to share his inner workings with you. Your Capricorn guy will take his time, but with help from you--showing you are supportive, displaying ways you are trustworthy--he will eventually let you into his heart.Be cautious that you do not betray your Capricorn’s trust, even if unintentionally. Once a Capricorn guy feels betrayed, he generally is very slow to let you back in--if he does at all.
 One thing a Capricorn guy will not participate in is a relationship mind game. If you are into him, make it clear and then wait for him to meet you halfway. Do not try to make him jealous by parading another guy around in front of him, acting passive aggressively, or playing ‘hard to get’. With a Capricorn guy, this will have the opposite of the desired effect--he will move on speedily and without a glance back., The best way to get to know your Capricorn guy, and show him that you’re the real deal, is by taking the first leap. Invite him over for dinner, on a picnic, or to do something else just the two of you. Inviting him to a big party will generally make him uneasy, while inviting him for dinner will most likely make him open up. This is also your time to shine--bring up topics that you are passionate about and allow him to relaxing into a stimulating conversation.
 Capricorn men are known to become friends with a woman before actually considering dating her. Because of this, your patience will probably be tried. While courting the Capricorn, don’t rush him or push him into anything. He will come to his own conclusions as you spend more and more time with him. Keep his attention on you by showing him you support his endeavors. Attending a fundraiser he puts on, reading an article he has written, or giving him a sincere compliment will show him that you can be a supportive partner.
 Capricorn men are known to take their love lives--like their jobs--very seriously. As such, your Capricorn will probably not be the cheating type. Once he has fallen for you, he will work hard to keep your relationship going. Though it takes Capricorn guys a while to open up, once he has made his decision about you, know that you have a very devoted guy by your side.
 Capricorn is known as the workaholic of the zodiac signs. He takes his job very seriously and will be working overtime on occasion. Be prepared for this and know that it is not a sign of him losing interest in your relationship. He really does just take his job seriously and wants to do the best work he can.
 Capricorns seek stability--they want someone who is devoted and serious about the relationship. Hysterics or mind games will turn a Capricorn off a relationship. If he upsets you, tell him what he has done and why it upsets you. Your Capricorn wants to make you happy and when you tell him directly what you need or what you dislike, he will do everything in his power to make sure he does not upset you in that way again.
 A Capricorn’s idea of a perfect relationship is one that empowers both individuals. Support him in his endeavors just as he will support you in yours. Because he is bound to be driven, you should have your own independent goals and ideas that you are working on. The best relationship with a Capricorn man comes out of being both supportive and independent.
 While a Capricorn man might be reserved in his day to day life, he can be a surprisingly passionate lover in the bedroom. Capricorns have an excellent attention to detail that also makes them great lovers. Meet his passion with your own.However, keep in mind that Capricorns are rather traditional - he will most likely not be into role playing, or other things on the kinkier side of the bedroom spectrum.
 This means throwing him a surprise birthday party is probably not the best idea. As you learned when trying to capture his attention, Capricorns only up to a select group of close friends and family. They take their time before letting others into their circle of trust. Because of this, a night out at his favorite bar with a group of his close friends, or a night at home spent with you, is more his speed than dancing at a crowded club or going to a party where he doesn’t know many people.


Your Capricorn guy will be really appreciative if you can take the lead in social settings that make him uncomfortable. Having an ability to be sociable is a great asset to a Capricorn.
 Capricorn guys enjoy functional things that aren’t particularly flashy. Rather than getting him that $2,000 watch with all those rhinestones, think along the lines of a Swiss Army knife or a grill for those backyard barbecues he loves so much.
 PDA (public displays of affection) are not really the Capricorn’s cup of tea. While holding hands is probably fine (he might even prefer holding hands because of his protective nature) making out in the middle of a busy street will probably make him feel a bit uneasy. Capricorns don’t really like having their private lives become public knowledge, so you may want to think twice before grabbing him by the suit lapels and giving him a smooch in public.This also applies to gossiping about your Capricorns. These guys are really private. If word gets back to him that you have been exposing the secrets of your relationship to everyone who will listen, he might feel betrayed or lose trust in you. Only discuss your love life with the friends you know you can trust.

