 First, decide exactly how high the headboard should be from the floor. Next, measure the height of the headboard itself to determine where the headboard cleat needs to be installed. Then mark the following measurements in pencil on the wall:The height of the headboard’s bottom from the floor.
The height of its top from the floor.
A fourth of the way down from its top (for the cleat).
 Use a stud-finder to locate studs behind the wall in the area where the headboard will be mounted. For a single cleat, find two consecutive studs that are closest to the center of your bed. Mark each one’s location with pencil on the wall at the height of your third measurement (a fourth of the way down from the top of headboard).Always mount your cleat to studs, even if it isn’t perfectly centered over your bed. A slightly off-center cleat mounted to studs will be stronger than a perfectly centered cleat attached to drywall.
King-size headboards require two cleats. In this case, find four consecutive studs that are closest to your bed’s center.
Standard spacing between studs is 16” (41 cm).
 Screw the cleat into the studs. Test to make sure it is secure and immobile. Then measure from the bottom of the cleat to where the bottom of the headboard will be once mounted.Always test the cleat before hanging your headboard to make sure it is strong enough to support its weight.
 To find out where to attach the cleat plate, refer to your instructions, since the size of the cleat and plate may vary by brand or model. Determine exactly how much height to add to your previous measurement. Then mark the back of your headboard at this new height.Make sure the placement of your marks on the headboard align with the cleat on the wall.
The cleat plate on the back of the headboard should fit directly over the installed cleat.
 First, mount your headboard by lifting its cleat plate up and over the installed cleat so it fits between that and the wall. Next, use your stud-finder to locate two new studs behind the headboard, one on each side, nearest to either end. Support the headboard from the bottom by installing an angle iron in each stud. Refer to your cleat’s instructions for the recommended size iron.Also check for recommendations about attaching spacers toward the bottom of the headboard’s back. The cleat may cause the headboard to project from the wall toward the top. Spacers toward the bottom will keep the headboard straight. The recommended size may vary by brand or model.

