 This 24 hour detox is designed to remove toxins from the liver and flush gallstones from the gall bladder.


It has helped people alleviate and cure problems such as chronic acne, yeast infection and symptoms associated with leaky gut.
To perform this cleanse, all you'll need is Epsom salts, extra virgin olive oil and one large grapefruit.;
, In the days leading up to the detox, you should eat a lot of apples and drink as much apple juice as possible — this prepares the liver for the detox.


On the last day before you start the detox, try to drink 8oz of apple juice every 2 - 3 hours.
On the morning of the detox, eat a light breakfast that contains no fat. A healthy smoothie or some wholegrain cereal with fruit are two good options.
 At 2pm on the day of the detox, mix 4 tablespoons of Epsom salts in 3 cups of water.


Pour the salt mixture into a large jar or jug and leave the cool in the fridge. Do not eat any food after 2 pm.
At 6pm drink 3/4 cup of the salt mixture. If you find the taste difficult to stomach, you can mix in a little powdered vitamin C. Drink another 3/4 cup of the salt mix at 8pm.
 At 9.45pm, juice a large grapefruit (you should end up with 1/2 to 3/4 cup of juice) and pour it into a jar.


Add 1/2 cup of virgin olive oil, then replace the lid and shake the jar vigorously to combine.
Drink this grapefruit and oil mixture (through a straw if necessary) and then go to bed and lie down immediately — this is important for the cleanse to work property.
Lie on your right side with your right knee tucked up towards your chest. Try to sleep.
 The next morning, drink another 3/4 cup of the Epsom salts immediately upon waking, then drink the final portion 2 hours later.


After another 2 hours, you can transition back to drinking fruit juice and to solid food two hours after that — just make sure that whatever you eat is light and healthy.
You can expect to have one or more bowel movements the morning of the liver cleanse. You may see round, green stones in your waste — these are gallstones. Having gallstones in your waste is completely normal and means that the cleanse has worked well.