 Sometimes a wild animal may get inside or near your home. Check attics, basements, crawl spaces, and porches. Any hairy, warm-blooded animal, from rats to racoons, can introduce more fleas to your home. Remove pests and seal hiding spots before attempting to fix the flea problem., Fumigation is likely regulated by your government. The process involves highly toxic gasses. It is always best to seek the help of a professional. They will seal your home and make it into a safe environment free of both fleas and pesticides.
 Anything alive must be removed from the fumigation area. This includes pets and plants as well as family. Do not allow anyone to breathe in the pesticides. Wait until the gasses dissipate before reentering the area., The gas will taint food, medicine, or other products that you consume. Seal them inside metal or plastic containers. Mattresses and pillows can also absorb chemicals, exposing you to them even after your home is deemed safe. If you can’t remove something, seal it inside a gas-resistant plastic bag.
 Closets, cupboards, drawers, cabinets, and safes should all be opened. If an object has a door on it, open it. This will allow the gas into the dark, closed areas where fleas like to hide. Be safe and open every area that you can.
 During fumigation, the area to be treated is sealed off by a tarp. Professional exterminators will do this for you. The gas fumigants should not be able to escape this area. Make sure all ventilation strips are closed tightly on the tarp., The tarp may have a pump that allows gas to be safely pumped through from the outside. Another option is industrial fog machines. Cold fog machines work best for indoor areas and spread pesticides in small droplets. Wear a gas mask before using a fog machine inside the sealed area.
 After the pesticides are in place, they will be left alone for a day or two. At this point, severe infestations should be neutralized. Use a handheld air quality detector to monitor the safety of your environment.
 Even after you are allowed back into your home, gas may still linger. Keep doors and windows open. Turn on fans. Allow the air circulate until your home is free of smells or chemical concerns.