 Top tier networks such as ESPN usually want to see applicants with college degrees. Depending on the branch of the network that you want to work with, there are multiple degrees that would compliment your employment.


A degree in broadcasting or journalism would be a good background for a reporter.
Technical degrees such as electrical engineering would help behind the scenes support roles with ESPN.
A degree in marketing or business would help you get involved on the sales and operations side of the network.;
, While in school, get involved in extracurricular activities that provide opportunities working in media and journalism. If your school has a news broadcast, try to get involved as an anchor, reporter, or cameraman to gain experience into how broadcasts are created., Media and television companies like to hire people who have experience working with the industry. A good way to begin working with a company like ESPN is to work as an intern for a broadcasting company. Making connections within the industry and gaining first hand experience are invaluable compensation provided by internships.After an internship working at a local network could be a good bridge to obtaining employment with a national network like ESPN.
Find a job with a smaller station to get started as a newscaster or working with network operations.
 ESPN is dedicated to the coverage of sports; becoming knowledgeable about all types and levels of sports is an important part of working with the network.Follow multiple sports from all over the world. Don’t focus on your favorite sport, but rather broaden your knowledge to include less popular sporting events as well.
Keep up with players, teams, and statistics. It is important to know an overview of a particular sport, but it is also very important to have specific player’s statistics as a part of your knowledge base.
 Because ESPN is such a diverse company, any job history can be applied to positions within the Network. Sales, advertising, customer service, and media positions can all provided useful experiences to get involved with the network.


Show the network that you have dedication to your position and work at one job for an extended period. When employers see multiple jobs over a short time they worry about your ability to stay in a position.
 If you have a friend or family member who works in broadcasting or television, ask them for names of contacts in the industry. Seek out advice from people who are connected to the television industry to learn as much as you can about the ins and outs of television.
 Many corporations do active recruiting on social media websites such as Linkedin. Create a professional profile highlighting your relevant experience to the industry.Seek people in Human Resources and Recruiting to find out about new job openings.
Invite current ESPN workers to join your network to connect with people on the inside.
 Go to sporting events and try to speak with reporters and ESPN support staff attending the event. Any connections that you can make with people who are already employed with the network will help you gain exposure to the people making hiring decisions.
 Many schools host networking events where they invite former students to network with current students. Sign up to attend these events to gain valuable connections to people working in the field.


Check your university's alumni association webpage to find out when they are hosting events.
 Browse the current listing of open positions through ESPN.com’s career page.Choose the branch of ESPN’s operations that you want to be involved with.Career opportunities range from support positions, broadcasting roles, to sales and advertising. There are many moving parts to make the ESPN networks so successful.
 Fill out all the parts of the online application. Make sure that your work history and contact information is correct. Any discrepancies could cost you the opportunity.
 In addition to completing the online application, it is a good idea to submit a resume and cover letter directly to the hiring manager or supervisor for the position. Use your network of connections to find out what department and manager is hiring for the position you are applying for. Send an email with your resume attached directly to the hiring manager.Online applications are often screened by a computerized system; place your resume on top of the pile by sending it directly to the hiring manager.
 The process of getting a job only begins when you submit an application. Stay involved with the process by reaching out to the department you’ve applied for.Send an email to the hiring manager a few days after your application has been submitted. Be gracious and professional and inquire about the status of your application.
 After meeting with someone, on the phone or face to face, be sure to send a thank you email to express your gratitude for the opportunity. Ask about the next steps in the hiring process so the person who interviewed you is more likely to respond.