 A good running hill will be fairly steep and at least 40 yards long. Unless you know of such a place (and its length) off the top of your head, you’ll probably want to drive around in your car and check out some nearby places.If you don’t have a car, then take a walk around the area or ride the bus if one is available.
Depending on the hill you choose, you may need to consider traffic flow, availability of sidewalks or berms (if running on the road), lighting, foliage, and the general safety of the area that you will be running in. As with any athletic activity, it’s important to be aware of the conditions and plan your attire appropriately, including whether to running shoes or cross-trainers.
 Jog for 2–4 minutes on a flat area near the hill. If you really prefer it, however, you can do a light jog up and back down the hill to get your body ready for the sprinting workout.
 Even though you’ll be sprinting up the hill, you’ll want to do your stretching on flat ground so as not to over-tire yourself. Dynamic stretches are performed while walking, and you can help prevent injury if you do a limited number of these before beginning your sprinting workout.


Aim to spend about 5–10 minutes stretching before doing hill sprints. Some particularly good stretches for this type of workout are high knees, butt kicks, and toy soldiers. Stretch until you feel energized—not fatigued., You can increase with each sprint, but only by about 10%. If you’re new to sprinting, or not in great shape, you may want to wait until the third or fourth session to go all-out on any of your sprints., Walking down the hill will give your body time to recuperate between sprints.If you still feel too fatigued after getting to the bottom of the hill, walk on flat ground for another 15–30 seconds before beginning the next sprint.
 Steeper hills require shorter strides and vice versa. It is important to pay attention to your running form so that you avoid injury.


Don’t stare at the ground! Hold your chin at the normal level and keep your eyes looking forward.You should keep your torso upright and the balls of your feet should land directly under your chest. Do not lean forward when running.Hills sprints have a great fitness pay-off but are very challenging—if you’re unable to maintain proper form, then you should stop to avoid injury and over-work.
 Hill sprints are more intense than sprinting on flat ground, so you shouldn’t push yourself too hard during your first session. Try running 4 or 5 sprints at 75% intensity.
 Spend 5–10 minutes lowering your heart rate and keeping cramps at bay by walking or lightly jogging on flat ground.
 Because it is such a high intensity workout, you should aim for about two sessions of hill sprints a week, allowing two to three days in between each session so that your muscles have time to recover.

