 If you want to heat up some of your leftover Chinese take-out, never microwave them in the containers they come in when you order it. The containers have a a metal handle which can easily start a fire to your microwave. All metal objects are a big no-no when it comes to microwaving food; They're easy targets to start a spark in your microwave. , Napkins, lunch bags, plastic bags, and newspapers are not safe materials to microwave. The intense heat from the microwave causes the paper materials to burns, letting out toxic fumes and starting a fire to your microwave. Avoid them at all costs and never heat them up. , Plastic containers that are used only once such as yogurt, sour cream, and margarine containers should never be heated in the microwave. These containers are only supposed to be used once; Once used they should either be thrown out or recycled. If microwaved, the plastic material will melt, let out chemicals to the food, and start a fire from the intense heat. , Many people have stated they've tried boiling eggs in the microwave and said its worked like a charm. However, it is not recommended. If you heat the egg for too long or if the microwave settings are too high, the egg will crack and explode from the rapid heat inside of the shell. If the explosion is bad enough, it could start a fire, especially if you microwave the egg raw without any water to boil.The safest way to microwave eggs is by cracking them before you heat them up. Some people enjoy making scrambled eggs in the microwave by cracking the egg in a mug and cooking it in the microwave, stirring it from time to time to ensure it doesn't overflow. Since there is no eggshell, the egg won't explode. , Styrofoam is a type of plastic and plastics and heat do not go together. Many people microwave their Styrofoam take-out containers without realizing the spark it can start. The intense heat catches the containers on fire and causes the containers to melt. , A few fruits can be microwaved without turning into a fire, but the most common fruits you want to avoid microwaving is grapes and raisins. Some people think that microwaving grapes will turn them into raisins, but if they're microwaved, it actually explodes and turns into plasma. If you microwave raisins, they will begin to smoke and catch on fire. , Metal and microwaves do not mix. Even if your plate isn't made of metal, if it has a metallic trim, it isn't safe from the sparks of the microwave. Be sure before you microwave any food, you check to be sure that the dishes you are using doesn't have a metallic trim. The metal will react to the heat and damage your microwave and dish. , Tupperware or plastic storage containers are never a safe material to heat up in the microwave because they're made of plastic, an easy target for a fire. They can easily melt when heated and start a flame when microwaved. There are some microwave-safe plastic storage containers, but be sure to check the container before you microwave it. , Soups, sauces, oatmeal, and other similar foods have a high chance of overflowing when microwaved from the amount of heat the microwave uses. Be sure to keep any of these foods covered by covering it with a microwave-safe lid or placing another dish underneath it. Some spills can reach into the microwave's machinery which could possibly start a fire.

For example, to avoid a fire from overflowing foods, you might place a bowl of chicken soup on top of dish to protect your microwave from its spills.
 Hot peppers probably create a fire inside your mouth, but they can also create one inside your microwave, too. Cooking hot peppers inside a microwave is never a safe idea. The hot peppers will catch on fire and when you open the microwave door, the chemicals from the hot pepper will release into the air, giving your eyes and throat painful sting. If you need to cook hot peppers, the best idea would be to cook them by baking or grilling them. Microwaving them is a big no-no.
 Some people microwave their travels mugs to reheat their cup of coffee or tea. Truth is, microwaving a travel mug isn't really safe and is an easy fire starter for a microwave. Most travel mugs are made from stainless steel which can damage your microwave. Some travel mugs are also made of plastic which isn't safe to heat up as well. Some travel mugs are microwaveable, however. Check the bottom of the mug to see if it states that the mug is safe to microwave. , Aluminum foil is a type of metal and metals are never safe when they're heated in a microwave. Even if this type of metal is a foil to wrap food, it's not safe to microwave at all and has a high chance of starting a fire. , Some people attempt to dry off wet clothing in the microwaves, a very unsafe tactic to try out. Most clothes are made out of cotton material, and the intense heat from the microwave is prone to start a fire. A microwave is not a substitute for a dryer; Microwaving clothes could cause them to smoke and flame out into sparks. , Some frozen foods that are meant to be microwaved come with food package materials. Unless the directions on the frozen food state to microwave the materials, never heat them up in the microwave. It has a high chance of causing a fire. , Most people won't intentionally put the microwave on for no reason at all, but some people put the microwave on to set easy timers. This isn't safe and is prone to start a fire. The microwave needs something to absorb, and when there's nothing to absorb, the microwave absorbs itself. This causes the microwave to self-destruct, blowing up, and turning into a pile of flames. , When you buy a brand new microwave, it's very important to always read the manufacturers operating procedures and safety precautions first. This is an important set of instructions on how to use your microwave without you being prone to starting a fire. , This is especially important if you're heating up meals that take longer than three minutes. The longer the food cooks, the more likely it is to overflow, burn, and flame up into a fire. Be sure to periodically check your microwave and food to see what's going on as it cooks. , Unless you have experience fixing microwaves, never attempt to fix your microwave if it has broken down or has a problem. This cooking appliance includes magnetron, high voltage transformer, thermal protectors, and complex circuits. If you try to fix it and end up making a mistake when doing so, you have a high chance of your microwave breaking down even worse than before and possibly catching on fire when trying to be used. , Damaged power cords or plugs are a big fire starter to microwaves. Electric shocks can happen if the microwave is on and then it can lead to a bunch of flames. Be sure all power cords and plugs are in proper shape and are working well. , Most of those burned using a microwave are under the age of five. Be sure that if you live with any children, they are not keen to touching the microwave. Kids have creative minds and may end up starting a fire unintentionally if they play around with this cooking appliance.


To avoid children from touching the microwave, you can place the microwave in a higher area so they're unable to reach it. You can also install baby gates to avoid them from entering the kitchen.
 While the microwave is on, never put any objects on top of it, especially if the material is made out of metal, paper, or plastic. The heat from the microwave will cause the objects to melt, smoke, and then turn into a nasty fire. Keep any materials away from the microwave when it's in use. , If food is cooked for too long, it will begin to burn, start smoking, and then eventually turn into a fire. Be sure you constantly check the food while it heats up to avoid it from overcooking. You may also want to check the instructions on how long the food needs to cook in the microwave. For example, when making microwave popcorn, you may want to check the package instructions on how long to cook the popcorn to avoid it from overcooking.
 Any type of cookware, whether it's glass, plastic, or ceramic containers, must be checked to ensure they microwave-safe. Usually on the back of the cookware it'll state whether if the material is microwavable or not. When buying new cookware, be sure to check the package instructions to see if the material is microwavable or not, too.
 Sometimes when food splatters around in the microwave, it can enter into the microwave's machinery and cause a fire. Placing microwaveable paper covers underneath or on top of the cookware will prevent splatters from happening while you cook your food. , It happens. Sometimes your microwave will still catch on fire no matter what you do. The best way to handle a microwave fire is by dealing with it calmly and safely. Shut off the microwave and/or unplug it immediately. This causes the the fan to stop and the fire will get suffocated.


Never open the microwave door unless you know the fire is over.
If all else fails and the fire doesn't stop and/or starts to spread around in the kitchen, call your local firefighting service for more assistant.

