 If you want to learn how to be good at this game, you need to know how to turn the PS2 or whatever on, which hopefully you can do. Just find the switch, usually at the back of the console, and turn it on, and press that red light at the front (for PS2 users);
, If you select Mission Mode, you will definitely get better in a not-so-long period of time. But Dance Mode will give you the songs and steps you need and fast. Practice Mode can really help, adding things to songs in Dance Mode such as a Metronome (going "tick, tick, tick" to the 1/4-note beat), an Assist Tick (going "tick" every time a note passes by the judgment screen), and it can slow down songs, as well as you being able to choose any little part of the song to practice over and over and over and over again. Choose your mode.
, If you already know it, go on.

Song Name:* The song you are currently selecting or previewing.
Preview Music:* The 12-second bit of the song you hear when you go to choose the song.
Judgment Window:* The white arrows at the top of the screen that mark when you press that arrow coming up.
Beginner:* Novice and Very Easy Difficulty.
Light:* Easy or Basic Difficulty.
Standard:* The Normal or Difficult Difficulty.
Heavy:* The Hard and Maniac Difficulty.
Challenge:* The Expertly Hard Difficulty.
1/4 Beat:* The arrows that come up that are 1/4 of the measure.
1/8 Beat:* The arrows are blue in Noteskin and are 1/8 of measure.
1/12 Beat:* The arrows are green in Noteskin and are 1/12 of measure.
1/16 Beat:* The arrows are yellow in Noteskin and are 1/16 of measure.
 Make sure that you didn't choose a song that is WAY-over-your-head-too-hard hard or baby-easy easy. Make it challenging so you might not pass it at first or second, just don't go over the top.
 The point of the game is to be fun, not a frustrating pit of anger and crying and pain. Trust me, people who are good don't just play a song and instantly become a professional. They play and play and play for years, some play ten or twelve years to get where they're at, and they're GOOD. If this ten-year thing discouraged you, ask yourself if you really are committed to get good at this game.
 You can access it by choosing a song then pressing that selecting button twice and you will go to options. Choose handicaps or added challenges to your songs. Learn what all of them do, and choose the best combo for you. Like a Noteskin called Note, the arrows go red, blue, green (sometimes purple), or yellow corresponding to their color.
 What's the point of anything if it's a path of injury, blood, anger, and tears?