 Constipation causes fish to float on their sides. Deshelled peas (any variety) contain enough fiber to make them regular again. If your fish hasn't had a bowel movement in the past few days, feed them two to three fresh peas or thawed frozen peas each day. Mash them or let the chunks float to the bottom of the aquarium.Avoid canned peas, as they contain sodium and spices that can hurt your fish.
Soften the peas. You can do this by boiling them on the stovetop in filtered water for one minute. Allow them to cool down after you remove them from the pan. Don't use a microwave, since this can destroy vital nutrients.
Remove the skin by peeling it off with your fingers. Make sure you wash your hands first!
Cut the peas into small pieces. First, cut them into halves if they didn't split naturally when you peeled them. Then, cut them into quarters. If your fish is small, cut the pieces even smaller.
 If your fish isn't constipated, they might have eaten too much. Overeating can cause a fish's stomach to bloat and force them to float on their sides. If your fish has had a recent bowel movement, don't feed them for three to four days., When fish sleep, they stop moving. For example, goldfish sleep by “lying down” on the bottom of the tank. Sometimes their colors fade, especially when you turn the aquarium lights out. Search online and read books about caring for fish to learn about your fish's sleeping habits.Search for this information on veterinary websites or at your local vet's office. Visit your public library or pet store for informative books. If you have access to scholarly databases, search for articles in veterinary journals.
 Chlorine, chloramine, and heavy metals in tap water can sicken and kill fish. Add water conditioner to the aquarium, following the instructions on the packaging. You can buy water conditioner at your local pet store.Test your tank water for chlorine, chloramine, and heavy metal before adding conditioner. You can buy testing kits at your local pet store. Follow the instructions on the package to avoid false positives or negatives.
 If you recently changed the water, any sudden change in temperature could send your fish into shock. Measure the temperature with an aquarium thermometer. If the temperature is below 76–80 °F (24–27 °C), turn up the thermostat on the aquarium heater. Decrease the heat if the temperature goes above this range. The shock should wear off soon after the water returns to its normal temperature.