 Above all else, running must be something that you like to do. It won't relieve stress to simply take up running because you think it might help but you can't stand it as an activity. Find a different physical activity if running pains you. On the other hand, if you love running and how it feels, make the most of it as a stress reliever.;
, Stress builds up daily, especially in competitive, busy or challenging work environments. As such, it makes sense to schedule a run every day where possible, even if the time allocations vary depending on your other needs. However, the times you choose don't have to be long or the same length each time; fitting in a 10 minute run here, a 20 minute run there and an hour on the weekend will work just fine too.


Grab a schedule planner, either digital or paper-form, and map out the next few weeks to include regular runs. The idea is to commit to these times and make them, and start working other things around these no-change times.
When planning the runs, be realistic. Choose times that you know won't be interrupted by work, family and other commitments.
 If you're finding it hard to commit to times on the schedule, perhaps you need to think more creatively about finding time. Some "spare time" ideas that you might be able to make use of include:


Lunchtimes. Eat a healthy sandwich before or after your run for 5 minutes and use the rest of the time for running.
Before work. Get up an hour earlier and use this time for a refreshing early morning run. Morning exercise is often beneficial for most people, as it gets you active for the day ahead.
After work. Why not get off the train or bus earlier and run the rest of the way home? Change when you leave work and use a good quality and comfortable backpack to carry all your work gear and clothes in. The weight is something you'll get used to.
When you walk the dog. As long as Fido is in good shape, your dog might not mind keeping a running pace going in the evenings. This will, of course, depend on the type of dog you have.
Instead of other sporting activities. If you don't much like the gym or find that team game you've been playing just isn't doing it for you, switch those over to running time instead.
 If you haven't done much running or haven't run in a long time, be gentle on yourself when you begin. Something is better than nothing and your body needs to get used to the activity and then the pace. Walking is a great way to get started, so begin with that if you want to and slowly ease into running.


For the first week or two, just do what you can. After that, you can start to build in distance or time goals to meet, making sure the goals are reasonable reflections of where you're at.
 Over time, you'll find it gets too easy; that's when it's time to push yourself a little more, and the same for each new "easy stage" you reach. However, when you find yourself at a plateau, it might be a sign you're at a comfortable amount of running. You can test this by pushing it a bit more but not getting results; this tells you it's time to stick with what is working best. You're not in training for athletics, just to reduce stress, so don't turn the running into yet another form of stress!

, When running to reduce stress, the benefits you want include increased energy, release of endorphins (it should be a pleasure to run), a meditative state (thinking lots as you run, but thinking through things, not panicking or worrying) and an elevated mood when you're done.If you're not getting these things out of running, it's possible you're not doing it at a pace that's good for you or you've chosen an activity that isn't really suited to you.

