  Using your team or club roster (list of names and contact info), determine the player's age/skill level. Age/skill appropriate drills will help your keeper develop physical skills, as well as tactical and mental aspects of the game.;
, Training sessions can be conducted at team practices or during separate goalkeeper practices.  You can check with your league for suggestions for training facilities. You will want to verify that you have access to a soccer net for training.  Also be aware that some drills require field players and plan accordingly.
 Using the contact information on your roster, notify the player and parent when and where your training session will be.
 Some Examples: Soccer balls, cones, training nets, copy of training plans, water, any other drill specific materials you may need.



Develop complete practice plans.
Some areas of focus are: catching, diving, recovering, jumping, reaction, distribution, and/or fitness. 
Keep in mind that keepers need to be busy at all times and need a maximum number of touches on the ball. 
Practice drills must have a purpose and contribute to the flow of the practice.



Goalie training guides, practice plans, and videos can be found online or at your local soccer or sporting goods store. Areas to include areas are skills, strategies, tactics, fitness, and team building.



Set up and walk through the drills prior to your training session so you understand how they will flow. 
Begin your session with a meeting between coach and keepers outlining the theme and expectations of the practice. 
Always plan a back-up set of drills to use in case a problem arises.
 Practices need to be fun.  Maintain a positive atmosphere.
 Follow your pre-made schedule as a general guide. Have nets and cones set up as needed. Time should not be wasted for set up or to think about the drills.
 Warm ups should include stretching, ball work, fitness, and thinking exercises specific to goal keepers. Many keepers have a pre-game warm up they follow which can be incorporated into group warm up.
 During the drills keep comments positive, use clear, concise instructions, demonstrate rather than lecture, and never use derogatory language.
 In warmer weather, it especially important to allow players extra water breaks to avoid heatstroke.
 A scrimmage gives the goal keepers a chance to use their new skills and bond with their team.

Acknowledge a job well done or continued work that needs to be done.
Be positive and provide encouragement.
 For the sake of safety, make sure all players have rides home.

