 What is your boss doing that would warrant being fired? Having a bad personality cannot be grounds to get someone fired. Talk to a trusted colleague or friend about your feelings. Do everything you can to avoid your boss from finding out your thoughts.


Consider looking for another job. It may not be worth the hassle and emotional strain of building a case against your boss.;
, Your boss is on grounds of being dismissed if she disrespects or steals from employees.There needs to be several employees to testify to the truth of this type of disrespect. Inappropriate behavior towards employees includes the following:


Racial or sexual discrimination/“jokes.” Do you work for someone who calls you by a derogatory name or constantly cracks inappropriate jokes about your race, gender and/or religion? These actions are against the law and are concrete grounds for termination.
Abusive behavior. Does your boss drag you into her office (or out in the middle of the office) to scream and berate you when you make an error? There is no room for abusive behavior in the workplace. Everyone should be treated with equal respect.
Unfair management practices. Does your boss play favorites and leave out opportunities for other staff members? Are you and your co-workers given the shaft for certain promotional advances when you are more qualified than the boss’s pet?
Intellectual theft, or stealing another employee’s ideas and passing them off as her own. Stealing material items isn't the only grounds for theft., In your planning stages, you must take preventative steps in ensuring no one finds out what you are doing. Many corporate computers run on a shared network that your boss has access to. Plan to keep all documentation off your work computer and out of sight.


Depending on how bad the case is, which it should be bad since you’re making a case, you’ll need pen and paper, an audio recorder, video camera, and a folder or journal.
You may not need the video camera since most offices contain a security camera that could be used in an investigation.
 Prove that the boss needs to get the heave ho to human resources by meticulously documenting every infraction as they occur.Obtain a journal and write down the time, date and incident following the encounter.
Gather factual evidence such as receipts or records that demonstrate the boss doing something wrong or illegal.
Get photographic or video evidence by placing a hidden camera in the area of the office where you could nab evidence. Keep in mind, however, that taping someone against their knowledge may not be used in a court of law. Having this type of documentation on video or photos will support other evidence.
 You shouldn't bring a tripod and professional grade equipment into work. If you need to photograph or record an incident, use a smartphone. You have all the spy capabilities in your pocket. Smart phones can record video, audio, and take pictures.


Write down details of your boss' actions in private.

