 Try to find a spot where the ground can be easily leveled. This means you should try to avoid spots that have a slope or are very rocky, as these characteristics will make it harder for you to level the ground.


Try to find a spot that is already relatively level to make the process as easy as possible for yourself.;
, You will need to be able to access every side of your shed so that you can make repairs and maintain it throughout the year. You should also consider the roof of your shed; tree branches can rub away roof felt. When picking your spot, try to avoid:


Putting your shed too close to walls or fences. You should be able to walk all the way around your shed.
Putting your shed too close to trees or shrubs that will need pruning. As mentioned above, tree branches can damage the roof of your shed.
Putting your shed on a boggy patch of ground. The ground should be fairly dry underneath your shed to keep it from sinking into the earth.
 If you need water or electricity running to your shed, you will need to run water or power lines to the area.
 The entrance to your shed will most likely be a high-traffic area, which may cause a bald spot to form on your lawn. You should also consider whether or not your shed will affect your neighbors at all; will your shed block their view, or disrupt them (if you will be using power tools)?


When placing your shed, you may also want to put it somewhere that is quiet, or has a pretty view that you can look at when taking a break.
 Cut down or cut back any trees or shrubs that may be in the way. Keep in mind that it will be harder to care for and trim any shrubs or branches in the back or on the sides of your shed.


If you plan to keep some trees or shrubs in these areas, consider keeping a path clear that runs all the way around your shed.
 While cutting down trees to allow you to build your shed is a large job, removing the stump is equally as important. If some roots or a part of the stump are left behind, there is a chance that the tree will regrow, which could cause damage to your shed.


You can use a stump killer purchased at a garden supply store, or you can spread Epsom salts to kill the roots and plant before digging it out of the ground.
 You may be surprised how strong weeds are; some can punch up through the floor of your shed even if it’s built of concrete. Because of this, it is important to get rid of these weeds before you build your shed. To get rid of weeds, you can:


Use chemical weed controllers.
Dig the weeds out by hand.
Lay down horticultural fabric that will effectively keep weeds from growing by blocking their light source.
 Your shed will need a level surface to stand on. An uneven surface will cause problems later, such as causing the shed to warp. If the ground is uneven, start by leveling this out. If you do not know how to level ground, click here for more information.


If you are making a flat surface on a slope, take steps to prevent ground slide later on. You may need to shore the earth back to prevent this from happening.
If you can’t level the ground so that it is absolutely flat, don’t get too stressed. You can compensate for an uneven surface by excavating a deeper base for the shed and then putting in concrete and leveling it to create a flat surface.
 Make sure temperatures are above freezing before laying your concrete shed base. You should also try to avoid very hot and dry temperatures, as these temperatures may cause the concrete to set too quickly.


If it rains after laying the concrete mix, cover the area with a tarpaulin.
 It is important that you construct a hard standing that is slightly larger than your shed’s footprint. Try to make it about three or four inches wider than the shed base along each side.


Mark this area out using pegs and string.
 Dig out the area you have marked off so that the large, shallow hole you create is about six inches deep. Before laying your concrete, place weed protection fabric in the bottom of this area. Once you have laid the fabric into the hole:


Fill the hole halfway up with rubble or gravel. Level this layer with sand, or rake over the gravel to give it an even surface. This layer will help with drainage and to keep the area level.
 Use timber or steel shuttering to make an edge all around the hole you have dug.


The edge should be roughly three inches deep and level with the surface of the ground.
 Once you have created the edge, fill the remaining three-inch depth with concrete. Pour the concrete so that the concrete is level with the surrounding ground.


Smooth out the surface using a block of wood to get a smooth finish. Leave the concrete to set.
 Paving slabs are square pieces of stone that you can use as a hard standing. To do this, begin by marking out the area of your shed base using pegs and string.


If you do not want to use paving slabs, you can also use slabs of pressure-treated timber.
 Once you have dug this shallow hole, lay weed protection fabric in the bottom to keep any weeds from growing up under your shed.
 Your paving slabs should be slightly higher than ground level when they are placed in your hole. Fill about half of the hole with concrete.


Use a rake to level off the concrete. Once the concrete has set, cover the area with paving slabs.

