 Buy beverages that come in glass containers, glasses that don't have plastic frames, non-plastic pens, and non-processed/packaged food.


Keep in mind that it may be hard to stop using all plastic. You will need to spend a lot of money or dramatically alter your way of life to stop using plastics completely.
Keep an eye out for new innovations. There are lots of innovators around the world that are working on plastic alternatives and plastics made using more sustainable methods. Keep an eye out, and you might at least be able to buy better plastic, even if you can't get rid of it immediately.
 Buy bars of soap, not the liquid stuff, unless it's in a glass jar. Buy boxes instead of bottles. Products like laundry detergent are often available in cardboard boxes, which are more easily recycled than plastic. Consider making your own cleaning products, which may be less toxic and eliminate the need for multiple plastic bottles of cleaner.


Don’t use air fresheners. Use essential oils, candles or incense instead.
 Use a reusable bottle or mug to hold your beverages, even when ordering from a to-go shop. Buy stainless steel sippy cups to children.
 Even those that appear to be cardboard are coated in a thin layer of plastic. Plus you'll be eating fewer processed foods!

, Don't use plasticware at home, and be sure to request restaurants do not pack them in your take-out box. Exchange plastic cups, plates, and utensils for ones made of higher quality material: for example, glass, metal, or ceramic.
 The EPA estimates that 7.6 billion pounds of disposable diapers are discarded in the US each year. Use biodegradable or reusable diapers to reduce your baby's carbon footprint and save money over time.
 Consider all of the products that pass through your life, and avoid the products that contain plastic. Over time, you can develop the habit of avoiding plastic on principle.


Stop using plastic straws, even in restaurants. When ordering a drink, don’t accept the straw. If you need a straw to drink something, purchase a reusable stainless steel or glass straw.
Give up chewing gum. Gum is made of a synthetic rubber, aka plastic.
Use matches instead of disposable plastic lighters, or invest in a refillable metal lighter.
Use rechargeable batteries.
Use a wooden cutting board, not a plastic board.
Use a razor with replaceable blades instead of a disposable razor.
 Avoid single-use items. Take advantage of refillable water bottles. Research the things you incorporate into your life and consider the consequences. Be informed.

