 Detoxing before going vegan or vegetarian is a good idea. It helps get rid of extra waste,and free your body from toxins from your previous diet.;
, Water helps cleanse your body. Try to drink half your body weight in ounces(example, 100 lbs, 50 ounces).
, There are Pescatarians, who eat no meat with the exception of fish. There are Flexitarians, who eat mostly vegetarian but eat meat occasionally. There are Lacto-Ovo Vegetarians, who do not eat animal flesh of any kind, but they eat eggs and dairy.


Vegans eat only plant food. They do not eat any animal foods, including fish, eggs, dairy products, and honey. Vegans not only omit all animal products from their diets, but they also eliminate them from the rest of their life. Vegans use nothing from animals, such as leather, wool, and silk.
Raw Vegans eats unprocessed vegan foods that have not been heated above 115 degrees Fahrenheit (46 degrees Celsius). They believe that foods cooked above this temperature have lost a significant amount of their nutritional value and are harmful to the body.
The macrobiotic diet includes unprocessed vegan foods, such as whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and the occasional consumption of fish. Sugar and refined oils are avoided. The most unique qualifier of the macrobiotic diet is its emphasis on the consumption of Asian vegetables, such as daikon, and sea vegetables, like seaweed

, It might be a good idea to take supplements/vitamins.
,, Make sure if you're going to buy organic you read the back of the package, sometimes food is only 70% organic, and make sure it says USDA Organic on the front.
 National recommendations for B12 intakes vary significantly from country to country. The US recommended intake is 2.4 mcgs a day for ordinary adults rising to 2.8 mcgs for nursing mothers. The German recommendation is 3 mcgs a day. Recommended intakes are usually based on 50% absorption, as this is typical for small amounts from foods. To meet the US and German recommendations you need to obtain sufficient B12 to absorb 1.5 mcgs per day on average. This amount should be sufficient to avoid even the initial signs of inadequate B12 intake, such as slightly elevated homocysteine and MMA levels, in most people. Even slightly elevated homocysteine is associated with increased risk of many health problems including heart disease in adults, preeclampsia during pregnancy and neural tube defects in babies.So Remember to get your daily dose of vitamin B12. And remember to be happy and try to have a happy lifestyle.

