 Cut a 3 pound (1.4 kg) lamb shoulder into 1 1/2-inch (3.8 cm) chunks. Use paper towels to blot the pieces of lamb dry. Sprinkle the lamb with 2 teaspoons of salt and 1 teaspoon of pepper. Heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil into a large sauce pot or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add the some of the lamb and cook it until it's browned on all sides. Use a slotted spoon to remove the browned lamb and add the remaining lamb to the pot to brown.Add another tablespoon or two of oil when you brown the remaining batches of lamb.
 Use a slotted spoon to take the browned lamb out of the pot and set it aside. Cut 2 medium yellow onions into 1 1/2-inch (3.8 cm) pieces and add them to the pot. Peel and smash 6 cloves of garlic and add this to the pot along with 2 tablespoons of water. Cook the onion and garlic over medium-high heat for 5 minutes.Stir the mixture really well so you scrape up the flavorful browned bits at the bottom of the pot.
 Stir 3 tablespoons of tomato paste into the pot and cook it for a minute before you return the browned lamb to the pot. Stir in the lamb and add 1/4 cup (32 g) of all-purpose flour. You'll need to stir the stew really well for a couple of minutes so the flour dissolves completely.The flour will help the stew thicken as it simmers. Ensure that there aren't any lumps of flour.
 Measure out and add 1 cup (240 ml) of Guinness or dark beer, 3 cups (709 ml) of beef broth, 2 cups (473 ml) of water, 1 bay leaf, 1 small sprig of fresh rosemary, and 2 teaspoons of sugar. Bring the stew to a boil and then reduce the heat to low. Cover the pot and let the stew bubble lightly for 1 hour and 20 minutes.You may need to adjust the heat as the stew cooks. Turn it up or down in order to get a lively simmer.
 Peel 4 large carrots and cut them into diagonal chunks that are 1-inch (2.5 cm) in size. Wash 1 pound (46 g) of small potatoes and cut them in half. Add the carrots and potatoes to the stew and put the lid back on. Simmer the stew for another 30 to 40 minutes so the vegetables cook.Stir the stew occasionally to keep the potatoes from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
 When the vegetables and lamb are tender, carefully scoop out the bay leaf and rosemary sprig. Add salt and pepper to the stew, according to your taste and stir in 1 cup (150 g) of frozen green peas. Continue to cook the stew for a few minutes. Serve the stew once the peas are hot.If you want to make this stew ahead of time, just cool the cooked stew and place it in the refrigerator. Reheat the stew on medium-low heat before you're ready to serve it.
