 A quick way to get better and challenge yourself it to train with a partner. You'll be psychologically driven harder and longer in your workouts.


A partner can also help you get better by holding pads for you, and vice versa. By kicking and punching pads you'll develop your strength and stamina much faster than shadowboxing or hitting a heavy bag alone.
Holding the pads for a partner is also a good way to develop your hand and foot work and should not be discounted as good practice. Learning different combinations of punches and kicks from both sides of he pad is important and holding the pads will also help you stay loose until the striking moment.
 There are many ways to make your fists, forearms, and feet stronger. Realize that apart from technique, speed, and strength, your body needs to get more accustomed to hitting and getting hit.


On your own simply hitting a heavy bag may be an effective toughening exercise, especially when it comes to roundhouse kicks and connecting with the top of your foot. Go lightly at first and focus on getting the form right, then as your foot gets a bit tougher try hitting the bag with strength.
With a partner try strengthening your forearms with a common blocking exercise. Stand face to face or in a horse stance if you're comfortable, then extend your right arm with your hand pointed downward in an inner block. Your partner will do the same and your forearms will collide (lightly at first) as a way to practice the block. Next rotate your right arm clockwise 180 degrees. You partner will do the same and your forearms will connect again. Now rotate your right arm 180 degrees counterclockwise again for a third connection. Now try the exact same thing with your left arms and repeat again and again. Make sure you're getting torque from the rotation of your torso.
Fist pushups (or knuckle pushups - even tougher) may be a good way to strengthen your fists.
 Improve your ability to draw strength from the ground into your strikes. Increase the amount of force that you deliver with your kicks. Focus not only on your abs (which is only one part of your core) but the sides and back of your waist as well. Core-strengthening exercises include:Planks
Traditional and reverse sit-ups
Drawing your knees up to your chest while hanging from a pull-up bar or while in the pushup position (these are sometimes called "mountain climbers")

, Wear wrist-weights when you practice your kung fu. Exercise your arms with traditional methods on a daily basis. Do push-ups, pull-ups, curls, etc. Give extra attention to your forearms, which will improve your ability to grapple with opponents.An “easy” way to strengthen your forearms is to simply do fist-clenches with your arms held out straight in front of you.
 Solid footing and powerful legs are very important in any martial art, so make sure you strengthen your legs. Wear leg-weights when you practice your kung fu moves. Make a daily routine of doing squats, squat jumps, and step-ups.Other quality leg exercises include: toe jumps, frog jumps, Cossack jumps, one-legged jumps, duck walks, and sprints.

