 Locate Google Play either on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the white shopping bag with the Play icon on it. Tap to launch.;
, Tap the search bar at the top and enter “Wifi Protector.” Tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.
 The app is developed by Gurke Development. Tapping on the app will take you to its information page.


Make sure you read the details and reviews of the app before installing it.
 Tap on the “Install” button at the top of the page, select “Accept” on the Permissions page, and wait for the app to finish installing.
 If you’re still on the app’s information page on Google Play, tap the “Open” button that has replaced the “Install” button.


If you’ve left Google Play, locate the app on your home screen or app drawer. It looks like a blue shield with an antenna signal on it.
 The first time you open Wifi Protector, it will give you instructions on how to use the app. You can read it, or tap on “Skip” to continue.


After reading, or skipping, the instructions, you will simply see a large blue shield icon against a black background. The blue color depicts that your device is safe.
 Tap on the menu button located on the left bottom corner of your screen, and then tap on “Settings.”


This feature is the very first on the Settings menu. Tap on it to automatically start service when wireless LAN starts.
 You can enable countermeasures to be automatically launched whenever your device is under attack. To enable this, tap on the menu button located on the left bottom corner of your screen, and then tap on “Settings.” Check “Automatic countermeasures” to activate the option.
 This is optional, but if ever you would like to be notified when your device is under attack, go to Settings then Notifications.


Select the notification type you would like by tapping on the option.
 The app is designed to automatically protect your device, so you don’t need to do anything else after enabling a few settings.


Once the app starts protecting your device, you’ll notice a blue shield on the notification panel.

