 To make cake pops, you'll need a homemade or store-bought cake (cooled), homemade or commercial frosting, and a few supplies:Cake pop stand or piece of Styrofoam
Food processor
Large mixing bowl
Mixing spoon
Parchment-lined baking sheet
Cookie dough scoop, coffee scoop, or ice cream scoop
Lollipop sticks or paper straws
Three small glass bowls

, Place two-inch (5-cm) cubes of cake into the food processor and pulse until the cake is broken up into fine crumbs. Transfer the crumbs to a mixing bowl. Add a dollop of frosting and stir to completely combine the cake and frosting. Stir in another dollop of frosting as necessary, until the dough becomes the consistency of clay.If you don’t have a food processor, place the chunks of cake into a mixing bowl and mash them with a fork or break them up with your hands.
 Transfer the dough to an airtight container and transfer it to the fridge to chill overnight. This will make the dough easier to work with and form into cake balls.If you don’t have that much time, place the cake dough into a container and transfer it to the freezer for about an hour.
 When the dough has had time to chill, remove it from the fridge or freezer. Use your cookie dough scoop to portion out a scoop of dough. Roll the dough around between your hands to work it into an egg shape. Transfer the cake egg to the baking sheet.

Repeat with the remaining dough until you have formed all the cake into cake eggs.
Set the eggs aside for about 30 minutes and allow them to warm to room temperature., Transfer each color of candy melt to a separate glass bowl. Fill three saucepans with an inch (2.5 cm) of water and place the glass bowls on top. Heat each saucepan over medium heat, stirring regularly, until the melts have melted. Turn the heat on all the saucepans to low to keep the melts liquid.

Alternatively, you can also melt the candy melts in the microwave. Heat the candy melts in the microwave in 30-second bursts, stirring in between, until the candy melts have completely melted.
The microwave method is faster, but the candy melts will start to harden faster, and you'll have to work quickly.
 To turn your cake eggs into cake pop eggs, insert the final half-inch (1.3 cm) of a lollipop stick into the yellow candy melt colors. Then insert that end into the fat end of the egg, pushing it about halfway into the egg.Push the opposite end of the lollipop stick into a piece of Styrofoam or a cake pop stand.
Repeat until all the cake eggs have sticks inserted.
 Take each cake pop egg and dip the entire ball of cake into the blue candy melt. Pull the cake pop out at a 45-degree angle, twist it 90-degrees, and tap the stick against the side of the bowl to remove excess.

Set the cake pops back into their places in the Styrofoam or cake pop stand and transfer them to the fridge for five minutes to set.
If you want to mix up the order of the egg coloring, don’t dip all the cake eggs into the blue. Dip one-third into the blue, one-third into the pink, and one third into the yellow.
 When the blue candy melt has set, remove the cake pops from the fridge. Now dip the top two-thirds of each cake pop into the pink candy melt. Pull the cake pop out at an angle, twist it, and tap it to remove excess.

When you’ve dipped all the pops into the pink, transfer them to the fridge again to set for another five minutes.
If you divided the base color of your cake pops, make sure you dip each set of cake pops into a different color this time.
 Finally, dip the top third of each cake pop into the yellow. When you’ve removed the excess, return the cake pops to the fridge and let them set for another five minutes before serving.

For divided cake pop colors, dip each cake pop into the color you haven't yet decorated it with.

