 Parents, police or a trusted friend. Back your suspicions up with proof and other witnesses. As soon as you notice a stalker that is outside of your workplace or school, always call the police. The least that will happen is that they have a record of problem. This will help you if you need a restraining order in the future or if something happens to you where your whereabouts are being questioned.;
, Talk to that person and ask them to intercede, and persuade them to leave you alone. If you are being followed by car drive to the nearest police station.
 Wear a different jacket or cap. Walk with a friend to ward off any possible attacks. Some people have cut their hair, etc.
 If there is none, you can take it to the police, and have them check for fingerprints, so you can identify who this person is.
 Do your best to avoid these areas, even if it means taking an alternative route.
 Change your route often so they will not expect to see you in the same place every day.
 If you see them, memorize their shirt color and be on the lookout for it. Write down this information.
 Letters, notes,and photos are powerful proof that will help you later. Keep letters in a file, and possibly a list of other things you have received from your stalker. It may sound silly, but essentially, what you are doing is building up evidence for a potential court case, should it come to that. Also, in case anything should happen to you, you will have a record of your stalker's behavior for others to find.
 Take an adult you trust and go face to face with them. Always let someone know where you are going. Or have a policeman question them as to why they are following you. This usually chases them away or establishes a reason why you do not have to fear them.
 Contact your gym teacher, or a personal trainer. They will usually help you and give you a couple of pointers. Martial arts schools are abundant these days, and if you cannot afford classes, they usually have offers for a trial period. Usually you can just observe, and try to learn a few things that way.
 Go to the nearest public place(a restaurant or store) and call for help. When this person is starting to make you feel uncomfortable, warn them that you have called for help. Give them a squirt with your perfume or scream to get attention, because you warned them and you're really getting tired of it.
 If the behavior continues for long periods of time, or you feel truly fear for your safety, contact the police department and they will tell you how to file for a restraining order, and you will have to go before a judge to plead your case. Generally you need at least three(3) pieces of evidence, such as a letter, taped phone call, and/or witnesses that will voice for your claims.

