 At any restaurant, Fridays and Saturdays are the most popular days of the week for people dine out with family and friends. When you get in the back of the house, it's good to review the station before jumping in on the action.;
, Put any clean dishes and utensils away and claim any dirty dishes from around the restaurant. Use the beginning part of your shift to get as far ahead as possible, as this will minimize unnecessary stacking later.
 All automatic dishwasher machines are connected to a soap line and can be refilled using removable jugs or bottles. Ensure you have a full load or enough to get you through the shift.
 Like sinks, dishwasher drains can handle so much food before creating problems, such as water overflowing. Especially working the second or third shift, you do not want the previous dishwasher's leftovers clogging your drain.
 If you cannot create or stay with a rhythm, you will get stressed out. Dishwashers must handle just about any dish from the different sections of the restaurant: Servers and bussers may give you the typical plates, glasses, and utensils; the cooks might give you pans and pots; and the prep cooks may give you prep pans, cutting boards, whisks, and bowls.
 The sprayer will stop a lot of food from entering the machine, since you are pre-rinsing them. Avoid spending too much time on one rack, though. Establish the rhythm of going back and forth.—You should spend only a few seconds on a rack before pushing it.
 You could possibly get away using an abrasive wire sponge on a charred and greasy pan, but use a non-abrasive scrub on ceramic dishes.


If you have an automatic dishwasher, push the item through the machine and allow the hot water loosen the food from the dish.
If you are required to wash by hand, add hot, soapy water to the dish and set it aside for a few minutes to allow it to soak.
 Never think the machine is going to do all the work for you. As you do your job, make a mental list of foods that needs to be scrubbed off in their entirety before putting sending the dish through the machine. Some foods include:


Melted cheese

Clam chowder and other chunky soups
Egg yolk
Sauces
Mashed potatoes

, Cooks likely have a limited amount of saute pans to work with, so, if they need you to clean them, that should be your first priority.—The other dishes will have to be queued behind the high-priority dish of the moment.



Maintain focus on other important things used in the restaurant, such as bread holders for servers and key utensils used by the prep cooks. Always keep an eye on the silverware: Knives are given out with meat dishes, bread, and baked potatoes; spoons are given out with coffee, ice cream, and other desserts.
 It's frustrating beyond belief to do so, but put yourself in a diner's view. - You would like the best and most enjoyable meal when you dine out, but what if you found your meal came on a plate with a smudge of leftover sauce from the previous diner?

, Ensure dishes are whistle-clean before stacking or putting them on the side. If there are food remnants or stains, rewash the item.
 Incorporate a rhythm of splitting up the clean dishes on every other run to different parts of the restaurant. Most-to-all restaurants have a rack, counter, or pushcart to stack dishes and utensils.
 If you are on a dinner shift, you must thoroughly clean all drains as much as you can.
 Treat the area as your own kitchen and clean it out as much as you can.
 When you are finished rinsing your final load, this is typically when all servers, cooks, and bussers are gone. Depending on how exhausted and soaked you are, the first thing on your mind is liable to be: Bunch dishes in the easiest spots available, clock out, and hit the road. You must condition yourself to be patient and complete everything to near-perfection before walking out the door. Learn to persist in putting each and every item away in its appointed place, so your co-workers can easily find everything the next day.
 Garbage take-out usually lands on the dishwasher's list of things to do, although some restaurant establishments have cleaning crews that handle this responsibility.


Be safe when doing so. Taking out restaurant trash is never the same as normal trash, as it will include wet food, water, and other items that will weigh the bags down greatly. Use the proper lifting techniques (bending your knees) or get another person to help you lift. Refrain from twisting your spine while handling an over-heavy burden. Move your feet to turn your body appropriately.

