 You should generally continue taking Zoloft if the medication has effectively controlled your depression or disorder. However, there are good reasons to discontinue or change your medication under the supervision of a doctor. These reasons include:


If you experience severe or continuous side effects.
If your depression or disorder is not under control with Zoloft. This may mean persistent sad, anxious, or empty feelings; irritability; loss of interest in pleasurable activities or hobbies; fatigue; difficulty concentrating; sleep disturbances such as insomnia or excessive sleeping; appetite changes; thoughts of suicide; or physical aches and pains.It is important to note that Zoloft generally takes up to eight weeks to fully work and may require dosage increases.If you have been on Zoloft for a while (6-12 months) and your doctor feels that you are not at risk for (or do not have) chronic or recurrent depression.;
, Some side effects of the medication can include: nausea, dry mouth, drowsiness, weight loss, insomnia, changes in sex drive, and uncontrollable shaking. Let your doctor know if any of these side effects are severe or do not go away.


In addition, ideas of suicide may be present in younger adults and children. Let your doctor know right away if you have thoughts related to suicide.
 Discuss your side effects or other reasons for wanting to stop taking Zoloft with your doctor. This will help your doctor make an informed decision and decide if the time is right for you to stop taking Zoloft.


If you have been on the medication for less than eight weeks, your doctor will likely suggest you give the medication the full eight weeks to take effect.
 Antidepressants need to be slowly discontinued with gradual decrease in doses to avoid discontinuation symptoms. This is called tapering. Tapering can take weeks to months depending on the antidepressant, how long you have taken it, your dose, and your symptoms.If you stop right away—go “cold turkey”—your body does not have enough time to adjust, and you may experience worse discontinuation symptoms. Symptoms may include:Abdominal issues such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or cramps
Sleep issues such as insomnia or nightmares
Balance issues such as dizziness or lightheadedness
Sensory or movement issues such as numbness, tingling, tremors, and lack of coordination
Feelings of irritability, agitation, or anxiety

, The length of time it takes to completely stop taking Zoloft may depend on how long you were on the medication and the dose you were prescribed. Your doctor will determine the best schedule for you to taper off Zoloft while minimizing the potential for discontinuation symptoms.


One suggested way is decreasing the dose by 25mg per dose reduction, giving at least two weeks in between each dose reduction.Keep track of your tapering schedule by writing down the dates and the dosage changes.
Expect to taper off the medication over several weeks. If you were on Zoloft for a long time, then you will likely taper off of it over four to six weeks. If you start to experience intolerable withdrawal symptoms, then your doctor may decide to taper the dosage at a slower rate.
 Even if you are tapering Zoloft, it is still possible to experience discontinuation symptoms. You may also be at risk of experiencing a relapse with regard to your depression or disorder. Keep track and talk to your doctor if you develop any of these symptoms.


Discontinuation symptoms have a quick onset, slowly get better over 1-2 weeks, and include more physical complaints. In order to differentiate between relapse and discontinuation symptoms, look at when the symptoms start, how long they last, and the type of symptoms.
Relapse symptoms gradually develop after 2-3 weeks and get worse over 2-4 weeks. Contact your doctor if any symptoms last more than 1 month., Your doctor will monitor you for at least a few months after discontinuation. Inform him or her about any relapse symptoms or concerns you may have. You may want to follow-up with your doctor more closely during this time period.
 If you are discontinuing Zoloft because of side effects or if Zoloft is not controlling your depression, your doctor may prescribe a different antidepressant. The choice of medication depends on many aspects such as patient preference, prior response, effectiveness, safety and tolerability, cost, side effects, and drug interactions.If you experienced side effects or inadequate control of your depression, you doctor may recommend:


A different selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), including Prozac (fluoxetine), Paxil (paroxetine), Celexa (citalopram), or Lexapro (escitalopram)
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as Effexor (venlafaxine)
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCA), such as Elavil (amitriptyline).
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) can also be used after waiting at least five weeks after discontinuation of Zoloft.