 Without any upgrades or optional gear, Pyros start with a 200 fuel Flame Thrower for close or medium range as their primary weapon, a 6/32 medium ranged Shotgun as their secondary, and a fire axe for melee.;
, At point-blank range, it's almost guaranteed to be fatal. Get as close to your enemy as you can before you use your flamethrower for massive damage.
 The flamethrower is the only base weapon that causes additional lingering damage after the initial damage has been dealt. Any enemies (besides enemy Pyros) who are hit with the flamethrower are set on fire and receive gradual damage over time. Because of this, even if a burned enemy runs away, he may still die, so it is not always necessary to chase your enemies down.
 The flamethrower has a useful secondary fire (right mouse button) called the compression blast (or air blast) which has a variety of uses. Upon pressing the right mouse button, the flamethrower emits a blast of air that can blast enemies backwards through the air, though it won't damage them. It can also reflect slow moving projectiles such as the Demoman's bombs, the sniper's arrows and the Soldier's rockets. Soldiers in particular are very vulnerable to their rockets being reflected back at their team, as reflected explosives mini-crit against their own team.


The compression blast can also remove flames from a team-mate.
A sniper's jarate along with the crusader's crossbow arrows can be reflected as well. Use reflected jarate for a quick mini-crit kill!
Note that the air blast is expensive in terms of ammo, using 20 ammunition per blast. The air blast uses the same ammo as your flamethrower, so use it with caution!

, The shotgun is weaker than the flamethrower, but much longer-ranged. Use this to your advantage. If an enemy is rushing toward you from a distance, it can help to switch to your shotgun and start shooting to inflict some damage before he or she is within the range of your flamethrower. This is especially true when you are about to enter combat with another Pyro because the burning damage of your flamethrower is negated.


It's also smart to use your shotgun to pick off retreating enemies that are otherwise out of the range of your flamethrower. Try to ignite a player with your flamethrower and finish them off with the shotgun as he runs away.
 Using the axe is a lot of fun, but be careful. It can be very satisfying to score a melee kill with the axe, but, until you run out of ammo, it's better to use the flamethrower at melee ranges, as it almost always deals higher DPS.


Some of the unlockable axes have more versatile uses (see below).

