 DON'T wash the cabbage -- you'll want the natural bacteria on the leaves. They're what causes the fermentation to occur that turns cabbage into sauerkraut.
Weigh the cabbage head. You can do this at the store before bringing it home, since many supermarkets have scales.
Cut the head into quarters, so that the core (stem) is cut into quarters.
De-core by slicing away the thick stem.
With the quarter-head on a cutting board, carefully slice the cabbage into shreds about the thickness of a dime. Some people shred them more thickly, though (about a quarter inch).;
,, You should add about 3 tablespoons per 5 pounds of cabbage.








This translates into 1.8 teaspoons per pound. If you're concerned about saltiness, start with 1 teaspoon per pound and add more until it reaches a good level to taste.
The salt serves multiples purposes. It pulls water from the cabbage, hardens pectins for better crunchiness, and discourages the growth of bacteria other than lactobacilli so the sauerkraut can be stored for longer periods of time., This is to break down cell walls and encourage the release of water. Continue until the cabbage feels very wet., Using a plate and something heavy, weigh down the cabbage for a few hours to encourage the release of more water. You may have to hunt around to find a plate the right size. You want the plate to be almost the same size as the crock, so that as little air as possible can get in the sides. You may want to cover the cabbage with plastic wrap first before putting the plate on top.









If you can't find a plate that fits closely inside the crock, you can use a disposable styrofoam plate that's too big. Just trim it to the right size with a pair of scissors.
Instead of using a plate and a weight, you can put a ziploc bag full of water on top of the kraut.
 If you can't compact the shreds below the level of the liquid, add some salt water: Dissolve 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of non-iodized salt in a cup of water, and add it to the cabbage shreds.
 Alternatively, transfer the cabbage and its liquid to a jar. Try to make sure all the cabbage is completely submerged.
 Put it in a cool place and wait about 4-6 weeks. 60 to 70 °F (15.6 to 21.1 °C) will speed up the process but cooler temps may produce better flavor. Try the sauerkraut once a week until it reaches the flavor you're looking for. If it's in a jar, keep an eye on it and unscrew the lid periodically to let air escape. Don't worry if some mold grows around the edges of the container. It won't get far. Just remove it when you see it.
 If you don't eat it all in one sitting, put it in the refrigerator to pause the fermentation process.








