 Choose where to house the bulk of your bulk goods.Prioritize spaces that remain consistently cool, dry, and dark. Whether it’s a spacious basement or a cramped pantry, measure the dimensions so you can fill all of that space effectively with appropriately sized containers.


Whether you’re just trying to reduce the number of shopping trips you make each year, or if you’re prepping to survive the zombie apocalypse, knowing exactly how much space you have to work with will help you store as much food as possible.
If you are planning on buying a freezer dedicated to bulk storage, consider open floor space versus wall space when deciding between an upright or a chest freezer.;
, In addition to long-term storage, appoint a second area in your kitchen to store small containers of the same items for immediate use. Eliminate the hassle of digging through your long-term storage area for that one cup of rice you need right now. At the same time, reduce the risk of disorganizing your carefully arranged storage area when you’re in a hurry.Having long-term and short-term containers will allow you to repurpose long-term containers as they empty. For instance, transferring the last of your dried peas to a smaller container in the kitchen will free the larger container for those dried red lentils that just went on sale.
 Choose between the wide variety of sizes, shapes, and materials (glass or plastic). Factor in the amount of space you have available, as well as how much of a given item you intend to buy. Whatever you choose, make sure the container’s lid forms an airtight seal to preserve the food’s freshness and keep out pests and outside elements.With plastic containers, make sure the exact plastic used is food-safe to prevent unwanted chemicals from leaching into the food.If storage space in your kitchen is limited, use clear containers. Whether their design is plain or decorative, this can be more pleasing to the eye if you have to store them out in the open.For long-term storage, consider a double-line of defense by bagging food before transferring it into the container.
 When you’re faced with limited space, consider other options. Instead of limiting yourself to obvious choices like the pantry or cupboards, expand your horizons. Brainstorm ways to add shelving or other forms of storage by less obvious means.For example:


If there is space between the top of your cabinets and the ceiling, use it. Stand containers on top of the cabinets. Add a shelf between that and the ceiling if space allows to create even more storage space.
Use containers as decor throughout your living space. Install decorative shelves wherever you please, or use containers as bookends on existing bookshelves. Keep plain-looking food (like white flour or rice) in the kitchen while displaying more colorful items (like green and red lentils) elsewhere.
Install new shelves inside pantries and cupboards to create more surface area. Clear existing shelves of smaller items (like canned goods and small bottles) by installing wire racks behind the door.
If you have more vertical space than horizontal, shop for containers that are easily stacked on top of one another.

