 Cleansers and toners come in liquid forms, pads or wipes. You must always cleanse and tone, as this removes hidden dirt and unblocks your pores. You can buy cleanser and toner from your local pharmacy or any place health and beauty products are sold.
 Sometimes you will need to moisturize during the day as well, if you have particularly dry skin. It is important to use a good moisturizer all over the face. If you want to remove the appearance of wrinkles, get an anti-wrinkle moisturizer. Make sure you moisturize before you put on makeup and after you take it off, to replenish any moisture you might have lost during the day.


Make sure your moisturizer is suited for your skin type, e.g. dry, oily, normal, etc.
Make sure that, if you have dry skin, you get a foundation and concealer that is suited for dry skin. If you use a certain foundations on dry areas, the foundation may start to flake off and look even drier.
 Whether it is a liquid, powder or mousse, purchase a good foundation. Make sure you get the right shade to match your skin tone. Liquid is usually best for covering up uneven skin tone and to smooth the skin out. Powder is effective for covering spots and blemishes. Some makeup artists use both, but it is up to you. Foundation doesn't block pores, if you get a good one. So, try finding a foundation that is rich in minerals.Look for "non-comedogenic" or "non-acnegenic" foundations, as they don't block up your pores.
Loreal Paris and Maybelline offer a wide range of foundations with many different shades to suit all skin tones.
Avoid any foundation that claims to suit all skin tones, as it most likely will not.
Always buy the right shade of foundation and make sure to test it in natural light on your face, not on the back of your hand. Otherwise, you might end up looking like a tangerine or a ghost.
 Concealers cover up any spots or blemishes that your foundation hasn't covered. They can also reduce the appearance of dark circles under your eyes if you didn't get much sleep overnight.