 Pentosan polysulfate can be used in the treatment of early arthritis in cats. This is an injection given at weekly intervals for 3-4 weeks, by your veterinarian.


Pentosan encourages cartilage repair (when the damage is not severe) by binding to the damaged cartilage and stimulating the synthesis of new glycosaminoglycan molecules that are needed for cartilage repair.
Pentosan also inhibits a range of proteolytic enzymes which set up a vicious cycle of inflammation and pain in the damaged joint.
The dose for a 5 kilograms (11 lb) cat is 0.4 milliliters (0.01  fl oz) by subcutaneous injection, once a week for 3-4 weeks, followed by monthly top-up injections., Human painkillers are not safe for use in the cat and are likely to result in toxic liver failure. However, prescription medications are available that are safe for use in cats.


The most common of these is meloxicam. This drug belongs to the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory group of drugs (NSAIDS).
 Meloxicam (Metacam) belongs to a family of drugs called NSAIDs (Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs). Meloxicam works by inhibiting an enzyme, COX-2, which triggers prostaglandin release, which in turn limits the inflammation that causes further joint damage.


Meloxicam is a useful drug to reduce the pain associated with arthritis. The safety margins of meloxicam have been closely studied in cats and the drug is licensed for long-term use in cats.
The recommended maintenance dose is 0.05mg/kg of feline meloxicam once daily. Thus a 3kg cat needs 0.3 milliliters (0.01  fl oz) of cat Metacam. It should be noted that meloxicam is formulated in two strengths: For dogs (1.5mg/ml) and for cats (0.5mg/ml).
Dog Metacam is three times more concentrated, and extreme care should be taken when considering its use in the feline as inadvertent overdose may easily occur.
 Meloxicam should only be used in well-hydrated animals. Dehydrated animals may have impaired renal function and the additional decrease in blood supply to the kidney may tip the animal into renal failure.


Likewise, meloxicam must be given with or after food. If the cat is not eating, be sure to line her stomach by syringe feeding a small amount of food. Do not give metacam on a completely empty stomach. The inhibitory effect on the blood supply to the stomach will be exacerbated and can lead to serious gastric ulceration.
Meloxicam should not be given with or after other NSAIDs and is contra-indicated with steroid use. The latter can also cause gastric ulceration and the combined effect of the two medications is likely to cause gastro-intestinal ulceration and bleeding, with possibly fatal blood loss.
 Sometimes arthritic pain is so severe that meloxicam does not provide sufficient relief. For humane reasons to alleviate suffering, it may be necessary to add in an additional, albeit unlicensed drug.


Tramadol is a drug from the opioid family and provides stronger pain relief. The drawback with tramadol is that the smallest capsule size is 10mg.
This is fine for a 5 kg cat and above (the dose is 2mg/kg) but for cats weighing less than this, a 10mg may make them excessively sleepy, or sedated.

