 The panel is reading piles and piles of applications every day. Halfway through your life story, they're bound to write you off. Keeping it simple and to the point is in both parties' interests.


Most essays have a suggested minimum of 250 words or less. If you have to go beyond this for some reason, keep it under 500. Too long and your reader may put it off.
Don't waste any of those precious words on statements like, "...and that's why I want to go to your college." It's awkward, forced, and downright unnecessary.
 But just like you wouldn't go up to someone and shout, "LIKE ME!", it's best not to be so eager to please in your paper. Exercise subtlety in your writing; make it clear that you're someone they'd like to have in their discussion section without saying it forthright.


This will be easy to do if your paper is you--honest and accurate. Colleges are concerned with the community life on their campus, too. They want to make sure their student body is full of people with character, people willing to make their community even better.

If you know something about their college, slip it in. An organization of theirs that parallels your past experiences, a fact you learned that ties into your life, too, whatever. Keep this minimal, but feel free to show you've done your homework. However, make sure it's accurate. Showing you're misguided is not the intention.


Be funny. Though you shouldn't become Chandler Bing (read: too much) or Cosmo Kramer (read: inappropriate) in your essay, making the reader smile is definitely appropriate. That being said, humor should not be a defining word about your essay; but if it comes naturally to you, let it show.
Be logical about it. Offensive jokes and self-deprecating humor are not acceptable here.
 Writing something you couldn't care less about--even if it's stereotypically controversial or generally unique--would scare off anyone. They want to see why you are the way you are; if you aren't interested in that, why should they be?


If you can make it indicative of your personality, genuine, relevant, and concise, it's doable. If the thing that excites you most in this world is Star Trek, make it work. If it's breeding ferrets, go for it. If it's finding clean water for children in Libya, by all means. Don't think something isn't possible just because it's not protocol.
 Can't seem to drill this in hard enough: be genuine. That means honest, sincere, and, ultimately, you.


Honesty is the best policy (at least in this situation). Any information you fabricate can be followed up upon and disproved before the application process is out. This is not a job résume--be accurate in every detail of your paper.
A part of being genuine is being modest. Okay, so maybe you've won 26 golf trophies and have the longest drive in the land, but should you go around spouting off about it? Don't think so. It's more than fine to write about an event related to your accomplishments, but putting your acclaims in the spotlight might make you seem self-absorbed, shallow, and immature. Three things no university is looking for.
 At the end of the day, this is a paper before it's an application. The same way you would write your literary analysis, write this. Well, sort of. Maybe skip the thesis statement, but concentrate just as much on drawing the reader in.


Paint a scene before you go about explicitly making everything clear. Maybe you were scaling Mount Tibidabo, cutting down brush, wandering in the cold of night, searching for inner peace...as a part of a boy scout expedition. Create an image so vivid that the reader forgets that they're really just reading a request from a teenager to study at their institution.

