 Whether you buy a ring at a brick-and-mortar jewelry shop or antique store or you buy from an online seller, be sure to ask questions about the ring’s history and condition. An honest seller will be able to provide some information about the ring, where it came from, and how it was acquired., When shopping for secondhand engagement rings, ask the seller if they can provide a certificate of authenticity. This certificate details the quality and measurements of a piece of jewelry, its genuineness, and the identifies the materials present in the ring.This document helps ensure that you are getting a quality, authentic ring.

Check that the certificate has come from an independent gem laboratory, such as the Gemological Institute of America (G.I.A.), International Gemological Institute (I.G.I.), Gemological Science International (G.S.I) or American Gem Society (A.G.S.)., In addition to asking about a certificate of authenticity, arrange to have an independent appraiser study the ring’s characteristics.An appraiser will study the ring’s value, its condition, the time period it was made, its authenticity, and its manufacturer information. Afterward, you will receive written documentation of the ring’s authenticity, which is helpful for insuring the ring., Diamonds can come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Before you buy a secondhand diamond ring, review the cut, clarity, color, and carat weight of the diamond ring you are interested in. Being familiar with these four characteristics can help ensure that you are buying a quality secondhand ring.

The cut describes the way the diamond was shaped to reflect the light. The cuts should be at the right depth and angle to produce a fiery sparkle.
A diamond with a high clarity has minimal or no blemishes or imperfections. These blemishes are called inclusions. If you are buying a diamond with inclusions, make sure they are not on the top or the middle of the diamond. Imperfections in these locations can affect how the light is reflected.
Diamonds come in a variety of colors, and selecting one over the other is a matter of personal preference. Diamond colors typically include silver, white, clear, and shades of yellow.
A carat is a unit of measure that describes a diamond’s weight. Diamonds with higher carats are more expensive, but a lower carat diamond can appear larger in the right mounting or setting.