 In order to get a service dog for your child, there is typically an application process. Each assistance program has a unique set of guidelines for qualifying for a service animal. However, most of these processes are similar.


Generally, you will need to complete an application for a child to receive a service animal. In this form you will need to provide basic information like the name and address of the parent(s) and child.
You will also need to provide information about the child’s physical therapist, occupational therapist, psychologist, and/or case manager.;
, This will include a description of your child's autism and the severity of various symptoms, along with any additional medical problems.


At this point, you will also need to explain how your child's autism and/or medical problems are affecting their daily living skills and creating limitations. Daily living skills include caring for oneself (i.e. bathing, dressing, and feeding oneself).
You will also need to describe any restrictions or precautions your child may have related to their diagnosis and provide details on any medical treatments or medications they are currently undergoing.
You should also note whether you child uses any adaptive equipment, such as crutches or a wheelchair.
 The next section of the application will assess whether you are able to care for a dog. The agency will need to know who lives in the household, if you have any other pets, and the type of service animal you are seeking.


They also need to know who will be handling the dog (parent or child?) and if you will be able to provide food and grooming for the dog.
 In the final part of the application form, the assistance agency needs to know what kind of service you expect the dog to provide. You should should also indicate whether the dog will be attending school with the child, and how you feel that the child would benefit from the service dog.
 Applicants may be charged a fee from $20-40 as a basic processing fee. The agency will also require a professional to certify the diagnosis you report.


The agency will also often request letters of reference. This would preferably come from professionals that work with your child.

For example, they may ask to contact occupational, speech, or psychology therapists that can confirm your child's disability has and describe the ways in which a service dog could help to improve their life.
 All applications will need to be reviewed by the director of the organization before any decisions are made.


If the executive determines that the child meets all the qualifications and has shown a sufficient need (for services that the animal can fulfill), the family and child will progress to the interview.
The interview is primarily to determine which specific training tasks the dog will need to be taught.
 After the interview is complete, the agency will provide a contract and discuss fundraising plans with you and your family. During this time, it is important to read all parts of the contract and be sensible about what your family can afford and how much money you can realistically fundraise.


The contract also informs the family of the agency's obligations and their expectations of the family. Pay special attention to any aspects of the contract that may become invalid in various circumstances.
If you decide this is the best path forward for you and your child, go ahead and sign the contract. After this you have officially become a client of the agency of your choosing.
 Having a service animal trained specifically for your child is a relatively expensive process. This is why it is important for the family to fundraise.


You could try organizing community events, like a special dinner or bake sale, in order to raise money. This is a great opportunity to allow the community to help the family and the child.
You can ask friends, family, neighbors, and acquaintances to support autism by donating to your child’s cause.
 Applying for grants may seem like an unlikely source of income, but it is often more successful than you might think. There are both private (company) and government grants.


For example, there are grants from the state of California which pay for the dogs’ food, and many private grants which contribute to the training and care of service animals.
For more information about applying for grants, go to extraordinarydogs.org.
 Crowdfunding is a relatively new source for raising money. Crowdfunding comes in various forms, as provided by sites like Kickstarter and Gofundme.


To start crowdfunding, set up a site and use social media to let family and friends know that you are raising money for an autism service dog.
These sites also connect people who need money with those who have money and are looking to donate to worthy causes.
 After your family has raised all the funds necessary to fund the service dog program, both child and parents will enter the education process. This is where the family is placed in a class to train with their service dog.


During this time, you and your child will work with many different dogs until you find an animal that is a good fit for your child's specific needs.
Once the right dog is matched with your family, the last 4 to 5 months will focus on child-specific training.
 The final phase of training unites the dog and the child and family for a final training period.


This training is often provided by the training director, experienced trainers, or interns under the supervision of the director. This phase of training lasts 1-2 weeks and is the most intense part of the process.
After this phase is complete, you and your child will be able to take your new service dog home.
 Autism assistance dogs offer a variety of services that improve the lives of autistic children. Autism assistance dogs can work as a security item.The dog will allow the child to feel safe and help them to child sleep without their parents with little to no crying.
 Autistic children sometimes do not know how to demonstrate their love. Service dogs encourage an affectionate relationship between dog and child, and this learning can carry into other relationships in the child's life.


Some autistic children will never be able to physically show affection due to sensory issues. However, this does not mean that they cannot express it through speech, writing, or alternative forms of communication.
 Another behavior that is common in autistic children is wandering away from parents. These children often don’t understand or see the necessity of staying with their parents, which can lead to stressful situations for the parents.


Allowing the child to hold onto the dog, or even tethering the child to the dog, can prevent the child from wandering off, as the dog is trained to stay near the parents.
Additionally, the service dog will help to ensure the child's safety when crossing the street. While an autistic child might attempt to run into a busy street, the service dog is trained to sit on the sidewalk until the road is clear and it is safe to cross.
 Allowing the service dog to accompany the child to school can help the child to remain with the rest of the class and not wander off. This can improve the child's relations with their teachers and help them to stay more engaged during class.


Service dogs have even been shown to limit the number of meltdowns that autistic children experience in school. This is because the dog provides a comforting, familiar presence which calms the child.
The dog also provides a source of unconditional love and acceptance, which the child may not get from students, teachers, or even therapists., This ensures control over the dog and prevents the dog from disrupting the environment. Also be aware that public schooling does not usually provide a handler for the dog.
 Each autistic child is unique, so the service dogs are often trained to work specifically for your child's needs. This ensures that the dog will be equipped to deal with the individual problems or concerns of the child.
 This is usually referred to as an owner trained service dog. Before beginning, know your boundaries to training a dog and be willing to work with a local dog trainer.

