 If you want to meet new people without being creepy, the first thing you have to do is stop worrying about how you come off and to enjoy the present moment of the new conversation. Let go of your expectations, ego, and fears, all of which can prevent a conversation from unfolding organically. Learn to focus on the other person so that you can drown out your inner nag and stop being distracted from interesting points of discussion and exploration.


When you approach a new person, don't ask yourself, "How do I look?" or "How do I sound?" Instead, ask, "What would this person like to talk about?" "What matters to this person?"
You can keep the momentum going by being one step ahead of the person you're talking to by thinking about what to say next, instead of falling behind and obsessing over something you said or did five minutes ago that might have come off the wrong way.;
, Neediness is a precursor to obsessiveness, and obsessiveness is creepy. Needy people are imbalanced and unstable because their happiness hinges too greatly on someone else. If you're projecting a vibe that you'll be devastated if a person doesn't want to be your friend or romantic partner, it's time to slow down, be patient, and examine yourself.


If you really click with someone you meet, don't be too quick to say, "I like you!" or "You're really awesome!" unless you're getting a really positive vibe from the other person.
Whether you're meeting a potential friend or romantic partner, don't ask for the person's number in the middle or the conversation or as soon as you think you click. Instead, wait until the end to ask -- it's a more natural time to ask.
If you meet someone who you think will be a great friend, you can casually say, "We should check out that new movie together," or "I'd love to check out that yoga class you're talking about" -- don't invite the person to do anything too intense at first. Don't ask the person to go out on a long hike with you, go to a family dinner with you, or to help you go underwear shopping. Keep it casual at first, or you'll look too eager.
Avoid sounding creepy or desperate by not saying things like, "I don't have many friends -- it would be great to hang out with you!"

, You may be doubting yourself, but you'll be much more likely to come off as not creepy if you keep up your confidence and make other people feel that you're a person who is worth talking to. You should be confident before you walk into a room with new people in it and build your confidence as the conversation goes along. Just smile, talk about the things that you love, and show everyone that you love who you are, where you are, and what you do.


Body language can help you stay confident. Stand tall, maintain eye contact, and don't fidget with your hands or look at the floor.
Don't check your reflection in your mirror or in reflective surfaces, or people will see that you're doubting yourself.
When you introduce yourself, speak clearly and loudly enough that you'll be heard.
 Maintaining a positive attitude -- without seeming too excited -- will make people want to talk to you. You should smile or laugh from time to time without keeping a creepy grin plastered on your face or laughing at things that aren't funny. Talk about the things you love, the things that make you happy, and your interests (as long as they aren't too off-putting at first -- avoid mentioning taxidermy or Facebook stalking on your first go-around) to keep people engaged.


If you talk about your long-standing hatred for a certain teacher, classmate, or celebrity, then yeah, you will come off as creepy.
Don't nod and agree with what the person is saying every five seconds like a little lap dog -- that will definitely be creepy. The occasional, "That's so true!" or "I know exactly what you mean!" will be far more positive and far less creepy.

