 The art of Tai Chi is specifically designed to help you balance your chi. Though there are many moves that make up Tai Chi, you can begin with a few of the basics to see how they work. Breath is central to Tai Chi, and hopefully you have already developed a good sense of how breath and chi work together from the previous step. The practice of Tai Chi itself is essentially a slow and gentle series of movements that are designed to ground you and get you in touch with your breath and chi. Within Tai Chi, there are different schools that have slightly different ways of doing the forms, or steps, within the practice. If you’re interested, Tai Chi courses are often offered at yoga studios and community centers. Check your local martial arts studio as well – they might know about classes., The Wuji or horse stance is the basis of Tai Chi. It may look like you’re just standing there, but it’s a great way of getting in touch with your energy. Just by standing in horse stance and breathing, you can develop your chi.


Your feet should be parallel, shoulder width apart.
Make sure that your weight is in the middle of your feet.
Move your torso so that you are standing as if sitting up straight in a chair.
Bend your knees.
Let your spine feel as if it’s floating upward.
Relax your shoulders.
Gently touch your tongue to the roof of your mouth.
Breathe naturally.
 This is an exercise, not part of an actual Tai Chi form, but can help you get in touch with your body. It can also help you in trying to develop chi throughout your body while you’re moving, keeping track of your breath.Put your right hand, palm out, parallel and in front of your face.
Place your left hand, palm in, parallel and in front of your stomach.
Slowly move your arms in circles.
Your arms will be going around each other and your palms will be at different angles, depending upon where in the circle they are. They go from being facing completely in and out at the top and bottom of the circle to being flat when they are parallel to you in front of your chest.
Breathe.
 Tai Chi is not the only physical form that helps to develop your chi. If you believe that it is too slow and meditative, you might be more interested in kung fu, which was also developed to help your chi, or yoga, which is from the Indian tradition and is also aimed at fully realizing your life force.