 This method is your best option when there is very little space in between the head tension bracket hooks on your banjo. If you cannot fit the cradle strap through these hooks, you will need to use this option to attach the strap.


Most beginner and open back banjos require the use of this technique. Other professional bluegrass banjos can typically use the standard cradle strap technique.
 Stand the banjo in your lap or on a working surface. The neck should stand straight up, in the "12 o'clock" position of the banjo.


The strings of the instrument should face you.
Note that you can alter this position to something more natural or comfortable once you familiarize yourself with the correct placement of the strap. While learning, though, it helps to hold the banjo like this.
 Tie one end of the strap onto the second or third hook next to the neck of the banjo.








With the banjo strings facing you, count two to three hooks to the right of the neck.
Consider investing in a strap with leather tabs attached to either end. You may also find straps that have metal or plastic hooks on either end, but use these carefully, since the strap hooks can damage the wood of the banjo.Snap or hook the end of the strap over the appropriate hook of the banjo. If you do not have a modified strap, you can tie the end of the strap around the hook of the banjo using sturdy laces, paracord, or string.
 Tie the other end of the strap to the second or third hook away from the tailpiece.









With the strings facing you, count to to three hooks to the right of the tailpiece. Note that both ends of the strap should be on the same side of the banjo when you divide the banjo in half vertically.
Snap, hook, or tie this end of the strap to the appropriate hook of the banjo, using the same method of attachment used for the first end of the strap.
 Place the banjo strap over your shoulder and behind your neck. If the strap is adjustable, adjust it to fit so that the banjo hangs in its natural playing position without being held.









Completing this step should complete the process, and your banjo should now be ready to play.

