 Sadly, your cotton floral off the shoulder top will probably look a bit out of place in the winter time – not to mention you’ll be shivering the moment you head outdoors. If you’re interested in taking this trend into the colder weather with you, look for versions constructed from heavier fabrics. You can find thick, wool sweaters that fall off the shoulders, and you can also find versions in winter-friendly fabrics like velvet and poplin., One of the great things about off the shoulder tops is that they allow you to show a bit of skin while still being able to cover your arms, stomach, chest, and back. If you’re wearing this style in the cold, look for versions with long sleeves. Not only will you stay warm while still baring your shoulders, but you’ll also look appropriately dressed for the season.


You’ve probably seen those people shivering in winter weather in clothing that seems wildly unsuitable for the weather. No matter how great your outfit is, no one will care if you look frozen and out of place!

, There are a lot of off the shoulder tops that slide all over the place whenever you move your arms. That may be fine when it’s warmer out, but it will quickly get irritating if you’re trying to layer it in the winter. Because you may be putting a coat on whenever you step outside or you might even be wearing a jacket or blazer over your top for the whole day, it’s important to get a top that isn’t flimsy. Look for tops with sturdy elastic around the top that holds firmly to your shoulders.If you’re planning on wearing an off the shoulder top with a jacket, test it out before purchasing it.
You can also look for body suits with off the shoulder tops. Those are tight and less likely to move, and can be worn with pants and skirts like a normal top.
 If you love off the shoulder tops but can’t seem to find a sturdy, comfortable winter version, try the similar, cold shoulder version. These tops reveal the shoulders just like off the shoulder tops, but they also have normal straps, like a tank top. In other words, they basically have cut outs on the shoulders and normal straps to hold your top in place. This is a great option for anyone looking to show a bit of skin while still having a bit more structure., Just because these shirts have a unique cut doesn’t mean you can’t layer them with your cold weather staples. A crisp, form fitting off the shoulder top looks polished and trendy with a tailored blazer, leaving your collarbones and shoulders slightly exposed. Slip a comfy cardigan over an off the shoulder top to stay warm and cozy while flaunting a bit of skin.


Even though adding a jacket will cover up your shoulders, you will still be able to show the unique neckline of these tops.
 If you’re wearing an off the shoulder top that tends to move or slide down when you top it with a jacket, you may want to opt for a cape instead.These winter capes are basically warm, sleeveless cloaks that can keep you toasty warm without causing your top to slip and slide constantly.


Not only are they comfortable and convenient, but they made you look fashion-forward and sophisticated at the same time.Win win!

, You may get too chilly with your shoulders, upper chest, and neck all exposed. If that’s the case, add a big, warm scarf to your ensemble. If you’re dressing up or aiming to look a bit more elegant, a fur stole or shawl can totally transform your outfit. Depending on the option you choose, you can still show off your shoulders or the shirt’s neckline while bundling up., This might sound like it will ruin the effect of an off the shoulder top, but it can look very nice. While you won’t be showing as much skin, you can still show off the unique neckline of an off the shoulder top.Try pairing a structured off the shoulder blouse with a lacy or frilly shirt underneath for a cool contrast. You can add a basic t-shirt or tank top under a patterned or plunging off the shoulder top to keep the focus on the top.Try pairing your tops with pieces you already have in your closet, and you might be surprised what you end up liking!

