 If you spend an hour of your scheduled workday on Snapchat, that’s an hour of missed work! Knowing the true amount of time you spend on the app may make you reconsider opening it at work.

Apps like Rescue Time (Android) and Moment (iOS) will track how much time you spend using Snapchat over the course of a day. Try tracking your Snapchat usage for a full week to get an accurate portrait of your usage.
Snapchat users spend an average of 25 minutes per day on the app. Over the course of a lifetime, that’s a little over a year.;
, You don’t have to completely give up Snapchat to be productive. Instead, decide how much time you want to spend on Snapchat a day, then block the app at other times.

Apps like Flipd and Breakfree make it so you cannot open Snapchat when you need to work. You can use these apps to set a recurring block schedule, specify an amount of Snapchat time per day, or to enable as-needed blocking.
Don’t feel discouraged if you keep trying to open Snapchat while it’s blocked. You’re retraining your brain to work for longer periods of time without giving in to compulsions. You’ll notice a major improvement after a day or two.
 Giving yourself a treat after completing difficult (or boring!) tasks can help you build better work habits.Here are some ideas for using Snapchat as your post-work prize:

Allow yourself 5 minutes of Snapchat time (use a timer!) after completing 30 minutes of uninterrupted work.
For every task you complete within a certain timeframe, you can view that many Snapchat Stories.
 If your work is something that can be photographed or recorded, create stories that show your process. This a great way to flaunt your productivity prowess to friends and colleagues.

If you’re writing (or grading) papers, you could create a story that shows your “finished” pile growing.
Physical tasks like cleaning, construction, or cooking can be especially fun to Snap. Give your followers a peek at your workspace, as well as the tools and techniques used to perfect your craft.
 If your job or school duties don’t require a phone, power it down and place it out of sight. As tempting as it may be to leave your turned-off phone on your desk “just in case,” don’t risk getting sucked into Stories. As the saying goes, “Out of sight, out of mind!”

If you’re having trouble resisting temptation, ask a coworker or classmate to keep your phone away from you until a certain time.
 You’re not the only one who has trouble balancing social media and work time. Ask your friend and family how they stay focused, and try implementing some of their advice.

Find an accountability buddy—specifically someone else who’s having a hard time focusing on work with Snapchat around. Make a plan to check in at the end of each day with how much time you each spent on Snapchat. Keep it positive, set goals, share moral support, and celebrate your successes!Try creating a heartfelt Snap or Story that explains what you have to get done, as well as your deadline, then ask for support.

