 They might scream in fear as you try to touch them. These rats are not for beginners and take a ton of patience and experience to socialize. Feeder bin rats are frequently unsocialized along with some pet store rats.
 Here are some additional considerations for unsocialized rats:


If you have tried for a long time and the rats still won't take the treat from your hand, you can try delaying a regular meal and waiting until the rat is somewhat hungry. . Don't withhold food for a long period as you can stress rats to an extreme. Rats may also become irritable which will work against you in your effort to encourage them to trust you. (Absolutely never withhold food from youngsters/babies, as their systems are too fragile.) With this, hopefully the rats will be guided to take the treat from your hand.
Also frequently offer up your empty hand for them to sniff and explore, so that they don't assume you have a treat every time you put your hand in the cage, as they might start biting at your hand assuming it's food.
Hopefully you will eventually get your rats to take a treat from your hand, and when that happens celebrate big time as it's a huge step forward in the bonding process. Visit their cage often and every time you visit, give them a treat or two, talking softly to them, letting them know that when you visit, it's a good thing.
 Again, this might take awhile. Only give them the treat if they come to the door. They get no other treats. Use a marker to signal them, such as saying "come" or shake the treat container. This will teach them to come to you when you call them. Say each of your rats' names as you give each of them their treat, and it will teach them to know their names.
 Unsocialized rats need to learn that the world outside their cage is not the dangerous, scary place they think it is.


When your rats start coming to the door for a treat readily, switch from treats to baby food. Use the lid of a milk cap or other container and fill it with yummy squash or something similar. Get them hooked on it like you did with the treats. First offer it to them where ever they are in the cage, then start making them come to the door for it. The baby food forces the rats to sit next to your hand in order to eat it, as they can't take it and run off and hide.
Rat proof your chosen bonding location, a safe place where you can start teaching your rats to come out of their cage. The bathroom is good because it is small and enclosed, leaving it safe for a rat if they panic because they can't go anywhere and hurt themselves or get lost. You will want to bring your rats, in their enclosure (or in a travel cage), to this location for at least a half hour to an hour everyday, if not more. There is no such thing as spending too much time with your rats.
Throw one or two old blankets on the floor. A blanket is an excellent tool when used in the bonding process. Rats feel more comfortable and are more confident when they are concealed. They will love to be able to burrow into the blanket when they start exploring the room. Your rats will also be more willing to crawl on you, hidden under the blanket, so drape the blanket over your legs and lap to help encourage your rats to explore you.
Bring your rats, still in their enclosure (or in a travel cage), into the bathroom and shut the door. Try to have only a night light illuminating the room. Rats are more comfortable in the dark. By putting your rats in a calm, quiet, dark small room with you, and being calm and non-intrusive to them, you are showing your rats that you are not a threat, and that being with you can be a happy experience. Your eventual goal is for the rats to come out and explore the room and eventually you, however let everything be on your rats terms at first. Let them feel that they have total control of the situation. Do not force them out of the cage. The following steps could all happen in one day, or it might take many, many months. Be patient. Only move your rats to the next step when they are ready.
Set your rats' cage on one side of the room, open the cage door, and place some treats on the floor of their cage, making sure your rats see you do this, and then go sit at the opposite side of the room. You've moved them to a new place so for the first several days they might be too scared to eat the treats. Give them time.
Once your rats will eat the treats with you in the room, try it again, only this time sit halfway between the cage and the other side of the room.
Once your rats are willing to eat the treats with you halfway away, try it again, only this time sit right next to the cage.
Once your rats will comfortably eat treats with you sitting right next to the cage, open the cage door, put your hand in the cage, and offer your rats some treats from your hand. Try to get them to eat the treats just outside their cage if you can. Hopefully by now they have grown comfortable with the new room.
Once your rats will steal treats from your hand and eat them, trade the treats for some squash baby food to force your rats to stay by your hand and eat the food there.
Once your rats will eat the squash from your hand freely, make it so that they have to come to the entrance of the cage to get the squash.
Once your rats will come to the entrance of the cage for squash, make it so that they have to take a step outside the cage for squash.
Keep doing this, moving the squash further and further away from the cage until you can sit on the opposite side of the room from the cage and get your rats to come from the cage onto your lap to eat the squash.
If at any time the rats just decide to come out and explore the room during this process, let them do so freely. Do not make movements towards them, or try to stop them. Just sit there calmly with the squash in hand and let them explore. If they come to you and eat the treat, let them. If they start crawling on you, let them do so freely without making any motions towards them. You want to make yourself completely non-threatening.
Let your rats return to their cage as often as they like. Remember that the cage is their safety zone. You want your rats to feel safe and in control. Eventually your rats will become brave enough to come and explore just what and who you are. Don't interfere, even if they crawl all over you. Just stay still and let them get use to your smell.
Remember to visit your rats in their home throughout the day as well. Talk to them and open the door and put your hand in the cage for them to sniff, maybe even giving them a quick pat on the head. You want them to be exposed to you as much as possible. Make sure they are awake and know you are there before touching them. Only offer your rats treats now when they are in the bonding area though.



Start with brief pets, then move to briefly picking them up and putting them down, then finally to holding them and petting them.
At first, your rats probably won't like being picked up or petted. This is natural as they are not use to it. You will need to gently force this "love" on them in short frequent intervals to show them that this can be a safe and wonderful experience. Offer them a treat every time you pick them up or pet them as a reward.
If your rats won't let you pick them up, you will have to pick your moment and corner them to do so. However corner them as calmly and as gently as you can. You don't want to show them that being picked up is a scary experience. Again, once you have them in your hand, offer them a quick treat and put them right back down again.
Start forcing them to endure being picked up and petted for longer and longer intervals as time goes by. They will not like it but you have to put them through it so they can get use to it. Some struggling is okay and expected, however if the rat is just freaking out and crying, move back a step to quicker interactions.

