 You don't have to wear pointy hats or dress like you are attending prom, but things like T-shirts and jeans have to go. Wearing a collared shirt and nice pants (if you are a boy), or a dress (if you are a girl) is much more convincing. Darker colors are better for your wizard apparel, but they are not necessary.;
, Just get a straight stick, about 14 inches (35.6 cm) long, and soak it in the tub, to remove bark. Then, if you want, spray paint it black, white, grey, or brown. If you can't, just color it with markers and make it look realistic.
 Have days where you don't say much, and if your friends want to talk to you say you have somewhere to be.
 Put it in your backpack, or if you have deep pockets, you can put it there. Try to have it peeking out some, but not to the point where it is very obvious or could fall out. If someone asks you what it is, make up a somewhat convincing lie and tuck it out of sight.
 This will definitely convince your friends and classmates. Some hobby shops sell feathers that you could get for a cheap price, and then all you need is ink. You don't ever see Harry writing with a pen in class, now do you?

, For your friends, pick the characters they like best as wizards––these don't need to be Harry Potter wizards.
 Pick a house, club, group or clan that your wizard comes from. Make crests and place these on clothing, bags and books.
 Have a pet cat, rat or dog at home. Do not bring the pet to school. Just say things like, "is really helpful. I love him/her." If they ask who is, say "Oh, nobody, just my pet ."

, Try to get an extra blank notebook, and put all your info inside. Keep it safe.
 At real school, drop hints, like, "I can't wait until tonight, that's when I go to...", then stop quickly. Act as if your wizarding school happens at night, and under age kids are allowed to appreciate to it, no matter their location. You could also say, "I miss ." If anyone asks who that is, just say nobody.
 Go to the library as often as you can, and frequently be seen with mythical and magical books. Do your best to get good grades, but make it seem easy. When you are around friends, use large words and spout facts, as long as they are on topic.
 Composition works well. Label one, "Spells", and one "Potions", and the last one, "Homework". Look up Harry Potter spells on Google, and write one on each page, followed with definitions. In the potion one, do the same. For homework, look through the classes on Wikipedia. Write the ones you like at the front page, and every time you "do homework", put the name at the top.


Carry an old book around with you a lot as your chief spell book. If you can, get a book with Latin or another foreign language on it. You don't need to go over board and title it "SPELL BOOK" because then it would seem fake. Bring it everywhere, and don't let anyone see it. Act concerned if someone asks what it is. If you want, you can leave it lying around one day so that people will pick it up.

