 This may surprise anyone who has quite literally run into stinging nettles in a field-- most people tend to get a nasty rash from it, but research shows that it can reduce the amount of histamine in your body. In one study, over half the people who used freeze-dried nettles to treat allergies reported relief. Other studies have also indicated that taking nettles as a supplement or as a tea during allergy season especially, can benefit those with pollen allergies, decreasing the symptoms.Nettles is best taken as a supplement, following manufacturer’s instructions, or as a tea. Start taking nettles or drinking nettles tea (2-3 cups a day) 1-2 weeks before allergy season and continue through the season
Nettles is considered safe except for pregnant women-- it may stimulate uterine contractions

, Quercitin and rutin are chemically related and are found in a wide variety of plants. They are both bioflavonoids and appear to function to protect blood vessels from excessive “leakage”, reducing the swelling associated with allergies. Both also function as anti-inflammatory agents.Both quercitin and rutin appear to be safe, with rare rashes and digestive upset being reported.
Quercitin and rutin are taken as a supplement, following manufacturer’s instructions.
The safety of quercitin and rutin have not been tested in children or pregnant women.
There is some evidence that quercitin and rutin can lower blood pressure-- if you are taking blood pressure medications, speak to your physician before taken either quercitin or rutin.
Quercitin and rutin should not be taken with cyclosporine (Neoral, Sandimmune).
If you are taking blood thinners such as warfarin or aspirin, talk to your physician before using either quercitin or rutin.
 It is used as a digestive enzyme and to treat inflammation.Animal studies also indicate that bromelain may be effective in allergic asthma.The German expert panel, the Commission E, recommends doses of 80-320 mg (200-800 FIP units) 2-3 times daily. Bromelain is taken as a supplement.
Do not take Bromelain if you are allergic to latex. For reasons that are not clear, sensitivity to both is common.
If you are taking amoxicillin or any blood thinning medication, contact your physician before using bromelain.
 As you can probably tell from its name, eyebright has been used primarily for allergic (and other) reactions in the eye. Eyebright has been known to have anti-inflammatory effects comparable to indomethacin.Taken orally, it has also been used to treat allergies.


Eyebright has not been tested for its safety in pregnant women.
Eyebright can be taken as a tea or as a supplement.
It reduces inflammation in the eye caused by blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelash follicles) and conjunctivitis (inflammation or infection of the membrane lining the eyelids). It can be used as an eye wash, as eye drops, or plant infusions may be taken internally for ophthalmic use.Eyebright is also used as an anti-inflammatory for hay fever, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infections, and catarrh (inflammation of the mucous membranes).
 Elderberry has been traditionally used to treat individuals with pollen allergies.It is high in bioflavonoids, anti-inflammatories, and antioxidants, which may play a role as an anti-allergy remedy.Elderberry as a tea or as a supplement is considered to be safe for children.
 Derived from a common weed in Europe, butterbur (Petasites hybridus) is another alternative to antihistamines. Studies have indicated that it can decrease histamine and other inflammatory substances in individuals with allergies.According to studies, butterbur is just as effective as the drug cetrizine, the active ingredient in the popular anti-histamine tablet Zyrtec.Even though cetirizine is supposed to be a non-sedative antihistamine, researchers reported that it did cause drowsiness, while butterbur did not.
A word of caution though — butterbur is in the same family as ragweed, so it could worsen allergy symptoms in people with ragweed allergies.
Butterbur is not recommended in pregnant women but is well-tolerated and safe in most adults and children.
 Several chemical agents in dong quai may have an antihistamine and anti-serotonin effect. Histamine, serotonin, and other substances are released from the blood cells in response to something that irritates the body -- such as pollen, dust, chemical fumes, or animal dander -- causing the symptoms we associate with allergies. Dong quai's antihistamine effect helps to prevent these allergy symptoms.


Dong quai supplements are available at health food stores, or you can boil dong quai leaves in water to make a tea., Goldenseal is a very popular treatment amongst herbalists. They use it for its wide variety of beneficial properties, including its use as an alternative, anti-catarrhal, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, astringent, bitter tonic, laxative, anti-diabetic, and muscular stimulant.


In terms of allergies, goldenseal is said to have an astringent effect it on the mucous membranes of the upper respiratory tract, the gastrointestinal tract, the bladder, and rectum (applied topically), and the skin.
When used with a saline nasal spray, goldenseal can also greatly reduce the symptoms of pollen allergies., Eucalyptus is a common ingredient in cough lozenges and syrups. Its effectiveness is due to compound called cineole. Cineole has numerous health benefits — it’s an expectorant, it can ease a cough, it fights congestion, and it can soothe irritated sinus passages. Eucalyptus oil has anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, and anti-bacterial properties. Eucalyptus oil vapor acts as decongestant when it is inhaled and hence can be used in treatment of sinusitis.

