 Set your foundry in a metal stand or on an insulated surface. Make sure that the surface can withstand the more than 1220 degrees Fahrenheit (660 degrees Celsius) needed to melt the aluminum. Avoid any wooden or plastic surfaces because they will melt or burn. For the best results, set your foundry in a sturdy metal stand that will not easily tip over., Place a layer of charcoal in the bottom of the foundry and then set your crucible on top of it. Fill in the space between the insulation and the crucible with more charcoal. Make sure that the crucible is in the center of the foundry.









A steel crucible works the best for melting aluminum.Placing a layer of charcoal under the crucible will help it heat up quicker and more evenly.
 Once you have filled the foundry with charcoal and the crucible, set up your bellows. Place the steel end of the blower tube into the foundry. You can blow into the plastic end to maintain air flow or attach an electric hair dryer, which will provide a more constant flow of air.








Because it is at an angle, place something under the blower tube to prop it up. This will keep it from breaking or damaging the foundry.
 With the bellows and crucible in place, ignite the charcoal in the foundry. The easiest way to do this is with a propane torch, which will quickly heat up the coals. As the coals heat, blow through the blow tube or turn the hair dryer onto low. This will stoke the fire and help increase the heat. Place the lid on the foundry and let it warm up.








Let the foundry heat for about 10 minutes before placing aluminum inside of it.
The temperature in the foundry will need to be above 1220 degrees Fahrenheit (660 degrees Celsius).
Once the crucible is glowing orange, the foundry is hot enough to melt aluminum.
 Once the foundry is hot enough, you can begin melting aluminum. You can choose to either: remove the lid and place uncrushed cans in the crucible, or leave the lid on and place crushed cans in the crucible through the vent hole. Both methods work well, but if you leave the lid on less of the metal will be oxidized. The cans will melt in a matter of seconds, so you need to quickly add more cans to the crucible.








It is important to quickly add new cans in order to create a pool of molten aluminum. This is necessary to prevent the cans from being overheated and turning into a gas, a process known as oxidization.
 With a pair or metal tongs, slowly remove the crucible from the foundry. To prevent oxidization, be sure to remove the molten aluminum from the foundry at least three minutes after the last piece of aluminum melted.
 Once you have melted enough aluminum to fill your crucible, you will want to remove any impurities. Things like aluminum cans will have lots of other materials in them (plastics and other metals) that will create slag or dross. The slag will form a thick clumpy layer on top of your pure molten aluminum. The easiest way to remove the slag is to slowly pour out the molten aluminum into a steel mold, and then tap the slag out of the crucible.








Use a metal rod or tongs to skim slag off of the top before pouring.
Keeping the crucible clean allows you to melt more aluminum quickly.
 After pouring the molten aluminum into a mold, you will want to cool it off. The easiest way to do that is take your tongs and place the ingot into water for about 10 seconds. After soaking in the water, the ingot should be cool enough to touch. However, you should use your tongs to avoid being burned.








The pure aluminum ingots can now be reused for later castings and will not produce as much slag as before.

