 Most Nokia phones come with their own data cables. Use these to plug and connect your phone to your computer.


If you don’t have a data cable, you can connect via Bluetooth. If your phone has Bluetooth, turn it on and have your phone and your computer pair up.;
, If this is your first time to link the two devices, you will be asked for a passcode that you would need to enter in both devices.
 Look for the Nokia PC Suite under your programs in the start menu of your Windows desktop. Click on it to launch.
 Depending on your phone, you can do several things with it from the Nokia PC Suite. Navigate through the menus and the functionalities.


All the connected phones will be listed on the left side of the program window.
 Click on the "Backup" icon. The Nokia Content Copier subprogram will appear.
 Choose from the drop-down list. There’s a notification near the bottom informing you when the latest backup was done. This will give you an idea which data versions you can recover or restore.


, Browse through your local directories to find the backup file you want to use for restoring. You can either do this manually or have the program do a scan of your computer for all backup files.
 From the list of backup files, select the one you want to use. The backup file name usually includes the timestamp of the backup. This will guide you in selecting the correct backup.


Selecting a backup will also show you further details on the backup, like file size and data contents.
 Tick on the corresponding data that you wish to import from the backup file and restore.


Usually, you will want to restore everything, but you may prefer to start fresh on some. If your new phone is different from the one used to do the backup, the restored data may not be the exact copy you would be expecting. Data formatting may be different and may cause some changes.
 A dialogue box would show you the restore progress and percentage completion. Do not use or disconnect your phone during this time. You will be notified when the restore is finished.


You may click "Abort" at any time to cancel the restore.
 When you’re done , click "Close" to exit the program. You’ve now successfully restored your Nokia phone.