 When it comes to smiling for pictures, the worst offense is flashing a jack-o-lantern: all teeth, no eyes. In order for your smile to look authentic, you've got to bring your eyes into it and give what is called a Duchenne smile. A true Duchenne smile is naturally authentic, since it's very difficult to engage the muscles around the eyes unless you truly have something to smile about.


Check out the difference in the mirror. Do you see how much less happy you look when your eyes aren't engaged?
When you're smiling for a picture, pretend like you're smiling at someone you love. Your eyes will crinkle convincingly and your smile will look authentically beautiful.;
, It's not necessary to give a big, toothy grin, but showing some teeth in your smile will brighten your face. Try showing just your upper teeth, rather than smiling so big that all of your teeth are exposed. If you prefer a close-mouthed smile, that's fine - just know that you'll probably look more serious than everyone else in the picture.
 Facing the camera head-on isn't the most flattering pose for most people. It flattens your features and can cause you to look a bit distorted in the photograph. Instead, show off your pretty bone structure by turning your head slightly to one side. If you have what you would consider a "good" side - a side that makes your features look finer - bare that side to the camera.


While angling your face can make your picture look more flattering, it can also look contrived if you overdo it. Make sure your face is tilted at what looks like a natural angle.
If possible, stand a bit below the camera, so that it's pointing slightly down at you instead of pointing up.
 If you tuck in your chin, the shape of your face will look distorted. If you tilt your head up and stick your chin out, it'll look like you're trying to hide a double chin. The most natural position for your face is to hold it level with the camera, as though you were going to have a conversation with it.
 Photographers love to tell their subjects to say "cheese," but this tends to result in "cheesy" photos for two reasons. First, the "ee" sound stretches the mouth into an unnaturally, fake-looking smile. Second, your smile won't look authentic unless you're authentically cheerful, and being told to say cheese causes most people over the age of 8 to feel annoyed. The solution? Think of something you love that ends in an "uh" sound. Pronouncing "uh" causes the lips to form a more natural smile. Thinking of something you love also results in a natural smile. Doing both at the same time will help you produce your most gorgeous expression!For example, if you love a person named Elijah, think of him and say his name when it's time to smile for the camera. Any other person, place or thing works just as well, as long as it brings a smile to your face when you think about it.

