 Fitness trackers are small devices that can be worn on the body to help track health goals and progress. These are often small, lightweight, and durable, which are features any runner would appreciate.


You can find fitness trackers at most sports, fitness, and technology stores. These gadgets can cost anywhere from $20 to over $300., Smartwatches can be a little pricey, but they are less bulky, more durable, and lighter than traditional cell phones. Specialty watches for runners with built in GPS trackers are similar to smartwatches, though the functions of GPS watches are generally limited to telling the time and recording running related activities.


More affordable models of smartwatch or GPS running watch may not include a heart rate monitor and may only record limited data on your run.
More expensive models of this kind of device generally record more information and sometimes allow you to select different modes of activity, like running, walking, cycling, and so on., There are many running related apps that your runner might find useful on their cell phone or digital device. If your runner takes their cell phone with them on runs, a suitable app might make the perfect gift.


Some common running apps you might want to consider include: Runkeeper, Rungo, Zombies Run, adidas Train & Run, Runtastic, Strava, and the Nike+ Running App., If you know that your runner likes to run with technology, like a cell phone, MP3 player, and so on, the gift of a waterproof case can prevent a costly expense. Sweat or moisture can cause technology to break, but a waterproof case will protect against this.


Waterproof cases can be found in the technology section of most general retailers, at sports/fitness stores, and at most technology stores., Even during daytime, clouds or deep shadows can make outdoor runners difficult to see. Many runners wear LED lights to prevent accidental collisions. You might purchase one of these or a handheld running light. Handheld running lights often have straps to hold the light securely to your body or wrist.


With a running light, your runner will be able to see potential obstacles better, like roots and uneven pavement, when it starts getting dark.