 For diarrhea caused by certain types of infections, herbal remedies can actually worsen instead of improve your symptoms.Consult your doctor before turning to an herbal remedy.
 The living bacteria in probiotics boost the number of healthy bacteria in your gut, which are often lost due to diarrhea. By reintroducing these healthy bacteria, your digestive tract can get back to normal functioning more quickly.Probiotics are available as supplements, and they’re also found in probiotic brands of yogurt.
 Chamomile tea is has traditionally been used to treat inflammation, including in the GI tract.Drink up to three cups a day, sipping in small quantities to help your body absorb the liquid.


Note that chamomile can lead to reactions in those allergic to ragweed, and it can also interfere with some medications, including hormonal medications., Psyllium is a soluble fiber (meaning that it absorbs water). It can lead to firmer stool while experiencing diarrhea.Always drink psyllium with a large glass of water.


Speak to your doctor before taking psyllium if you have inflammatory bowel disease., Marshmallow has also traditionally been used as an inflammation-reducing herb.Follow the manufacturer’s directions for a supplement.


You can also cold brew this herb as a tea by putting two tablespoons in one quart of water overnight. Strain before drinking.This herb can interfere with some medications—such as lithium—so consult your doctor before taking., Slippery elm powder has also been used traditionally to soothe inflamed GI tracts.Follow the manufacturer’s instructions.


Steep four grams of the powder in two cups of boiling water, and allow it to steep for three to five minutes. You can drink this up to three times each day while you have diarrhea.Some herbalists believe that slipper elm can lead to miscarriage.Consult with your doctor before taking slippery elm if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding., Apple cider vinegar is believed to have antimicrobial properties.If used to combat diarrhea, try stirring two teaspoons into one warm cup of water. You can drink this mix several times a day.If taking vinegar with other probiotics, wait several hours in between drinking the ACV and eating the probiotics. Yogurt, for example, contains good bacteria and is generally considered beneficial for diarrhea. Wait one or two hours after you've had ACV until you go for the yogurt.
 Astringent herbs are believed to help dry out the mucous membranes located in the intestines, helping to reduce the amount of loose stool.Most of these options are available as supplements or teas, and they include:Blackberry leaf
Raspberry leaf
Carob powder
Extract of bilberry
Agrimony

