 Clicker training is an effective training method backed up by animal science. You'll need to use one short, easily distinguishable signal that you, such as a "clicker," a whistle, or a loud finger snap. Make this sound the exact instant the dog performs the behavior you want to reward. Always follow the sound immediately with a reward, ideally praise and a small treat.


Only use this sound for training. The dog may be confused and take longer to train if you use it during play or just to fool around.;
, One easy way to start the training is to watch the dog while she's sitting or lying down. As soon as she starts to stand on his own, click the clicker (or make the noise), praise her, and give her a treat.


If the dog doesn't stand enough on his own, the next two steps provide some alternate ideas.
 If the dog doesn't figure out that you want him to stand, hold the treat a little in front of and above his nose. Gesture with the treat in forward beckoning motion. The moment the dog stands, click the clicker and give him the treat.


The hand gesture can reinforce the command once you eventually stop using treats.
If the dog sits up but doesn't stand, try keeping the treat lower in front of him. You can also back up so he has to walk forward to get the treat, but this is not ideal as the dog may learn to follow you anytime you move away, or learn to disobey the "stay" command.
 Finally, if the dog does not cooperate with any other method, you can coax the dog upward to a standing position by touching the hind legs, or by gently tugging on the dog's torso. As always, follow this up with the clicker signal and rewards. Dogs tend to take more time to learn what you want when you're physically assisting them, so this is only recommended if the other methods are not working.
 Assuming you have taught your dog to sit or lie down, command him to return to this position. Repeat the clicker and reward as soon as he stands up again. Do this for about two to five minutes, two or three times a day.


Always end a training session with the dog in a good mood. If it lasts too long, the dog may get agitated and start resisting the training.
Some dogs learn quickly, while others can take weeks. Be patient and never show frustration or aggression, as these set back the training.
 Once the dog seems to understand the connection between standing and rewards, start associating the verbal command. Say "STAND" each time the dog stands up, in addition to the click and rewards.


Eventually, you can skip the treat and just use the verbal command, and perhaps a hand signal. Make sure to praise the dog heavily when he responds.

