 Paralegals help lawyers deliver legal services to their clients. Though paralegals are not trained to handle complex legal issues, they can help the lawyer and handle routine tasks on their own. Paralegals will often do the following:Check or gather facts.
Prepare correspondence and contact clients.
Draft basic legal documents, such as pleadings and discovery requests or answers.
Perform basic legal research for a lawyer.
Manage the case file so that the lawyer can meet their responsibilities in a timely fashion.
Prepare documents for trial and assist at trial.
 There is generally no one course of study for paralegals. Each employer will be looking for different credentials. However, you should have a high school diploma or GED. Consider what other credentials to get:Associate’s degree. Community colleges might offer paralegal degrees. These will take two years to obtain.
Bachelor’s degree. You can get a four-year degree in any subject. Some schools offer minors in paralegal or legal studies. Larger firms will want a bachelor’s degree.
Paralegal certificate. Some organizations provide paralegal certificates. You can earn the certificate instead of earning a degree or after earning a two- or four-year degree.
 Employers will want to see your work experience, which you can summarize in a professional-looking resume. If you’ve never created one before, then you might want to show it to someone at your school’s career center or at a job center. A resume should contain the following information:Summary of your qualifications.
Experience as a paralegal, including bullet points explaining specific job duties.
Education.
Any professional associations.
 Employers generally want to see at least a year of relevant work experience.Of course, it’s hard to get work as a paralegal if you need experience first. Nevertheless, you can work jobs that allow you to build necessary skills.


Find jobs that allow you to multi-task. Paralegals often work on many cases at the same time for multiple attorneys. Getting an office job will show that you can juggle competing and conflicting deadlines.
Get writing experience. Paralegals often have to draft basic legal documents, like answers to discovery requests. Take writing classes in college and freelance for the college newspaper.
Intern while in college for a legal aid office, government agency, or private law firm. This experience is helpful.
 Paralegal jobs are posted on different websites as well as in newspapers. You should visit the most popular job posting boards, such as Monster.com, Indeed.com, or another website.


Also ask people that you know. If you know any lawyers or paralegals, then check if their firm is hiring someone.
Government offices also hire paralegals. You can look at the agency’s website for job openings.
 You can also increase your visibility by meeting with lawyers and paralegals to talk about the field. The purpose of an informational interview is not to get a job.However, it does allow you to get your name out there. If a job opens up in the future, the person you talked with might remember you and contact you.


Find lawyers in the area where you want to work. You should send them an email or call. Introduce yourself and ask if they have 20-30 minutes to meet with you to talk about the legal field.You should clarify upfront that you aren’t asking for a job.
Larger law firms often have head paralegals or a paralegal manager. You can meet with this person also.
Come up with a list of questions and write down the answers. You want to look engaged.
Dress professionally, as you would for a job interview.
You can bring a copy of your resume. However, you should only share it with the person if they ask for it. Don’t pull it out right away.
Remember to send a “thank you” note one or two days later.

