 Your sheets may be wrinkled after you wash them. Iron your sheets while they are slightly damp to remove the wrinkles. Turn your sheets inside out (i.e. shiny side down) when you iron them and use the "silk" setting on your iron.Always keep your iron moving and do not iron the same part for more than 5 seconds. Silk can burn very easily.sheets.


Ironing is optional. Your sheets will smooth out once you put them on your bed.
You can also use the steam from your iron to remove the wrinkles without actually putting the iron on your sheets.
If you do not want to iron them, hang your sheets in the bathroom while you shower. The steam from the shower helps get rid of the wrinkles.Have spray bottle handy when you are ironing your sheets. You can burn your sheets if they are completely dry when you iron them.Put a towel or pressing cloth between the iron and your sheets for some extra protection.
Allow your sheets to cool completely before you fold them and put them away.
 Spot clean your sheets if you notice a stain. It is best to use cleaners that are formulated for silk. However, cold water and mild detergent can be applied to the stain as well.Gently rub the stain with a sponge and then rinse with cold water. You can apply detergent and rinse again if necessary.


Always pre-treat a stain before you wash your sheets. If you are unsure about treating the stain yourself, take your sheets to a professional dry cleaner.
Never use bleach or hot water to remove a stain.
The longer you wait to treat a stain, the less likely it is to come out.
 If you do not want to wash your sheets yourself, take them to the dry cleaners. Make sure your dry cleaner has experience with cleaning silk fabrics. Look for dry cleaners that use green or organic dry cleaning services. These types of dry cleaners use non-toxic cleaners that are safer for your sheets.


Visit the Green Earth Cleaning website to find a green dry cleaner near you.If your sheets are brightly colored or have a pattern on them, dry cleaning may be a better option than washing the sheets yourself.