 Place a large pan over medium heat, then drop in the cup of rice flour. Spread out the rice flour so that it’s in an even layer on the pan. Keep checking on the rice flour and take it out of the pan when it’s hot to the touch., Pour 1 ¼ cups of water in a small saucepan. Place it over medium heat and heat until the water begins to boil. The water doesn’t have to come to a full boil, as long as it begins to bubble., Place one cup of rice flour into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Add in a pinch of salt, then take the heated water off the stovetop and pour it into the bowl of rice flour., Use a spoon to stir together the rice flour and the hot water. Don’t use your hands yet, as the water will be very hot. Keep stirring until the flour and water mixture is almost too thick to stir., Once you have done as much mixing as you can with the spoon, the mixture should be cool enough to handle. Use clean hands to start to knead the rice flour dough for a minute or so on a counter top until the dough is smooth and soft., Add a tablespoon of ghee to the dough when the dough is almost fully mixed together. Use your hands to knead the ghee into the dough until it is incorporated and the dough is uniform.Ghee is a clarified butter that adds flavor to the dough and helps to bind it together.
 When the dough has become uniform, stop kneading it and cover it immediately with a damp, clean cloth either in the bowl or on the countertop for 10 to 12 minutes., Before you start pressing the dough, you need to grease your idiyappam equipment so that the dough doesn’t get stuck during pressing or cooking.Rub ghee on the idli mould, which is the small tray with cup-like insets in which you will place each idiyappam to steam. Idli molds are usually used to make idli, which are South Indian savory lentil cakes, but they can also be used to form the shape of the idiyappam.
Grease the cylindrical compartment inside the idiyappam press with ghee.
Also rub ghee on the disc attachment of the idiyappam press. Consult the package of your press if you’re not sure how to take out the disc attachment.
 Heat about an inch of water in the bottom of a steamer. When the water is hot or almost boiling, place the idli mould in the steamer to warm it., Uncover the dough and separate it into four equal sized parts. Roll each quarter of dough in a slightly cylindrical shape, roughly the shape of a potato.Try not to over-handle the dough.
 After the idli mold has warmed, take it out of the steamer. Use tongs if the mold is too hot to touch. Then place the idli mold on the countertop next to the idiyappam press., After you have separated each quarter of dough, place one quarter of dough into the cylindrical container of the idiyappam press. Then use the presser attachment to press the dough inside. The dough will be pressed through the disc with the small holes to create thin, noodle-like shapes.Make sure to press the dough above the idli mold so that the noodles fall into one inset of the mold.
 After you press the first quarter of dough, press the rest of the dough with the idiyappam presser. Make sure that you are pressing above the idli mold so that the noodles formed by each quarter of dough fall into a compartment of the mold.When you have finished, you should have a separate noodle patty in each compartment of the idli mold.
 After you have finished pressing the idiyappam, place the mold with the idiyappam patties inside the steamer, then cover the top of the steamer., Keep the idli mold inside the steamer and steam for 7-9 minutes. Steaming cooks the noodles and gives them the right texture. Make sure not to over-steam, as this will made the noodles limp., After 7-9 minutes remove the idli mold from the steamer. Try a corner of one idiyappam; if the noodles are still tough, steam them for another minute., Take the idiyappam out of the idli mold and place them on a plate. Serve while hot alongside your favorite curry or side dishes. Many enjoy pouring the curry or sauces over the idiyappam to enjoy the two dishes together!

