 The considerations that should guide your purchase are as follows. Look for:


Durable gifts - items that are of good quality and have a long lifespan
Think less materialistically – choose items that don't necessarily mean your recipient gets a "thing"
Support the little guy - avoid big brands and supermarket chains; look in craft stores, cooperatives, farmer's markets etc.
Try second-hand - books, CDs, antiques, local market items etc. are unique and original ideas that can really be enjoyed by your recipient. Look for items that have long disappeared from our current trends and wow their socks off!;
, It is equally important to avoid certain things when choosing green gifts for Christmas. Here are some things to look out for and avoid:


Plastic, PVC, or unsustainable goods
Overly packaged items
Anything made from endangered wood
Gimmicks that are completely trend-driven

, are all wonderful gifts






Magazine subscriptions - look for ecological and ethical-minded magazines
Books - Scorched by Leonie Joubert; Boiling Point , also by Leonie Joubert; green books, DVDs about green issues etc. (add a sticker to DVDs that say "to be shared around)






Clothing – hemp clothing is sustainable, it requires no pesticides, herbicides and little fertiliser; vintage clothing and locally made items from markets and organic clothing choices






Edible gifts - locally made or organic chocolate, local organic cheese and wine or an organic vegetable and fruit box delivery






Eco body care - look for organic, local and free of harmful chemicals. Local organic brands should be easy to find in your local health care stores
Green gadgets - solar-powered devices, wind-up radios, eco toys, torches, water clocks; look online for more ideas
Sustainable gifts - solar lights, low-flow shower heads, geyser timers and hot bags
Edible gardens - having your own organic vegetable garden and eating it is catching on fast. Why not sponsor the initial month or part thereof for someone you love?
Alternative transport - buy an electric bicycle or an electric scooter and help lower carbon emissions; buy several monthly bus or train passes to save them some money and encourage transportation use

, You can keep your car off the street and your head in a calm zone by doing this!

