 The first step for a peddler is to have items to sell.


Make sure that you have a portable inventory. Part of the challenge for a peddler is to arrange for transporting goods on a day-to-day basis. For smaller, lighter operations, the peddler may transport items on foot. A bus or large vehicle often provides for a larger business inventory.
Find inventory items that you can sell at a significant profit margin. As with all businesses, the peddler won't often make a profit without a good profit margin for inventory items. Finding the sale items with the cheapest costs of production and the highest possible sales prices is critical for setting up this kind of business.;
, After putting together an inventory, the peddler will need to find public sale venues like those discussed above. Evaluate a local community and come up with the best places to sell.


Do some market research. Many of those who want to start a simple, informal business peddling items are not likely to want to do market research, but this term really just refers to common-sense planning. See where items in your inventory are most likely to sell, and do some research before setting up shop.
 Some areas have significant rules and regulations for peddlers, partly to discourage too much open solicitation in a given spot. Check into the laws on street sales before you open for business.


Some localities actually ask individuals to apply for a peddler's license that identifies their business and plans for vending.
Look into all applicable health and safety laws for products where this kind of law is applicable, for instance, for selling food products.
 With the inventory and all needed approvals from local government, you can start to do business in the specific areas that you have selected. A few days of consistent work should be sufficient to establish yourself in your desired location, where those who are frequently in the area will start to notice your presence.
 As many modern peddlers work, they find it helps to implement some more concrete strategies to make even an informal peddling business more profitable. This includes evaluating which products sell best to restore inventory, as well as good record keeping for tax purposes.

