 Go to your doctor or a free clinic regularly to get screened for HIV and other STIs. Get tested together with a monogamous partner before deciding to stop using protection. You should continue to get tested regularly even when you are in a relationship, to be on the safe side. It is better to get tested than to unknowingly be infected with an STI.Ask your partner to go with you if you're nervous. It's not lame to request that your partner do this enthusiastically and willingly.
If your partner doesn't want to go together, ask them to go on their own and share the results with you. You can try saying, "I respect your need for privacy. But please remember that this effects both of our bodies and health. We need to share this information with each other."
If your partner is not willing to practice safe sex, find another partner., Educating yourself can help keep you safe. One of the best ways to protect yourself is to boost your knowledge. Take some time to learn about different STIs. You can learn about methods of contraction, and symptoms. Your doctor is one of your best resources. Ask your doctor for some information or look at a reputable website.For example, you should know that one of the most common STIs, chlamydia, often has no symptoms. For that reason, it is often unknowingly passed to others. Ask your doctor to test for all STIs before you sleep with a new partner.
Genital warts are another common STI. These warts are easily spread by skin-to-skin contact. The flesh-colored bumps may look similar to cauliflower. Your doctor can help you find the best treatment plan.
Many STIs don’t have visible symptoms; however, if you see any abnormalities on your partner’s genitalia, you should avoid having sex until they have visited the doctor.
Know your body. If you notice any changes in your body, visible or not, don't hesitate to contact your doctor. You're always better safe than sorry.
 One of the best ways to prevent certain STIs is by getting vaccinated. There are currently vaccines that can be used to prevent hepatitis A and B, and human papillomavirus (HPV). Talk to your doctor about whether these vaccines are right for you.Females between the age of nine and 26 should be given the HPV vaccine. It is given in three doses over six months. The CDC states that this vaccine is safe for all women between those ages. The HPV vaccine is also recommended for boys, given at age 11 – 12 years
The CDC recommends the Hepatitis A vaccine for all children, men who engage in intercourse with other men, and illegal drug users.
There are many populations who should receive the Hepatitis B vaccine. These groups include:

Children under 19 who have not previously been vaccinated
Intravenous drug users
Men who have sex with men
Individuals with HIV or chronic liver disease



, Part of having safe and responsible sex is making sure that you are not passing a disease to your partner. If you have contracted an STI, you need to make sure that you receive the proper medical treatment. If you receive a negative diagnosis, ask your doctor about the best treatment option for you.For example, maybe you learn that you have contracted gonorrhea. Your doctor will prescribe a course of antibiotics as a treatment.
For this, and any infection, make sure to take the medicine exactly as instructed. Ask your doctor if you have any questions, or are concerned about side effects.
Tell your partner. You need to say, "I need you to know that I was recently tested for STIs. I have gonorrhea. You need to get tested as soon as possible."

, You might find yourself in a situation where you want to knowingly engage in high-risk sex. For example, maybe your partner was previously diagnosed with HIV. Talk to your doctor before engaging in sexual activity.Ask a lot of questions. You can say, "My partner is HIV-positive. What extra steps can we take to make sure that I remain negative?"
Keep the lines of communication open. If you or your partner have questions, make sure to ask.
It is possible to have a healthy and happy sex life with someone who has tested positive. You just need to make sure that safety is always part of your routine.

