 Even though it's possible to drain a mild cauliflower ear without going to the doctor, particularly if you have some sort of medical training, doing so significantly increases your risk of infection and later complications. You should only attempt to drain a cauliflower ear if there's no possibility of seeing a doctor or medical professional within two to three days.


Furthermore, draining your own ear should only be attempted if the trauma is mild with only moderate swelling and no torn skin.
If you have a cell phone, call emergency services to get some helpful advice and support.
 Before dealing with your cauliflower ear, make sure to sanitize your hands by washing them with warm water and regular soap for about 30 seconds, then dry them with paper towels. If you have latex surgical gloves, then put them on after you wash your hands, but it's not critical to wear them. Having clean or protected hands greatly reduces the risk of spreading bacteria to the ear injury and causing an infection.Alternatively, if you don't have soap and water, lather your hands in some alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Alcohol or baby wipes can also be helpful to clean your hands if you find yourself in an emergency situation.
 Before attempting to drain your cauliflower ear, make sure to disinfect it thoroughly. Soak a sterile cotton ball with with rubbing alcohol or tea tree oil and apply it to the top half of your ear where the swelling is worse.The top half of your ear is where you'll be puncturing the skin, so make sure it's entirely disinfected.


Tea tree oil is a natural anti-bacterial cleansing agent, but make sure not to get any in your eyes because it can sting.
Use a generous amount of rubbing alcohol or tea tree oil to coat all the crevices, both inside and outside the upper half of your ear.
Alcohol swabs are also great for disinfecting, as is alcohol-based sanitizing lotion, which can be applied with a clean Q-tip.
Apply ice for about 10 – 15 minutes just prior to puncturing your ear in order to numb the pain — ice is a natural anesthetic.
 If you don't have one at home or wherever you are, buy a new 20-gauge 1-inch needle with at least a 3 milliliters (0.10  fl oz) syringe attached to it in order to pierce the hematoma — the large pocket filled with blood.The 20-gauge needle isn't the smallest type, but it's the best choice to suction up the thick, coagulated blood inside a cauliflower ear.


The 3 mL syringe capacity will ensure that all the fluid can be suctioned up, and the 1-inch needle length will help prevent you from puncturing the ear too far and damaging the cartilage.
Only pierce the swollen portion of the mid-to-upper ear deep enough to get the tip of the needle in. Do not shove the needle in too deeply since you could cause more damage.
 Once the tip of the needle has pierced the skin of your cauliflower ear, slowly and steadily pull the plunger of the syringe to draw out the blood, pus and inflammatory liquid.Continue drawing out fluid until you can no longer pull the plunger back or until the wounded area appears completely drained and deflated.


You may need to gently squeeze the affected part of your ear as you drain it to help move all the blood and fluid to the tip of the needle and, ultimately, out of the ear. While you do this, try to hold the needle as still as possible to keep it from causing micro-cuts inside your ear.
The fluid may look a little milky red if pus is present, or bright red if the injury is fresh (within hours).
When removing the needle, do it slowly and with a steady hand so the puncture wound remains small. Again, moving the needle around too much can tear the skin, so be careful.
 After gently squeezing all the remaining fluid out from your ear, disinfect the small puncture wound with more rubbing alcohol, tea tree oil or alcohol-based sanitizer applied to a clean cotton ball/swab or soft tissue. With an open wound, your ear is most susceptible to infection at this stage, so take your time and do a thorough job of disinfecting.Note that the skin will still seem wrinkled afterward, but this usually heals and flattens out over time as long as all the ear has been thoroughly drained.
Let the small puncture "weep" for a few minutes if need be, which means it might continue to leak a small amount of blood.
 Depending on your injury and how well you drained the cauliflower ear, there may be no more blood after a few minutes of light weeping; however, if blood continues to trickle or drip from your ear, then you need to apply pressure for a few minutes with some clean gauze or tissue to stop the bleeding and promote clotting.


After a few minutes of pressure to stop the bleeding, consider applying a small bandage to cover it up and deter infection.
Make sure to change your bandage daily or every time it gets wet.

