 Use green craft paint and a flat, smooth surface. The surface can be anything from a sheet of paper to a kitchen table or a glass window pane.


Water-soluble paint works best and is absolutely essential if you plan to wash the paint off later.






You may have the best luck with green tempera paint. If you want to make the paint even easier to clean up, stir in a few drops of liquid dish soap before you apply the paint to your painting surface.






You will either need a paintbrush or a shallow bowl to pour the paint into.






Lay newspaper or a plastic drop cloth down over your working surface to limit the potential mess.
 The size shoes are entirely up to you, but since leprechauns are shorter than humans, their shoes need to be smaller than the average adult's shoes. Preferably, the shoes will even be smaller than those of any kids you intend to track the footprints in an attempt to find the leprechaun.


For “large” leprechauns, choose baby shoes or doll shoes that fit and 18-in (45.72-cm) doll.
For “small” leprechauns, use doll shoes from an 11.5-in (29.21-cm) doll.
If possible, use doll or baby boots. Sneakers will work in a pinch, but avoid high heeled doll shoes.
 Dunk the bottom of one shoe directly into a small puddle of green paint poured into a small, shallow dish.


Let the excess paint drip off for a few seconds before continuing. Too much paint will distort the shape of the footprint.






Alternatively, you could apply the paint to the bottom of the shoe or boot with a paintbrush. Dip the paintbrush into the green paint and apply the paint to the bottom of the shoe. This method tends to be less messy.
 Press the painted shoe straight down onto your painting surface using firm pressure.


Do not wiggle or twist the shoe since doing so may distort the shape of the leprechaun footprint.






This print will be the entire footprint for one leprechaun.






Repeat with the other shoe to create the other footprint.
 Allow the paint dry before using the painted surface.


You should let the paint dry in between painting sets of footprints to avoid smearing one set while you make another. If you do not have the time to wait, start at the top of your painting surface and work your way down or backwards so that you do not have to reach over the existing footprints to create new ones.

