 If you are worried that your parents won’t take your request for the 3DS seriously, convince them by sitting them down and showing them that you are serious about your desire for the game. Prearranging a time to talk will show your parents that you really want the gaming system and aren’t just asking them on a whim.Say something like, “Mom, Dad, there’s something I want to ask you guys. Are you free anytime today so we can talk about it?”;
, After you and your parents have sat down, tell them that you want the 3DS. Since your parents may not know what this is, tell them about the gaming system. List what you would use it for and even show them a picture of one online.Say something like, “I wanted to talk to you because I was wondering if I could get a Nintendo 3DS. A 3DS is basically a small, portable gaming console. I would play games like Pokemon and The Legend of Zelda on it.”
If your parents aren’t up to date with current technology, it’s a good idea to give them some idea of what the device is and how you will use it. This makes it seem more familiar, and may make them more willing to get it for you.
 Above all, your parents want you to be happy and healthy. If you can convince them that the console will add to your happiness, you’re on the way to convincing them to get it for you. Emphasize how this game is not just a fad or a whim, but something that you’ve wanted for a while and will get a lot of use out of in the years to come.Say something like, “Playing the 3DS is so much fun. My friend Claire let me play hers and ever since then I’ve been wanting to get one of my own. It’s a great way to pass the time on long car rides or when you’re at the doctor’s office.”

, You may also be socially motivated to get the 3DS. Maybe all your friends have it, and you feel left out as the only one who doesn’t. Explain to your parents that not only are you missing out on fun, but not having the game is also difficult for you socially.Say something like, “It’s been hard hanging out with Bobby and Lawrence and my other friends since they all have the 3DS and I don’t. I think getting one will make things a lot easier for me socially.”
Your parents don’t want to be in the way of your social life. Try to explain to them why buying you one would positively affect your social life.

