 Unless you have a really good reason, like to discuss your mutual child, don’t contact your ex. Also, don’t respond when your ex contacts you. Unneeded contact will only make it harder for your ex to accept and deal with the breakup.Unnecessary contact will only make your ex think there is still hope for the relationship and encourage them to contact you again.
Let your ex’s calls go to voicemail and don’t respond to messages.
If and when you see your ex, be polite, but don’t engage in conversation. For example, if you are walking down the hall and see your ex, say “Hi”, then keep walking.
If your ex is harassing or stalking you, then don’t speak to them at all if you see them. Immediately go somewhere safe where there are other people around.
 Keeping a record of messages, phone calls, texts, and other contact provides proof of what your ex is doing.It can also help you cope with this bad situation by being like a journal.


Record the who, what, when, and where of the incident. Also write down how it made you feel and why it made you feel that way.
Save any voicemails, texts, emails, or posts that your ex makes to or about you. You may need to screenshot or email it as an attachment to yourself.
 Sometimes after a breakup, one person may threaten to hurt themselves, their ex, or their ex’s new love. If you are in a bad situation like this and your ex is threatening to hurt someone, you need to take the threats seriously and tell the authorities so that they can help keep you safe.


Tell someone like the police, a crisis counselor, your parents, or a teacher what is going on. You can say, “I need to talk to you about my ex making threats.”
Tell the authorities about the breakup and everything that has happened with your ex since then.
You can also call 1-800-273-TALK to get help coping with the situation.
 Using basic safety techniques can help you cope if your ex is acting unreasonable after the breakup.You don’t need to be paranoid and hire bodyguards, but you should do basic things to limit the opportunities your ex has to bother you.


Try to go places with someone else. The more you are around other people the harder it will be for your ex to bother you.
Lock your doors and be aware of your surroundings at all times.
Be careful about posting your location online for a while. This lets your ex know exactly where you are.
Don’t go anywhere alone with your ex.

