 Your wrists will start to hurt if your hands are completely flat on the ground and you can start sliding, which will throw off your balance. Start on your palms or your fingertips so your hands are gently arched in order to have maximum control.
 You will never be flat-footed during this routine as it will similarly cause you to slide and compromise the balance of the routine. However, your feet will occasionally be on the heels. Stay propped on your toes for the majority of the dance as it is crucial to allow for quick movements and a full range of motion.
 Make sure your back is straight before staring. Bring the right leg forward and extend it in front of the left while keeping the left leg in place. Lean on the outside of your right foot and take your left hand off the floor., Make sure it is bent and touching the back of your right leg. Your right leg should be wrapped loosely around your left leg, and you should be in a tilted cross-legged position. Keep your left hand in the air., Bring your right leg out from around your left leg. Plant your right foot down next to your left foot about a shoulder-width apart. Put your left hand on the floor behind you., Place it in front of your bent right leg so it is wrapped around your right leg. Make sure to lean on the outside of your left foot while lifting your right hand up. , Keep leaning on the outside of your left foot with your right hand in the air. In this motion you are preparing to return to the starting position., Extend your left leg back and put your right hand down. This brings you back around to the starting position and resets the routine. , Another way to simplify the steps is considering which hand is on the ground. For the first half of the routine your right hand will be on the ground while the left is in the air. And on the last half your left hand will be on the ground while your right is in the air.
 As mentioned in the standing position, it is absolutely crucial that you take these steps slow and practice them often in order to increase your pace. Taking your time is vitally important here as there is more room for error and physical injury when you're performing the 6-step on the ground. Work your body strength up to the level where this dance is more comfortable so you're not damaging any muscles in the process.

