 Go to HP Virtual Rooms website. Join a meeting as a presenter by typing in your name and presenter key.;
, If this is your first time to use the HP Virtual Rooms, it will check your system requirements and download the software that would run the tool on your workstation.
 This is done automatically.
 Once the program has successfully installed, it will launch a window for the virtual room. Get to know the different options under the menu.
 The big white space on the right part of the screen is the whiteboard. You can use it the same way as a physical whiteboard.


There are different tools - pens, eraser, laser pointer, arrow, texts, highlighter, shapes, and stamps - available for you to use during your presentation.
 If you’re going to use some files for your presentation, you can upload them beforehand for easier and smoother presentation. Click on File from the menu and select Import.


You are only allowed to upload and present Powerpoint, image, and PDF files.
The files you uploaded will appear under the Content sub-window.
 If you’re going to share and distribute handouts for your presentation, you can upload them and allow your participants to download them directly from the virtual rooms.


You can upload almost any type of file to be shared with your participants.
Click on View from the menu and select Handouts.
The Handouts sub-window will appear, and you can see the files you’ve uploaded here.
 You can post a message for everyone to see in your virtual room. This can be a quote, a personal message, or your call-in conference numbers. Click on Edit from the menu and select Status Bar Message.


Your message would appear on the status bar of the main window.
 If you played with the whiteboard from step 1 of part 2, you can easily delete all your markings with one easy step. Just click on File from the menu and select Erase Annotations. All your markings on the whiteboard would be removed.


It’s better to start your presentation with a clean whiteboard.
 It’s a good practice to arrive a few minutes before your scheduled meeting, before participants start joining in.
 The People sub-window will display all the people inside your virtual room. It’s divided between presenters and participants.


The presenters have the access to share and distribute data in the virtual room.
The participants can only view and consume them.
If you have any participant that you’d like to present, you can make them a presenter by right-clicking on their name and selecting Make Presenter.
 Refer to step 1 of part 2.
 All your uploaded presentation materials are found under the Content sub-window. If you’ve uploaded a Powerpoint presentation, each slide would have its own link here. Use the links to navigate through your presentations.
 If you have materials you’d like to share that you didn’t upload earlier, you can share these directly from your desktop. Click on Share from the toolbar. You can share your entire desktop, a region of it, or only an application.


Be careful as you may accidentally share personal or confidential materials from your desktop.
Share only what’s appropriate.
 Once you’re done with your meeting, stop sharing by clicking on the Stop button from the pop-up toolbar.
 If you used the whiteboard, refer to part 2 step 5 to clear all your markings. If you uploaded some presentation materials, delete them directly from the Content sub-window. If you uploaded some handouts, delete them directly from the Handouts sub-window.
 You can exit the room directly by closing the window or selecting Exit Room from the File menu.

