


Most owners of home computers are administrators after the initial installation of Window XP Professional.
If you're not sure, follow these steps:

Select "Start", "Control Panel" and the "User Accounts" icon.
If your account says "Computer Administrator" and "Password Protected", you're done.
If you're not "Computer Administrator", select "Change my account type" to "Computer Administrator".
If you're not "Password Protected", select "Change my password" and enter a new password.
Close the "User Accounts" window by selecting the "Red X" at the top right hand corner.
Select "Start", "Shut Down", "Restart", "OK".

;
,


For purposes of this demonstration, you'll create a folder and will be using this folder.
Select "Start", "My Computer", "View" (top left hand corner), "Explorer Bar", "Folders".
Check that "Simple File Sharing" is disabled. (The default Windows XP setting is for Simple File Sharing to be enabled)!

Select "Tools" (5th menu), "Folder Options", "View" tab.
Scroll down "Advanced Settings" to bottom option ("Use simple file sharing (Recommended)") and uncheck if checked.
Select "OK".


Select Drive (C:), "File" (top left hand corner), "New", "Folder". Key in your first name as the new folder name and hit .
With the right mouse button, select the new folder with your first name, select "Properties", then the "Security" tab on the top.
Under "Groups or users names:", select "Administrators".
Under "Permissions for Administrators", notice all permissions are checked under the "Allow" column.
Under "Groups or users names:", select "Everyone".
Under "Permissions for "Everyone", notice all permissions are checked under the "Allow" column except the "Full Control" permission.
Select the "Deny" column for the "Modify" permission.
This will prevent others on your computer from having access to this folder.



Using the same folder you created for this demonstration, select the folder with the right mouse button, select properties.
Under the "Group or user names:", select "Everyone" to grant or deny special permissions and select the "Advanced" button.
Select "Everyone" and the "Edit" button.
Notice all permissions are inactive while "Full Control" and "Delete Subfolders and Files" are unchecked.
Do not change any settings.



In the "Advanced Security Settings" dialog box, select the "Owner" tab at the top.
As Administrator, you can take ownership of a folder or file by selecting your name below the "Change owner to:" column.
Select the "Replace owner on subcontainers and objects" check box.
Select the "Permissions" tab at the top.



By default, subfolders and files inherit permissions that you assign to their parent folder.
To prevent a subfolder or file from inheriting permissions from a folder, clear the "Inherit From Parent The Permission Entries That Apply to Child Objects" check box.

