 Doing self-care can seem like a challenge with a newborn at home. But taking even five to ten minutes a day to do something for yourself can make a big difference in your physical and mental state. Maybe you have your partner watch the baby while you take a 10 minute soak in the tub. Or maybe you arrange for child care for an hour so you can spend time at a friend’s home and have a spa night. Try to find time in your busy schedule to reconnect with your body and take care of yourself.Sometimes even doing the most basic grooming can make you feel much better. Many new moms struggle to fit in time to even wash their hair or put on makeup. Try to set aside five to ten minutes in the day to groom yourself in small ways so you can feel more positive about your appearance. Ask other moms how they keep their babies occupied and safe while they do these things. It is important to maintain your self-care routine during this time.
 Doing exercise can make you feel better and improve your body image overall. As a busy new mom, you may not have time to do an hour long fitness class at the gym or intense workouts. Instead, try fitting in quick and easy exercises at home while the baby is napping or while a caregiver is watching the baby. Doing a little bit of exercise can make you feel more positive about your body.For example, you may do a series of lunges and side stretches every morning while the baby is down for a nap. Or maybe you go for a walk or a light jog while your partner watches the baby.
You can also take the baby on walks with you. Spending time outside is good for their temperament and sleep. Just make sure your baby is protected from the sun and wind.
Another option is to find a gym with child care, if you are comfortable with it and if it is in your price range.
 Another big element of self-care is giving yourself the time and space to do something that you find relaxing or calming. This could be a hobby such as painting, drawing, singing, or knitting. Or you may do a calming activity like light yoga stretches or meditation. Make an effort to set aside time in your busy day for even five to ten minutes to do something that will help you relax.For example, you may do a five minute meditation while the baby sleeps. Or you may try painting a small picture throughout the week in five to ten minute increments, whenever you have time off from caring for the baby.
 You should also focus on boosting your self-confidence as part of self-care. To boost your confidence you may focus on skills that you are good at, such as your mothering skills or your ability to simply get through the day successfully with a newborn. Take the time to acknowledge how hard you are working and how rewarding it is to be a new parent. Remember that it takes perseverance and patience to be a good mother. Giving yourself some credit as a new parent can help to increase your confidence level.


One way you can boost your confidence is to take a mental note of all the responsibilities you are juggling as a new mother. Try writing down everything you have accomplished at the end of the day. Tell yourself, "I'm doing a great job despite all that I have to do today" or "I need to give myself more credit for tackling motherhood head on."

