 You can offer a referral bonus to those that decide to write testimonials for your website, or people who refer other clients to you. If you're memorable and do the job well, they will be likely to refer you to family or friends.Let current customers know about the bonus. You can provide the referring customer with a free print, or a discount on a future photo shoot.


You can say something like, "Our company is actually looking to take on more projects. If you know of anyone who needs photos taken, we can work out a referral bonus like a couple of free prints in your next order."
Connect with each client on a personal level and get them to like you.
 Holding a promotion for a free photo session can help build your visibility. In addition to the advertising, holding a promotion allows you to build up your list of contacts which could assist you in securing work in the future. Remember to ask for people's names, phone numbers, and email addresses so you can contact them with future promotions and offers.
 Throwing in a couple of bonus prints can help you retain customers and increase the amount of referrals you get. Make sure to include a small note about how much of a pleasure it was working with them, and let them know that you included the extra prints free of charge.Clients will feel special and taken care of, even if it wasn't a lot of extra work for you.
 Discounts provided to former customers may help you get repeat business from the same clients. Consider the job you are doing for the client or customer and think about the frequency it needs to be done. If it is for a magazine, the agency will likely re-hire you for another shoot. You can further improve your chances by offering a small discount if they decide to utilize your services again.


Consider your standard fee and calculate how much of a discount would still be profitable and worth it.
If someone is buying in bulk, offer them a discount so that they feel persuaded to get more photos.Don't offer discounts for one-off jobs. Reward loyal customers and clients only.