 Type in your username and password. If you don't already have a Facebook account, you'll have to create one to have a Fan Page.


Having a Facebook account will be useful because you'll already be familiar with Facebook and will have friends you can invite to become fans of your page.;
, You can find it to the far right of the page.


Click on "Advertising."
Look under "Step 1: Build Your Facebook Page" to the left of the center of the screen and click on "Create a Page."

, There are six categories:


Local business or place: If you choose this option, you need to select the category of your business or place and to type in the address of your business.
Company, organization or institution: If you choose this option, you'll need to select the category of your company, organization, or institution, and to type in the name of your company.
Brand or product: For this option, you'll need to select the category of product and to type in the name of the product.
Artist, band, or public figure: For this option, you'll need to select the category for the type of artist, musician, or public figure you'll be promoting as well as his or her name.
Entertainment: For this category, you'll need to type in the type of entertainment as well as the name.
Cause or community name: For this option, you'll have to type in the name of the cause or community.

For all of these categories, you'll have to click to "Agree to Facebook Pages Terms" before you can move on.
 After you've chosen the appropriate category and provided basic information, you'll be able to start adding some information for your page.
 You can upload the photo from your computer or a website. Choose a photo that will represent the person or place you are trying to promote.


Click "Save Photo."

, In this step, you'll provide basic information about your cause. You should include a description as well as a website, because this will improve your rankings.


You can also provide another link, such as the link to your organization's Twitter page.
Click whether or not the page represents a real celebrity or famous person.
Click "Save Info."

, Choose whether or not you'd like to enable ads. Advertising is a great way to reach out to more people, but if you choose this option, you'll have to pay for it and provide your credit card information.


Click on either "Enable Ads" or "Skip" to move on.
 Now that you've created your Facebook page, you should provide as much information as possible to build support. Here's what to do:


First, like your page to build support.
Post a status update to give your fans more information. Write your post in the comment box and then click on "Post."
Upload more photos to give people more information about your organization. Click on "Photos." Once this brings you to a new page, click on "Add photos," and then choose the photos you'd like to upload from your computer.
Upload a cover photo. Click on "Add a cover" on the right-hand side of the place where your cover page should be, and then click on "Upload Photo." Choose a photo for your cover page.
 Use the three subcategories to improve your page. They are:


"Edit Page." If you click on this, you can update your page, manage permissions, add administrators to your page, manage notifications, use an activity log, and see a list of banned users.
"Build Audience." If you click on this tab, you will be able to to invite your email contacts, invite your Facebook friends, share the page, or create an advertisement for your page.
"Help." If you still have questions on how to work your page, then you can visit the help center, or look for tips on getting started.
You should only use the "Build an Audience" option once you've filled out the basic information about your page and know how everything works. Your audience should be impressed by how well you run the page, so work out any kinks be

