 For one thing, it's not a single disorder but a group of disorders that result in a range of limitations or difficulties.


Cerebral palsy most often affects motor skills, although it can also affect speech and cognitive abilities.
Children with severe cerebral palsy may need total care throughout their lives.
Other children with mild cerebral palsy can be totally independent.
What is most important is basing realistic goals on an individual's strengths and weaknesses.;
, Children with a developmental disability do best with early treatment started right after diagnosis.


Therapy changes as a child with cerebral palsy grows older. Young adults have different needs than preschool children.
Realistic goals for early treatment are motor skills.
Therapists focus on communication and mobility for school-age children.
The emphasis for adolescents is on self-care and independence.



Studies have shown that GDT is more successful for helping children with cerebral palsy improve with everyday activities, particularly gross motor skills.,


A therapist should not only help the child with a disability, but should also act as a teacher or coach for the family so realistic goals can be pursued in the home environment.
Incorporating treatment into daily life often leads to greater progress.
, Common problems that can be addressed in physical therapy are:


Addressing too stiff or too floppy muscle tone.
Improving muscle coordination related to ataxia.
Gait problems, such as scissored gait, walking on toes or dragging one leg.
Reducing pain that comes from tight muscles and deformity.
Improving a child's mobility with adaptive equipment. Some children will walk without an aid, but others may need orthotics, crutches, walkers or power wheelchairs to get around.
 This may be useful in developing gross motor skills. The water makes it a low-impact form of exercise, and it can be cheap and commonly-accessible., In general, an occupational therapist is going to concentrate more on upper body needs and fine motor skills needed for feeding, dressing and writing.


In the early years, occupational and physical therapists may overlap as a realistic goal for both therapies is to provide additional stimulation to a child's environment.
Therapies recommended for fine motor skills in hemiplegic cerebral palsy include bimanual training (reminding the child to use both hands together), and constraint-induced movement therapy (temporarily restricting the movement of the 'good arm' to force the child to rely on the 'bad arm'). Bimanual training is easier to incorporate into daily life, and constraint-induced movement therapy is more intensive.An occupational therapist can help an adolescent or older child achieve greater independence.
 Although mobility is an important skill, probably the most important skill for anyone is a means of communication. This becomes more important as a child reaches school age.


Some children with cerebral palsy may benefit from traditional speech therapy that focuses on verbal speech patterns.
Children with severe communication deficits are often taught to communicate with sign language and/or electronic communication devices.
Speech therapy treatment goals can and should overlap with cognitive and social skills.



Much of a school age child's therapy takes place at school through an IEP (Individual Education Plan).
A child must first qualify for an IEP, which is decided after testing. Testing is also used to set up treatment goals at school.
 You are your child's best advocate.


An IEP team includes your child's teacher, a regular education teacher, therapists, a school administrator, parent and child.
An IEP sets up realistic goals for the school year.
Realistic goals may be to modify curricula, therapies and special accommodations.
If a child has difficulty with speech or severe motor dysfunction, their intelligence may be underestimated.
Goals must be active and measurable.

