 Low blood sugar can cause you to experience shaking in your hands and legs, especially if you are diabetic. If you notice that you are shaking and you think low blood sugar might be to blame, eat or drink something with sugar in it as soon as possible. Low blood sugar needs to be treated quickly to avoid more serious complications like confusion, fainting, or seizures.Eat a piece of hard candy, drink some juice, or chew on a glucose tablet to raise your blood sugar.
You should also have a snack like a sandwich or some crackers if your next meal is more than 30 minutes away.
 Drinking too many caffeinated beverages like coffee, cola, energy drinks, and tea can cause you to shake. Up to 400 milligrams of caffeine is considered a safe amount for adults and up to 100 milligrams for adolescents. Children should not have caffeine at all. Since everyone is different, you may experience shaking from even a small amount of caffeine.To stop shaking from caffeine, limit your caffeine or eliminate it entirely if you are sensitive to caffeine.
Some ways that you can limit your caffeine intake include:

drinking decaf or half-decaf coffee in the morning
drinking caffeine-free cola
not drinking any caffeinated beverages past noon
switching from coffee to tea



, Smoking can cause your hands to shake because nicotine is a stimulant. If you are a smoker, then your shaking hands may be the result of your smoking.Nicotine withdrawal can also cause shaking, so even if you have recently quit smoking, you might be feeling the effects of it. The good news is that nicotine withdrawal symptoms usually peak after about two days and then become less noticeable as more time passes., Some people find that a drink may help relieve shaking, but when the effects of the alcohol wear off, the shaking returns. Frequent excessive consumption of alcohol can even make shaking worse. If you are prone to shaking, limit or avoid alcohol to help stop your shaking., Have you recently quit drinking or stopped using drugs? If so, your shaking may be the result of withdrawal symptoms. If you have been alcohol-dependent or drug-dependent for a long time, then you should seek treatment while you detox. During the detox process, some people experience seizures, fever, and hallucinations. These severe complications can even cause death.Seek immediate medical attention if you are experiencing shaking while detoxing from drugs or alcohol.
 Many medications have the unfortunate side-effect of causing your hands, arms, and/or head to shake. This side-effect is called a drug-induced tremor. From cancer medications, to antidepressants, to antibiotics, a drug-induced tremor is a possible side-effect. If you are experiencing a tremor and you think it might be a side-effect of your medication, talk to your doctor about your options.Your doctor may decide to have you try a different medication, adjust your dosage, or add another medication to help control the tremor.
Don’t stop taking your medication without speaking to your doctor first.
 There are several serious medical conditions that may cause shaking, including Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis, brain damage, and hyperthyroidism. If you have other symptoms or you cannot attribute the cause of your shaking to something else, then you should see your doctor as soon as possible. Your doctor can perform tests to determine what is causing your shaking and advise you on the best course of action.