 Look for school rules, enrollment dates, teachers names, etc. If you already know what class you are in, look for your teacher's name--so you will go into the classroom knowing how to greet your teacher.;
, Go with an adult (preferably female) and best friend. Shop for back-to-school clothes, supplies, makeup, etc. If possible, try the clothes on before buying to save a second trip back to the mall. Look for sales on school supplies in certain chain stores throughout the summer to save money.
 Write your name on all your supplies and your backpack. Label notebooks, folders, and binder sections with the subject you intend to use it for. Organize small items needed for class in your pencil box. Put everything you need in your backpack. If you are a returning student and your school requires an ID for lunch, don't forget to pack it.
 Get a mirror, hairbrush, comb, elastics, pins and clips, and hair accessories. Try out different styles until you find one you like. Go on YouTube to find inspiration from other girls., If any don't fit, exchange them for the proper size.
 Have a trusted female show you how to apply it properly. It shouldn't be noticeable or heavy; keep it light and natural. (Whether you wear make up or not may be between you and your parents. Try compromise with them.), If your school allows it, use nail polish. Learn how to give yourself a manicure and do nail art.
 Agree on this with your parents. You don't want to be late for school, so set an alarm clock., If you have acne, buy skin care products made for your skin type. Many products use benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid. Try a product with a sulfur base if those don't help. Learn how to wash your face properly. It is important to stick to a routine., Make sure it is quiet and that you have everything you need there. A desk with a chair and lamp would be great. If you do not have space for a desk, buy a bed desk so you can work on your bed. Keep the area organized to save time on looking for things you need., If you pay attention, you won't need to relearn everything that night and will only need to go over what you didn't understand in class., Some schools have a locker and shower room. Change into your gym uniform and keep your things in the locker. If using a combination lock, turn the dial two times after locking to lower the chance of someone cracking it. If showering, bring a towel, shampoo, and body wash.
 Some schools have lockers for students to hold their belongings. Keep the locker organized and clean. Decorate it to suit your style. If there are no lockers, pack only the things needed for that day to keep the backpack light. If you carry too much in your backpack, your back may hurt when you get home.
 Remember to smile when you're meeting new people. People want to be friends with someone that has a smile on their face!

