 While high success rates might indicate a high-functioning fertility clinic, this might not be necessarily true. To successfully interpret a clinic’s success rates, determine if their success rates represent live birth rates rather than the percentage of cycles that end in pregnancies.A quality clinic will list both IUI and IVF success rates by birth. These success rates should also be broken down by age and the type of technology used, i.e., IUI and IVF.
You can fact check a clinic’s success rates by contacting the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART).;
, Costs vary from clinic to clinic, however the average cost of an IVF cycle is $12,000, plus an additional cost of $3,000 to $5,000 for medication.They also vary depending on your individual circumstances. When you are given a quote, it is important to know exactly what is included in that quote, i.e., diagnostic procedures and treatments.


The clinic you chose should have programs that help you pay for some of the costs. If they don’t, you might want to consider looking into another clinic.It is important to pick a clinic that is affordable and convenient for you to access, but try not to sacrifice quality for these things.
 When considering a clinic, determine which procedures your insurance covers and does not cover. Most women do not have any infertility coverage under their insurance, so you may need to pay out of pocket for any treatments you receive. Or, you might only have partial coverage. For example, if IVF isn’t covered by your insurance, your insurance might still cover fertility diagnostic procedures.It is important to choose a doctor that is covered in your insurance plan.


Double-check the clinic’s hospital affiliations. You want to choose a clinic that is affiliated with a hospital that your insurance covers.When contacting your insurance provider, first, ask if your insurance covers infertility. If it does, then you can also say something like, “Before I choose a clinic, I want to make sure the doctors are covered by my insurance. I would also like to know if the hospital the clinic is affiliated with is covered by my insurance, and what other procedures my insurance covers and does not cover. Can you please give me this information?"

, When choosing a clinic, the size and location is also important. Since you may be visiting your clinic weekly or daily, you might want to choose a clinic that is close to your home or work. If your top choice is farther than your second or third choice, don’t sacrifice quality for convenience. Also weigh the pros and cons of the clinic’s size. A bigger clinic might have better technology, while a smaller clinic might have a more personal feel.