 Many advanced graphing calculators will have a “conversion” function key. If your calculator is equipped with this, you can use it to convert measurements from one unit to another. The Texas Instruments TI-83, TI-84Plus and TI-86 have this feature.On the TI-86, you can find the “Conv” label above the 5 key. To activate it, you need to press the “2nd” key and then the 5 key.
 Using the conversion operation will differ slightly from one calculator to the next, but the basic steps will be the same.On the TI-86, begin by pressing “2nd” and “5.” This will open a menu of physical properties that you can convert.
 When you open the conversion operation, your screen will show a list of five options: Length, Area, Vol (Volume), Time, Temp. Because feet and yards are measures of length, you will select the F1 button for the first option, “Length.”, As soon as you select that you wish to convert units of “Length,” your screen will show a new list of options. These are the units of length that you can convert. You need to select one of the units from this list.First type in the number of feet that you want to convert. Then choose the F5 function key labeled “ft.”

In the example given, you are converting 12 feet into yards. Therefore, first enter “12” and then press F5. Your calculator display screen will show “12 ft” followed by an arrow and a blinking cursor.
 After entering your beginning value and its unit, you need to choose the unit to convert into. The list of units should still be displayed on the screen.In this example, you are converting feet into yards. Yards do not appear as an option on the first list on the display screen. Press the “More” button on your calculator to reveal a second menu. You will see “yd” as the first option. Make this selection by pressing the F1 button below the menu list. After you make that selection, your screen display should show “12 ft→yd.”


, When the screen display shows the conversion that you want, just press the “Enter” key. The calculator will perform the conversion and show the value on the display screen.This example is an exact, even conversion, so the answer display will simply show “4.” If the conversion is not exact, your calculator will display up to 12 decimal places.


