 Choose an egg carton with deep cups that are all connected. Avoid the ones with "prongs" in the middle. Cut the lid and side flaps off of the egg carton. Next, cut the carton down the middle so that you have two strips.

A 12-cup egg carton will work the best, but you can use a smaller one too.
This method will turn your caterpillar into a flower pot for small seeds, such as grass.
Trim the excess cardboard away from each cup so that the edges are nice and smooth.
 Flip the strip over so that you can see the bottom and outside of the cups. Paint the cups a bright color. Acrylic paint will work the best, but you can use poster and tempera paint too.Paint the inside of the cups with clear, waterproof, acrylic sealer to keep the caterpillar from getting soggy.
 Turn the strip so that the inside is facing you. Punch two holes into one of the narrow ends of the strip, close to the top. You can do this with scissors or a pencil., Feed the pipe cleaner through the inside of the cup, so that it comes out the front. Twist the ends together, then bend them upwards. Spread the pipe cleaner apart to make a V shape. Glue a small pompom to the tips, or curl them with a pencil.

If the antenna are still too long for you, cut them shorter.
 Glue two googly eyes to the front of the strip, just below the pipe cleaner antenna. Use a marker to draw a small face beneath the eyes.If you don't have googly eyes, you can draw the eyes instead.
Add lashes to make the caterpillar a girl.
 Get some soil from the garden or a flower nursery. Add enough water to make it damp. Use a spoon to fill each cup with soil, about ¼-inch (0.5 centimeter) from the rim., You want to use a pinch of seeds for each cup in case they don't all grow. You can also try herbs, like basil or chives., Remember to water the seeds often. If you planted grass, you need to water them every day. Do not water them too much, or the caterpillar will get soggy and fall apart.The caterpillar will eventually fall apart. When that happens, cut the cups apart and plant them in your garden.
If you used grass, use scissors to give the caterpillar a haircut!
If you have a cat, be aware that he or she may try to eat the grass.

