 Always try to give positive feedback when you are exercising with the child. Tell them that they are doing a great job and celebrate with them in their victories. Children are prone to self-consciousness and the fear of embarrassment, so the more that you reinforce a good self-image, the more likely they are to succeed.You can say things like, "Great job, keep going, push yourself, you're doing great!"

, The more involved and dedicated you are to your child's exercise, the more likely they will begin to enjoy it when you aren't around. Start by going on walks or jogs with your child or playing catch. If you are proficient in a certain sport, play it with them and see if they enjoy it. Never force them to play a sport just because you played it, though.
 Using exercise as a form of punishment in your child's development can cause them to create a negative association with physical activity. Avoid forcing them to do push-ups or run laps when they are in trouble. Instead, use it as a reward after they complete a task like finishing their homework or cleaning their room.You can say something like, "Awesome, now that you finished cleaning your room, we can go outside and throw the ball around."
Recess is a great example of how physical outdoor activity can be used as a reward for children.
 If the kid still isn't keen on exercise, you may be able to convince them by talking about the positive ways that exercise can impact their life. Talk to them about the positive effect that exercise has on their muscles, lungs, and coordination. Exercise can also help them get better grades in school, make new friends, and sleep better., When you pressure a child to participate in a sport that they don't enjoy, it can affect them negatively, and they are more likely to quit the sport. Instead, create a low-pressure environment. Rather than pushing them to join an organized team, practice drills and have fun in the backyard.This will help them develop their skills without the pressure of having to perform on a team.
Practicing the basics in a low-pressure environment will actually allow them to improve their abilities in a shorter amount of time.

