 Your kids may need to talk about how they are feeling more than anything else, so make sure that they know you and the other parent is always willing to listen.You might even consider setting aside a time each day to sit and talk with your kids, such as after school or after. Try asking questions like:How was your day?
How are you feeling today?
What do you worry about because of the divorce?
Do you feel happy today? If not, what do you think would make you feel happier?

, Drawing can also be a therapeutic way for your kids to express how they are feeling. This may be especially true for younger kids or for kids who tend to have a hard time expressing their feelings. Some things you might encourage your kids to draw include:What the divorce looks like or how the divorce makes them feel.
A specific emotion, such as sadness, anger, or fear.
Pictures of your family.
Pictures of the homes your children live in.
 If your children are a little older, then asking them to write letters to both parents may also be a good way to help them express their emotions.Ask your kids to write a letter to each parent individually or to both parents where they can express their feelings in an open honest way.


Tell your kids that they do not have to send or share the letters with their parents if they don’t want to. They can just keep them for themselves if they want.
 Exercise is a healthy way for your kids to let off some of their stress and anxiety from the divorce. It is also a great opportunity for you to spend time with them. Some things you might try include:Going for long family walks.
Playing a sport together, such as basketball or tennis.
Riding bikes together.
Trying a new activity together, such as kayaking or rollerblading.
 If your kids like to read and tell stories, then working with them to write a family story up to the present may be a therapeutic activity. Start by working with your kids to build a family timeline that includes when each child was born and when significant things happened in their lives, such as starting school or winning an award. Then, work with your kids to turn the timeline into a narrative.You can write the narrative with your children’s guidance or help one of your older children to write the narrative.
You could also invite your kids to draw pictures to illustrate the story.
This can be an ongoing project that you work with your kids on for years, or it can be a great rainy day project to do with your kids.
 A time capsule can help your kids see that things change and how they are feeling right now will not be forever. You can help your children to select what goes into the time capsule and then decide on a time to reopen it, such as a year or five years from now. You can use a glass jar with a tight fitting lid to store the time capsule components. Some good things to put in the time capsule include:Pictures of the family.
Things the children wrote.
Drawings the children made.
A list of favorite things to do.
A list of goals for the future.
Expectations for the future, such as where the children might be living or what the children might be doing when they reopen the capsule.
 As your children work through their feelings, make sure that you provide plenty of reassurance and love.Tell your kids that you love them every day and reassure them that what they are feeling and experiencing is normal. You might also encourage them by reminding them that things will get better.


Try telling your kids something like, “I can see that you are struggling with these changes, but I want you to know that I love you very much and so does your mother/father. It might not seem like things will get better right now, but they will. I am always here for you if you need to talk.”

, Sometimes despite your best efforts to help your kids, they may not be able to overcome some of the emotional challenges of a divorce without professional help. If you notice that your children still seem depressed, withdrawn, or anxious a few months after the divorce, then seek the help of a mental health professional.