 This method of losing weight quickly involves buying lots of celery to help you slim down. Obviously, you need money (or gold) to buy the celery. An easy way to get money is to do a job. Since there is a produce stall in Bowerstone, consider becoming a blacksmith there. This means that you're close to the stall and can get a lot of money easily.;
, In the region you will need a produce stall that sells celery, a job nearby and a tavern/house to sleep in. Some produce stalls that sell the celery can be found in Bowerstone, Oakfield and Bloodstone. Since there is a high paying blacksmith job and a tavern to stay the night in Bowerstone, your best bet is to travel to that region. Once you're there, move on to the next step.
 Once you have a tidy amount of gold, find the produce stall. In Bowerstone, it's either on the bridge or just before it. Walk up to the stall or the trader standing by it and press the "X" button. It should bring up a list of all the things that trader has to offer. Go to "Buy Items" and buy as many celery as you can. If you have enough money, you should be able to buy all of that trader's stock.
 Now that you have your celery, it's time to eat it. Open up the menu screen and go into your inventory. You should find the celery in the "Food and Potions" category. Keep selecting it to eat it all up, one by one. Every time you eat one celery, you will get thinner by five points. You probably won't notice it at first but you will start noticing it later on when villagers start finding you more attractive.
 Opposite the bridge in Bowerstone, there is a tavern. Upstairs, there are a few rooms with beds in. Walk into a room and select a bed. Choose to sleep until the morning. By then, the stall should have re-stocked and you can repeat the process. To be on the super safe side, you can sleep for seven days. However, your character will eventually get old if you keep doing that. Repeat the process from step one until your character is thin enough for you.

