 Counting likes, comments, and tags on social media is tempting for kids and adults alike. However, these popularity contests can lower self esteem.Tell your child, “Don’t keep score by counting your likes or comments. They don’t really mean anything or say anything about who you are.”

, Never hesitate to intervene if your child is the victim of cyberbullying. Tell them to avoid interacting with the bully, to block them, and that bullies just want to look cool in front of others. If you feel the situation might be harmful, talk to your child’s teacher, principal, or other authority figure.Tell them that there’s an issue with cyberbullying between your child and their peer. Show them screen shots or other forms of documentation. Ask them about disciplinary action or to keep an eye on the children at school.
If you feel the need to restrict their social media use or take away their phone, explain to them that it’s not a punishment. Say, “You’re not being punished, and you didn’t do anything wrong. But please trust that I have your best interests in mind and know that his is for your own good.”

, If your child has bullied others via social media, avoid responding by yelling at them or punishing them without explanation. Instead, teach them that bullying online is just as bad as bullying someone face-to-face.Try to understand why they feel the need to bully. Ask them, “Why did you feel the need to be mean? What if someone had said that to or about you?”
While you want to try to understand their point of view, you should be assertive about stopping the behavior. Calmly and firmly say, “Bullying in any form is unacceptable and it must stop.”

, At some point, you might consider taking your child’s phone away or otherwise restricting their social media use. You should restrict phone or social media privileges in response to related misbehavior, like accessing or posting inappropriate content, cyberbullying, or chatting on social media during a designated technology-free time.In general, punishments work best when they’re directly related to the behavior you’re trying to correct.
Avoid restricting phone or social media privileges away for something unrelated, like breaking curfew. If you do take their phone away, make sure to talk to them about the reason why to reinforce the lesson you want them to learn.

