 Surprises and unexpected events make life more fun! Do things that you know your lover will appreciate but without telling him/her. Here are some ideas:


Make sure he/she has no plans for the evening and pick him/her up after work. Then spend the evening together. He/she will probably have had a hard day and be tired so seeing you waiting for him/her and taking care of him/her will make him/her very happy and grateful.
Invite him/her to a party and make a point of telling him/her that a lot of guests will be there. Actually, invite only him/her and surprise him/her by revealing that you too will be all alone together all evening. Your lover will love this since he/she will have expected to be a bit neglected at the party, since you would have been taking care of other people.
Surprise him/her by changing your style. If you're used to wearing black or grey, wear a red shirt for your next date. Try on a wig or dye your hair without warning. Alternate wearing contact lenses and glasses if you have bad eyesight. Make your lover feel like he/she's dating five different persons at the same time.;
,


Send texts messages with cute love poems or quotes or just your own sentences (like "I'm thinking of you", "I miss you"...).
Leave sexy vocal messages in the middle of the night emphasizing how you keep thinking about him/her and can't manage to fall asleep (this works especially well if you're a girl).



Use post-its to lead him/her to you. For example, after having spent the night together, leave a post-it on your pillow with a personal question implying an object on it (example: "what are my favorite flowers?"). The answer will lead your lover to the next clue (if the answer if "Roses", put the next clue in a bouquet of roses you will leave in the next room). Prepare the props in advance though.
Leave post-its with hearts or "I love you" on them in his stuff. Finding it will brighten up his/her day without you having to be there. You can also leave other things like dried flower petals, pictures of you two together etc.



Plan a date in the morning before going to work to have coffee and breakfast together.
Go to a restaurant you've never been to before or in a new place. Try to check it out on the net or with your friends first, to make sure you won't regret it though and that it won't make your partner feel out of place.
 Remember that sex is a very important part of a relationship.


Role play: teacher/student, patient/doctor (or nurse), servant/master(mistress), princess/pirate, secretary/boss, police officer/criminal, stripper/client... Use your imagination on this one, the possibilities are endless.
Try different postures, different places.

