 Before your child reaches the age of three, begin telling her which parts of her body should not be seen or touched by other people. Bring this up repeatedly until your child understands. This will help your child quickly learn to recognize inappropriate behavior on the part of an adult or another child.Once your child no longer needs her diapers changed, no other person should ever come into contact with her genitals.
A notable exception to this is when a physician examines your child for medical reasons; even this should be supervised by a parent until the child is old enough to protect herself. Teach your child about this exception.
Using the proper anatomical terms instead of made up terms when teaching your child about her private parts can help her avoid thinking these are shameful or embarrassing things that shouldn't be talked about.;
, Tell her that certain belongings, such as her bed and dresser, are private areas that others are not allowed to snoop in or be around without you being there. Similarly, teach her that nobody has the right to see her use the bathroom or bathe.When teaching your child about her right to privacy, make sure she understands that she should always tell you if she thinks her privacy has been violated.
Make sure your child understands that even authority figures, such as police officers and teachers, must respect her privacy in the same way as everyone else.
 Tell your child that she should never enter a stranger's house or car, accept gifts or food from a stranger, or even talk to a stranger unless you are with them and say it's okay. Keep this rule in place until you have decided your child is old enough to be able to distinguish between safe and dangerous strangers.Your child should be told to never open the door to someone she doesn't know. You can make specific exceptions to this rule as you see fit (such as emergency situations when police or paramedics are needed).
Tell your child to never reveal to anyone that she is home alone (should this ever be the case), and that this rule applies to in-person situations as well as over the phone and online.
Inform your child that you can't tell whether someone is dangerous by his or her appearance, and that some bad people may appear relatively normal.
 Sex crimes are unfortunately not uncommon in the news media; when such topics come up, take the opportunity to discuss them with your child so that she knows that they are a realistic danger. The more your child knows about the subject (up to a point appropriate for their age), the better off she will be to protect herself and/or go to you for help if she finds herself at risk.Ask your child questions such as, "What would you do in that situation," or "have you ever heard of this sort of thing before?" This will give your child the opportunity to talk to you and think about their potential actions in a dangerous situation.
 This will help her learn that there are no situations in which her behavior or someone else's should be kept secret from you. Your child needs to understand that they can go to you about anything that makes them uncomfortable, and that you can be trusted to be on her side.Say things like, "You can talk to me about anything in the world," or "I will always listen if there's something bothering you." Frequent reassurance is key to establishing open communication between you and your child.
Let your child know that you would never be angry with her for telling you the truth about something, especially something as significant as being molested.
 Many sexual predators operate online and will try to lure children into inappropriate online interactions. You should warn your child not to answer emails or online messages from strangers and to report someone if they say inappropriate things in a chatroom, especially anything involving discussion of private body parts. You should also tell your child not to share any private information with individuals they do not know online and to talk to you right away if they feel uncomfortable with how someone is interacting with them online., Make it clear that if someone says they don't want to be hugged/poked/teased/kissed et cetera, this needs to be respected. Teach respect for boundaries in basic settings, like friends playing and siblings messing around, and they will have the skills to say no and recognize that it is not okay if others disregard that no.Let your child have the right to decline hugs and kisses at any time. If they aren't in the mood to hug Grandma, they don't have to.If a child is disregarding another's boundaries, e.g. pulling his sister's hair after he asked her to stop, step in. Say "she said she doesn't like that, so you need to stop." This reinforces the importance of respecting a no.
 Don't assume your child is safe because she is in a professional environment such as a school, day care center, etc. You should personally evaluate anyone (especially adults) with whom your child will be spending time without your supervision. If you feel at all uncomfortable with an individual or situation, do not risk it.


In cases where you aren't necessarily able to choose or pre-screen individuals who will be around your child, you should do your best to get to know these people by meeting them in person and asking them questions.Do not agree to sleep-overs for your child until you are familiar and completely comfortable with your child's friend's family and home., Review your child's internet history every week to ensure there is no suspicious activity. Look for any inappropriate links she may have opened or pornographic images that appear in her email or her messages. Many predators will send images or messages as a way to lure children.You may also want to keep the computer in a common space, like the living room or the dining room, so your child cannot go on the computer unmonitored. This will make it more difficult for them to fall into inappropriate interactions online.
You can install spyware on the computer that will block sites that are considered inappropriate for children.
 The less time your child spends alone with an adult or teenager, the lower the potential for molestation to occur. Any time your child must be with another adult, it is best that their time be spent in public or with multiple adults present. Most molestation occurs when children are alone with their attacker.This is a critical precaution, as your child will most likely never become a victim of molestation if she is never alone with a potential attacker (even if that attacker has decided to molest your child).
Overnight trips, even those sponsored by your child's school or church, should always have more than one adult chaperone; do not allow your child to attend a trip on which only one adult will be present.
 You should be skeptical of any adult who seems to be exceptionally interested in your child or who wants to spend time alone with her. Non-relatives who are extremely generosity toward your child should raise a red flag, especially if there is no clear reason for this behavior.One-on-one outings between your child and an adult who is not your child's caregiver or relative should be avoided altogether, especially when you yourself did not arrange it.
Beware of individuals who at first seem interested in becoming friendly with you but show more interest in getting to know your child instead.
Keep in mind children can also be molested by other children or children who are a little older than they are. You should also be aware of this possibility and note any warning signs in other children.
 Get involved as a volunteer, spectator, or chauffeur for your child's preferred after school and weekend activities. The more present you are in your child's life, the smaller the chance that your child will be victimized. Even asking simple questions of your child about their day and the people they interacted with will allow you to determine if something isn't right.Your child will learn to recognize situations that are unacceptable if you commonly provide feedback about their daily activities and interactions (such as whether or not you approve).
Ask open-ended questions about your child's experiences and about the people with whom she commonly interacts (teachers, coaches, pastors, etc.); doing this keeps the door open for your child to tell you if they experience an inappropriate situation.
 You should be vigilant about any sex offenders who may be living in your area and try to discourage your child from hanging around their home or their street. Many sex offenders are required by law to identify themselves as sex offenders to individuals who live within a certain radius.


You can check the sex offenders listed in your state through the FBI website., There are a number of common indicators that your child has been or is at risk of becoming a victim of molestation or other sexual assault. Knowing how to recognize these signs will help ensure that you do not miss an opportunity to help your child if she ends up in harm's way and feels unable to speak up. Common 'symptoms' include:Signs of depression
Suicidal thoughts or actions
Substance abuse at an early age
Self-harming behavior
Sudden and significant drop in grades or school attendance
Dramatic changes in hygiene
Extreme anxiety or nervousness about siblings' wellbeing
Age-inappropriate sexual behavior, interest, or knowledge

, Although it can be very hard to tell who might be willing to commit child molestation, there are some common characteristics of individuals you should keep your child away from. These behaviors are not exclusive to strangers and should be looked out for even in family friends or authority figures. Examples include:Preference for children's company over that of other adults
Eagerness to allow children freedoms denied by their parents
Use of sexualized terms to describe or refer to children
Apparent obsession with teenager and/or child sexual activity
Expression of desire for adult sexual partners to act or dress like children
Viewing of child pornography
Volunteering to work with children in some capacity, in combination with other troubling signs

, Though it may be hard to hear your child talk about her inappropriate sexual experience, its important that you listen to her and tell her you believe what she is saying. It may be shocking to find out from your child that she has been touched inappropriately by a family member, a close friend, or person you know well. But it is essential that you encourage her to tell you what happen and assure that you will help her deal with the trauma. Try to say clearly to her, "I believe you. Thank you for telling me."

