 This helps get rid of germs and bacteria along with other debris that can clog your pores and cause blackheads and acne.Wet your face with cool water. Hot water is harsh on skin and will strip your skin of its protective oils. Cool water, on the other hand, can help prevent your face from overproducing oil.Apply a small amount of facial cleanser, and use a soft wash cloth or facial sponge to massage into skin. Rinse completely and pat dry.;
, Everyone's face is different, so it can take some trial and error to find the kind that works to keep your skin balanced. It's important to find one that is clinically proven to be "noncomedogenic," which means it won't clog your pores and lead to more breakouts.Look for a cleanser that is pH balanced, to help prevent drying out your skin.If you have acne-prone skin, you might need to use a special cleanser formulated for your skin. Cleansers with salicylic acid can clear out blocked pores, while those with benzoyl peroxide kills bacteria and gently exfoliates the top layer of dead skin, which can help prevent clogged pores as well. Sodium sulfacetamide can help fight bacteria growth.If your skin is typically clear and you just want to prevent the occasional breakout, avoid using cleansers made for skin with problem acne. Those tend to be harsh and can dry out your skin unnecessarily.
If you wear make-up, it is important that you remove all of it every night before bed so that your pores don't become clogged, leading to blackheads and break-outs. However, some super gentle facial cleansers are not tough enough to remove some types of make-up (such as waterproof mascara or full-coverage foundation). In that case, you might try using an oil-based make-up remover or plain, unrefined coconut oil to remove the make-up first, then use your regular cleanser to rid your face of oil., Often, you can find a product that will do double-duty as both a sunscreen and a moisturizer. Just be sure the product contains an SPF of 30 or more and blocks both UVA and UVB rays.Since acne-prone skin is typically already oily, be sure the sunscreen and moisturizer are water-based, not oil-based., Many people suffer with acne in places other than the face, such as the chest, back, or neck. These areas can become oily and sweaty, which encourages bacteria to multiply and contributes to breakouts. If you have acne prone skin elsewhere on your body, it is a good idea to cleanse and treat these areas just as you would the face.In most cases you can use the same gentle cleanser for your body as you use on your face. However, if you have more severe acne in other areas than you do on your face, you may want to use a stronger medicated cleanser for your body area than you do for your face. Some body washes are specially formulated with acne-fighting ingredients, and because they tend to come in a bigger tube, can be a cheaper way to treat your body acne.
You can skip the moisturizer if these areas are not prone to dryness. Similarly, if your acne-prone areas are not in places that are exposed to sunlight (like your back or chest), feel free to skip the sunscreen. The less product you can apply to any given area, the better.
 Some people have a whole arsenal of products to apply to their face daily, but too many products can actually be counter-productive. Most people just need a cleanser, sunscreen, and moisturizer (and these last two can often come in one product).


If you use an acne-fighting cleanser containing benzoyl peroxideor alpha hydroxy acid, you do not need to also use a physical exfoliator like a face or body scrub. The chemical ingredients dissolve dead skin cells, and excessive exfoliation can irritate the skin and cause small tears that can introduce bacteria, leading to more acne.
 If you have clear skin, you don’t need to use a strong anti-acne cream or treatment all over your face. Instead, use it only where you are prone to get acne (generally in the "T-zone" across the forehead and down the nose and chin), or where you already have an active breakout.


Try applying lemon juice and then ice to your blemish to dry it out and reduce swelling. Put a small amount of juice on a cotton ball and hold it on your pimple for two minutes, then apply a compress made with an ice cube and wash cloth for two minutes.Apply a spot treatment using a q-tip or cotton ball. These come at all price points; cheaper options can be purchased at your local drugstore or big box store, or more expensive (and more effective) options can be purchased at a dermatologist's office. Some brands include Burt's Bees Natural Acne Solution, Murad Acne Blemish Spot Treatment, and Bye Bye Blemish Drying Lotion.
If you wear makeup, consider using a concealer or foundation that contains acne-fighting ingredients, such as Clinique Acne Solutions Liquid Makeup, Almay Clear Complexion Blemish Healing Makeup, or Cover FX Blemish Treatment Concealer.
 Even if you shower before bed every night, your pillowcase is a hotbed of germs and grease from your hair, face, nose, and mouth. Wash your pillowcase every few days to prevent these germs from causing further skin issues.


If you have an especially oily face, flip your pillow over and use the back after you've used the other side. Then, wash the pillow case the next day. It helps if you have several pillowcases so you don't have to wash laundry every two days.
If you struggle with acne in other places like your chest or back, be sure to change your whole sheet set and not just your pillowcase, since bacteria on your sheets combined with excess oil can lead to more breakouts., Just like fingers, hair contains oils from your scalp as well as from styling products, conditioner, and shampoo. When your hair rests on your skin, these oils transfer and can lead to a breakout that dermatologists call "pomade acne."Style your hair out of your face.


If you are prone to breakouts on the forehead and have oily hair, you might consider avoiding hairstyles that touch the face such as bangs and layers.
 If you use makeup, be sure the makeup does not contribute to break-outs. Just like your fingers and hair, some makeup contains ingredients that clog pores and cause breakouts. You might also be sensitive to other ingredients in the makeup, and what looks like a breakout might actually be an allergic reaction.


Go makeup free for a week or try a brand with different ingredients to determine if your makeup is causing skin issues.
Some brands that claim to be good for very sensitive, acne-prone skin include BareMinerals and Clinique.
 Just like your pillowcase, your phone comes in regular contact with the grease and germs on your face and fingers. To make matters worse, the warmth of your phone makes it a ideal spot for germs to breed and multiply.Use a headset or speakerphone if you can, and be sure to sanitize your phone with a paper towel and a small bit of hand sanitizer every day., Water helps reduce blemishes and keeps the skin hydrated and plump, which helps with your skin tone by giving you a natural glow. If you drink one more bottle of water a day you will notice results in your skin.


Generally, most men need to drink about 3 liters (or 13 cups) of beverages daily, while most women need about 2.2 liters (9 cups) a day. Drink more if you are larger than average, very active, nursing a baby or pregnant, or if you live in a dry or hot climate., Believe it or not, what you eat affects your skin. Scientists have found that certain foods that cause your blood-sugar levels to spike raise your body's insulin levels, which causes a reaction that blocks your pores and creates blemishes.Foods to avoid include sugary foods and refined grains like white bread, pasta, or rice. Try to eat as many unprocessed or minimally processed foods as possible, including whole grains, fruits, and vegetables.Some people swear that greasy, fried foods like fried chicken or French fries can cause pimples. Other people say that they always break out after eating particular junk foods like candy bars or chocolate. If you are not sure what your dietary triggers might be, it can help to keep a food diary to see when new pimples emerge.
Try to include healthy oils in your diet, which can help your body produce the right level of natural oils on your skin. Walnuts, salmon, avocados, and olive oil all contain healthy fats, or you can add an Omega-3 supplement to your diet., You probably know that a lack of sleep will leave you with dark circles and puffy bags under your eyes, but chronic sleep deprivation can also cause skin to appear older, with premature dull tone and fine lines.Additionally, scientists believe that a lack of adequate sleep can cause acne breakouts, since a lack of sleep causes increased stress levels, which are linked with breakouts.Everyone needs at least 7 to 8 hours of sleep at night, and some people need even more., Exercise has so many benefits, and it turns out that it can also reduce your risk for acne breakouts. This is because, like adequate sleep, adequate exercise is related to a lower stress level, which is linked to less frequent breakouts.Exercise also helps by boosting blood circulation, which makes your body more efficient at eliminating waste (and thus getting rid of the gunk that otherwise would have clogged your pores). Exercise wearing breathable cotton materials, and be sure to take a shower right after exercising. Your sweat combined with the bacteria and oil on your skin can lead to more breakouts., Sun damaged skin is more prone to acne and discoloration, but using a sunscreen with an SPF level of at least 30 can prevent damage and also keep your face looking young and healthy. Acne prone skin sometimes reacts to certain chemicals in sunscreen, causing a breakout. Look for a brand that uses a gentle sunscreen ingredient, such as oxybenzone, zinc oxide, avobenzone, or octocrylene. Be sure the label says that the sunscreen is "noncomedogenic," which means it will not clog your pores., There are several options for people who suffer with chronic acne, and if you struggle to maintain clear skin after following all of these suggestions, you might consider talking to your doctor or dermatologist about what is best for you.


Many people have had success with products that contain retinoids, which are sold under prescription names Retin-A, Renova, and generic Tretinoin. Non-prescription options also work, but contain less of the active ingredient and so you need to use them more frequently. These products can reduce acne and also improve the appearance of skin tone and fine lines.