 When you help a criminal, you can generally be convicted of the same offense. Accordingly, you should realize how you can become a criminal accessory. Although each state and nation’s laws are different, the following elements typically apply:A person committed a felony, such as murder, rape, robbery, burglary, etc. This person is called the “principal.”
You hid or otherwise aided the principal.
You knew the principal had committed the felony (or been charged) when you helped them.
You helped the principal with the intent of helping them avoid arrest.
 You clearly are an accessory when you hide a criminal after the commission of the crime.Accordingly, don’t let someone into your house if you know they have a warrant out for their arrest.


“Hiding” encompasses a wide range of behavior. It isn’t limited to driving the criminal to a different state or country. Instead, letting someone sleep in your home for the night can qualify as “hiding.”, If someone stole goods, you can become an accessory by handling or hiding them.Remember to ask someone where they got their goods, especially when they are expensive goods like televisions, computers, or jewelry.


Use skepticism. If someone without much money asks you to store a giant HD television, ask where it came from.
Unless you are 100% sure the goods are legitimate, refuse to store them. Say, “We don't have the space. I'm sorry.”

, You also can become an accessory by destroying or hiding evidence of a crime. This evidence includes weapons or even communications.For example, someone might have stolen from your boss by fudging certain sales figures. If you destroy the figures or change them, you could be guilty of “obstruction of justice."

, Giving a principal money also makes you an accessory, because the principal can use the money to buy a plane ticket or a hotel room to hide in.


Also avoid letting them borrow property, such as your car. A principal could use it to flee.
 You can be charged as an accessory when you provide a criminal information that allows them to evade the police. For example, you might call and tell a criminal that the police have been searching for them. This tip could make you criminally liable as an accessory.


Don’t talk to anyone who you know has an arrest warrant out for them. Also avoid anyone you suspect has engaged in criminal conduct.
If you do talk to them, you should encourage them to surrender to the police.
 If you lie to the police, you are also committing a crime. Accordingly, always tell the truth when answering police questions about criminal activity. Remember that honesty is your best policy.


Give the police any information that will help them find and arrest a criminal, including information about where the criminal is located.If you actually did help a criminal escape, then refuse to talk to the police and call a criminal defense attorney instead.

