 If you only have thirty minutes to clean it before you go to school and you can't see the floor of your bedroom, you might want to choose another time to clean your room. But don't procrastinate, or else you might start to clean your room, but after you stop, you can't seem to start again.;
, Think of it as a game, where you see how clean and organized your room can be and the prize is that you have a clean, new and improved bedroom. And if you're having fun while you clean, your parents won't be able to use it as a punishment!

, Your parents might die of shock, but they most likely won't bother or interrupt you. Your siblings might, though, so make sure to ask them not to bother you.
 Some people listen to music while they clean to make cleaning more enjoyable. If you do want to listen to music, ask your parents if they're okay with it. Also, make sure that all of your songs will play one after another. You don't want to stop every two minutes to change the song!

, Do it in this order:


Put dirty clothes in the dirty laundry hamper.
Put clean clothes in a laundry basket and put the basket in the hall to do later.
Look under piles of junk, in between stuff, and anywhere else you can think of.
 Remove the bed covers and add new ones:


Put blankets, sheets, pillows, throw pillows, animals, etc. on the beds they belong on ( if you share a room).
Put up any extra sheets, pillows, blankets, pillow cases, etc.
Make each bed ( even if it's not yours) by putting a sheet, blanket, pillows, and stuffed animals on neatly and make sure that they look nice, made beds make a room look much nicer.
 Follow the suggested approach here:


Put stuffed animals in a bin or storage container in a corner of your room.
Put used toys that aren't broken that you don't play with anymore in a box to donate or throw away.
Put all broken toys that are unfix able or aren't going to get fixed in a box and throw away when you finish cleaning
Put toys that you still play with in bins, boxes, or wherever else you keep your toys.
Put them away neatly and organized so you can find them easily when you want to play with them.



Put big pieces of trash (destroyed notebooks, demolished toys, pieces of paper, etc.) in the trash can
Put all small pieces of trash that are unable to be picked up by a vacuum cleaner (beads, pieces of plastic, candy wrappers, etc.) in a bag to be thrown away or directly into the trash bin.
 Go through your books and decide which ones you want to keep and which ones you want to get rid of.


Put all of the books that you don't want in a pile to be donated or thrown away.
Put all of the books that you've decided to keep on a shelf or bin to be accessible.
If you have any books that are torn up and destroyed, throw them away.



Put all of the arts and crafts sets in a bin or shelf somewhere in your room.
Put all of your art supplies (pens, pencils, markers, crayons, paint, glitter, glue, paper, ribbons, etc) in a bin or box that can be stored somewhere and you can get out easily when you need to get in it.
Put all of your loose, random bits and pieces in the trash or in a bag if you want to keep them.
 Put your bags or purses in bin, hung up in your closet, or somewhere else to store until you need them.
 Or, hang them up on your walls where you like them.


Ask your parent(s) if you can hang them up previously or they might be annoyed with you for taping on the walls or nailing holes in the walls.
 Put your shoes in a place where everyone in your family keeps their shoes, or put them in an area of your closet.
, It will make your room look nicer and make your room even cleaner!

, Celebrate! You made it through your room and now you'll feel cleaner and more refreshed since you won't have to wad through the sea of things to get to your door and you won't be worrying about when to clean your room


Keep your room cleaned. Be motivated! You didn't just clean your room for nothing! Clean it every night so your room will stay clean or, even better, just put stuff back after you're done using it! It will save you the trouble of cleaning your room every night and the consequences of skipping cleaning your room and night and having your room return to its former self.

