 One of the most basic, but effective ways to safe-guard your air conditioner or heat pump is to buy a specially designed cage for it. Cages are arguably the most effective deterrent to prevent a stolen unit because of its immediate visibility. Two reliable company's that manufacture steel air conditioner cages are Durablecages.com and SafeguardAC.com. For a few hundred dollars you can buy peace of mind via a well-enforced solid steel cage. The purchase of an air conditioner cage is the only physical deterrent you can buy. They also provide protection when you're not there unlike some of the products on the market today.;
, Air conditioning alarms can be purchased as a more expensive, yet less visible alternative to an air conditioning cage. Homeowners may consider an alarm if they wish to keep the unit looking as clean and normal as possible. Most air conditioning alarms are based on the same pressure-sensitive premise, yet the technology behind the alarm can vary based on the company. Even if you chose not to purchase a full alarm system for your unit, you can buy a fake alarm sticker. Homeowners have been using similar stickers to warn thieves that their home is protected by an alarm system, even if it isn’t. Such stickers are an effective and cheap alternative to a full alarm system.
 The technology savvy homeowner may already own a system of surveillance cameras to monitor various areas surrounding their homes. A motion-activated surveillance camera near your air conditioner, coupled with a warning sign is a sure way to motivate thieves to move on to an easier target. Install floodlights or motion-sensing outdoor lights near the unit to increase the effectiveness of surveillance cameras.
 In some cases, homeowners may have the option to elevate an air conditioner or heat pump or at least move it to a less accessible and visible area. Hiding your unit behind shrubbery or a small fence may be enough to thwart would be thieves looking a fast way to make an illegal buck. Plus, the new landscaping can be a welcomed edition to any backyard.

