 You will need a monkey wrench, bath socket wrench or vice grip pliers, a Philips screwdriver, a flat-head screwdriver, a jar gripper, plumber's grease, a rag, Teflon tape and possibly tub caulk. You may also need a hair dryer., You will need access to the pipes for the next hour or so. Tell family members or tenants that they will not have water during this time.
 This will drain any remaining water in the pipes.
 Pop the handle insert off with a small pocket knife or flat head screwdriver. The handle insert is the center of the handle and the part that usually says “hot” and “cold.”








, Over time, handles can corrode and weld the faucet on. Use a hand dryer to heat the handle and loosen it.









Don’t use too much force or it can break. Call a plumber if your handle breaks or will not come off.
 The trim is the decorative piece that fits around the outside of the faucet, generally just behind the handle, while the collar is generally a tubular piece that fits around the internal faucet parts. They should unscrew fairly easily. You can use a hair dryer to loosen them as well.









Repeat for the other handle if your tub has two.
 You will need to reconnect them in a similar fashion when you are done fixing the faucet.
 These are sometimes also called “cartridges.” Insert a bath socket wrench and turn it counterclockwise.









If you are unable to find a bath socket wrench, you can use a vice grip to hold onto the stem bonnet and loosen it., It has an elongated end so that you can stick it deep into the seat and turn it counterclockwise to remove the seat. The seat is the back portion of the faucet that extends into the pipe.
 Look at the parts you have just removed. You must find the part to replace. The best way to ensure you will fix the leak is to fix all the wearable parts on both hot and cold faucet valves., Take your old parts to a hardware store or home center. Since there are thousands of replacement parts available, bringing your old parts with you will ensure you purchase the correct replacements. In some cases, the parts may need to be purchased from a plumbing supplies distributor.
 You can replace the washers or the entire stem and bonnet portion of the faucet.Grease each new part with plumber’s grease before screwing it back on.
 Unscrew the seat washer screw at the back of the seat. Peel off the rubber seat washer. Replace the seat washer screw and the seat washer after greasing them.









Screw the seat back into place with the seat wrench. Tighten it with your hand. It should be tightly sealed but easy to remove by hand.
 Remove the bonnet washer from the end of the bonnet. Grease it and replace it on the bonnet.
 Remove the packing nut in the middle of the stem bonnet. Pry the rubber-packing washer from the nut with a flat-headed screwdriver. Grease the stem threads on the front of the stem and insert it into the bonnet.
 Grease your new packing washer and place it in front of the greased packing nut.
 Apply some pipe joint compound to the threads in your bonnet. Insert the bonnet and tighten it with your bath socket wrench or vice grip.
 Repeat on the other side to replace parts in the opposite handle.
 If you spring a new leak, you may want to call a plumber.








