 To maintain confidentiality, it is the counselor's responsibility to keep the client's records safe and appropriately secured. Records should be locked away where only the counselor can reach them., It is important that you lock away documents at home as well as at the office. However, you might need to step away from your desk or take an emergency phone call with others around. You should ensure that anyone you reside with is aware of confidentiality procedures.


You should inform anyone with whom you reside what areas are off limits.
You should also make it clear to anyone around when a phone call is confidential. Close the door and inform them that they should leave you alone., A client may request his or her own records in most situations. The counselor however can refuse to provide access to portions of the records if it will cause harm to the client. The counselor must document the request of the client and the reason for withholding the information.When there are multiple clients, such as with family counselling, then the counselor should only provide records relevant to the individual client, not other clients in the group., A client's records are only to be released to a third party if the client has provided written consent. This includes third parties who pay for treatment.


With minors it is important to also obtain consent from parents before releasing information to a third party, There are some exceptions when confidentiality should not be preserved. These vary somewhat with state law. You should make both yourself and your clients aware of these exceptions. Generally there are a few standards for the lapse of confidentiality:


Confidentiality is waived when the client makes threats of suicide or homicide.
It is also waived when information is disclosed relevant to the abuse of children or the elderly.Depending on the state in which you operate, you might be required to reveal to a third party when your client has a life-threatening disease that could be communicated to said third party.If a court subpoenas your records you should ask for written consent from your client. If that is not forthcoming, it is your responsibility to try to limit or prevent the disclosure of records., Counseling associations such as the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapists (AAMFT), the American Counseling Association (ACA )and the American Mental Health Counselors Association (AMHCA) all provide their members with a set of ethics for conducting counseling which include how to maintain confidentiality in a therapeutic relationship. You should also familiarize yourself with state regulations.


When a counselor finds him or herself in a situation where maintaining a client's confidentiality becomes a problem, consulting with colleagues and/or a direct supervisor can help the counselor with appropriate decision-making.
A counselor may also discuss confidentiality concerns with his or her own therapist, so long as they don’t reveal information that may identify the client being discussed.

