 Sometimes it comforts a grieving person to talk about how they are feeling or share memories they have of the deceased. They don’t necessarily want you to do or say anything, they just want and need someone to present and listen to them.Show you are paying attention by facing the person and making eye contact with them while they are talking.
Remove distractions so that you can listen without interruption. Turn off the music, put aside your work, and put your electronic devices on silent.
Instead of thinking about how you should respond, just focus on hearing what they are saying.
Allow and encourage them to talk.Ask open-ended questions to let them know you are listening and encourage them to talk.
For example, you might ask your workout partner, “What is your fondest memory of your aunt?”

,

It may be a bit uncomfortable for you, but letting a grieving person express their feelings is good for them. So, allow the person to shed a few tears, scream, or shout if needed. You may not even need to say anything. Just being there reassures them.

You may want to say things like, “It’s okay to let it out” or “I’m here for you.”
If it is in a public place, let curious people know that he is just grieving and that everything is okay.
If necessary, try to move the grieving person somewhere that they can grieve without onlookers.
Make sure they are in a safe place. If possible, remove anything that might hurt them (or that they might use to hurt themselves) in the event they become extremely upset.
If they become agitated to the point that you fear for their safety, call for help.


The grieving process is different for each person. But some feelings like anger, guilt, sadness, despair, hope and acceptance are normal and common to grief.You can help comfort a grieving person better if you don’t take their mood swings personally.

If they say something mean or hurtful, just remember that it is the grief talking, not the person. You can address the comment at a later time, if you need to address it at all.
For example, if your girlfriend snaps at you for no reason, you might wait a few minutes and then say, “I know you didn’t mean what you said, but it hurt my feelings.”
If you need to, take a short break from the person. Take a few deep breaths and remind yourself that they don’t mean to act that way.

