 Type "www.yelp.com" into a web browser and press ↵ Enter.

If your account is not logged in, click Log In in the upper-right corner of the window.;
, It's in the upper-right corner of the window.

From this screen, you can also change your profile picture.
 It's near the bottom of the drop-down.

If prompted, re-enter your email and password, or log in with Facebook again.
Account Settings will open to your Profile page.
 On this page, you can edit your name, gender, headline, language, or answer any of several questions.

Click on Add/Edit next you your profile picture at the top of the window if you'd like to make changes to the image.
Click on Save Changes at the bottom of the page when you're done.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page you can change your Yelp password.

Click on Save New Password when finished.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page, you can add or change the email address associated with your Yelp account, set email notification preferences, and set push notification preferences.

Click on Save Notification Settings at the bottom of the page when you're finished.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page, you're able to add or edit the locations you have saved to Yelp., It's on the left side of the window. On this page you can:

Search for friends using the field in the upper-right corner of the window.
Delete friends by clicking on the trash can icon to the right of their name.
Click on the Sort by drop-down below "Manage Friends" to change the order in which your friends appear on the page.
Click on Pending Friend Invitations in the upper-right corner to see which friends you've invited to Yelp but haven't yet accepted.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page, you can manage the visibility of your profile to other Yelp users, as well as the information a business sees when you interact with its listing.

When you're finished managing your settings, click on Save Settings at the bottom of the page.
 It's on the left side of the window. On this page you can link your Facebook and/or Twitter account to Yelp so you can share your reviews, add friends, or use Facebook to log in.